(c) When the Board acts under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the administrative time limits prescribed in subsection (a)(6) of the FOIA (
i.e.,
20 working days from the receipt of initial requests and 20 working days from receipt of appeals from initial denial,
plus permissible extensions of these time limits) will begin only after the Board has received fee payments under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
[55 FR 41052, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 63 FR 41709, Aug. 5, 1998]
§ 1631.14
Fee schedule.
(a)
Manual searches for records.
The Board will charge at the salary rate(s) plus 23.5 percent (to cover benefits) of the employee(s) conducting the search. The Board may assess charges for time spend searching, even if the Board fails to locate the records or if records located are determined to be exempt from disclosure.
(b)
Computer searches for records.
The Board will charge the actual direct cost of providing the service. This will include the cost of operating the central processing unit (CPU) for that portion of operating time that is directly attributable to searching for records responsive to a FOIA request and operator/programmer salary, plus 23.5 percent, apportionable to the search. The Board may assess charges for time spent searching, even if the Board fails to locate the records or if records located are determined to be exempt from disclosure.
(c)
Duplication costs.
(1) For copies of documents reproduced on a standard office copying machine in sizes up to 8
1/2
× 14 inches, the charge will be $.15 per page.
(2) The fee for reproducing copies of records over 8
1/2
× 14 inches, or whose physical characteristics do not permit reproduction by routine electrostatic copying, shall be the direct cost of reproducing the records through Government or commercial sources. If the Board estimates that the allowable duplication charges are likely to exceed $25, it shall notify the requester of the estimated amount of fees, unless the requester had indicated in advance his/her willingness to pay fees as those anticipated. Such a notice shall offer a requester the opportunity to confer with agency personnel with the objective of reformulating the request to meet his/her needs at a lower cost.
(3) For copies prepared by computer, such as tapes, printouts, or CD's the Board shall charge the actual cost, including operator time, of producing the tapes, printouts, or CD's. If the Board estimates that the allowable duplication charges are likely to exceed $25, it shall notify the requester of the estimated amount of fees, unless the requester has indicated in advance his/her willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. Such a notice shall offer a requester the opportunity to confer with agency personnel with the objective of reformulating the request to meet his/her needs at a lower cost.
(4) For other methods of reproduction or duplication, the Board shall charge the actual direct costs of producing the document(s). If the Board estimates that the allowable duplication charges are likely to exceed $25, it shall notify the requester of the estimated amount of fees, unless the requester has indicated in advance his/her willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. Such a notice shall offer a requester the opportunity to confer with agency personnel with the objective of reformulating the request to meet his/her needs at a lower cost.
(d) Interest may be charged to those requesters who fail to pay fees charged. The Board may begin assessing interest charges on the amount billed starting on the 31st calendar day following the day on which the billing was sent. Interest will be at the rate prescribed in section 3717 of title 31 of the United States Code, and it will accrue from the date of the billing.
(e) The Board shall use the most efficient and least costly methods to comply with requests for documents made under the FOIA. The Board may choose to contract with private sector services to locate, reproduce, and disseminate records in response to FOIA requests when that is the most efficient and least costly method. When documents responsive to a request are maintained for distribution by agencies operating statutory-based fee schedule programs, such as, but not limited to, the Government Printing Office or the National Technical Information Service, the Board will inform requesters of the steps necessary to obtain records from those sources.
[55 FR 41052, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 63 FR 41709, Aug. 5, 1998; 82 FR 24828, May 31, 2017]
§ 1631.15
Information to be disclosed.
(a) In general, all records of the Board are available to the public, as required by the Freedom of Information Act. However, the Board claims the right, where it is applicable, to withhold material under the provisions specified in the Freedom of Information Act as amended (5 U.S.C. 552(b)). Nevertheless, the Board will consider whether partial disclosure of information is possible whenever full disclosure of the record is not and take reasonable steps to segregate and release nonexempt information.
(b)
Records from non-U.S. Government source.
(1)(i) Board personnel will generally consider two of the nine exemptions in the FOIA in deciding whether to withhold from disclosure material from a non-U.S. Government source.
(ii) Exemption 4 permits withholding of “trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person as privileged or confidential.” The term “person” refers to individuals as well as to a wide range of entities, including corporations, banks, state governments, agencies of foreign governments, and Native American tribes or nations, who provide information to the government. Exemption 6 permits withholding certain information, the disclosure of which ”would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.”
(2)(i)
Exemption 4.
Commencing January 1, 1988, the submitter of confidential commercial information must, at the time the information is submitted to the Board or within 30 calendar days of such submission, designate any information the disclosure of which the submitter claims could reasonably be expected to cause substantial competitive harm. The submitter as part of its submission, must explain the rationale for the designation of the information as commercial and confidential.
(ii) Confidential commercial information means records provided to the Board by a submitter that arguably contains material exempt from release under Exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), because disclosure could reasonably be expected to cause substantial competitive harm.
(iii) After January 1, 1988, a submitter who does not designate portions of a submission as confidential commercial information waives that basis for nondisclosure unless the Board determines that it has substantial reason to believe that disclosure of the requested records would result in substantial harm to the competitive position of the submitter.
(3) When the Board determines that it has substantial reason to believe that disclosure of the requested records would result in substantial competitive harm to the submitter, and has no designation from the submitter, it shall notify the submitter of the following:
(i) That a FOIA request has been received seeking the record,
(ii) That disclosure of the record may be required,
(iii) That disclosure of the record could result in competitive harm to the submitter,
(iv) That the submitter has a period of seven workdays from date of notice within which it or a designee may object to the disclosure its records, and
(v) That a detailed explanation should be submitted setting forth all grounds as to why the disclosure would result in substantial competitive harm, such as, the general custom or usage in the business of the information in the record, the number and situation of the persons who have access to the record, the type and degree of risk of financial injury that release would cause, and the length of time the record needs to be kept confidential.
(4) In exceptional circumstances, the Board may extend by seven workdays the time for a submitter's response for good cause.
(5) The Board shall give careful consideration to all specified grounds for nondisclosure prior to making an administrative determination on the issue of competitive harm.
(6) Should the Board determine to disclose the requested records, it shall provide written notice to the submitter, explaining briefly why the submitter's objections were not sustained and setting forth the date for disclosure, which date may be less than 10 calendar days after the date of the letter to the submitter.
(7) A submitter who provided records to the Board prior to January 1, 1988, and did not designate which records
contain confidential commercial information, shall be notified as provided in § 1631.15(b)(3). After making such notification, the Board will follow the procedures set forth in § 1631.15(b)(4)-(6).
(8) The Board will, as a general rule, look favorably upon recommendations for withholding information about ideas, methods, and processes that are unique; about equipment, materials, or systems that are potentially patentable; or about a unique use of equipment which is specifically outlined.
(9) The Board will not withhold information that is known through custom or usage in the relevant trade, business, or profession, or information that is generally known to any reasonably educated person. Self-evident statements or reviews of the general state of the art will not ordinarily be withheld.
(10) The Board will withhold all cost data submitted, except the total estimated costs from each year of a contract. It will release these total estimated costs and ordinarily release explanatory material and headings associated with the cost data, withholding only the figures themselves. If a contractor believes that some of the explanatory material should be withheld, that material must be identified and a justification be presented as to why it should not be released.
(11)
Exemption 6.
This exemption is not a blanket exemption for all personal information submitted by a non-U.S. Government source. The Board will balance the need to keep a person's private affairs from unnecessary public scrutiny with the public's right to information on Board records. As a general practice, the Board will release information about any person named in a contract itself or about any person who signed a contract as well as information given in a proposal about any officer of a corporation submitting that proposal. Depending upon the circumstances, the Board may release most information in resumes concerning employees, including education and experience. Efforts will be made to identify information that should be deleted and offerors are urged to point out such material for guidance. Any information in the proposal, such as the names of staff persons, which might, if released, constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy if released should be identified and a justification for non-release provided in order to receive proper consideration.
[55 FR 41052, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 82 FR 24828, May 31, 2017]
§ 1631.16
Exemptions.
The Freedom of Information Act exempts from all of its publication and disclosure requirements nine categories of records which are described in 5 U.S.C. 552(b). These categories include such matters as national defense and foreign policy information, investigatory files, internal procedures and communications, materials exempted from disclosure by other statutes, information given in confidence and matters involving personal privacy.
§ 1631.17
Deletion of exempted information.
Where requested records contain matters which are exempted under 5 U.S.C. 552(b) but which matters are reasonably segregable from the remainder of the records, they shall be disclosed by the Board with deletions. To each such record, the Board shall indicate, if technically feasible, the precise amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion is made, at the place in the records where the deletion is made, unless including that indication would harm an interest protected by the exemption.
[82 FR 24828, May 31, 2017]
§ 1631.18
Annual report.
The Executive Director will submit annually, on or before February 1, a Freedom of Information report covering the preceding fiscal year to the Attorney General of the United States. The report will include matters required by 5 U.S.C. 552(e).
[63 FR 41709, Aug. 5, 1998]
§ 1631.19
Preservation of records.
(a) The Board must preserve all correspondence pertaining to the requests that it receives as well as copies of all requested records, until disposition or destruction is authorized by the Board's General Records Schedule of
the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) or other NARA-approved records retention schedule.
(b) Materials that are identified as responsive to a FOIA request will not be disposed of or destroyed while the request or a related appeal of lawsuit is pending. This is true even if they would otherwise be authorized for disposition under the Board's General Records Schedule of NARA or other NARA-approved records schedule.
[82 FR 24828, May 31, 2017]

# Subpart B—Production in Response to Subpoenas or Demands of Courts or Other Authorities

# Source:
85 FR 67266, Oct. 22, 2020.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 522, and 8474(b).
§ 1631.30
Applicability.
This subpart applies to demands and requests to a Board employee for factual or expert testimony relating to official information, or for production of official records or information, in legal proceedings in which neither the Board or nor the Board employee is a named party. However, it does not apply to:
(a) Demands upon, or requests for, a current Board employee to testify as to facts or events that are unrelated to his or her official duties or that are unrelated to the functions of the Board;
(b) Requests for the release of records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, or the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(a); and
(c) Congressional demands and requests for testimony of records.
§ 1631.31
Definitions.
Demand
means a subpoena, or an order or other command of a court or other competent authority, for the production, disclosure, or release of records or for the appearance and testimony of a Board employee that is issued in a legal proceeding.
General Counsel
means the General Counsel of the Board or his or her delegatee.
Legal proceeding
means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation.
Board employee or employee
means:
(1) Any current or former officer or employee of the Board;
(2) Any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or on behalf of the Board or who has performed or is performing services under such an agreement for the Board; and
(3) Any individual who served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to the Board, whether formal or informal.
(4) Provided, that this definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by the Board and who are retained or hired as expert witnesses or who agree to testify about general matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with the Board.
Records or official records and information
mean:
(1) All documents and materials which are Board records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552;
(2) All other documents and materials contained in Board files; and
(3) All other information or materials acquired by a Board employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status.
Request
means any informal request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony which has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority.
Testimony
means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, recorded interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.
§ 1631.32
General prohibition.
No employee may produce official records and information or provide any testimony relating to official information in response to a demand or request without the prior, written approval of the General Counsel.
§ 1631.33
Factors the General Counsel will consider.
(a) The General Counsel, in his or her sole discretion, may grant an employee permission to testify on matters relating to official information, or produce official records and information, in response to an appropriate demand or request. Among the relevant factors that the General Counsel may consider in making this decision are whether:
(1) Allowing such testimony or production of records would assist or hinder the Board in performing its statutory duties or use Board resources in a way that will interfere with the ability of Board employees to do their regular work;
(2) Allowing such testimony or production of records would be in the best interest of Thrift Savings Plan participants and beneficiaries;
(3) The records or testimony can be obtained from other sources;
(4) The Board has an interest in the decision that may be rendered in the legal proceeding;
(5) The demand improperly seeks to compel a Board employee to serve as an expert witness for a private interest;
(6) The demand improperly seeks to compel a Board employee to testify as to a matter of law;
(7) Disclosure would result in the Board appearing to favor one private litigant over another private litigant;
(8) Disclosure relates to documents that were produced by another government agency; and
(9) The demand or request is unduly burdensome or otherwise inappropriate under the applicable rules of discovery or the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand or request arose.
(b) The factors listed in paragraph (a) of this section are illustrative and not exhaustive.
§ 1631.34
Filing requirements for demands or requests for testimony.
You must comply with the following requirements whenever you send a demand or request for testimony to the Board or a Board employee. If you serve a subpoena on the Board or a Board employee that is not accompanied by a written request that complies with the requirements in this section, the General Counsel may oppose the subpoena on grounds that your request was not submitted in accordance with this subpart.
(a) Your request must be in writing and must contain the following information:
(1) The caption of the legal proceeding, docket number, and name and address of the court or other authority involved.
(2) A copy of the complaint or equivalent document setting forth the assertions in the case and any other pleading or document necessary to show relevance;
(3) A specific description of the substance of the testimony sought;
(4) A statement indicating that the information sought is not available from another source, from other persons or entities, or from the testimony of someone other than a Board employee, such as a retained expert;
(5) An explanation as to why no document could be provided and used in lieu of testimony;
(6) If oral testimony is sought, an explanation as to why a written declaration or affidavit cannot be used in lieu of oral testimony;
(7) A description of all prior decisions, orders, or pending motions in the case that bear upon the relevance of the requested testimony;
(8) The name, address, and telephone number of counsel to each party in the case; and
(9) An estimate of the amount of time that the requester and other parties will require with each Board employee for time spent by the employee to prepare for testimony, in travel, and for attendance in the legal proceeding.
(b) The Board reserves the right to require additional information to complete your request where appropriate.
(c) Your request should be submitted at least 45 days before the date that the testimony is required. Requests submitted in less than 45 days before testimony is required must be accompanied by a written explanation stating the reasons for the late request and the reasons for requesting expedited processing.
(d) Failure to cooperate in good faith to enable the General Counsel to make
an informed decision may serve as the basis for a determination not to comply with your request.
§ 1631.35
Certification (authentication) of copies of records.
The Board may certify that copies of records are true copies in order to facilitate their use as evidence. The records custodian or other qualified individual shall certify copies of books, records, papers, writings, and documents by attaching a written declaration that complies with current Federal Rules of Evidence. No seal or notarization shall be required.
§ 1631.36
Fees.
(a)
Generally.
The Board may condition the production, disclosure, or release of records or the appearance and testimony of a Board employee upon advance payment of a reasonable estimate of the costs to the Board.
(b)
Fees for records.
Fees for the production, disclosure, or release of records are the same as those charged by the Board in its Freedom of Information Act regulations in subpart A of this part.
(c)
Fees for oral testimony.
Fees for attendance by a witness will include fees, expenses, and allowances prescribed by the court's rules. If no such fees are prescribed, witness fees will be determined based upon the rule of the Federal district court closest to the location where the witness will appear. Such fees will include cost of time spent by the witness to prepare for testimony, in travel, and for attendance in the legal proceeding.
(d)
Fees for written testimony.
For time spent by each employee preparing affidavits or declarations (including declarations to authenticate records), the Board may assess charges at the rate described in § 1631.14(a).

# Subpart C—Administrative Subpoenas

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8480.

# Source:
75 FR 8796, Feb. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1631.40
Subpoena authority.
The Executive Director or General Counsel may issue subpoenas pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8480. The General Counsel may delegate this authority to a Deputy General Counsel, Associate General Counsel, or Assistant General Counsel.
§ 1631.41
Production of records.
A subpoena may require the production of designated books, documents, records, electronically stored information, or tangible materials in the possession or control of the subpoenaed party when the individual signing the subpoena has determined that production is necessary to carry out any of the Agency's functions.
§ 1631.42
Service.
(a)
Return of service.
Each subpoena shall be accompanied by a Return of Service certificate stating the date and manner of service and the names of the persons served.
(b)
Methods of service.
Subpoenas shall be served by one of the following methods:
(1) Certified or registered mail, return receipt requested to the principal place of business or the last known residential address of the subpoenaed party.
(2) Fax or electronic transmission to the subpoenaed party or the subpoenaed party's counsel, provided the subpoenaed party gives prior approval.
(3) Personal delivery at the principal place of business or residence of the subpoenaed party during normal business hours.
§ 1631.43
Enforcement.
Upon the failure of any party to comply with a subpoena, the General Counsel shall request that the Attorney General seek enforcement of the subpoena in the appropriate United States district court.
Pt. 1632

# PART 1632—RULES REGARDING PUBLIC OBSERVATION OF MEETINGS
Sec.
1632.1
Purpose and scope.
1632.2
Definitions.
1632.3
Conduct of agency business.
1632.4
Meetings open to public observation.
1632.5
Exemptions.
1632.6
Public announcement of meetings.
1632.7
Meetings closed to public observation.
1632.8
Changes with respect to publicly announced meetings.
1632.9
Certification of General Counsel.
1632.10
Transcripts, recordings, and minutes.
1632.11
Procedures for inspection and obtaining copies of transcriptions and minutes.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552b and 5 U.S.C. 8474.

# Source:
53 FR 36777, Sept. 22, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1632.1
Purpose and scope.
This part is issued by the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Board) under section 552b of title 5 of the United States Code, the Government in the Sunshine Act, to carry out the policy of the Act that the public is entitled to the fullest practicable information regarding the decision making processes of the Board while at the same time preserving the rights of individuals and the ability of the Board to carry out its responsibilities. These regulations fulfill the requirement of subsection (g) of the Act that each agency subject to the provisions of the Act shall promulgate regulations to implement the open meeting requirements of subsections (b) through (f) of the Act.
§ 1632.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions shall apply:
(a) The term
Act
means the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b.
(b) The term
Board
means the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board and subdivisions thereof.
(c) The term
meeting
means the deliberations of at least the number of individual agency members required to take action on behalf of the Board where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Board business. However, this term does not include—
(1) Deliberations required or permitted by subsection (d) or (e) of the Act (relating to decisions to close all or a portion of a meeting, or to decisions on the timing or content of an announcement of a meeting), or
(2) The conduct or disposition of official agency business by circulating written material to individual members.
(d) The term
number of individual agency members required to take action on behalf of the agency
means three members.
(e) The term
member
means a member of the Board appointed under section 101 of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986, 5 U.S.C. 8472.
(f) The term
public observation
means that the public shall have the right to listen and observe but not the right to participate in the meeting or to record any of the meeting by means of cameras or electronic or other recording devices unless approval in advance is obtained from the Secretary of the Board.
§ 1632.3
Conduct of agency business.
Members shall not jointly conduct or dispose of official Board business other than in accordance with this part.
§ 1632.4
Meetings open to public observation.
(a) Except as provided in § 1632.5 of this part, every portion of every meeting of the agency shall be open to public observation.
(b) The Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and the Board's implementing regulations, 5 CFR part 1611, shall govern the availability to the public of copies of documents considered in connection with the Board's discussion of agenda items for a meeting that is open to public observation.
(c) The annual Board meeting schedule will be maintained on
frtib.gov.
In addition, agency announcements of meetings open to public observation will be published in the
Federal Register.
Requests for announcements may be made by telephoning or by writing to the Office of External Affairs, Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, 77 K Street NE, Suite 1000, Washington, DC 20002.
[53 FR 36777, Sept. 22, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 55331, Nov. 7, 1994; 77 FR 11384, Feb. 27, 2012; 85 FR 12432, Mar. 3, 2020]
§ 1632.5
Exemptions.
(a) Except in a case where the Board finds that the public interest requires
otherwise, the Board may close a meeting or a portion or portions of a meeting under the procedures specified in § 1632.7 or § 1632.8 of this part, and withhold information under the provisions of §§ 1632.6, 1632.7, 1632.8, or 1632.11 of this part, where the Board properly determines that such meeting or portion of its meeting or the disclosure of such information is likely to:
(1) Disclose matters that are:
(i) Specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or foreign policy, and
(ii) In fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive Order;
(2) Relate solely to internal personnel rules and practices;
(3) Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than section 552 of title 5 of the United States Code), provided that such statute:
(i) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue, or
(ii) Established particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(4) Disclose trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(5) Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person;
(6) Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(7) Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, or information which if written would be contained in such records, but only to the extent that the production of such records or information would:
(i) Interfere with enforcement proceedings,
(ii) Deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication,
(iii) Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy,
(iv) Disclose the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a record compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by a Federal agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, confidential information furnished only by the confidential source,
(v) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures, or
(vi) Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel;
(8) Disclose information contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by or on behalf of, or for the use of the Board or other Federal agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions;
(9) Disclose information the premature disclosure of which would:
(i) Be likely to (A) lead to significant speculation in currencies, securities, or commodities, or (B) significantly endanger the stability of any financial institution; or
(ii) Be likely to significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed action except that paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section shall not apply in any instance where the Board has already disclosed to the public the content or nature of its proposed action, or where the Board is required by law to make such disclosure on its own initiative prior to taking final action on such proposal; or
(10) Specifically concern the issuance of a subpoena, participation in a civil action or proceeding, an action in a foreign court or international tribunal, or an arbitration, or the initiation, conduct, or disposition of a particular case of formal agency adjudication pursuant to the procedures in section 554 of title 5 of the United States Code or otherwise involving a determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1632.6
Public announcement of meetings.
(a) Except as otherwise provided by the Act, public announcement of meetings open to public observation and meetings to be partially or completely closed to public observation pursuant to § 1632.7 of this part will be made at least one week in advance of the meeting. Except to the extent such information is determined to be exempt from disclosure under § 1632.5 of this part,
each such public announcement will state the time, place and subject matter of the meeting, whether it is to be open or closed to the public, and the name and phone number of the official designated to respond to requests for information about the meeting.
(b) If a majority of the members of the Board determines by a recorded vote that Board business requires that a meeting covered by paragraph (a) of this section be called at a date earlier than that specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Board shall make a public announcement of the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section at the earliest practicable time.
(c) Changes in the subject matter of a publicly announced meeting, or in the determination to open or close a publicly announced meeting or any portion of a publicly announced meeting to public observation, or in the time or place of a publicly announced meeting made in accordance with the procedures specified in § 1632.9 of this part, will be publicly announced at the earliest practicable time.
(d) Public announcements required by this section will be posted at the Board's External Affairs Office and may be made available by other means or at other locations as may be desirable.
(e) Immediately following each public announcement required by this section, notice of the time, place and subject matter of a meeting, whether the meeting is open or closed, any change in one of the preceding announcements and the name and telephone number of the official designated by the Board to respond to requests about the meeting, shall also be submitted for publication in the
Federal Register.
§ 1632.7
Meetings closed to public observation.
(a) A meeting or a portion of a meeting will be closed to public observation, or information as to such meeting or portion of a meeting will be withheld, only by recorded vote of a majority of the Members of the Board when it is determined that the meeting or the portion of the meeting or the withholding of information qualifies for exemption under § 1632.5. Votes by proxy are not allowed.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a separate vote of the Members of the Board will be taken with respect to the closing or the withholding of information as to each meeting or portion thereof which is proposed to be closed to public observation or with respect to which information is proposed to be withheld pursuant to this section.
(c) A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to public observation or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings proposed to be withheld, so long as each meeting or portion thereof in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series.
(d) Whenever any person's interests may be directly affected by a portion of the meeting for any of the reasons referred to in exemption (a)(5), (a)(6) or (a)(7) of § 1632.5 of this part, such person may request in writing to the Secretary of the Board that such portion of the meeting be closed to public observation. The Secretary, or in his or her absence, the Acting Secretary of the Board, shall transmit the request to the members and upon the request of any one of them a recorded vote shall be taken whether to close such meeting to public observation.
(e) Within one day of any vote taken pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, the agency will make publicly available at the Board's External Affairs Office a written copy of such vote reflecting the vote of each member on the question. If a meeting or a portion of a meeting is to be closed to public observation, the Board, within one day of the vote taken pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, will make publicly available at the Board's External Affairs Office a full written explanation of its action closing the meeting or portion of the meeting together with a list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliation, except to the extent such information is determined by the Board to be exempt from disclosure
under subsection (c) of the Act and § 1632.5 of this part.
(f) Any person may request in writing to the Secretary of the Board that an announced closed meeting, or portion of the meeting, be held open to public observation. The Secretary, or in his or her absence, the Acting Secretary of the Board, will transmit the request to the members of the Board and upon the request of any member a recorded vote will be taken whether to open such meeting to public observation.
§ 1632.8
Changes with respect to publicly announced meetings.
The subject matter of a meeting or the determination to open or close a meeting or a portion of a meeting to public observation may be changed following public announcement under § 1632.6 only if a majority of the Members of the Board determines by a recorded vote that that agency business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible. Public announcement of such change and the vote of each member upon such change will be made pursuant to § 1632.6(c). Changes in time, including postponements and cancellations of a publicly announced meeting or portion of a meeting or changes in the place of a publicly announced meeting will be publicly announced pursuant to § 1632.6(c) by the Secretary of the Board or, in the Secretary's absence, the Acting Secretary of the Board.
§ 1632.9
Certification of General Counsel.
Before every meeting or portion of a meeting closed to public observation under § 1632.7 of this part, the General Counsel, or in the General Counsel's absence, the Acting General Counsel, shall publicly certify whether or not in his or her opinion the meeting may be closed to public observation and shall state each relevant exemptive provision. A copy of such certification, together with a statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the time and place of the meeting and the persons present, will be retained for the time prescribed in § 1632.10(d).
§ 1632.10
Transcripts, recordings, and minutes.
(a) The Board will maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording or transcription thereof adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting or portion of a meeting closed to public observation pursuant to exemption (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(5), (a)(6), (a)(7), or (a)(9)(ii) of § 1632.5 of this part. Transcriptions of recordings will disclose the identity of each speaker.
(b) The Board will maintain either such a transcript, recording or transcription thereof, or a set of minutes that will fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any roll call vote (reflecting the vote of each member on the question), for meetings or portions of meetings closed to public observation pursuant to exemptions (a)(8), (a)(9)(i)(A) or (a)(10) of § 1632.5 of this part. The minutes will identify all documents considered in connection with any action taken.
(c) Transcripts, recordings or transcriptions thereof, or minutes will promptly be made available to the public in the External Affairs Office except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony as may be determined to contain information that may be withheld under subsection (c) of the Act and § 1632.5 of this part. These documents, disclosing the identity of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription.
(d) A complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording or verbatim copy of a transcription thereof of each meeting or portion of a meeting closed to public observation will be maintained for a period of at least two years, or one year after the conclusion of any Board proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion thereof was held, whichever occurs later.
§ 1632.11
Procedures for inspection and obtaining copies of transcriptions and minutes.
(a) Any person may inspect or copy a transcript, a recording or transcription, or minutes described in § 1632.10(c) of this part.
(b) Requests for copies of transcripts, recordings or transcriptions of recordings, or minutes described in § 1632.10(c) of this part shall specify the meeting or the portion of meeting desired and shall be submitted in writing to the Secretary of the Board, Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, 77 K Street, NE., Suite 1000, Washington, DC 20002. Copies of documents identified in minutes may be made available to the public upon request under the provisions of 5 CFR part 1630 (the Board's Freedom of Information Act regulations).
[53 FR 36777, Sept. 22, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 55331, Nov. 7, 1994; 77 FR 11384, Feb. 27, 2012]
Pt. 1633

# PART 1633—STANDARDS OF CONDUCT

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7301.
§ 1633.1
Cross-reference to employee ethical conduct standards and financial disclosure regulations.
Employees of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Board) are subject to the executive branch-wide Standards of Ethical conduct at 5 CFR part 2635, the Board regulations at 5 CFR part 8601 which supplement the executive branch-wide standards, and the executive branch-wide financial disclosure regulations at 5 CFR part 2634.
[59 FR 50817, Oct. 6, 1994]
Pt. 1636

# PART 1636—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE FEDERAL RETIREMENT THRIFT INVESTMENT BOARD
Sec.
1636.101
Purpose.
1636.102
Application.
1636.103
Definitions.
1636.104-1636.109
[Reserved]
1636.110
Self-evaluation.
1636.111
Notice.
1636.112-1636.129
[Reserved]
1636.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
1636.131-1636.139
[Reserved]
1636.140
Employment.
1636.141-1636.148
[Reserved]
1636.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
1636.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
1636.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
1636.152-1636.159
[Reserved]
1636.160
Communications.
1636.161-1636.169
[Reserved]
1636.170
Compliance procedures.
1636.171-1636.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
58 FR 57696, 57699, Oct. 26, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1636.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to effectuate section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 1636.102
Application.
This part (§§ 1636.101-1636.170) applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency, except for programs or activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals with handicaps in the United States.
§ 1636.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings, and other similar
services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TTD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Individual with handicaps
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term “physical or mental impairment” includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, HIV disease (whether symptomatic or asymptomatic), and drug addiction and alcoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
include functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Qualified individual with handicaps
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, an individual with handicaps who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency;
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified handicapped person
as that term is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1614.203(a)(6), which is made applicable to this part by § 1636.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended. As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 1636.104-1636.109
[Reserved]
§ 1636.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by November 28, 1994, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, for at least three years following completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified; and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 1636.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this part.
§§ 1636.112-1636.129
[Reserved]
§ 1636.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified individual with handicaps an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified individual with handicaps with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in according equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to individuals with handicaps or to any class of individuals with handicaps than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with handicaps with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards;
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified individual with handicaps in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are no separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude individuals with handicaps from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to individuals with handicaps or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with handicaps from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of individuals with handicaps is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with handicaps.
§§ 1636.131-1636.139
[Reserved]
§ 1636.140
Employment.
No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 1636.141-1636.148
[Reserved]
§ 1636.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 1636.150, no qualified individual with handicaps shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with handicaps, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 1636.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or
in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 1636.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with handicaps in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 1636.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to individuals with handicaps. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 1636.150(a)(2) or (a)(3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide individuals with handicaps into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by January 24, 1994, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by November 26, 1996, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by May 26, 1994, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with handicaps;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 1636.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 1636.152-1636.159
[Reserved]
§ 1636.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with handicaps.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 1636.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 1636.161-1636.169
[Reserved]
§ 1636.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs and activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Assistant General Counsel (Administration) shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to the Executive Director.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate Government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 1636.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[58 FR 57696, 57699, Oct. 26, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 57697, Oct. 26, 1993]
§§ 1636.171-1636.999
[Reserved]
Pt. 1639

# PART 1639—CLAIMS COLLECTION

# Subpart A—Administrative Collection, Compromise, Termination, and Referral of Claims
Sec.
1639.1
Authority.
1639.2
Application of other regulations; scope.
1639.3
Application to other statutes.
1639.4
Definitions.
1639.5
Use of credit reporting agencies.
1639.6
Contracting for collection services.
1639.7
Initial notice to debtor.
1639.8
Interest, penalty, and administrative costs.
1639.9
Charges pending waiver or review.
1639.10
Referrals to the Department of Justice.
1639.11
Cross-servicing agreement with the Department of the Treasury.
1639.12
Deposit of funds collected.
1639.13
Antialienation of funds in Thrift Savings Plan participant accounts.

# Subpart B—Salary Offset
1639.20
Applicability and scope.
1639.21
Waiver requests.
1639.22
Notice requirements before offset.
1639.23
Hearing.
1639.24
Certification.
1639.25
Voluntary repayment agreements as alternative to salary offset.
1639.26
Special review.
1639.27
Procedures for salary offset.
1639.28
Coordinating salary offset with other agencies.
1639.29
Refunds.
1639.30
Non-waiver of rights by payments.

# Subpart C—Tax Refund Offset
1639.40
Applicability and scope.
1639.41
Procedures for tax refund offset.
1639.42
Notice requirements before tax refund offset.

# Subpart D—Administrative Offset
1639.50
Applicability and scope.
1639.51
Notice procedures.
1639.52
Board review.
1639.53
Written agreement for repayment.
1639.54
Requests for offset to Federal agencies.
1639.55
Requests for offset from Federal agencies.
1639.56
Expedited procedure.

# Subpart E—Administrative Wage Garnishment
1639.60
Administrative wage garnishment.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8474 and 31 U.S.C. 3711, 3716, 3720A, and 3720D.

# Source:
62 FR 49417, Sept. 22, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Administrative Collection, Compromise, Termination, and Referral of Claims
§ 1639.1
Authority.
The regulations of this part are issued under 5 U.S.C. 8474 and 31 U.S.C. 3711, 3716, 3720A, and 3720D.
[79 FR 22594, Apr. 23, 2014]
§ 1639.2
Application of other regulations; scope.
All provisions of the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 4 CFR chapter II, apply to the regulations of this part. This part supplements 4 CFR chapter II by the prescription of procedures and directives necessary and appropriate for operations of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board. The Federal Claims Collection Standards and this part do not apply to any claim as to which there is an indication of fraud or misrepresentation, as described in 4 CFR 101.3, unless returned by the Department of Justice to the Board for handling.
§ 1639.3
Application to other statutes.
(a) The Executive Director may exercise his or her compromise authority for those debts not exceeding $100,000, excluding interest, in conformity with the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, the Federal Claims Collection Standards issued thereunder, and this part, except where standards are established by other statutes or authorized regulations issued pursuant to them.
(b) The authority of the Executive Director of the Board to remit or mitigate a fine, penalty, or forfeiture will be exercised in accordance with the standards for remission or mitigation established in the governing statute. In the absence of such standards, the Federal Claims Collection Standards will be followed to the extent applicable.
§ 1639.4
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Administrative offset,
as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1), means withholding funds payable by the United States (including funds payable to the United States on behalf of a State government) to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed to the United States.
Agency
means executive departments and agencies, the United States Postal Service, the Postal Rate Commission, the United States Senate, the United States House of Representatives, and any court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the judicial or legislative branches of the Government, and Government corporations.
Board
means the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, which administers the Thrift Savings Plan and the Thrift Savings Fund.
Certification
means a written debt claim form received from a creditor agency which requests the paying agency to offset the salary of an employee.
Creditor agency
means an agency of the Federal Government to which the debt is owed.
Debt
means money owed by an individual to the United States including a debt owed to the Thrift Savings Fund or to a Federal agency, but does not include a Thrift Savings Plan loan.
Delinquent debt
means a debt that has not been paid within the time limit prescribed by the Board.
Disposable pay
means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retirement pay, retainer pay, or, in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld, excluding any garnishment under 5 CFR parts 581, 582. The Board will include the following deductions in determining disposable pay subject to salary offset:
(1) Federal Social Security and Medicare taxes;
(2) Federal, state, or local income taxes, but no more than would be the
case if the employee claimed all dependents to which he or she is entitled and any additional amounts for which the employee presents evidence of a tax obligation supporting the additional withholding;
(3) Health insurance premiums;
(4) Normal retirement contributions as explained in 5 CFR 581.105(e);
(5) Normal life insurance premiums, excluding optional life insurance premiums; and
(6) Levies pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5514(d).
Employee
means a current employee of an agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces or Reserve of the Armed Forces of the United States.
Executive Director
means the Executive Director of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, or his or her designee.
Federal Claims Collection Standards
means the standards published at 4 CFR chapter II.
Hearing official
means an individual responsible for conducting any hearing with respect to the existence or amount of a debt claimed, and rendering a decision on the basis of the hearing.
Net Assets Available for Thrift Savings Plan Benefits
means all funds owed to Thrift Savings Plan participants and beneficiaries.
Notice of intent to offset
or
notice of intent
means a written notice from a creditor agency to an employee which alleges that the employee owes a debt to the creditor agency and which apprises the employee of certain administrative rights.
Notice of salary offset
means a written notice from the paying agency to an employee informing the employee that it has received a certification from a creditor agency and intends to begin salary offset.
Participant
means any person with an account in the Thrift Savings Plan, or who would have an account but for an employing agency error.
Paying agency
means the agency of the Federal Government which employs the individual who owes a debt to the United States. In some cases, the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board may be both the creditor agency and the paying agency.
Payroll office
means the payroll office in the paying agency which is primarily responsible for the payroll records and the coordination of pay matters with the appropriate personnel office with respect to an employee.
Person
includes a natural person or persons, profit or non-profit corporation, partnership, association, trust, estate, consortium, State and local governments, or other entity that is capable of owing a debt to the United States Government; however, agencies of the United States, are excluded.
Private collection contractor
means a private debt collector under contract with an agency to collect a non-tax debt owed to the United States.
Salary offset
means an offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee, without his or her consent.
Tax refund offset
means the reduction of a tax refund by the amount of a past-due legally enforceable debt owed to the Board or a Federal agency.
Thrift Savings Fund
means the Fund described in 5 U.S.C. 8437.
Thrift Savings Plan
means the Federal Retirement Thrift Savings Plan established by the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986, codified in pertinent part at 5 U.S.C. 8431
et seq..
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt allegedly owed by a person to the Board or a Federal agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 5584 or 8346(b), 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, or any other law.
§ 1639.5
Use of credit reporting agencies.
(a) The Board may report delinquent debts to appropriate credit reporting agencies by providing the following information:
(1) A statement that the debt is valid and is overdue;
(2) The name, address, taxpayer identification number, and any other information necessary to establish the identity of the debtor;
(3) The amount, status, and history of the debt; and
(4) The program or pertinent activity under which the debt arose.
(b) Before disclosing debt information to a credit reporting agency, the Board will:
(1) Take reasonable action to locate the debtor if a current address is not available; and
(2) If a current address is available, notify the debtor by certified mail, return receipt requested:
(i) That a designated Board official has reviewed the claim and has determined that the claim is valid and over-due;
(ii) That within 60 days the Board intends to disclose to a credit reporting agency the information authorized for disclosure by this section; and
(iii) That the debtor can request an explanation of the claim, can dispute the information in the Board's records concerning the claim, and can file for an administrative review, waiver, or reconsideration of the claim, where applicable.
(c) At the time debt information is submitted to a credit reporting agency, the Board will provide a written statement to the reporting agency that all required actions have been taken. In addition, the Board will, thereafter, ensure that the credit reporting agency is promptly informed of any substantive change in the conditions or amount of the debt, and promptly verify or correct information relevant to the claim.
(d) If a debtor disputes the validity of the debt, the credit reporting agency will refer the matter to the appropriate Board official. The credit reporting agency will exclude the debt from its reports until the Board certifies in writing that the debt is valid.
§ 1639.6
Contracting for collection services.
The Board will use the services of a private collection contractor where it determines that such use is in the best interest of the Board. When the Board determines that there is a need to contract for collection services, it will—
(a) Retain sole authority to:
(1) Resolve any dispute by the debtor regarding the validity of the debt;
(2) Compromise the debt;
(3) Suspend or terminate collection action;
(4) Refer the debt to the Department of Justice for litigation; and
(5) Take any other action under this part which does not result in full collection of the debt;
(b) Require the contractor to comply with the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, to the extent specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), with applicable Federal and State laws pertaining to debt collection practices (e.g., the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 1692
et seq.
)), and with applicable regulations of the Board;
(c) Require the contractor to account accurately and fully for all amounts collected; and
(d) Require the contractor to provide to the Board, upon request, all data and reports contained in its files relating to its collection actions on a debt.
§ 1639.7
Initial notice to debtor.
(a) When the Executive Director determines that a debt is owed the Board, he will send a written notice to the debtor. The notice will inform the debtor of the following:
(1) The amount, nature, and basis of the debt;
(2) That payment is due immediately after receipt of the notice;
(3) That the debt is considered delinquent if it is not paid within 30 days of the date the notice is mailed or hand-delivered;
(4) That interest charges (except for State and local governments and Indian tribes), penalty charges, and admini strative costs may be assessed against a delinquent debt;
(5) Any rights available to the debtor to dispute the validity of the debt or to have recovery of the debt waived (citing the available review or waiver authority, the conditions for review or waiver, and the effects of the review or waiver request on the collection of the debt); and
(6) The address, telephone number, and name of the Board official available to discuss the debt.
(b) The Board will respond promptly to communications from the debtor.
(c) Subsequent demand letters also will notify the debtor of any interest, penalty, or administrative costs which have been assessed and will advise the debtor that the debt may be referred to
a credit reporting agency (see § 1639.5), a collection agency (see § 1639.6), the Department of Justice (see § 1639.10), or the Department of the Treasury (see § 1639.11), if it is not paid.
§ 1639.8
Interest, penalty, and administrative costs.
(a)
Interest.
The Board will assess interest on all delinquent debts unless prohibited by statute, regulation, or contract.
(1) Interest begins to accrue on all debts from the date the initial notice is mailed or hand-delivered to the debtor. The Board will not recover interest if the debt is paid within 30 days of the date of the initial notice. The Board will assess an annual rate of interest that is equal to the rate of the current value of funds to the United States Treasury (
i.e.,
the Treasury tax and loan account rate) as prescribed and published by the Secretary of the Treasury in the
Federal Register
and the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual Bulletins, unless a different rate is necessary to protect the interests of the Board. The Board will notify the debtor of the basis for its finding when a different rate is necessary to protect the Board's interests.
(2) The Executive Director may extend the 30-day period for payment where he determines that such action is in the best interest of the Board. A decision to extend or not to extend the payment period is final and is not subject to further review.
(b)
Penalty.
The Board will assess a penalty charge, not to exceed six percent a year, on any portion of a debt that is not paid within 90 days of the initial notice.
(c)
Administrative costs.
The Board will assess charges to cover administrative costs incurred as the result of the debtor's failure to pay a debt within 30 days of the date of the initial notice. Administrative costs include the additional costs incurred in processing and handling the debt because it became delinquent, such as costs incurred in obtaining a credit report, or in using a private collection contractor, or service fees charged by a Federal agency for collection activities undertaken on behalf of the Board.
(d)
Allocation of payments.
A partial payment by a debtor will be applied first to outstanding administrative costs, second to penalty assessments, third to accrued interest, and then to the outstanding debt principal.
(e)
Waiver.
(1) The Executive Director may (without regard to the amount of the debt) waive collection of all or part of accrued interest, penalty, or administrative costs, if he determines that collection of these charges would be against equity and good conscience or not in the best interest of the Board.
(2) A decision to waive interest, penalty charges, or administrative costs may be made at any time before a debt is paid. However, where these charges have been collected before the waiver decision, they will not be refunded. The Executive Director's decision to waive or not waive collection of these charges is final and is not subject to further review.
§ 1639.9
Charges pending waiver or review.
Interest, penalty charges, and administrative costs will continue to accrue on a debt during administrative appeal, either formal or informal, and during waiver consideration by the Board, unless specifically prohibited by a statute or a regulation.
§ 1639.10
Referrals to the Department of Justice.
The Executive Director will refer to the Department of Justice for litigation all claims on which aggressive collection actions have been taken but which could not be collected, compromised, suspended, or terminated. Referrals will be made as early as possible, consistent with aggressive Board collection action, and within the period for bringing a timely suit against the debtor.
§ 1639.11
Cross-servicing agreement with the Department of the Treasury.
The Board will enter into a cross-servicing agreement with the Department of the Treasury which will authorize Treasury to take all of the debt collection actions described in this part. These debt collection services
will be provided to the Board in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.
§ 1639.12
Deposit of funds collected.
All funds owed to the Board and collected under this part will be deposited in the Thrift Savings Fund. Funds owed to other agencies and collected under this part will be credited to the account designated by the creditor agency for the receipt of the funds.
§ 1639.13
Antialienation of funds in Thrift Savings Plan participant accounts.
In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8437, net assets available for Thrift Savings Plan benefits will not be used to satisfy a debt owed by a participant to an agency under the regulations of this part or under the debt collection regulations of any agency.

# Subpart B—Salary Offset
§ 1639.20
Applicability and scope.
(a) The regulations in this subpart provide Board procedures for the collection by salary offset of a Federal employee's pay to satisfy certain debts owed to the Board or to Federal agencies.
(b) The regulations in this subpart apply to collections by the Executive Director, from:
(1) Federal employees who owe debts to the Board; and
(2) Employees of the Board who owe debts to Federal agencies.
(c) The regulations in this subpart do not apply to debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (title 26, United States Code); the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
); the tariff laws of the United States; or to any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute (e.g., travel advances in 5 U.S.C. 5705 and employee training expenses in 5 U.S.C. 4108).
(d) Nothing in the regulations in this subpart precludes the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection actions under the standards implementing the Federal Claims Collection Act (31 U.S.C. 3711
et seq.,
4 CFR Parts 101-105, 38 CFR 1.900-1.994).
(e) A levy pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code takes precedence over a salary offset under this subpart, as provided in 5 U.S.C. 5514(d).
(f) This subpart does not apply to any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less.
§ 1639.21
Waiver requests.
The regulations in this subpart do not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of an overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584 or 8346(b), 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, or under other statutory provisions pertaining to the particular debts being collected.
§ 1639.22
Notice requirements before offset.
Deductions under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514 may be made if, a minimum of 30 calendar days before salary offset is initiated, the Board provides the employee with written notice that he or she owes a debt to the Board. This notice of intent to offset an employee's salary will be hand-delivered or sent by certified mail to the most current address that is available to the Board. The notice provided under this section will state:
(a) That the Board has reviewed the records relating to the claim and has determined that a debt is owed, the amount of the debt, and the facts giving rise to the debt;
(b) The Board's intention to collect the debt by deducting money from the employee's current disposable pay account until the debt, and all accumulated interest, penalties, and administrative costs, is paid in full;
(c) The amount, frequency, approximate beginning date, and duration of the intended deductions;
(d) An explanation of the Board's policy concerning interest, penalties, and administrative costs, including a statement that such assessments must be made unless excused in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 4 CFR chapter II;
(e) The employee's right to inspect and copy all records pertaining to the
debt claimed or to receive copies of those records if personal inspection is impractical;
(f) The right to a hearing conducted by an administrative law judge or other impartial hearing official (
i.e.,
a hearing official not under the supervision or control of the Executive Director), with respect to the existence and amount of the debt claimed or the repayment schedule (
i.e.,
the percentage of disposable pay to be deducted each pay period), so long as a request is filed by the employee as prescribed in § 1639.23;
(g) If not previously provided, the opportunity (under terms agreeable to the Board) to establish a schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt or to enter into a written agreement to establish a schedule for repayment of the debt in lieu of offset. The agreement must be in writing and signed by both the employee and the Executive Director;
(h) The name, address, and telephone number of an officer or employee of the Board who may be contacted concerning procedures for requesting a hearing;
(i) The method and time period for requesting a hearing;
(j) That the timely filing of a request for a hearing on or before the 15th calendar day following receipt of the notice of intent will stay the commencement of collection proceedings;
(k) The name and address of the officer or employee of the Board to whom the request for a hearing should be sent;
(l) That the Board will initiate certification procedures to implement a salary offset, as appropriate, (which may not exceed 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay) not less than 30 days from the date the employee receives the notice of debt, unless the employee files a timely request for a hearing;
(m) That a final decision on the hearing (if one is requested) will be issued at the earliest practical date, but not later than 60 days after the filing of the petition requesting the hearing, unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(n) That any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the employee to:
(1) Disciplinary procedures appropriate under 5 U.S.C. chapter 75, 5 CFR part 752, or any other applicable statute or regulations;
(2) Penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729-3733, or any other applicable statutory authority; and
(3) Criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 1001, and 102, or any other applicable statutory authority;
(o) Any other rights and remedies available to the employee under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made;
(p) That unless there are applicable contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, amounts paid on or deducted for the debt which are later waived or found not owed will be promptly refunded to the employee; and
(q) That proceedings with respect to the debt are governed by 5 U.S.C. 5514.
§ 1639.23
Hearing.
(a)
Request for hearing.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an employee who desires a hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt or the proposed offset schedule must send such a request to the Board office designated in the notice of intent. See § 1639.22(k).
(1) The request for hearing must be signed by the employee and fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence, and witnesses, if any, that support his or her position.
(2) The request for hearing must be received by the designated office on or before the 15th calendar day following the employee's receipt of the notice. Timely filing will stay the commencement of collection procedures.
(3) The employee must also specify whether an oral or written hearing is requested. If an oral hearing is desired, the request should explain why the matter cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence alone.
(b)
Failure to timely submit.
(1) If the employee files a request for a hearing
after the expiration of the 15th calendar day period provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, the Board will accept the request if the employee can show that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond his or her control or because of a failure to receive notice of the filing deadline (unless the employee had actual notice of the filing deadline).
(2) An employee waives the right to a hearing, and will have his or her disposable pay offset in accordance with the Board's offset schedule, if the employee:
(i) Fails to file a request for a hearing and the failure is not excused; or
(ii) Fails to appear at an oral hearing of which he or she was notified and the hearing official does not determine that failure to appear was due to circumstances beyond the employee's control.
(c)
Representation at the hearing.
The creditor agency may be represented by legal counsel. The employee may represent himself or herself or may be represented by an individual of his or her choice and at his or her own expense.
(d)
Review of Board records related to the debt.
(1) In accordance with § 1639.22(e), an employee who intends to inspect or copy Board records related to the debt must send a letter to the official designated in the notice of intent to offset stating his or her intention. The letter must be received within 15 calendar days after the employee's receipt of the notice.
(2) In response to a timely request submitted by the debtor, the designated official will notify the employee of the location and time when the employee may inspect and copy records related to the debt.
(3) If personal inspection is impractical, arrangements will be made to send copies of those records to the employee.
(e)
Hearing official.
The Board may request an administrative law judge to conduct the hearing or the Board may obtain a hearing official who is not under the supervision or control of the Executive Director.
(f)
Procedure
—(1)
General.
After the employee requests a hearing, the hearing official will notify the employee of the form of the hearing to be provided. If the hearing will be oral, the notice will set forth the date, time, and location of the hearing. If the hearing will be written, the employee will be notified that he or she should submit arguments in writing to the hearing official by a specified date after which the record will be closed. This date will give the employee reasonable time to submit documentation.
(2)
Oral hearing.
An employee who requests an oral hearing will be provided an oral hearing, if the hearing official determines that the matter cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (e.g., when an issue of credibility is involved). The hearing is not an adversarial adjudication and need not take the form of an evidentiary hearing. Witnesses who testify in oral hearings will do so under oath or affirmation. Oral hearings may take the form of, but are not limited to:
(i) Informal conferences with the hearing official, in which the employee and agency representative will be given full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and argument;
(ii) Informal meetings with an interview of the employee; or
(iii) Formal written submissions, with an opportunity for oral presentation.
(3)
Record determination.
If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, he or she will make the determination based upon a review of the available written record.
(4)
Record.
The hearing official must maintain a summary record of any hearing provided by this subpart.
(g)
Date of decision.
The hearing official will issue a written decision, based upon documentary evidence and information developed at the hearing, as soon as practical after the hearing, but not later than 60 days after the date on which the petition was received by the creditor agency, unless the employee requests a delay in the proceedings. In that case, the 60 day decision period will be extended by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed.
(h)
Content of decision.
The written decision will include:
(1) A statement of the facts presented to support the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;
(2) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions; and
(3) The terms of any repayment schedules, if applicable.
(i)
Failure to appear.
(1) In the absence of good cause shown (e.g., excused illness), an employee who fails to appear at a hearing will be deemed, for the purpose of this subpart, to admit the existence and amount of the debt as described in the notice of intent.
(2) If the representative of the creditor agency fails to appear, the hearing official will proceed with the hearing as scheduled, and make his or her determination based upon the oral testimony presented by the representative(s) of the employee and the documentary documentation submitted by both parties.
(3) At the request of both parties, the hearing official will schedule a new hearing date. Both parties will be given reasonable notice of the time and place of this new hearing.
§ 1639.24
Certification.
(a) The Board will provide a certification to the paying agency in all cases in which:
(1) The hearing official determines that a debt exists;
(2) The employee admits the existence and amount of the debt by failing to request a hearing; or
(3) The employee admits the existence of the debt by failing to appear at a hearing.
(b) The certification must be in writing and must include:
(1) A statement that the employee owes the debt;
(2) The amount and basis of the debt;
(3) The date the Board's right to collect the debt first accrued;
(4) A statement that the Board's regulations have been approved by the Office of Personnel Management under 5 CFR part 550, subpart K;
(5) The amount and date of the collection, if only a one-time offset is required;
(6) If the collection is to be made in installments, the number of installments to be collected, the amount of each installment, and the date of the first installment, if a date other than the next officially established pay period is required; and
(7) Information regarding the completion of procedures required by 5 U.S.C. 5514, including the dates of notices and hearings provided to the employee, or, if applicable, the employee's signed consent to salary offset or a signed statement acknowledging receipt of required procedures.
§ 1639.25
Voluntary repayment agreements as alternative to salary offset.
(a) In response to a notice of intent to offset against an employee's salary to recover a debt owed to the Board, an employee may propose to the Board that he or she be allowed to repay the debt through direct payments as an alternative to salary offset. Any employee who wishes to repay a debt without salary offset must submit in writing a proposed agreement to repay the debt. The proposal must admit the existence of the debt and set forth a proposed repayment schedule. The employee's proposal must be received by the official designated in the notice of intent within 15 calendar days after the employee received the notice.
(b) In response to a timely proposal by the debtor, the Executive Director will notify the employee whether the employee's proposed written agreement for repayment is acceptable. It is within the Executive Director's discretion to accept a repayment agreement instead of proceeding by salary offset.
(c) If the Executive Director decides that the proposed repayment agreement is unacceptable, the employee will have 15 days from the date he or she received notice of the decision to file a petition for a hearing.
(d) If the Executive Director decides that the proposed repayment agreement is acceptable, the alternative arrange ment must be in writing and signed by both the employee and the Executive Director.
§ 1639.26
Special review.
(a) An employee subject to salary offset or a voluntary repayment agreement in connection with a debt owed to the Board may, at any time, request that the Board conduct a special review of the amount of the salary offset or voluntary payment, based on materially changed circumstances, such as
catastrophic illness, divorce, death, or disability.
(b) To assist the Board in determining whether an offset would prevent the employee from meeting essential subsistence expenses (costs incurred for food, housing, clothing, transportation, and medical care), the employee will submit a detailed statement and supporting documents for the employee, his or her spouse, and dependents, indicating:
(1) Income from all sources;
(2) Assets;
(3) Liabilities;
(4) Number of dependents;
(5) Expenses for food, housing, clothing, and transportation;
(6) Medical expenses; and
(7) Exceptional expenses, if any.
(c) If the employee requests a special review under this section, the employee must file an alternative proposed salary offset or payment schedule and a statement, with supporting documents, showing why the current salary offset or payments result in an extreme financial hardship to the employee.
(d) The Executive Director will evaluate the statement and supporting documents, and determine whether the original offset or repayment schedule imposes an extreme financial hardship on the employee. The Executive Director will notify the employee in writing of his determination, including, if appropriate, a revised offset or payment schedule.
(e) If the special review results in a revised offset or repayment schedule, the Board will provide a new certification to the paying agency.
§ 1639.27
Procedures for salary offset.
(a) The Board will coordinate salary deductions under this subpart.
(b) The Board's payroll office will determine the amount of an employee's disposable pay and will implement the salary offset.
(c) Deductions will begin within three official pay periods following receipt by the Board's payroll office of certification for the creditor agency.
(d) Types of collection—
(1)
Lump-sum offset.
If the amount of the debt is equal to or less than 15 percent of disposable pay, the debt generally will be collected through one lump-sum offset.
(2)
Installment deductions.
Installment deductions will be made over a period not greater than the anticipated period of employment. The size and frequency of installment deductions will bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. However, the amount deducted from any period will not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount.
(3)
Deductions from final check.
A deduction exceeding the 15 percent disposable pay limitation may be made from any final salary payment under 31 U.S.C. 3716 and the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 4 CFR chapter II, in order to liquidate the debt, whether the employee is being separated voluntarily or involuntarily.
(4)
Deductions from other sources.
If an employee subject to salary offset is separated from the Board, and the balance of the debt cannot be liquidated by offset of the final salary check, the Board may offset any later payments of any kind against the balance of the debt, as allowed by 31 U.S.C. 3716 and the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 4 CFR chapter II.
(e) Multiple debts. In instances where two or more creditor agencies are seeking salary offsets, or where two or more debts are owed to a single creditor agency, the Board's payroll office may, at its discretion, determine whether one or more debts should be offset simultaneously within the 15 percent limitation.
(f) Precedence of debts owed to the Board. For Board employees, debts owed to the Board generally take precedence over debts owed to other agencies. In the event that a debt to the Board is certified while an employee is subject to a salary offset to repay another agency, the Board may decide whether to have the first debt repaid in full before collecting the claim or whether changes should be made in the salary deduction being sent to the other agency. If debts owed the Board can be collected in one pay period, the Board payroll office may suspend the salary offset to the other agency for
that pay period in order to liquidate the debt to the Board. When an employee owes two or more debts, the best interests of the Board will be the primary con sideration in the payroll office's determination of the order in which the debts should be collected.
§ 1639.28
Coordinating salary offset with other agencies.
(a)
Responsibility of the Board as the creditor agency.
(1) The Board will coordinate debt collections with other agencies and will, as appropriate:
(i) Arrange for a hearing or special review upon proper petitioning by the debtor; and
(ii) Prescribe, upon consultation with the General Counsel, the additional practices and procedures that may be necessary to carry out the intent of this subpart.
(2) The Board will ensure:
(i) That each notice of intent to offset is consistent with the requirements of § 1639.22;
(ii) That each certification of debt that is sent to a paying agency is consistent with the requirements of § 1639.24; and
(iii) That hearings are properly scheduled.
(3)
Requesting recovery from current paying agency.
Upon completion of the procedures established in these regulations and pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514, the Board will provide the paying agency with a certification as provided in § 1639.24.
(4) If the employee is in the process of separating and has not received a final salary check or other final payment(s) from the paying agency, the Board must submit a debt claim to the paying agency for collection under 31 U.S.C. 3716. The paying agency must certify the total amount of its collection on the debt and notify the employee and the Board. If the paying agency's collection does not fully satisfy the debt, and the paying agency is aware that the debtor is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund or other similar payments that may be due the debtor employee from other Federal Government sources, the paying agency will provide written notice of the outstanding debt to the agency responsible for making the other payments to the debtor employee. The written notice will state that the employee owes a debt, the amount of the debt, and that the provisions of this section have been fully complied with. The Board must submit a properly certified claim to the agency responsible for making the payments before the collection can be made.
(5)
Separated employee.
If the employee is already separated and all payments due from his or her former paying agency have been paid, the Board may request, unless otherwise prohibited, that money due and payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (5 CFR part 831, subpart R, or 5 CFR part 845, subpart D) or other similar funds, be administratively offset to collect the debt.
(6)
Employee transfer.
When an employee transfers from one paying agency to another paying agency, the Board will not repeat the due process procedures described in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and this subpart to resume the collection. The Board will submit a properly certified claim to the new paying agency and will subsequently review the debt to make sure the collection is resumed by the new paying agency.
(b)
Responsibility of the Board as the paying agency
—(1)
Complete claim.
When the Board receives a certified claim from a creditor agency, deductions should be scheduled to begin within three officially established pay intervals. Before deductions can begin, the employee will receive a written notice from the Board including:
(i) A statement that the Board has received a certified debt claim from the creditor agency;
(ii) The amount of the debt claim;
(iii) The date salary offset deductions will begin, and
(iv) The amount of such deductions.
(2)
Incomplete claim.
When the Board receives an incomplete certification of debt from a creditor agency, the Board will return the debt claim with a notice that procedures under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, must be followed and a properly certified debt claim received before action will be taken to collect from the employee's current pay account.
(3)
Review.
The Board is not authorized to review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.
(4)
Employees who transfer from one paying agency to another.
If, after the creditor agency has submitted the debt claim to the Board, the employee transfers from the Board to a different paying agency before the debt is collected in full, the Board will certify the total amount collected on the debt and notify the employee and the creditor agency in writing. The notification to the creditor agency will include information on the employee's transfer.
§ 1639.29
Refunds.
(a) If the Board is the creditor agency, it will promptly refund any amount deducted under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514, when:
(1) The debt is waived or all or part of the funds deducted are otherwise found not to be owed; or
(2) An administrative or judicial order directs the Board to make a refund.
(b) Unless required or permitted by law or contract, refunds under this section will not bear interest.
§ 1639.30
Non-waiver of rights by payments.
An employee's involuntary payment of all or any portion of a debt being collected under this subpart must not be construed as a waiver of any rights which the employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provisions of a written contract or law, unless there are statutory or con tractual provisions to the contrary.

# Subpart C—Tax Refund Offset
§ 1639.40
Applicability and scope.
(a) The regulations in this subpart implement 31 U.S.C. 3720A which authorizes the Department of the Treasury to reduce a tax refund by the amount of a past-due legally enforceable debt owed to a Federal agency.
(b) For purposes of this section, a past-due legally enforceable debt referable to the Department of the Treasury is a debt that is owed to the Board; and:
(1) Is at least $25.00 dollars;
(2) Except in the case of a judgment debt, has been delinquent for at least three months and will not have been delinquent more than 10 years at the time the offset is made;
(3) Cannot be currently collected under the salary offset provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5514;
(4) Is ineligible for administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) by reason of 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(2) or cannot be collected by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) by the Board against amounts payable to the debtor by the Board;
(5) With respect to which the Board has given the debtor at least 60 days to present evidence that all or part of the debt is not past due or legally enforceable, has considered evidence presented by the debtor, and has determined that an amount of the debt is past due and legally enforceable;
(6) Which has been disclosed by the Board to a credit reporting agency as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3711(e), unless the credit reporting agency would be prohibited from reporting information concerning the debt by reason of 15 U.S.C. 1681c;
(7) With respect to which the Board has notified or has made a reasonable attempt to notify the debtor that:
(i) The debt is past due, and
(ii) Unless repaid within 60 days thereafter, the debt will be referred to the Department of the Treasury for offset against any overpayment of tax; and
(8) All other requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3720A and the Department of Treasury regulations relating to the eligibility of a debt for tax return offset have been satisfied.
§ 1639.41
Procedures for tax refund offset.
(a) The Board will be the point of contact with the Department of the Treasury for administrative matters regarding the offset program.
(b) The Board will ensure that the procedures prescribed by the Department of the Treasury are followed in developing information about past-due debts and submitting the debts to the IRS.
(c) The Board will submit a notification of a taxpayer's liability for past-due legally enforceable debt to the Department of the Treasury which will contain:
(1) The name and taxpayer identifying number (as defined in section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 6109) of the person who is responsible for the debt;
(2) The dollar amount of the past-due and legally enforceable debt;
(3) The date on which the original debt became past due;
(4) A statement certifying that, with respect to each debt reported, all of the requirements of eligibility of the debt for referral for the refund offset have been satisfied. See § 1639.40(b).
(d) The Board shall promptly notify the Department of the Treasury to correct Board data submitted when it:
(1) Determines that an error has been made with respect to a debt that has been referred;
(2) Receives or credits a payment on the debt; or
(3) Receives notice that the person owing the debt has filed for bankruptcy under Title 11 of the United States Code or has been adjudicated bankrupt and the debt has been discharged.
(e) When advising debtors of an intent to refer a debt to the Department of the Treasury for offset, the Board will also advise the debtors of all remedial actions available to defer or prevent the offset from taking place.
§ 1639.42
Notice requirements before tax refund offset.
(a) The Board must notify, or make a reasonable attempt to notify, the person:
(1) The amount of the debt and that the debt is past due; and
(2) Unless repaid within 60 days, the debt will be referred to the Department of the Treasury for offset against any refund of overpayment of tax.
(b) The Board will provide a mailing address for forwarding any written correspondence and a contact name and telephone number for any questions concerning the offset.
(c) The Board will give the individual debtor at least 60 days from the date of the notice to present evidence that all or part of the debt is not past due or legally enforceable. The Board will consider the evidence presented by the individual and will make a determination whether any amount of the debt is past due and legally enforceable. For purposes of this section, evidence that collection of the debt is affected by a bankruptcy proceeding involving the individual will bar referral of the debt to the Department of the Treasury.
(d) Notice given to a debtor under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall advise the debtor of how he or she may present evidence to the Board that all or part of the debt is not past due or legally enforceable. Such evidence may not be referred to, or considered by, individuals who are not officials, employees, or agents of the United States in making the determination required under paragraph (c) of this section. Unless such evidence is directly considered by an official or employee of the Board, and the determination required under paragraph (c) of this section has been made by an official or employee of the Board, any unresolved dispute with the debtor regarding whether all or part of the debt is past due or legally enforceable must be referred to the Board for ultimate administrative disposition, and the Board must directly notify the debtor of its determination.

# Subpart D—Administrative Offset
§ 1639.50
Applicability and scope.
(a) The regulations in this subpart apply to the collection of debts owed to the Board, or from a request for an offset received by the Board from a Federal agency. Administrative offset is authorized under section 5 of the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, as amended by the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (31 U.S.C. 3716). The regulations in this subpart are consistent with the Federal Claims Collection Standards on administrative offset issued jointly by the Department of Justice and the General Accounting Office as set forth in 4 CFR 102.3.
(b) The Executive Director, after attempting to collect a debt owed to the Board under section 3(a) of the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, as
amended (31 U.S.C. 3711(a)), may collect the debt by administrative offset, subject to the following:
(1) The debt is certain in amount; and
(2) It is in the best interest of the Board to collect the debt by administrative offset because of the decreased costs of collection and acceleration in the payment of the debt.
(c) The Executive Director may initiate administrative offset with regard to debts owed by a person to a Federal agency, so long as the funds to be offset are not payable from net assets available for Thrift Savings Plan benefits. The head of the creditor agency, or his or her designee, must submit a written request for the offset with a certification that the debt exists and that the person has been afforded the necessary due process rights.
(d) The Executive Director may request another agency that holds funds payable to a Fund debtor to pay the funds to the Board in settlement of the debt. The Board will provide certification that:
(1) The debt exists; and
(2) The person has been afforded the necessary due process rights.
(e) If the six-year period for bringing action on a debt provided in 28 U.S.C. 2415 has expired, then administrative offset may be used to collect the debt only if the costs of bringing such an action are likely to be less than the amount of the debt.
(f) No collection by administrative offset will be made on any debt that has been outstanding for more than 10 years unless facts material to the Board or a Federal agency's right to collect the debt were not known, and reasonably could not have been known, by the official or officials responsible for discovering and collecting the debt.
(g) The regulations in this subpart do not apply to:
(1) A case in which administrative offset of the type of debt involved is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute; or
(2) Debts owed to the Board by Federal agencies or by any State or local government.
§ 1639.51
Notice procedures.
Before collecting any debt through administrative offset, the Board will send a notice of intent to offset to the debtor by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the most current address that is available to the Board. The notice will provide:
(a) A description of the nature and amount of the debt and the intention of the Board to collect the debt through administrative offset;
(b) An opportunity to inspect and copy the records of the Board with respect to the debt;
(c) An opportunity for review within the Board of the determination of the Board with respect to the debt; and
(d) An opportunity to enter into a written agreement for repaying the amount of the debt.
§ 1639.52
Board review.
(a) A debtor may dispute the existence of the debt, the amount of debt, or the terms of repayment. A request to review a disputed debt must be submitted to the Board official who provided the notice of intent to offset within 30 calendar days of the debtor's receipt of the written notice described in § 1639.51.
(b) If the debtor requests an opportunity to inspect or copy the Board's records concerning the disputed claim, the Board will grant 10 business days for the review. The time period will be measured from the time the request for inspection is granted or from the time the debtor receives a copy of the records.
(c) Pending the resolution of a dispute by the debtor, transactions in any of the debtor's account(s) maintained in the Board may be temporarily suspended to the extent of the debt that is owed. Depending on the type of transaction, the suspension could preclude its payment, removal, or transfer, as well as prevent the payment of interest or discount due on the transaction. Should the dispute be resolved in the debtor's favor, the suspension will be immediately lifted.
(d) During the review period, interest, penalties, and administrative costs authorized by law will continue to accrue.
(e) If the debtor does not exercise the right to request a review within the time specified in this section or if, as a result of the review, it is determined
that the debt is due and no written agreement is executed, then administrative offset will be ordered in accordance with the regulations in this subpart without further notice.
§ 1639.53
Written agreement for repayment.
A debtor who admits liability but elects not to have the debt collected by administrative offset will be afforded an opportunity to negotiate a written agreement for repaying the debt. If the financial condition of the debtor does not support the ability to pay in one lump sum, the Board may consider reasonable installments. No installment arrangement will be considered unless the debtor submits a financial statement, executed under penalty of perjury, reflecting the debtor's assets, liabilities, income, and expenses. The financial statement must be submitted within 10 business days of the Board's request for the statement. At the Board's option, a confess-judgment note or bond of indemnity with surety may be required for installment agreements. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any reduction or compromise of a claim will be governed by 31 U.S.C. 3711.
§ 1639.54
Requests for offset to Federal agencies.
The Executive Director may request that funds due and payable to a debtor by another Federal agency be paid to the Board in payment of a debt owed to the Board by that debtor. In requesting administrative offset, the Board, as creditor, will certify in writing to the Federal agency holding funds of the debtor:
(a) That the debtor owes the debt;
(b) The amount and basis of the debt; and
(c) That the Board has complied with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716, its own administrative offset regulations in this subpart, and the applicable provisions of 4 CFR part 102 with respect to providing the debtor with due process.
§ 1639.55
Requests for offset from Federal agencies.
Any Federal agency may request that funds due and payable to its debtor by the Board be administratively offset in order to collect a debt owed to that agency by the debtor, so long as the funds are not payable from net assets available for Thrift Savings Plan benefits. The Board will initiate the requested offset only:
(a) Upon receipt of written certification from the creditor agency stating:
(1) That the debtor owes the debt;
(2) The amount and basis of the debt;
(3) That the agency has prescribed regulations for the exercise of administrative offset; and
(4) That the agency has complied with its own administrative offset regulations and with the applicable provisions of 4 CFR part 102, including providing any required hearing or review; and
(b) Upon a determination by the Board that collection by offset against funds payable by the Board would be in the best interest of the United States as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, and that such an offset would not otherwise be contrary to law.
§ 1639.56
Expedited procedure.
The Board may effect an administrative offset against a payment to be made to the debtor before completion of the procedures required by §§ 1639.51 and 1639.52 if failure to take the offset would substantially jeopardize the Board's ability to collect the debt and the time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of those procedures. An expedited offset will be promptly followed by the completion of those procedures. Amounts recovered by offset, but later found not to be owed to the Board, will be promptly refunded.

# Subpart E—Administrative Wage Garnishment

# Source:
79 FR 22594, Apr. 23, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1639.60
Administrative wage garnishment.
(a)
General.
The Board may use administrative wage garnishment to collect debts from non-Federal employees in accordance with the requirements of
31 U.S.C. 3720D and 31 CFR 285.11. This subpart adopts and incorporates all of the provisions of 31 CFR 285.11 concerning administrative wage garnishment, including the hearing procedures described in 31 CFR 285.11(f). This section does not apply to collection of debt by Federal salary offset, under 5 U.S.C. 5514, the process by which the Board collects debts from the salaries of Federal employees.
(b) [Reserved]
Pt. 1640

# PART 1640—PERIODIC PARTICIPANT STATEMENTS
Sec.
1640.1
Definitions.
1640.2
Information regarding account.
1640.3
Statement of individual account.
1640.4
Account transactions.
1640.5
TSP core fund information.
1640.6
Methods of providing information.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8439(c)(1) and (c)(2), 5 U.S.C. 8474(b)(5) and (c)(1).

# Source:
68 FR 35501, June 13, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1640.1
Definitions.
Definitions generally applicable to the Thrift Savings Plan are set forth at 5 CFR 1690.1.
§ 1640.2
Information regarding account.
The TSP or its record keeper will provide to each participant four (4) times each calendar year the information described in §§ 1640.3, 1640.4, and 1640.5. Plan participants can obtain account balance information on a more frequent basis from the TSP Web site and the ThriftLine.
[68 FR 35501, June 13, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 31680, May 24, 2022]
§ 1640.3
Statement of individual account.
In the quarterly statements, the TSP or its record keeper will furnish each participant with the following information concerning the participant's individual account:
(a) Name and account number under which the account is established.
(b) Statement whether the participant has a beneficiary designation on file with the TSP record keeper.
(c) Investment election that is current at the end of the statement period.
(d) Beginning and ending dates of the period covered by the statement.
(e) The following information for and, as of the close of business on the ending date of, the period covered by the statement:
(1) The total account balance and tax-exempt balance, if applicable;
(2) The account balance for each source of contributions;
(3) The account balance and activity in each TSP core fund, including the dollar amount of the transaction, the share price, and the number of shares;
(4) Loan information and activity, if applicable; and
(5) The mutual fund window account balance, if applicable.
(f) Any other information concerning the account that the Executive Director determines should be included in the statement.
[87 FR 31680, May 24, 2022]
§ 1640.4
Account transactions.
(a) Where relevant, the following transactions will be reported in each individual account statement:
(1) Contributions;
(2) Withdrawals;
(3) Forfeitures;
(4) Loan disbursements and repayments;
(5) Fund reallocations and fund transfers among TSP core funds;
(6) Adjustments to prior transactions;
(7) Rollovers from traditional individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and eligible employer plans within the meaning of section 402(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 402(c)); and
(8) Any other transaction that the Executive Director determines will affect the status of the individual account.
(b) Where relevant, the statement will contain the following information concerning each transaction identified in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Type of transaction;
(2) TSP core funds affected;
(3) Amount of the transaction (in dollars); and
(4) Any other information the Executive Director deems relevant.
[87 FR 31680, May 24, 2022]
§ 1640.5
TSP core fund information.
The TSP or its record keeper will provide to each participant each calendar year information concerning each of the TSP core funds, including:
(a) A summary description of the type of investments made by the fund, written in a manner that will allow the participant to make an informed decision; and
(b) The performance history of the type of investments made by the fund, covering the five-year period preceding the date of the evaluation.
[87 FR 31680, May 24, 2022]
§ 1640.6
Methods of providing information.
The TSP or its record keeper will furnish the information described in this part to participants by making it available on the TSP website. A participant can request paper copies of that information by calling the ThriftLine, submitting a request through the TSP website, or by writing to the TSP record keeper.
[87 FR 31680, May 24, 2022]
Pt. 1645

# PART 1645—CALCULATION OF SHARE PRICES
Sec.
1645.1
Definitions.
1645.2
Posting of transactions.
1645.3
Calculation of total net earnings for each TSP core fund.
1645.4
Administrative expenses attributable to each TSP core fund.
1645.5
Calculation of share prices.
1645.6
Basis for calculation of share prices.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8439(a)(3) and 8474.

# Source:
68 FR 35502, June 13, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1645.1
Definitions.
(a) Definitions generally applicable to the Thrift Savings Plan are set forth at 5 CFR 1690.1.
(b) As used in this part:
Accrued
means that income is accounted for when earned and expenses are accounted for when incurred.
Administrative expenses
means expenses described in 5 U.S.C. 8437(c)(3).
Basis
means the number of shares of an investment fund upon which the calculation of a share price is based.
Business day
means any calendar day for which share prices are calculated.
Forfeitures
means amounts forfeited to the TSP pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8432(g)(2) and other non-statutory forfeited amounts, net of restored forfeited amounts.
§ 1645.2
Posting of transactions.
Contributions, loan payments, loan disbursements, withdrawals, fund reallocations, fund transfers, and other transactions will be posted in dollars and in shares by source and by TSP core fund to the appropriate individual account by the TSP record keeper, using the share price for the date the transaction is posted.
[87 FR 31680, May 24, 2022]
§ 1645.3
Calculation of total net earnings for each TSP core fund.
(a) Each business day, net earnings will be calculated separately for each TSP core fund.
(b) Net earnings for each fund will equal:
(1) The sum of the following items, if any, accrued since the last business day:
(i) Interest on money of that fund which is invested in the Government Securities Investment Fund;
(ii) Interest on other short-term investments of the fund;
(iii) Other income (such as dividends, interest, or securities lending income) on investments of the fund; and
(iv) Capital gains or losses on investments of the fund, net of transaction costs.
(2) Minus the accrued administrative expenses of the fund, determined in accordance with § 1645.4.
(c) The net earnings for each TSP core fund determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section will be added to the residual net earnings for that fund from the previous business day, as described in § 1645.5(b), to produce the total net earnings. The
total net earnings will be used to calculate the share price for that business day.
[70 FR 32214, June 1, 2005, as amended at 87 FR 31681, May 24, 2022]
§ 1645.4
Administrative expenses attributable to each TSP core fund.
A portion of the administrative expenses accrued during each business day will be charged to each TSP core fund. A fund's respective portion of administrative expenses will be determined as follows:
(a) Accrued administrative expenses (other than those described in paragraph (b) of this section) will be reduced by:
(1) Accrued forfeitures;
(2) The fees described in §§ 1601.53(a) (relating to the mutual fund window), 1655.21 (relating to loans), 1653.6 (relating to retirement benefits court orders), and 1653.16 (relating to child support court orders) of this chapter; and
(3) Accrued earnings on forfeitures, abandoned accounts, unapplied deposits, and fees described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b) Investment management fees and other accrued administrative expenses attributable only to a particular fund will be charged solely to that fund.
(c) The amount of accrued administrative expenses not covered by forfeitures, fees, and earnings under paragraph (a) of this section, and not described in paragraph (b) of this section, will be charged on a pro rata basis to all TSP core funds, based on the respective fund balances on the last business day of the prior month end.
[70 FR 32214, June 1, 2005, as amended at 87 FR 31681, May 24, 2022]
§ 1645.5
Calculation of share prices.
(a)
Calculation of share price.
The share price for each TSP core fund for each business day will apply to all sources of contributions for that fund. The total net earnings (as computed under § 1645.3) for each fund will be divided by the total fund basis (as computed under § 1645.6) for that fund. The resulting number, computed to ten decimal places, represents the incremental change in the value of that fund from the last business day to the current business day. The share price for that fund for the current business day is the sum of the incremental change in the share price for the current business day plus the share price for the prior business day, truncated to four decimal places.
(b)
Residual net earnings.
When the total net earnings for each business day for each TSP Fund are divided by the total fund basis in that fund, there will be residual net earnings attributable to the truncation described in paragraph (a) of this section which will not be included in the incremental change in the share price of the fund for that business day. The residual net earnings that are not included in the incremental share price for the fund may be added to the earnings for that fund on the next business day.
[70 FR 32214, June 1, 2005, as amended at 87 FR 31681, May 24, 2022]
§ 1645.6
Basis for calculation of share prices.
The total fund basis for a TSP core fund will be the sum of the number of shares in all individual accounts from all sources of contributions in that fund as of the opening of business on each business day.
[70 FR 32215, June 1, 2005, as amended at 87 FR 31681, May 24, 2022]
Pt. 1650

# PART 1650—METHODS OF WITHDRAWING FUNDS FROM THE THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1650.1
Definitions.
1650.2
Eligibility and general rules for a TSP withdrawal.
1650.3
Frozen accounts.
1650.4
Certification of truthfulness.
1650.5
Returned funds.
1650.6
Deceased participant.

# Subpart B—Post-Employment Withdrawals
1650.11
Post-employment distribution elections.
1650.12
Single payment.
1650.13
Installment payments.
1650.14
Annuities.
1650.16
Required minimum distributions.
1650.17
Changes and cancellation of a post-employment distribution request.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Post-Employment Distributions
1650.21
Information provided by employing agency or service.
1650.22
Accounts of $200 or more.
1650.23
Accounts of less than $200.
1650.24
How to obtain a post-employment distribution.
1650.25
Rollovers from the TSP.

# Subpart D—In-Service Withdrawals
1650.31
Age-based withdrawals.
1650.32
Financial hardship withdrawals.
1650.33
[Reserved]
1650.34
Uniqueness of loans and in-service withdrawals.

# Subpart E—Procedures for In-Service Withdrawals
1650.41
How to obtain an age-based withdrawal.
1650.42
How to obtain a financial hardship withdrawal.
1650.43
[Reserved]
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Spousal Rights
1650.61
Spousal rights applicable to post-employment withdrawals.
1650.62
Spousal rights applicable to in-service withdrawals.
1650.63
Executive Director's exception to the spousal notification requirement.
1650.64
Executive Director's exception to the spousal consent requirement.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8351, 8432d, 8433, 8434, 8435, 8474(b)(5) and 8474(c)(1).

# Source:
68 FR 35503, June 13, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1650.1
Definitions.
(a) Definitions generally applicable to the Thrift Savings Plan are set forth at 5 CFR 1690.1.
(b) As used in this part:
In-service withdrawal
means an age-based or financial hardship withdrawal from the TSP that may be available to a participant who has not yet separated from Government service.
Post-employment distribution
means a distribution from the TSP that is available to a participant who is separated from Government service.
Required beginning date
means the required beginning date as defined in Internal Revenue Code section 401(a)(9) and the regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder.
Required minimum distribution
means the amount required to be distributed to a participant beginning on the required beginning date and every year thereafter pursuant to Internal Revenue Code section 401(a)(9) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as applicable.
TSP withdrawal
means a post-employment distribution and/or an in-service withdrawal.
[68 FR 35503, June 13, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 32215, June 1, 2005; 84 FR 46420, Sept. 4, 2019; 85 FR 40570, July 7, 2020; 87 FR 31681, May 24, 2022]
§ 1650.2
Eligibility and general rules for a TSP withdrawal.
(a) A participant who is separated from Government service can elect a distribution of all or a portion of his or her account balance by one or a combination of the distribution methods described in subpart B of this part.
(b) A post-employment distribution will not be paid unless TSP records indicate that the participant is separated from Government service. The TSP record keeper will, when possible, cancel a pending post-employment distribution election upon receiving information from an employing agency that a participant is no longer separated.
(c) A participant cannot make a full post-employment distribution of his or her account until any outstanding TSP loan has either been repaid in full or declared to be a loan foreclosure. An outstanding TSP loan will not affect a participant's eligibility for a partial post-employment distribution or an in-service withdrawal.
(d) A separated participant who is reemployed in a position in which he or she is eligible to participate in the TSP is subject to the following rules:
(1) A participant who is reemployed in a TSP-eligible position on or before the 31st full calendar day after separation is not eligible to withdraw his or her TSP account in accordance with subpart B of this part.
(2) A participant who is reemployed in a TSP-eligible position more than 31 full calendar days after separation and
who made a post-employment withdrawal while separated may not withdraw any remaining portion of his or her account balance in accordance with subpart B of this part until he or she again separates from Government service.
(e) A participant who has not separated from Government service may be eligible to withdraw all or a portion of his or her account in accordance with subparts D and E of this part.
(f) A participant can elect to have any portion of a single or installment payment that is not rolled over to an eligible employer plan, traditional IRA, or Roth IRA deposited directly, by electronic funds transfer (EFT), into a savings or checking account at a financial institution in the United States.
(g) If a participant has a civilian TSP account and a uniformed services TSP account, the rules in this part apply to each account separately. For example, the participant is eligible to make four age-based in-service withdrawals from the civilian account and four age-based in-service withdrawals from the uniformed services account per calendar year. A separate withdrawal request must be made for each account.
(h) A participant may elect to have his or her TSP withdrawal distributed from the participant's traditional balance only, Roth balance only, or pro rata from the participant's traditional and Roth balances. Any distribution from the traditional balance will be prorated between the tax-deferred balance and any tax-exempt balance. Any distribution from the Roth balance will be prorated between contributions in the Roth balance and earnings in the Roth balance. In addition, all TSP withdrawals will be distributed pro rata from all TSP core funds in which the participant's account is invested. All prorated amounts will be based on the balances in each TSP core fund or source of contributions on the day the TSP withdrawal is processed.
[68 FR 35503, June 13, 2003, as amended at 77 FR 26426, May 4, 2012; 84 FR 46420, Sept. 4, 2019; 87 FR 31681, May 24, 2022]
§ 1650.3
Frozen accounts.
(a) All distributions from the TSP are subject to the rules relating to spousal rights (found in subpart G of this part) and to domestic relations orders, alimony and child support legal process, and child abuse enforcement orders (found in 5 CFR part 1653).
(b) A participant may not take a distribution of any portion of his or her account balance if the account is frozen due to a pending retirement benefits court order, an alimony or child support enforcement order, or a child abuse enforcement order, or because a freeze has been placed on the account by the TSP record keeper for another reason.
[87 FR 31681, May 24, 2022]
§ 1650.4
Certification of truthfulness.
By completing a TSP withdrawal request, the participant certifies, under penalty of perjury, that all information provided to the TSP record keeper during the withdrawal process is true and complete, including statements concerning the participant's marital status and, where applicable, the spouse's email or physical address at the time the application is filed or the current spouse's consent to the withdrawal.
[87 FR 31681, May 24, 2022]
§ 1650.5
Returned funds.
If a TSP withdrawal is returned as undeliverable, the TSP record keeper will attempt to locate the participant. If the participant does not respond within 90 days, the returned funds will be forfeited to the TSP. The participant can claim the forfeited funds, although they will not be credited with TSP investment fund returns.
[87 FR 31681, May 24, 2022]
§ 1650.6
Deceased participant.
(a) The TSP record keeper will cancel a pending TSP withdrawal request if it receives notice, in the form and manner prescribed by the TSP record keeper, that a participant is deceased. The TSP record keeper will also cancel an annuity purchase made on or after the participant's date of death but before annuity payments have begun, and the annuity vendor will return the funds to the TSP.
(b) If the TSP record keeper processes a TSP withdrawal request before
being notified that a participant is deceased, the funds cannot be returned to the TSP.
[87 FR 31681, May 24, 2022]

# Subpart B—Post-Employment Withdrawals
§ 1650.11
Post-employment distribution elections.
(a) Subject to the restrictions in this subpart, participants may elect a distribution of all or a portion of their TSP accounts in a single payment, a series of installment payments, a life annuity, or any combination of these options.
(b) If a participant's account balance is less than $5.00 when he or she separates from Government service, the balance will automatically be forfeited to the TSP. The participant can reclaim the money by contacting the TSP record keeper and requesting the amount that was forfeited; however, TSP investment earnings will not be credited to the account after the date of the forfeiture.
(c) Provided that the participant has not submitted a post-employment distribution election prior to the date the automatic payment is processed, if a participant's vested account balance is less than $200 when he or she separates from Government service, the TSP record keeper will automatically pay the balance in a single payment to the participant at his or her TSP address of record. The participant will not be eligible for any other payment option or be allowed to remain in the TSP.
[87 FR 31682, May 24, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 18534, Mar. 14, 2024]
§ 1650.12
Single payment.
Provided that, in the case of a partial distribution, the amount elected is not less than $1,000, a participant can elect a distribution of all or a portion of his or her account balance in a single payment.
[87 FR 31682, May 24, 2022]
§ 1650.13
Installment payments.
(a) A participant can elect a distribution of all or a portion of the account balance in a series of substantially equal installment payments, to be paid on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis in one of the following manners:
(1)
A specific dollar amount.
The amount elected must be at least $25 per installment; if the amount elected is less than $25 per installment, the request will be rejected. Payments will be made in the amount requested each installment period.
(2) An installment payment amount calculated based on life expectancy. Payments based on life expectancy are determined using the factors set forth in the Internal Revenue Service life expectancy tables codified at 26 CFR 1.401(a)(9)-9(b) and (c). The installment payment amount is calculated by dividing the account balance by the factor from the IRS life expectancy tables based upon the participant's age as of his or her birthday in the year payments are to begin. This amount is then divided by the number of installment payments to be made per calendar year to yield the installment payment amount. In subsequent years, the installment payment amount is recalculated in January by dividing the prior December 31 account balance by the factor in the IRS life expectancy tables based upon the participant's age as of his or her birthday in the year payments will be made. There is no minimum amount for an installment payment calculated based on this method.
(b) A participant can make the following changes at any time as described in § 1650.17(c):
(1) A participant receiving installment payments calculated based on life expectancy can elect to change to fixed dollar installment payments;
(2) A participant receiving installment payments based on a fixed dollar amount can elect to stop these payments and make a new election to receive installment payments calculated based on life expectancy;
(3) A participant receiving installment payments based on a fixed dollar amount can elect to change the amount of his or her fixed payments; and
(4) A participant receiving fixed dollar installment payments can elect to change the frequency of his or her installment payments.
(c) If a participant elects to receive installments pro rata from his or her traditional and Roth balances, installment payments will be made until the participant's entire account balance is expended, unless the participant elects to change or stop installment payments as described in in § 1650.17(c). If a participant elects to receive installment payments from his or her traditional balance only or Roth balance only, installment payments will automatically continue from the non-elected balance once the elected balance has been expended, unless the participant elects to change or stop installment payments as described in § 1650.17(c).
(d) A participant receiving installment payments, regardless of the calculation method, can elect at any time to receive the remainder or part of his or her account balance in a single payment.
(e) A participant may only have one installment payment series in place at a time.
(f) A participant receiving installment payments may change the investment of his or her account balance among the TSP core funds and may invest through the mutual fund window as provided in 5 CFR part 1601.
(g) Upon receiving information from an employing agency that a participant receiving installment payments is no longer separated, the TSP record keeper will cancel all pending and future installment payments.
[84 FR 46420, Sept. 4, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 57666, Sept. 16, 2020; 85 FR 76420, Nov. 30, 2020; 87 FR 31682, May 24, 2022]
§ 1650.14
Annuities.
(a) A participant electing a post-employment distribution can use all or a portion of his or her total account balance, traditional balance only, or Roth balance only to purchase a life annuity.
(b) If a participant has a traditional balance and a Roth balance and elects to use all or a portion of his or her total account balance to purchase a life annuity, the TSP record keeper must purchase two separate annuity contracts for the participant: One from the portion of the withdrawal distributed from his or her traditional balance and one from the portion of the withdrawal distributed from his or her Roth balance.
(c) A participant cannot elect to purchase an annuity contract with less than $3,500.
(d) Unless an amount must be paid directly to the participant to satisfy any applicable minimum distribution requirement of the Internal Revenue Code, the TSP record keeper will purchase the annuity contract(s) from the TSP's annuity vendor using the participant's entire account balance or the portion specified. In the event that a minimum distribution is required by section 401(a)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code before the date of the first annuity payment, the TSP record keeper will compute that amount prior to purchasing the annuity contract(s) and pay it directly to the participant.
(e) An annuity will provide a payment for life to the participant and, if applicable, to the participant's survivor, in accordance with the type of annuity chosen. The TSP annuity vendor will make the first annuity payment approximately 30 days after the TSP record keeper purchases the annuity.
(f) The amount of an annuity payment will depend on the type of annuity chosen, the participant's age when the annuity is purchased (and the age of the joint annuitant, if applicable), the amount used to purchase the annuity, and the interest rate available when the annuity is purchased.
(g) Participants may choose among the following types of annuities:
(1)
A single life annuity with level payments.
This annuity provides monthly payments to the participant as long as the participant lives. The amount of the monthly payment remains constant.
(2)
A joint life annuity for the participant and spouse with level payments.
This annuity provides monthly payments to the participant, as long as both the participant and spouse are alive, and monthly payments to the survivor, as long as the survivor is alive. The amount of the monthly payment remains constant, although the amount received will depend on the type of survivor benefit elected.
(3)
A joint life annuity for the participant and another person with level payments.
This annuity provides monthly payments to the participant as long as both the participant and the joint annuitant are alive, and monthly payments to the survivor as long as the survivor is alive. The amount of the monthly payment remains constant. The joint annuitant must be either a former spouse or a person who has an insurable interest in the participant.
(i) A person has an “insurable interest in the participant” if the person is financially dependent on the participant and could reasonably expect to derive financial benefit from the participant's continued life.
(ii) A relative (either blood or adopted, but not by marriage) who is closer than a first cousin is presumed to have an insurable interest in the participant.
(iii) A participant can establish that a person not described in paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section has an insurable interest in him or her by submitting, with the annuity request, an affidavit from a person other than the participant or the joint annuitant that demonstrates that the designated joint annuitant has an insurable interest in the participant (as described in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section).
(4)
Either a single life or joint (with spouse) life annuity with increasing payments.
This annuity provides monthly payments to the participant only, or to the participant and spouse, as applicable. The monthly payments are increased once each year on the anniversary of the first payment by a fixed rate of 2 percent. If the participant chooses a joint life annuity, the annual 2 percent increase also applies to benefits received by the survivor.
(h) For each distribution election in which the participant elects to purchase an annuity with some or all of the amount distributed, if the TSP record keeper must purchase two annuity contracts, the type of annuity, the annuity features, and the joint annuitant (if applicable) selected by the participant will apply to both annuities purchased. For each distribution election, a participant cannot elect more than one type of annuity by which to receive a distribution, or portion thereof, from any one account.
(i) A participant who chooses a joint life annuity (with a spouse, a former spouse, or a person with an insurable interest) must choose either a 50 percent or a 100 percent survivor benefit. The survivor benefit applies when either the participant or the joint annuitant dies.
(1) A 50 percent survivor benefit provides a monthly payment to the survivor which is 50 percent of the amount of the payment that is made when both the participant and the joint annuitant are alive.
(2) A 100 percent survivor benefit provides a monthly payment to the survivor, which is equal to the amount of the payment that is made when both the participant and the joint annuitant are alive.
(3) Either the 50 percent or the 100 percent survivor benefit may be combined with any joint life annuity option. However, the 100 percent survivor benefit can only be combined with a joint annuity with a person other than the spouse (or a former spouse, if required by a retirement benefits court order) if the joint annuitant is not more than 10 years younger than the participant.
(j) The following features are mutually exclusive, but can be combined with certain types of annuities, as indicated:
(1)
Cash refund.
This feature provides that, if the participant (and joint annuitant, where applicable) dies before an amount equal to the balance used to purchase the annuity has been paid out, the difference between the balance used to purchase the annuity and the sum of monthly payments already made will be paid to the beneficiary(ies) designated by the participant (or by the joint annuitant, where applicable). This feature can be combined with any type of annuity.
(2)
Ten-year certain.
This feature provides that, if the participant dies before annuity payments have been made for 10 years (120 payments), monthly payments will be made to the beneficiary(ies) until 120 payments have been made. This feature can be combined with any single life annuity, but
cannot be combined with a joint life annuity.
(k) Once an annuity has been purchased, the type of annuity, the annuity features, and the identity of the joint annuitant cannot be changed, and the annuity cannot be terminated.
[68 FR 35503, June 13, 2003, as amended at 77 FR 26426, May 4, 2012; 84 FR 46421, Sept. 4, 2019; 85 FR 12432, Mar. 3, 2020; 87 FR 31682, May 24, 2022]
§ 1650.16
Required minimum distributions.
(a) A separated participant must receive required minimum distributions from his or her account commencing no later than the required beginning date and, for each year thereafter, no later than December 31.
(b) A separated participant may elect to withdraw from his or her account or to begin receiving payments before the required beginning date, but is not required to do so.
(c) In the event that a separated participant does not withdraw from his or her account an amount sufficient to satisfy his or her required minimum distribution for the year, the TSP record keeper will automatically distribute the necessary amount on or before the applicable date described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) The rules set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section shall apply to a separated participant who reclaims an account balance that was declared abandoned.
[84 FR 46421, Sept. 4, 2019, as amended at 87 FR 31682, May 24, 2022; 88 FR 74330, Oct. 31, 2023]
§ 1650.17
Changes and cancellation of a post-employment distribution request.
(a)
Before processing.
A pending post-employment distribution request can be cancelled if the cancellation is received and can be processed before the TSP record keeper processes the request. However, the TSP record keeper processes post-employment distribution requests each business day and those that are entered into the record keeping system by 12 noon eastern time will ordinarily be processed that night; those entered after 12 noon eastern time will be processed the next business day. Consequently, a cancellation request must be received and entered into the system before the cut-off for the day the request is submitted for processing in order to be effective to cancel the post-employment distribution.
(b)
After processing.
A post-employment distribution election cannot be changed or cancelled after the withdrawal request has been processed. Consequently, funds disbursed cannot be returned to the TSP.
(c)
Change in installment payments.
If a participant is receiving a series of installment payments, with appropriate supporting documentation as required by the TSP record keeper, the participant can change at any time: The payment amount or frequency (including stopping installment payments), the address to which the payments are mailed, the amount of federal tax withholding, whether or not a payment will be rolled over (if permitted) and the portion to be rolled over, the method by which direct payments to the participant are being sent (EFT or check), the identity of the financial institution to which payments are rolled over or sent directly to the participant by EFT, or the identity of the EFT account.
[87 FR 31683, May 24, 2022]

# Subpart C—Procedures for Post-Employment Distributions

# Source:
87 FR 31683, May 24, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1650.21
Information provided by employing agency or service.
When a TSP participant separates from Government service, his or her employing agency or service must report the separation and the date of separation to the TSP record keeper. Until the TSP record keeper receives this information from the employing agency or service, it will not pay a post-employment distribution.
§ 1650.22
Accounts of $200 or more.
A participant whose account balance is $200 or more must submit a properly
completed distribution election to request a post-employment distribution of his or her account balance.
§ 1650.23
Accounts of less than $200.
Upon receiving information from the employing agency that a participant has been separated for more than 60 days and that any outstanding loans have been closed, provided the participant has not made a distribution election before the distribution is processed, if the account balance is $5.00 or more but less than $200, the TSP record keeper will automatically distribute the entire amount of his or her account balance. The TSP record keeper will not pay this amount by EFT. The participant may not elect to leave this amount in the TSP, nor will the TSP record keeper roll over any automatically distributed amount to an eligible employer plan, traditional IRA, or Roth IRA. However, the participant may make an indirect rollover of this payment into an eligible employer plan, traditional IRA, or Roth IRA to the extent the roll over is permitted by the Internal Revenue Code.
§ 1650.24
How to obtain a post-employment distribution.
To request a post-employment distribution, a participant must initiate a request in the form and manner prescribed by the TSP record keeper.
§ 1650.25
Rollovers from the TSP.
(a) The TSP record keeper will, at the participant's election, roll over all or any portion of an eligible rollover distribution (as defined by section 402(c) of the Internal Revenue Code) directly to an eligible employer plan or an IRA.
(b) If a post-employment distribution includes a payment from a participant's traditional balance and a payment from the participant's Roth balance, the TSP record keeper will, at the participant's election, roll over all or a portion of the payment from the traditional balance to a single plan or IRA and all or a portion of the payment from the Roth balance to another plan or IRA. The TSP record keeper will also allow the traditional and Roth portions of a payment to be rolled over to the same plan or IRA but, for each type of balance, the election must be made separately by the participant and each type of balance will be rolled over separately. However, the TSP record keeper will not roll over portions of the participant's traditional balance to two different institutions or portions of the participant's Roth balance to two different institutions.
(c) If a post-employment distribution includes an amount from a participant's Roth balance and the participant elects to roll over that amount to another eligible employer plan or Roth IRA, the TSP record keeper will inform the plan administrator or trustee of the start date of the participant's Roth 5 year non-exclusion period or the participant's Roth initiation date, and the portion of the distribution that represents Roth contributions. If a post-employment distribution includes an amount from a participant's Roth balance and the participant does not elect to roll over the amount, the TSP record keeper will inform the participant of the portion of the distribution that represents Roth contributions.
(d) Tax-exempt contributions can be rolled over only if the IRA or plan accepts such funds.
(e) The TSP record keeper will roll over distributions only to the extent that the rollover is permitted by the Internal Revenue Code.

# Subpart D—In-Service Withdrawals
§ 1650.31
Age-based withdrawals.
(a) A participant who has reached age 59
1/2
and who has not separated from Government service is eligible to withdraw all or a portion of his or her vested TSP account balance in a single payment. Unless the withdrawal request is for the entire vested account balance, the entire vested traditional balance, or the entire vested Roth balance, the amount of an age-based withdrawal request must be at least $1,000.
(b) An age-based withdrawal is an eligible rollover distribution, so a participant may request that the TSP record keeper roll over all or a portion of the withdrawal to a traditional IRA, an eligible employer plan, or a Roth IRA in accordance with § 1650.25.
(c) A participant is permitted four age-based withdrawals per calendar year for an account.
[68 FR 35503, June 13, 2003, as amended at 75 FR 24785, May 6, 2010; 77 FR 26427, May 4, 2012; 84 FR 46422, Sept. 4, 2019; 87 FR 31683, May 24, 2022; 89 FR 18534, Mar. 14, 2024]
§ 1650.32
Financial hardship withdrawals.
(a) A participant who has not separated from Government service and who can certify that he or she has a financial hardship is eligible to withdraw all or a portion of his or her own contributions to the TSP (and their attributable earnings) in a single payment to meet certain specified financial obligations. The amount of a financial hardship withdrawal request must be at least $1,000.
(b) To be eligible for a financial hardship withdrawal, a participant must have a financial need that results from at least one of the following five conditions:
(1) The participant's monthly cash flow is negative (
i.e.,
the participant's income is less than his or her monthly expenses on a recurring basis);
(2) The participant has incurred medical expenses as a result of a medical condition, illness, or injury to the participant, the participant's spouse, or the participant's dependents. Generally, eligible expenses are those that would be eligible for deduction as medical expenses for Federal income tax purposes. Eligible medical expenses include the cost of household improvements required as a result of a medical condition, illness or injury. Household improvements are structural improvements to the participant's living quarters or the installation of special equipment that is necessary to accommodate the circumstances of the incapacitated person.
(3) The participant must have paid the cost of repair or replacement resulting from a personal casualty loss that would be eligible for deduction for Federal income tax purposes, but without regard to the IRS income limitations on deductibility, fair market value of the property, or number of events. Personal casualty loss includes damage, destruction, or loss of property resulting from a sudden, unexpected, or unusual event, such as an earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood, storm, fire, or theft.
(4) The participant must have paid attorney fees and court costs associated with separation or divorce. Court-ordered payments to a spouse or former spouse and child support payments are not allowed, nor are costs of obtaining prepaid legal services or other coverage for legal services.
(5) The participant has incurred expenses and losses (including loss of income) on account of a disaster declared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, Public Law 100-707, provided that the participant's principal residence or principal place of employment at the time of the disaster was located in an area designated by FEMA for individual assistance with respect to the disaster.
(c) When determining financial hardship needs, a participant cannot use any expenses that are already paid or are reimbursable to the participant by insurance or otherwise.
(d) The amount of a participant's financial hardship withdrawal cannot exceed the smallest of the following:
(1) The amount requested; or
(2) The amount in the participant's account that is equal to his or her own contributions and attributable earnings.
(e) The participant must certify that he or she has a financial hardship as described on the hardship withdrawal request, and that the dollar amount of the withdrawal request does not exceed the actual amount of the financial hardship.
(f) A participant is not eligible for an in-service hardship withdrawal based solely on monthly negative cash flow (as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) during the time he or she has pending a petition in bankruptcy under Chapter 13 of the Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. chapter 13).
[68 FR 35503, June 13, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 74451, Dec. 23, 2003; 85 FR 61805, Oct. 1, 2020; 87 FR 31683, May 24, 2022]
§ 1650.33
[Reserved]
§ 1650.34
Uniqueness of loans and in-service withdrawals.
An outstanding TSP loan cannot be converted into an in-service withdrawal or vice versa. Funds distributed as an in-service withdrawal cannot be returned or repaid.
[87 FR 31684, May 24, 2022]

# Subpart E—Procedures for In-Service Withdrawals

# Source:
87 FR 31684, May 24, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1650.41
How to obtain an age-based withdrawal.
To request an age-based withdrawal, a participant must initiate a request in form and manner prescribed by the TSP record keeper.
§ 1650.42
How to obtain a financial hardship withdrawal.
(a) To request a financial hardship withdrawal, a participant must initiate a request in the form and manner prescribed by the TSP record keeper.
(b) There is no limit on the number of financial hardship withdrawals a participant can make; however, the TSP record keeper will not accept a financial hardship withdrawal request for a period of six months after a financial hardship disbursement is made.
§ 1650.43
[Reserved]
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Spousal Rights
§ 1650.61
Spousal rights applicable to post-employment withdrawals.
(a) The spousal rights described in this section apply to total post-employment distributions when the married participant's vested TSP account balance exceeds $3,500, to partial post-employment distributions without regard to the amount of the participant's account balance, and to any change in the amount or frequency of an existing installment payment series, including a change from payments calculated based on life expectancy to payments based on a fixed-dollar amount.
(b) Unless the participant was granted an exception under this subpart to the spousal notification requirement within 90 days of the date the distribution request is processed by the TSP record keeper, the spouse of a CSRS participant is entitled to notice when the participant applies for a post-employment distribution or makes a change to the amount or frequency of an existing installment payment series. The participant must provide the TSP record keeper with the spouse's correct email or physical address to which to send the required notice.
(c) The spouse of a FERS or uniformed services participant has a right to a joint and survivor annuity with a 50 percent survivor benefit, level payments, and no cash refund based on the participant's entire account balance when the participant elects a total post-employment distribution.
(1) The participant may make a different total post-employment distribution election only if his or her spouse consents to that election and waives the right to this annuity.
(2) A participant's spouse must consent to any partial post-employment distribution election (other than an election to purchase this type of an annuity with such amount) and waive his or her right to this annuity with respect the amount distributed.
(3) A spouse must consent to any change in the amount or frequency of an existing installment payment series and waive his or her right to this annuity with respect to the applicable amount. Spousal consent is not required to stop installment payments.
(4) Unless the participant was granted an exception under this subpart to the spousal consent requirement within 90 days of the date the distribution request is processed by the TSP record keeper, to show that the spouse has consented to a different total or partial post-employment distribution election or installment payment change and waived the right to this annuity with respect to the applicable amount, the participant must submit to the TSP record keeper a properly completed distribution request, signed by his or her spouse.
(5) The spouse's consent and waiver is irrevocable for the applicable distribution or installment payment change once the TSP record keeper has received it.
[84 FR 46422, Sept. 4, 2019, as amended by 85 FR 21312, Apr. 17, 2020; 85 FR 59174, Sept. 21, 2020; 87 FR 31684, May 24, 2022]
§ 1650.62
Spousal rights applicable to in-service withdrawals.
(a) The spousal rights described in this section apply to all in-service withdrawals and do not depend on the amount of the participant's vested account balance or the amount requested for withdrawal.
(b) Unless the participant was granted an exception under this subpart to the spousal notification requirement within 90 days of the date on which the withdrawal request is processed by the TSP record keeper, the spouse of a CSRS participant is entitled to notice when the participant applies for an in-service withdrawal. The participant must provide the TSP record keeper with the spouse's correct email or physical address to which to send the required notice.
(c) Unless the participant was granted an exception under this subpart to the spousal consent requirement within 90 days of the date the withdrawal request is processed by the TSP record keeper, before obtaining an in-service withdrawal, a participant who is covered by FERS or who is a member of the uniformed services must obtain the consent of his or her spouse and waiver of the spouse's right to a joint and survivor annuity described in § 1650.61(c) with respect to the applicable amount. To show the spouse's consent and waiver, a participant must submit to the TSP record keeper a properly completed withdrawal request, signed by his or her spouse. Once a request containing the spouse's consent and waiver has been submitted to the TSP record keeper, the spouse's consent is irrevocable for that withdrawal.
[68 FR 35503, June 13, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 29851, May 26, 2004; 84 Fr 46423, Sept. 4, 2019; 85 FR 21312, Apr. 17, 2020; 85 FR 50174, Sept. 21, 2020; 87 FR 31684, May 24, 2022]
§ 1650.63
Executive Director's exception to the spousal notification requirement.
(a) Whenever this subpart requires the Executive Director to give notice of an action to the spouse of a CSRS participant, an exception to this requirement may be granted if the participant establishes to the satisfaction of the Executive Director that the spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined. A request for such an exception must be submitted to the TSP record keeper in the form and manner prescribed by the TSP record keeper, accompanied by the following:
(1) A court order stating that the spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined;
(2) A police or governmental agency determination, signed by the appropriate department or division head, which states that the spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined; or
(3) Statements by the participant and two other persons, which meet the following requirements:
(i) The participant's statement must give the full name of the spouse, declare the participant's inability to locate the spouse, state the last time the spouse's location was known, explain why the spouse's location is not known currently, and describe the good faith efforts the participant has made to locate the spouse in the 90 days before the request for an exception was received by the TSP record keeper. Examples of attempting to locate the spouse include, but are not limited to, checking with relatives and mutual friends or using telephone directories and directory assistance for the city of the spouse's last known address. Negative statements, such as, “I have not seen nor heard from him,” or “I have not had contact with her,” are not sufficient.
(ii) The statements from two other persons must support the participant's statement that he or she does not know the spouse's whereabouts, and substantiate the participant's description of the efforts he or she made to locate the spouse, including the dates the participant made those efforts.
(iii) All statements must be signed and dated and must include the following certification: “I understand
that a false statement or willful misrepresentation is punishable under Federal law (18 U.S.C. 1001) by a fine or imprisonment or both.”.
(b) A TSP withdrawal election will be processed within 90 days of an approved exception so long as the spouse named on the TSP withdrawal request is the spouse for whom the exception has been approved.
(c) The TSP and/or its record keeper may require a participant to provide additional information before granting a waiver. The TSP and/or its record keeper may use any of the information provided to conduct its own search for the spouse.
[68 FR 35503, June 13, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 32215, June 1, 2005; 87 FR 31684, May 24, 2022]
§ 1650.64
Executive Director's exception to the spousal consent requirement.
(a) Whenever this subpart requires the consent of a spouse of a FERS or uniformed services participant to a loan or TSP withdrawal or a waiver of the right to a survivor annuity, an exception to this requirement may be granted if the participant establishes to the satisfaction of the Executive Director that:
(1) The spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined in accordance with the provisions of this subpart; or
(2) Due to exceptional circumstances, requiring the spouse's signature would be inappropriate.
(i) An exception to the requirement for a spouse's signature may be granted based on exceptional circumstances only when the participant presents a court order or government agency determination that contains a finding or a recitation of exceptional circumstances regarding the spouse which would warrant an exception to the signature requirement.
(ii) Exceptional circumstances are narrowly construed, but are exemplified by a court order or government agency determination that:
(A) Indicates that the spouse and the participant have been maintaining separate residences with no financial relationship for three or more years;
(B) Indicates that the spouse abandoned the participant, but for religious or similarly compelling reasons, the parties chose not to divorce; or
(C) Expressly states that the participant may obtain a loan from his or her TSP account or make a TSP withdrawal notwithstanding the absence of the spouse's signature.
(b) A post-employment distribution election or an in-service withdrawal request processed within 90 days of an approved exception will be accepted by the TSP record keeper so long as the spouse named on the request is the spouse for whom the exception has been approved.
[68 FR 35503, June 13, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 29851, May 26, 2004; 87 FR 31685, May 24, 2022]
Pt. 1651

# PART 1651—DEATH BENEFITS
Sec.
1651.1
Definitions.
1651.2
Entitlement to funds in a deceased participant's account.
1651.3
Designation of beneficiary.
1651.4
How to change a designation of beneficiary.
1651.5
Spouse of participant.
1651.6
Child or children.
1651.7
Parent or parents.
1651.8
Participant's estate.
1651.9
Participant's next of kin.
1651.10
Deceased and non-existent beneficiaries.
1651.11
Simultaneous death.
1651.12
Homicide.
1651.13
How to apply for a death benefit.
1651.14
How payment is made.
1651.15
Claims referred to the Board.
1651.16
Missing and unknown beneficiaries.
1651.17
Disclaimer of benefits.
1651.18
Payment to one bars payment to another.
1651.19
Beneficiary participant accounts.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8424(d), 8432d, 8432(j), 8433(e), 8435(c)(2), 8474(b)(5) and 8474(c)(1).

# Source:
62 FR 32429, June 13, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1651.1
Definitions.
(a) Definitions generally applicable to the Thrift Savings Plan are set forth at 5 CFR 1690.1.
(b) As used in this subpart:
Administrative finding
means an evidence-based determination reached by a hearing, inquiry, investigation, or trial before an administrative agency of competent jurisdiction in any State,
territory or possession of the United States.
Death benefit
means the portion of a deceased participant's account that is payable under FERSA's order of precedence.
Order of precedence
means the priority of entitlement to a TSP death benefit specified in 5 U.S.C. 8424(d).
Required beginning date
means the required beginning date as defined in Internal Revenue Code section 401(a)(9) and the regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder.
Required minimum distribution
means the amount required to be distributed to a beneficiary participant beginning on the required beginning date and every year thereafter pursuant to Internal Revenue Code section 401(a)(9) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as applicable.
[68 FR 35509, June 13, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 63062, Dec. 2, 2009; 78 FR 57784, Sept. 20, 2013; 84 FR 46423, Sept. 4, 2019; 85 FR 40571, July 7, 2020; 87 FR 31685, May 24, 2022]
§ 1651.2
Entitlement to funds in a deceased participant's account.
(a)
Death benefits.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the account balance of a deceased participant will be paid as a death benefit to the individual or individuals surviving the participant, in the following order of precedence:
(1) To the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the participant in accordance with § 1651.3;
(2) If there is no designated beneficiary, to the spouse of the participant in accordance with § 1651.5;
(3) If there are no beneficiaries or persons as described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, to the child or children of the participant and descendants of deceased children by representation in accordance with § 1651.6;
(4) If there are no beneficiaries or persons as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, to the parents of the participant in equal shares or entirely to the surviving parent in accordance with § 1651.7;
(5) If there are no beneficiaries or persons as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, to the duly appointed executor or administrator of the estate of the participant in accordance with § 1651.8; or
(6) If there are no beneficiaries or persons as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section, to the next of kin of the participant who is or are entitled under the laws of the state of the participant's domicile on the date of the participant's death in accordance with § 1651.9.
(b)
TSP withdrawals.
If the TSP record keeper processes a notice that a participant has died, it will cancel any pending request by the participant to withdraw his or her account. The TSP record keeper will also cancel an annuity purchase made on or after the participant's date of death but before annuity payments have begun, and the annuity vendor will return the funds to the TSP. The funds designated by the participant for the withdrawal will be paid as a death benefit in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, unless the participant elected to withdrawal his or her account in the form of an annuity, in which case the funds designated for the purchase of the annuity will be paid as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section:
(1) If the participant requested a single life annuity with no cash refund or 10-year certain feature, the TSP record keeper will pay the funds as a death benefit in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If the participant requested a single life annuity with a cash refund or 10-year certain feature, the TSP record keeper will pay the funds as a death benefit to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the participant on the annuity portion of the TSP post-employment distribution request, or as a death benefit in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section if no beneficiary designated on the withdrawal request survives the participant.
(3) If the participant requested a joint life annuity without additional features, the TSP record keeper will pay the funds as a death benefit to the joint life annuitant if he or she survives the participant, or as a death benefit in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section if the joint life annuitant does not survive the participant.
(4) If the participant requested a joint life annuity with a cash refund or 10-year certain feature, the TSP record keeper will pay the funds as a death benefit to the joint life annuitant if he or she survives the participant, or as a death benefit to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the participant on the annuity portion of the TSP post-employment distribution request if the joint life annuitant does not survive the participant, or as a death benefit in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section if neither the joint life annuitant nor any designated beneficiary survives the participant.
(5) If a participant dies after annuity payments have begun, the annuity vendor will make or stop the payments in accordance with the annuity method selected.
(c)
TSP loans.
If the TSP record keeper processes a notice that a participant has died, any pending loan disbursement will be cancelled and the funds designated for the loan will be distributed as a death benefit in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. If a TSP loan has been disbursed, but the check has not been negotiated (or an electronic funds transfer (EFT) has been returned), the loan proceeds will be used to pay off the loan. If the loan check has been negotiated (or the EFT has been processed), the funds cannot be returned to the TSP and the TSP record keeper will declare the loan balance as a loan foreclosure in accordance with part 1655 of this chapter.
(d)
TSP investments.
Upon a participant's death, his or her TSP account will remain invested in the same TSP core funds as the account balance was invested on his or her date of death. If any portion of the participant's TSP account is invested through the mutual fund window at the time of his or her death, his or her mutual fund window account will be closed and the balance will be transferred back to the TSP core funds in the participant's TSP account in accordance with his or her most recent investment election until it is paid out or a beneficiary participant account is established under this part.
[68 FR 35509, June 13, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 32215, June 1, 2005; 80 FR 52174, Aug. 28, 2015; 87 FR 31685, May 24, 2022]
§ 1651.3
Designation of beneficiary.
(a)
Designation requirements.
A participant may designate one or more beneficiaries for his or her TSP account. A valid TSP designation of beneficiary remains in effect until it is properly changed as described in § 1651.4.
(b)
Eligible beneficiaries.
Any individual, firm, corporation, or legal entity, including the U.S. Government, may be designated as a beneficiary. A participant can name up to 20 total (primary and contingent) beneficiaries to share the death benefit. A beneficiary may be designated without the knowledge or consent of that beneficiary or the knowledge or consent of the participant's spouse.
(c)
Validity requirements.
To be valid and accepted by the TSP record keeper, a TSP designation of beneficiary must:
(1) Be received by the TSP record keeper on or before the date of the participant's death;
(2) Identify the participant in such a manner so that the TSP record keeper can locate his or her TSP account;
(3) Be signed and properly dated by the participant and signed and properly dated by one witness:
(i) The participant must either sign the designation of beneficiary in the presence of the witness or acknowledge his or her signature on the designation of beneficiary to the witness;
(ii) A witness must be age 21 or older; and
(iii) A witness designated as a beneficiary will not be entitled to receive a death benefit payment; if a witness is the only named beneficiary, the designation of the beneficiary is invalid. If more than one beneficiary is named, the share of the witness beneficiary will be allocated among the remaining beneficiaries pro rata;
(4) Designate primary beneficiary shares which when summed equal 100%;
(5) Contain no substantive alterations (e.g., struck-through shares or scratched-out names of beneficiaries);
(6) Designate each primary and each contingent beneficiary in such a manner so that the TSP record keeper can identify the individual or entity;
(7) Not attempt to designate beneficiaries for the participant's traditional balance and the participant's Roth balance separately; and
(8) Be received by the TSP record keeper not more than 365 calendar days after the date of the participant's most recent signature.
(d)
Will.
A participant cannot use a will to designate a TSP beneficiary.
[87 FR 31685, May 24, 2022]
§ 1651.4
How to change a designation of beneficiary.
(a)
Change.
To change a designation of beneficiary, the participant must submit to the TSP record keeper a new TSP designation of beneficiary meeting the requirements of § 1651.3 to the TSP record keeper. If the TSP record keeper receives more than one valid designation of beneficiary, it will honor the designation with the latest date signed by the participant. A participant may change a TSP beneficiary at any time, without the knowledge or consent of any person, including his or her spouse.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Will.
A participant cannot use a will to change a TSP designation of beneficiary.
[87 FR 31686, May 24, 2022]
§ 1651.5
Spouse of participant.
(a) For purposes of payment under § 1651.2(a)(2) and establishment of beneficiary participant accounts under § 1651.19, the spouse of the participant is the person to whom the participant was married on the date of death. A person is considered to be married even if the parties are separated, unless a court decree of divorce or annulment has been entered. The laws of the jurisdiction in which the marriage was initially established will be used to determine whether the participant was married on the date of death.
(b) If a person claims to have a marriage at common law with a deceased participant, the TSP record keeper will pay benefits to the putative spouse under § 1651.2(a)(2) in accordance with the marital status shown on the most recent Federal income tax return filed by the participant. Alternatively, the putative spouse may submit a court order or administrative adjudication determining that the common law marriage is valid.
[71 FR 9897, Feb. 28, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 78879, Dec. 17, 2010; 78 FR 57784, Sept. 20, 2013; 87 FR 31686, May 24, 2022]
§ 1651.6
Child or children.
If the account is to be paid to the child or children, or to descendants of deceased children by representation, as provided in § 1651.2(a)(3), the following rules apply:
(a)
Child.
A child includes a natural or adopted child of the deceased participant.
(b)
Descendants of deceased children.
“By representation” means that, if a child of the participant dies before the participant, all descendants of the deceased child at the same level will equally divide the deceased child's share of the participant's account.
(c)
Adoption by another.
A natural child of a TSP participant who has been adopted by someone other than the participant during the participant's lifetime will not be considered the child of the participant, unless the adopting parent is the spouse of the TSP participant.
(d)
Parentage disputes.
If the identity of the father or mother of a child is in dispute or otherwise unclear (e.g., only one parent is listed on a birth certificate), the purported child must submit to the TSP record keeper either:
(1) A court order or other administrative finding establishing parentage; or
(2) Documentation sufficient for establishing parentage under the law of the state in which the participant was domiciled at the time of death.
[62 FR 32429, June 13, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 63063, Dec. 2, 2009; 87 FR 31686, May 24, 2022]
§ 1651.7
Parent or parents.
If the account is to be paid to the participant's parent or parents under § 1651.2(a)(4), the following rules apply:
(a)
Amount.
If both parents are alive at the time of the participant's death, each parent will be separately paid fifty percent of the account. If only one parent is alive at the time of the participant's death, he or she will receive the entire account balance.
(b)
Step-parent.
A step-parent is not considered a parent unless the step-parent adopted the participant.
§ 1651.8
Participant's estate.
If the account is to be paid to the duly appointed executor or administrator of the participant's estate under § 1651.2(a)(5), the following rules apply:
(a)
Appointment by court.
The executor or administrator must provide documentation of court appointment.
(b)
Appointment by operation of law.
If state law provides procedures for handling small estates, the TSP record keeper will accept the person authorized to dispose of the assets of the deceased participant under those procedures as a duly appointed executor or administrator. Documentation which demonstrates that the person is properly authorized under state law must be submitted to the TSP record keeper.
[62 FR 32429, June 13, 1997, as amended at 87 FR 31686, May 24, 2022]
§ 1651.9
Participant's next of kin.
If the account is to be paid to the participant's next of kin under § 1651.2(a)(6), the next of kin of the participant will be determined in accordance with the state law of the participant's domicile at the time of death.
§ 1651.10
Deceased and non-existent beneficiaries.
(a)
Designated beneficiary dies before participant.
The share of any designated beneficiary who predeceases the participant will be paid pro rata to the participant's other designated beneficiary or beneficiaries. If no designated beneficiary survives the participant, the account will be paid according to the order of precedence set forth in § 1651.2(a).
(b)
Trust designated as beneficiary but not in existence.
If a participant designated a trust or other entity as a beneficiary and the entity does not exist on the date of the participant's death, or is not created by will or other document that is effective upon the participant's death, the amount designated to the entity will be paid in accordance with the rules of paragraph (a) of this section, as if the trust were a beneficiary that predeceased the participant.
(c)
Non-designated beneficiary dies before participant.
If a beneficiary other than a beneficiary designated on a TSP designation of beneficiary dies before the participant, the beneficiary's share will be paid equally to other living beneficiaries bearing the same relationship to the participant as the deceased beneficiary. However, if the deceased beneficiary is a child of the participant, payment will be made to the deceased child's descendants, if any. If there are no other beneficiaries bearing the same relationship or, in the case of children, there are no descendants of deceased children, the deceased beneficiary's share will be paid to the person(s) next in line according to the order of precedence.
(d)
Beneficiary dies after participant but before payment.
If a beneficiary dies after the participant, the beneficiary's share will be paid to the beneficiary's estate. A copy of a beneficiary's certified death certificate is required in order to establish that the beneficiary has died, and when.
[70 FR 32216, June 1, 2005; as amended at 87 FR 31686, May 24, 2022]
§ 1651.11
Simultaneous death.
If a beneficiary dies at the same time as the participant, the beneficiary will be treated as if he or she predeceased the participant and the account will be paid in accordance with § 1651.10. The same time is considered to be the same hour and minute as indicated on a death certificate. If the participant and beneficiary are killed in the same event, death is presumed to be simultaneous, unless evidence is presented to the contrary.
§ 1651.12
Homicide.
If the participant's death is the result of a homicide, a beneficiary will not be paid as long as the beneficiary is under investigation by local, state or Federal law enforcement authorities as a suspect. If the beneficiary is implicated in the death of the participant and the beneficiary would be precluded from inheriting under state law, the beneficiary will not be entitled to receive any portion of the participant's account. The TSP record keeper will follow the state law of the participant's domicile as that law is set forth
in a civil court judgment (that, under the law of the state, would protect the TSP record keeper from double liability or payment) or, in the absence of such a judgment, will apply state law to the facts after all criminal appeals are exhausted. The TSP record keeper will treat the beneficiary as if he or she predeceased the participant and the account will be paid in accordance with § 1651.10.
[62 FR 32429, June 13, 1997, as amended at 75 FR 44066, July 28, 2010; 87 FR 31686, May 24, 2022]
§ 1651.13
How to apply for a death benefit.
To apply for a TSP death benefit, a potential beneficiary must contact the ThriftLine for instructions on providing a certified copy of the participant's death certificate, along with any other information as required by the TSP.
[87 FR 31686, May 24, 2022]
§ 1651.14
How payment is made.
(a)
In general.
Each beneficiary's death benefit will be disbursed pro rata from the participant's traditional and Roth balances. The payment from the traditional balance will be further pro rated between the tax-deferred balance and tax-exempt balance. The payment from the Roth balance will be further pro rated between contributions in the Roth balance and earnings in the Roth balance. In addition, all death benefits will be disbursed pro rata from all TSP core funds in which the deceased participant's account is invested. All pro rated amounts will be based on the balances in each TSP core fund or source of contributions on the day the disbursement is made. Disbursement will be made separately for each entitled beneficiary.
(b)
Spouse beneficiaries.
The TSP record keeper will automatically transfer a surviving spouse's death benefit to a beneficiary participant account (described in § 1651.19) established in the spouse's name. The TSP record keeper will not maintain a beneficiary participant account if the balance of the beneficiary participant account is less than $200 on the date the account is established. The TSP record keeper also will not transfer this amount or pay it by electronic funds transfer. Instead, the spouse will receive an immediate distribution in the form of a check.
(c)
Nonspouse beneficiaries.
The TSP record keeper will send notice of pending payment to each beneficiary. Payment will be sent to the address that is provided on the participant's TSP designation of beneficiary unless the TSP record keeper receives notice of a more recent address. All individual beneficiaries must provide the TSP record keeper with a Social Security number. The following additional rules apply to payments to nonspouse beneficiaries:
(1)
Payment to minor child or incompetent beneficiary.
Payment will be made in the name of a minor child or incompetent beneficiary. A parent or other guardian may direct where the payment should be sent and may make any permitted tax withholding election. A guardian of a minor child or incompetent beneficiary must submit court documentation showing his or her appointment as guardian.
(2)
Payment to executor or administrator.
If payment is to the executor or administrator of an estate, the check will be made payable to the estate of the deceased participant, not to the executor or administrator. A taxpayer identification number must be provided for all estates.
(3)
Payment to trust.
If payment is to a trust, the payment will be made payable to the trust and mailed in care of the trustee. A taxpayer identification number must be provided for the trust.
(4)
Payment to inherited IRA on behalf of a nonspouse beneficiary.
If payment is to an inherited IRA on behalf of a nonspouse beneficiary, the check will be made payable to the account. Information pertaining to the inherited IRA must be submitted by the IRA trustee. A payment to an inherited IRA will be made only in accordance with the rules set forth in 5 CFR 1650.25.
(5)
Undeliverable payments.
If a death benefit payment is returned as undeliverable, the TSP record keeper will attempt to contact the beneficiary. If the beneficiary does not respond within 90 days, the death benefit payment will be forfeited to the TSP. The beneficiary can claim the forfeited funds, although
they will not be credited with investment returns.
(6)
Proper payments.
A properly paid death benefit payment cannot be returned to the TSP.
[87 FR 31686, May 24, 2022]
§ 1651.15
Claims referred to the Board.
(a)
Contested claims.
Any challenge to a proposed death benefit payment must be filed in writing with the TSP record keeper before payment. All contested claims will be referred to the Board. The Board may also consider issues on its own.
(b)
Payment deferred.
No payment will be made until the Board has resolved the claim.
§ 1651.16
Missing and unknown beneficiaries.
(a)
Locate and identify beneficiaries.
(1) The TSP record keeper will attempt to identify and locate all potential beneficiaries.
(2) If a beneficiary is not identified and located, and at least one year has passed since the date of the participant's death, the beneficiary will be treated as having predeceased the participant and the beneficiary's share will be paid in accordance with § 1651.10
(b)
Payment to known beneficiaries.
If all potential beneficiaries are known but one or more beneficiaries (and not all) appear to be missing, payment of part of the participant's account may be made to the known beneficiaries. The lost or unidentified beneficiary's share may be paid in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section at a later date.
(c)
Abandoned account.
If no beneficiaries of the account are located, the account will be considered abandoned and the funds will revert to the TSP. If there are multiple beneficiaries and one or more of them refuses to cooperate in the TSP record keeper's search for the missing beneficiary, the missing beneficiary's share will be considered abandoned. In such circumstances, the account can be reclaimed if the missing beneficiary is found at a later date. However, earnings will not be credited from the date the account is abandoned. The TSP may require the beneficiary to apply for the death benefit in the form and manner prescribed by the TSP record keeper and submit proof of identity and relationship to the participant.
[62 FR 32429, June 13, 1997, as amended at 70 FR 32217, June 1, 2005; 87 FR 31687, May 24, 2022]
§ 1651.17
Disclaimer of benefits.
(a)
Right to disclaim.
The beneficiary of a TSP account may disclaim his or her right to receive all or part of a TSP death benefit. If the disclaimant is a minor, the parent or guardian of the minor must sign the disclaimer.
(b)
Valid disclaimer.
The disclaimer must expressly state that the beneficiary is disclaiming his or her right to receive either all or a stated percentage of the death benefit payable from the TSP account of the named participant and must be:
(1) Submitted in writing;
(2) Signed or acknowledged, in the presence of a notary, by the person (or legal representative) disclaiming the benefit; and
(3) Received before the TSP pays the death benefit.
(c)
Invalid disclaimer.
A disclaimer is invalid if it:
(1) Is revocable;
(2) Directs to whom the disclaimed benefit should be paid; or
(3) Specifies which balance (traditional, Roth, or tax-exempt) is to be disclaimed.
(d)
Disclaimer effect.
The disclaimed share will be paid as though the beneficiary predeceased the participant, according to the rules set forth in § 1651.10. Any part of the death benefit which is not disclaimed will be paid to the disclaimant pursuant to § 1651.14.
[68 FR 35510, June 13, 2003, as amended at 75 FR 44066, July 28, 2010; 77 FR 26428, May 4, 2012]
§ 1651.18
Payment to one bars payment to another.
Payment made to a beneficiary(ies) in accordance with this part, based upon information received before payment, bars any claim by any other person.
§ 1651.19
Beneficiary participant accounts.
(a)
Initial investment allocation.
Each beneficiary participant account, once
established, will be allocated to the TSP core funds in which the deceased participant's account balance was invested on his or her date of death. A beneficiary participant may redistribute his or her beneficiary participant account balance among the TSP core funds by making a fund reallocation or fund transfer request described in part 1601, subpart C, of this chapter. A beneficiary participant may move a portion of his or her beneficiary account balance from the TSP core funds to the mutual fund window by making a fund transfer request described in part 1601, subpart F.
(b)
Contributions.
A beneficiary participant may not make contributions or rollovers to his or her beneficiary participant account. The TSP record keeper will not accept an investment election request described in part 1601, subpart B, of this chapter for a beneficiary participant account.
(c)
Required minimum distributions.
(1) A beneficiary participant must receive required minimum distributions from his or her beneficiary participant account commencing no later than the required beginning date and, for each year thereafter, no later than December 31.
(2) A beneficiary participant may elect to withdraw from his or her account or to begin receiving payments before the required beginning date, but is not required to do so.
(3) In the event that a beneficiary participant does not withdraw from his or her beneficiary participant account an amount sufficient to satisfy his or her required minimum distribution for the year, the TSP record keeper will automatically distribute the necessary amount on or before the applicable date described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(4) The TSP record keeper will disburse required minimum distributions described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section pro rata from the beneficiary participant's traditional balance and the beneficiary participant's Roth balance.
(d)
Withdrawal elections.
A beneficiary participant may elect any withdrawal option is available to separated participants. The provisions of § 1650.12, § 1650.13, and § 1650.14 shall apply as if all references to a participant are references to a beneficiary participant and all references to an account balance are references to a beneficiary participant account balance.
(e)
Ineligibility for certain withdrawals.
A beneficiary participant is ineligible to request the following types of withdrawals from his or her beneficiary participant account: Age-based withdrawals described in § 1650.31 of this chapter, financial hardship withdrawals described in § 1650.32 of this chapter, or loans described in part 1655 of this chapter.
(f)
Spousal rights.
The spousal rights described in 5 U.S.C. 8351, 5 U.S.C. 8435, and § 1650.61 of this chapter do not apply to beneficiary participant accounts.
(g)
Rollovers.
A beneficiary participant may request that the TSP record keeper roll over all or a portion of an eligible rollover distribution (within the meaning of I.R.C. section 402(c)) from his or her beneficiary participant account to a traditional IRA, Roth IRA or eligible employer plan (including a civilian or uniformed services TSP account other than a beneficiary participant account) in the form and manner prescribed by the TSP record keeper.
(h)
Periodic statements.
The TSP or its record keeper will furnish beneficiary participants with periodic statements in a manner consistent with part 1640 of this chapter.
(i)
Privacy Act.
Part 1630 of this chapter shall apply with respect to a beneficiary participant as if the beneficiary participant is a TSP participant.
(j)
Error correction.
If, because of an error committed by the Board or the TSP record keeper, a beneficiary participant's account is not credited or charged with the investment gains or losses the account would have received had the error not occurred, the account will be credited subject to and in accordance with the rules and procedures set forth in § 1605.21. A beneficiary participant may submit a claim for correction of Board or TSP record keeper error pursuant to the procedures described in § 1605.22.
(k)
Court orders.
Court orders relating to a civilian beneficiary participant account or uniformed services beneficiary participant account shall be
processed pursuant to the procedures set forth in part 1653 of this chapter as if all references to a TSP participant are references to a beneficiary participant and all references to a TSP account or account balance are references to a beneficiary participant account or beneficiary participant account balance. Notwithstanding any provision of part 1653, a payee of a court-ordered distribution from a beneficiary participant account cannot request a rollover of the court-ordered distribution to an
eligible employer plan or IRA.
(l)
Death of beneficiary participant.
To the extent it is not inconsistent with this § 1651.19, a beneficiary participant account shall be disbursed upon the death of the beneficiary participant in accordance with part 1651 as if any reference to a participant is a reference to a beneficiary participant. For example, a beneficiary participant may designate a beneficiary for his or her beneficiary participant account in accordance with §§ 1651.3 and 1651.4. No individual who is entitled to a death benefit from a beneficiary participant account shall be eligible to keep the death benefit in the TSP or request that the TSP record keeper roll over all or a portion of the death benefit to an IRA or eligible employer plan.
(m)
Uniformed services beneficiary participant accounts.
Uniformed services beneficiary participant accounts are subject to the following additional rules and procedures:
(1) Uniformed services beneficiary participant accounts are established and maintained separately from civilian beneficiary participant accounts. Beneficiary participants who have a uniformed services beneficiary participant account and a civilian beneficiary participant account will be issued two separate TSP account numbers. A beneficiary participant must submit separate fund allocation, fund transfer, re and/or TSP withdrawal requests for each account and submit separate beneficiary designations for each account;
(2) A uniformed services beneficiary participant account and a civilian beneficiary participant account cannot be combined;
(3) If a uniformed services beneficiary participant account contains tax-exempt contributions, any payments or withdrawals from the account will be distributed pro rata from the tax-deferred balance and the tax-exempt balance;
(4) A beneficiary participant may roll over all or any portion of an eligible rollover distribution (within the meaning of I.R.C. section 402(c)) from a uniformed services beneficiary participant account into a civilian or uniformed services TSP participant account. However, tax-exempt money attributable to combat zone contributions cannot be rolled over from a uniformed services beneficiary participant account to a civilian TSP participant account.
(n)
Multiple beneficiary accounts.
Each beneficiary participant account is maintained separately from all other beneficiary participant accounts. If an individual has multiple beneficiary participant accounts, each of the individual's beneficiary participant accounts will have a unique account number. A beneficiary participant must submit separate fund reallocation, fund transfer, and/or TSP withdrawal requests and submit separate beneficiary designations for each beneficiary participant account that the TSP maintains for him or her. A beneficiary participant account cannot be combined with another beneficiary participant account.
[75 FR 78879, Dec. 17, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 26428, May 4, 2012; 80 FR 52174, Aug. 28, 2015; 84 FR 46423, Sept. 4, 2019; 87 FR 31687, May 24, 2022]
Pt. 1653

# PART 1653—COURT ORDERS AND LEGAL PROCESSES AFFECTING THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN ACCOUNTS

# Subpart A—Retirement Benefits Court Orders
Sec.
1653.1
Definitions.
1653.2
Qualifying retirement benefits court orders.
1653.3
Processing retirement benefits court orders.
1653.4
Calculating entitlements.
1653.5
Payment.
1653.6
Fees.

# Subpart B—Legal Process for the Enforcement of a Participant's Legal Obligations To Pay Child Support or Alimony Currently
1653.11
Definitions.
1653.12
Qualifying legal processes.
1653.13
Processing legal processes.
1653.14
Calculating entitlements.
1653.15
Payment.
1653.16
Fees.

# Subpart C—Child Abuse Court Orders
1653.21
Definitions.
1653.22
Purpose.
1653.23
Processing and payment.

# Subpart D—Process for the Enforcement of a Participant's Legal Obligation To Pay a Federal Tax Levy or Criminal Restitution Order
1653.31
Definitions.
1653.32
Qualifying Federal tax levy.
1653.33
Qualifying criminal restitution order.
1653.34
Processing Federal tax levies and criminal restitution orders.
1653.35
Calculating entitlement.
1653.36
Payment.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8432d, 8435, 8436(b), 8437(e), 8439(a)(3), 8467, 8474(b)(5) and 8474(c)(1).

# Source:
68 FR 35510, June 13, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Retirement Benefits Court Orders
§ 1653.1
Definitions.
(a) Definitions generally applicable to the Thrift Savings Plan are set forth at 5 CFR 1690.1.
(b) As used in this subpart:
Court
means any court of any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Virgin Islands, and any Indian court as defined by 25 U.S.C. 1301(3).
Effective date of a court order
means the date it was entered by the clerk of the court or, if the order does not show a date entered, the date it was filed by the clerk of the court or, if the order does not contain a date entered or a date filed, the date it was signed by the judge.
Payment date
refers to the date on which earnings are determined and is generally two business days prior to the date of an award's disbursement.
Retirement benefits court order
or
order
means a court decree of divorce, annulment or legal separation, or a court order or court-approved property settlement agreement incident to such a decree. Orders may be issued at any stage of a divorce, annulment, or legal separation proceeding.
TSP investment earnings or earnings
means both positive and negative fund performance attributable to differences in TSP core fund share prices.
[68 FR 35510, June 13, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 63063, Dec. 2, 2009; 87 FR 31688, May 24, 2022]
§ 1653.2
Qualifying retirement benefits court orders.
(a) To be qualifying, and thus enforceable against the TSP, a retirement benefits court order must meet the following requirements:
(1) The order must expressly relate to the Thrift Savings Plan account of a TSP participant. This means that:
(i) The order must expressly refer to the “Thrift Savings Plan” or describe the TSP in such a way that it cannot be confused with other Federal Government retirement benefits or non-Federal retirement benefits;
(ii) The order must be written in terms appropriate to a defined contribution plan rather than a defined benefit plan. For example, it should generally refer to the participant's TSP account or TSP account balance rather than a benefit formula or the participant's eventual benefits; and
(iii) If the participant has a civilian TSP account and a uniformed services TSP account, the order must expressly identify the account to which it relates.
(2) The order must either require the TSP to freeze the participant's account to preserve the
status quo
pending final resolution of the parties' rights to the participant's TSP account, or to make a payment from the participant's account to a permissible payee.
(3) If the order requires a payment from the participant's account, the award must be for:
(i) A specific dollar amount;
(ii) A stated percentage of the account; or
(iii) A survivor annuity as provided in 5 U.S.C. 8435(d).
(iv) The following examples would qualify to require payment from the TSP, although ambiguous or conflicting language used elsewhere could cause the order to be rejected.
(A)
Example 1.
ORDERED: [payee's name, Social Security number (SSN), and address] is awarded $____ from the [civilian or uniformed services] Thrift Savings Plan account of [participant's name, account number or SSN, and address].
(B)
Example 2.
ORDERED: [payee's name, SSN, and address] is awarded ____ % of the [civilian and/or uniformed services] Thrift Savings Plan account[s] of [participant's name, account number or SSN, and address] as of [date].

# Note 1 to paragraph (a)(3)(iv):
The following optional language can be used in conjunction with any of the above examples. FURTHER ORDERED: Earnings will be paid on the amount of the entitlement under this ORDER until payment is made.
(4) A court order can require a payment only to a spouse, former spouse, child or dependent of a participant.
(b) The following retirement benefits court orders are not qualifying and thus are not enforceable against the TSP:
(1) An order relating to a TSP account that has been closed;
(2) An order relating to a TSP account that contains only nonvested money;
(3) An order requiring the return to the TSP of money that was properly paid pursuant to an earlier court order;
(4) An order requiring the TSP to make a payment in the future, unless the present value of the payee's entitlement can be calculated, in which case the TSP will make the payment currently;
(5) An order that does not specify the account to which the order applies, if the participant has both a civilian TSP account and a uniformed services TSP account;
(6) An order that requires the TSP to calculate the payee's entitlement or earnings in a manner that is inconsistent with § 1653.4 of this part; and
(7) An order that designates the TSP core fund, source of contributions, or balance (e.g., traditional, Roth, or tax-exempt) from which the payment or portions of the payment shall be made.
[68 FR 35510, June 13, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 29851, May 26, 2004; 71 FR 54893, Sept. 20, 2006; 72 FR 51354, Sept. 7, 2007; 76 FR 78095, Dec. 16, 2011; 77 FR 26428, May 4, 2012; 87 FR 31688, May 24, 2022]

# Editorial Note:
At 87 FR 31688, May 25, 2022, § 1653.2 was amended by revising paragraph (b)(1); however, the amendment could not be incorporated because no revised text for paragraph (b)(1) was provided.
§ 1653.3
Processing retirement benefits court orders.
(a) The payment of a retirement benefits court order from the TSP is governed solely by FERSA and by the terms of this subpart. The TSP record keeper will honor retirement benefits court orders properly issued and certified by a court (as defined in § 1653.1). However, those courts have no jurisdiction over the TSP and the TSP cannot be made a party to the underlying domestic relations proceedings.
(b) The TSP record keeper will review a retirement benefits court order to determine whether it is enforceable against the TSP only after the TSP record keeper has received a complete copy of the document. Receipt by an employing agency or any other agency of the Government does not constitute receipt by the TSP record keeper. Retirement benefits court orders should be submitted to the TSP record keeper at the current address as provided at
https://www.tsp.gov.
Receipt by the TSP record keeper is considered receipt by the TSP. To be complete, a court order must be written in English or be accompanied by a certified English translation and contain all pages and attachments; it must also provide (or be accompanied by a document that provides):
(1) The participant's account number or Social Security number (SSN);
(2) The name and last known mailing address of each payee covered by the order; and
(3) The payee's SSN and state of legal residence if he or she is the current or former spouse of the participant.
(c) As soon as practicable after the TSP record keeper receives a document that purports to be a qualifying retirement benefits court order, whether or not complete, the participant's account will be frozen. After the account is frozen, no withdrawals or loan disbursements (other than a required minimum distribution pursuant to section 401(a)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 401(a)(9)) will be allowed until the account is unfrozen. All other account activity will be permitted.
(d) The following documents do not purport to be qualifying retirement benefits court orders, and accounts of participants to whom such orders relate will not be frozen:
(1) A court order relating to a TSP account that has been closed;
(2) A court order dated before June 6, 1986;
(3) A court order that does not award all or any part of the TSP account to someone other than the participant; and
(4) A court order that does not mention retirement benefits.
(e) After the participant's account is frozen, the TSP record keeper will review the document further to determine if it is complete; if the document is not complete, it will be rejected, the account will be unfrozen, all parties will be notified, and no further action will be taken with respect to the document.
(f) The TSP record keeper will review a complete copy of an order to determine whether it is a qualifying retirement benefits court order as described in § 1653.2. The TSP record keeper will mail a decision letter to all parties containing the following information:
(1) A determination regarding whether the court order is qualifying;
(2) A statement of the applicable statutes and regulations;
(3) An explanation of the effect the court order has on the participant's TSP account; and
(4) If the qualifying order requires payment, the letter will provide:
(i) An explanation of how the payment will be calculated and an estimated amount of payment;
(ii) The anticipated date of payment;
(iii) Tax and withholding information to the person responsible for paying Federal income tax on the payment;
(iv) Information on how to roll over the payment to an eligible employer plan within the meaning of section 402(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 402(c)), traditional IRA, or Roth IRA (if the payee is the current or former spouse of the participant); and
(v) Information on how to receive the payment through an electronic funds transfer (EFT).
(g)[Reserved]
(h) An account frozen under this section will be unfrozen as follows:
(1) If the account was frozen in response to an order issued to preserve the status quo pending final resolution of the parties' rights to the participant's TSP account, the account will be unfrozen if the TSP record keeper receives a court order that vacates or supersedes the previous order (unless the order vacating or superseding the order itself qualifies to place a freeze on the account). A court order that purports to require a payment from the TSP supersedes an order issued to preserve the status quo, even if it does not qualify to require a payment from the TSP;
(2) If the account was frozen in response to an order purporting to require a payment from the TSP, the freeze will be lifted:
(i) Once payment is made, if the court order is qualifying; or
(ii) Eighteen (18) months after the date of the decision letter if the court order is not qualifying. The 18-month period will be terminated, and the account will be unfrozen, if both parties submit to the TSP record keeper a written request for such a termination.
(i) The TSP record keeper will hold in abeyance the processing of a court-ordered payment if the TSP record keeper is notified in writing that the underlying court order has been appealed, and that the effect of the filing of the appeal is to stay the enforceability of the order.
(1) In the notification, the TSP record keeper must be provided with proper documentation of the appeal and citations to legal authority, which address the effect of the appeal on the
enforceability of the underlying court order.
(i) If the TSP record keeper receives proper documentation and citations to legal authority which demonstrate that the underlying court order is not enforceable, the TSP record keeper will inform the parties that the payment will not occur until resolution of the appeal, and the account will remain frozen for loans and withdrawals.
(ii) In the absence of proper documentation and citations to legal authority, the TSP record keeper will presume that the provisions relating to the TSP in the court order remain valid and will proceed with the payment process.
(2) The TSP record keeper must be notified in writing of the disposition of the appeal before the freeze will be removed from the participant's account or a payment will be made. The notification must include a complete copy of an order from the appellate court explaining the effect of the appeal on the participant's account.
(j) Multiple qualifying court orders relating to the same TSP account and received by the TSP record keeper will be processed as follows:
(1) If the orders make awards to the same payee or payees and do not indicate that the awards are cumulative, the TSP record keeper will only honor the order bearing the latest effective date.
(2) If the orders relate to different former spouses of the participant and award survivor annuities, the TSP record keeper will honor them in the order of their effective dates.
(3) If the orders relate to different payees and award fixed dollar amounts, percentages of an account, or portions of an account calculated by the application of formulae, the orders will be honored:
(i) In the order of their receipt by the TSP record keeper, if received by the TSP record keeper on different days; or
(ii) In the order of their effective dates, if received by the TSP record keeper on the same day.
(4) In all other cases, the TSP record keeper will honor multiple qualifying court orders relating to the same TSP account in the order of their receipt by the TSP record keeper.
[87 FR 31688, May 24, 2022]
§ 1653.4
Calculating entitlements.
(a) For purposes of computing the amount of a payee's entitlement under this section, a participant's TSP account balance will include any loan balance outstanding as of the date used for calculating the payee's entitlement, unless the court order provides otherwise.
(b) If the court order awards a percentage of an account as of a specific date, the payee's entitlement will be calculated based on the account balance as of that date. If the date specified in the order is not a business day, the TSP record keeper will use the participant's account balance as of the last preceding business day.
(c) If the court order awards a percentage of an account but does not contain a specific date as of which to apply that percentage, the TSP record keeper will use the liquidation date.
(d) If the court order awards a specific dollar amount, the payee's entitlement will be the lesser of:
(1) The dollar amount stated in the court order; or
(2) The vested account balance on the date of disbursement.
(e) If a court order describes a payee's entitlement in terms of a fixed dollar amount and a percentage or fraction of the account, the TSP will pay the fixed dollar amount, even if the percentage or fraction, when applied to the account balance, would yield a different result.
(f) The payee's entitlement will be credited with TSP investment earnings as described:
(1) The entitlement calculated under this section will not be credited with TSP investment earnings unless the court order specifically provides otherwise. The court order may not specify a rate for earnings.
(2) If earnings are awarded and a rate is specified, the rate must be expressed as an annual percentage rate or as a
per diem
dollar amount added to the payee's entitlement.
(3) If earnings are awarded, the TSP record keeper will calculate the amount to be awarded by:
(i) Determining the payee's award amount (e.g., the percentage of the participant's account);
(ii) Determining, based on the participant's investment allocation as of the date used to calculate the entitlement, the number and composition of shares that the payee's award amount would have purchased as of the date used to calculate the entitlement.
(iii) Multiplying the price per share as of the payment date by the number and composition of shares calculated in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section.
(g) The TSP record keeper will estimate the amount of a payee's entitlement when it prepares the decision letter and will recalculate the entitlement at the time of payment. The recalculation may differ from the initial estimation because:
(1) The estimation of the payee's entitlement includes both vested and nonvested amounts in the participant's account. If, at the time of payment, the nonvested portion of the account has not become vested, the recalculated entitlement will apply only to the participant's vested account balance;
(2) After the estimate of the payee's entitlement is prepared, the TSP record keeper may process account transactions that have an effective date on or before the date used to compute the payee's entitlement. Those transactions will be included when the payee's entitlement is recalculated at the time of payment; and
(3) The amount available for payment from the account may be reduced due to changes in share price (
i.e.,
investment losses).
[68 FR 35510, June 13, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 63063, Dec. 2, 2009; 76 FR 78095, Dec. 16, 2011; 87 FR 31689, May 24, 2022]
§ 1653.5
Payment.
(a)
Payment date.
Payment pursuant to a qualifying retirement benefits court order will generally be made:
(1) As soon as administratively practicable after the date of the decision letter when the payee is the current or former spouse of the participant, but in no event earlier than 30 days after the date of the decision letter.
(2) As soon as administratively practicable after the date of the decision letter when the payee is someone other than the current or former spouse of the participant.
(b) In no case will payment exceed the participant's vested account balance, minus any outstanding loan balance.
(c) The entire amount of a court order payee's entitlement must be disbursed at one time. A series of payments will not be made, even if the court order provides for such a method of payment. A payment pursuant to a court order extinguishes all rights to any further payment under that order, even if the entire amount of the entitlement cannot be paid. Any further award must be contained in a separate court order.
(d) Payment will be made pro rata from the participant's traditional and Roth balances. The distribution from the traditional balance will be further pro rated between the tax-deferred balance and tax-exempt balance. The payment from the Roth balance will be further pro rated between contributions in the Roth balance and earnings in the Roth balance. In addition, all payments will be distributed pro rata from all TSP core funds in which the participant's account is invested. All pro rated amounts will be based on the balances in each fund or source of contributions on the day the disbursement is made. The TSP record keeper will not honor provisions of a court order that require payment to be made from a specific TSP core fund, source of contributions, or balance.
(e) Payment will be made only to the person or persons specified in the court order. However, if the court order specifies a third-party mailing address for the payment, the TSP record keeper will mail to the address specified any portion of the payment that is not rolled over to a traditional IRA, Roth IRA, or eligible employer plan within the meaning of section 402(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 402(c)).
(f) Payment will not be made jointly to two or more persons. If the court order requires payments to more than one person, the order must separately indicate the amount to be paid to each.
(g) If there are insufficient funds to pay each court order payee, payment will be made as follows:
(1) If the order specifies an order of precedence for the payments, the TSP record keeper will honor it.
(2) If the order does not specify an order of precedence for the payments, the TSP record keeper will pay a current or former spouse first and a dependent second.
(h) If the payee dies before a payment is disbursed, payment will be made to the estate of the payee, unless otherwise specified by the court order. A distribution to the estate of a deceased court order payee will be reported as income to the decedent's estate. If the participant dies before payment is made, the order will be honored so long as it is submitted to the TSP record keeper before the TSP account has been closed.
(i) If the parties to a divorce or annulment have remarried each other, or a legal separation is terminated, a new court order will be required to prevent payment pursuant to a previously submitted qualifying retirement benefits court order.
(j) Payment to a person (including the estate of the payee) pursuant to a qualifying retirement benefits court order made in accordance with this subpart bars recovery by any other person claiming entitlement to the payment.
(k) If a court ordered payment is returned as undeliverable, the TSP record keeper will attempt to locate the payee by writing to the address provided on the court order. If the payee does not respond within 90 days, the funds will be forfeited to the TSP. The payee can claim the forfeited funds, although they will not be credited with TSP investment fund returns.
(m) A payee who is a current or former spouse of the participant may elect to roll over a court-ordered payment to a traditional IRA, eligible employer plan within the meaning of section 402(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 402(c)), or Roth IRA. Any election permitted by this paragraph (m) must be made pursuant to the rules described in 5 CFR 1650.25.
(n) If a court order payee who is the current or former spouse of the participant has their own TSP account (other than a beneficiary participant account), the payee can request that the TSP record keeper roll over the court-ordered payment to the payee's TSP account in accordance with the rules described in 5 CFR 1650.25. However, any pro rata share attributable to tax-exempt contributions cannot be rolled over; instead, it will be paid directly to the payee.
[68 FR 35510, June 13, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 74451, Dec. 23, 2003; 70 FR 32217, June 1, 2005; 74 FR 63063, Dec. 2, 2009; 76 FR 30510, May 26, 2011; 76 FR 78095, Dec. 16, 2011; 77 FR 26428, May 4, 2012; 83 FR 47547, Sept. 20, 2018; 87 FR 31689, May 24, 2022]
§ 1653.6
Fees.
The TSP record keeper will charge a participant a $600.00 court order processing fee as follows:
(a) Upon receipt of a complete court order document (whether draft or final) and prior to reviewing the order to determine whether it is a qualifying retirement benefits court order, the fee will be deducted from his or her TSP account balance on a pro rata basis from the participant's traditional and Roth balances. The portion of the fee deducted from the traditional balance will be further pro rated between the tax-deferred balance and tax-exempt balance. The portion of the fee deducted from the Roth balance will be further pro rated between contributions in the Roth balance and earnings in the Roth balance. In addition, the entire fee will be distributed pro rata from all TSP core funds in which the participant's account is invested. All pro rated amounts will be based on the balances in each fund or source of contributions on the day the fee is deducted;
(b) The fee will be charged only once per court order. However, it will not be refunded in the event that the court order is never determined to be a qualifying retirement benefits court order; and
(c)(1) If the court order:
(i) Is determined to be a qualifying retirement benefits court order; and
(ii) Explicitly requires the fee to be split between the participant and the payee;
(2) The TSP record keeper will deduct the payee's portion of the fee from his or her payment and credit that amount
back to the participant's TSP account balance.
[87 FR 31690, May 24, 2022]

# Subpart B—Legal Process for the Enforcement of a Participant's Legal Obligations To Pay Child Support or Alimony Currently
§ 1653.11
Definitions.
(a) Definitions generally applicable to the Thrift Savings Plan are set forth at 5 CFR 1690.1.
(b) As used in this subpart:
Alimony
means the payment of funds for the support and maintenance of a spouse or former spouse. Alimony includes separate maintenance, alimony
pendente lite,
maintenance, and spousal support. Alimony can also include attorney fees, interest, and court costs, but only if these items are expressly made recoverable by qualifying legal process, as described in § 1653.12.
Child support
means payment of funds for the support and maintenance of a child or children of the participant. Child support includes payments to provide for health care, education, recreation, clothing, or to meet other specific needs of a child or children. Child support can also include attorney fees, interest, and court costs, but only if these items are expressly made recoverable by qualifying legal process, as described in § 1653.12.
Competent authority
means a court or an administrative agency of competent jurisdiction in any State, territory or possession of the United States; a court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction in any foreign country with which the United States has entered into an agreement that requires the United States to honor the process; or an authorized official pursuant to an order of such a court or an administrative agency of competent jurisdiction pursuant to state or local law.
Legal process
means a writ, order, summons, or other similar process in the nature of a garnishment, which is brought to enforce a participant's legal obligations to pay child support or alimony currently.
[68 FR 35510, June 13, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 78095, Dec. 16, 2011]
§ 1653.12
Qualifying legal processes.
(a) The TSP record keeper will only honor the terms of a legal process that is qualifying under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) A legal process must meet each of the following requirements to be considered qualifying:
(1) A competent authority must have issued the legal process;
(2) The legal process must expressly relate to the Thrift Savings Plan account of a TSP participant, as described in § 1653.2(a)(1);
(3) The legal process must require the TSP to:
(i) Pay a stated dollar amount from a participant's TSP account; or
(ii) Freeze the participant's account in anticipation of an order to pay from the account.
(c) The following legal processes are not qualifying:
(1) A legal process relating to a TSP account that has been closed;
(2) A legal process relating to a TSP account that contains only nonvested money;
(3) A legal process requiring the return to the TSP of money that was properly paid pursuant to an earlier legal process;
(4) A legal process requiring the TSP to make a payment in the future; and
(5) A legal process requiring a series of payments.
(6) A legal process that designates the specific TSP core fund, source of contributions, or balance from which the payment or portions of the payment shall be made.
[68 FR 35510, June 13, 2003, as amended at 77 FR 26429, May 4, 2012; 87 FR 31690, May 24, 2022]
§ 1653.13
Processing legal processes.
(a) The payment of legal processes from the TSP is governed solely by the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act, 5 U.S.C. chapter 84, and by the terms of this subpart. Although the TSP record keeper will honor legal processes properly issued by a competent authority, those entities have no jurisdiction over the TSP and the TSP cannot be made a party to the underlying proceedings.
(b) The TSP record keeper will review a legal process to determine
whether it is enforceable against the TSP only after the TSP record keeper has received a complete copy of the document. Receipt by an employing agency or any other agency of the Government does not constitute receipt by the TSP. Legal processes should be submitted to the TSP record keeper at the current address as provided at
https://www.tsp.gov.
Receipt by the TSP record keeper is considered receipt by the TSP. To be complete, a legal process must contain all pages and attachments; it must also provide (or be accompanied by a document that provides):
(1) The participant's account number or Social Security number (SSN);
(2) The name and last known mailing address of each payee covered under the order; and
(3) The SSN and state of legal residence of the payee if he or she if the current or former spouse of the participant.
(c) As soon as practicable after the TSP record keeper receives a document that purports to be a qualifying legal process, whether or not complete, the participant's account will be frozen. After the account is frozen, no TSP withdrawal or loan disbursements will be allowed until the account is unfrozen. All other account activity will be permitted, including contributions, loan repayments, adjustments, investment elections, fund reallocations, and fund transfers.
(d) The following documents will not be treated as purporting to be a qualifying legal processes, and accounts of participants to whom such orders relate will not be frozen:
(1) A document that does not indicate on its face (or accompany a document that establishes) that it has been issued by a competent authority;
(2) A legal process relating to a TSP account that has been closed; and
(3) A legal process that does not relate either to the TSP or to the participant's retirement benefits.
(e) After the participant's account is frozen, the TSP record keeper will review the document further to determine if it is complete; if the document is not complete, it will be rejected, the account will be unfrozen, all parties will be notified, and no further action will be taken with respect to the document.
(f) As soon as practicable after receipt of a complete copy of a legal process, the TSP record keeper will review it to determine whether it is a qualifying legal process as described in § 1653.12. The TSP record keeper will mail a decision letter to all parties containing the same information described at § 1653.3(f).
(g) [Reserved]
(h) An account frozen under this section will be unfrozen as follows:
(1) If the account was frozen pursuant to a legal process requiring the TSP to freeze the participant's account in anticipation of an order to pay from the account, the account will be unfrozen if any one of the following events occurs:
(i) As soon as practicable after the TSP record keeper receives a complete copy of an order vacating or superseding the preliminary order (unless the order vacating or superseding the preliminary order qualifies to place a freeze on the account);
(ii) Upon payment pursuant to the order to pay from the account, if the TSP record keeper determines that the order is qualifying; or
(iii) As soon as practicable after the TSP issues a decision letter informing the parties that the order to pay from the account is not a qualifying legal process;
(2) If the account was frozen after the TSP record keeper received a document that purports to be a legal process requiring payment from the participant's account, the account will be unfrozen:
(i) Upon payment pursuant to a qualifying legal process; or
(ii) As soon as practicable after the TSP record keeper informs the parties that the document is not a qualifying legal process.
(i) The TSP record keeper will hold in abeyance the processing of a payment required by legal process if the TSP record keeper is notified in writing that the legal process has been appealed, and that the effect of the filing of the appeal is to stay the enforceability of the legal process. The notification must be accompanied by the documentation and citations to legal authority described at § 1653.3(i).
(j) Multiple qualifying legal processes relating to the same TSP account and received by the TSP record keeper will be processed as follows:
(1) If the legal processes make awards to the same payee or payees and do not indicate that the awards are cumulative, the TSP record keeper will only honor the legal process bearing the latest effective date.
(2) If the legal processes relate to different payees, the legal process will be honored:
(i) In the order of their receipt by the TSP record keeper, if received by the TSP record keeper on different days; or
(ii) In the order of their effective dates, if received by the TSP record keeper on the same day.
[87 FR 31690, May 24, 2022]
§ 1653.14
Calculating entitlements.
A qualifying legal process can only require the payment of a specified dollar amount from the TSP. Payment pursuant to a qualifying legal process will be calculated in accordance with § 1653.4(a), (d), (f) and (g).
§ 1653.15
Payment.
Payment pursuant to a qualifying legal process will be made in accordance with § 1653.5.
§ 1653.16
Fees.
The TSP record keeper will charge a participant a $600.00 legal process processing fee as follows:
(a) Upon receipt of a complete legal process document (whether draft or final) and prior to reviewing order to determine whether it is a qualifying legal process, the fee will be deducted from his or her TSP account balance on a pro rata basis from the participant's traditional and Roth balances. The portion of the fee deducted from the traditional balance will be further pro rated between the tax-deferred balance and tax-exempt balance. The portion of the fee deducted from the Roth balance will be further pro rated between contributions in the Roth balance and earnings in the Roth balance. In addition, the entire fee will be distributed pro rata from all TSP core funds in which the participant's account is invested. All pro rated amounts will be based on the balances in each fund or source of contributions on the day the fee is deducted; and
(b) The fee will be charged only once per legal process. However, it will not be refunded in the event that the court order is never determined to be a qualifying legal process.
[87 FR 31691, May 24, 2022]

# Subpart C—Child Abuse Court Orders
§ 1653.21
Definitions.
(a) Definitions generally applicable to the Thrift Savings Plan are set forth at 5 CFR 1690.1.
(b) As used in this subpart:
Child
means an individual less than 18 years of age.
Judgment against a participant for physically, sexually, or emotionally abusing a child
means any legal claim perfected through a final enforceable judgment which is based in whole or in part upon the physical, sexual, or emotional abuse of a child, whether or not that abuse is accompanied by other actionable wrongdoing, such as sexual exploitation or gross negligence.
§ 1653.22
Purpose.
Under 5 U.S.C. 8437(e)(3) and 8467(a)(2), the TSP record keeper will honor a court order or other similar process in the nature of a garnishment that is brought to enforce a judgment against a participant for physically, sexually, or emotionally abusing a child.
[FR 35510, June 13, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 31691, May 24, 2022]
§ 1653.23
Processing and payment.
To the maximum extent consistent with sections 8437(e)(3) and 8467(a)(2), child abuse court orders will be processed by the TSP record keeper under the procedures described in subparts A and B of this part.
[FR 35510, June 13, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 31691, May 24, 2022]

# Subpart D—Process for the Enforcement of a Participant's Legal Obligation To Pay a Federal Tax Levy or Criminal Restitution Order

# Source:
79 FR 53604, Sept. 10, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1653.31
Definitions.
(a) Definitions generally applicable to the Thrift Savings Plan are set forth at 5 CFR 1690.1.
(b) As used in this subpart:
Criminal restitution order
means a complete copy of a judgment in a criminal case issued by a federal court ordering restitution for a crime under 18 U.S.C. 3663A.
Enforcement letter
means a letter received from the Department of Justice requesting a payment from a participant's TSP account to enforce a criminal restitution order.
[79 FR 53604, Sept. 10, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 52605, Sept. 1, 2015]
§ 1653.32
Qualifying Federal tax levy.
(a) The TSP record keeper will only honor the terms of a tax levy that is qualifying under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) A tax levy must meet each of the following requirements to be considered qualifying:
(1) The Internal Revenue Service issued the levy.
(2) The levy includes a signature certifying that it attaches to a retirement plan.
(3) The levy requires the TSP to pay a stated dollar amount from a TSP participant's account.
(4) The levy is dated no earlier than thirty (30) days before receipt.
(5) The levy is issued in the name of the participant only.
(6) The levy expressly refers to the “Thrift Savings Plan” or describes the TSP in such a way that it cannot be confused with other Federal Government retirement benefits or non-Federal retirement benefits.
(c) The following levies will not be considered qualifying:
(1) A levy relating to a TSP account with a zero dollar account balance;
(2) A levy relating to a TSP account that contains only nonvested money, unless the money will become vested within 30 days of the date the TSP receives the order if the participant were to remain in Government service;
(3) A levy requiring the TSP to make a payment at a specified date in the future;
(4) A levy that does not contain a signature certifying that it applies to retirement plans;
(5) A levy requiring a series of payments;
(6) A levy that designates the specific TSP core fund, source of contributions, or balance from which the payment or portions of the payment shall be made.
[79 FR 53604, Sept. 10, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 31691, May 24, 2022]
§ 1653.33
Qualifying criminal restitution order.
(a) The TSP record keeper will only honor the terms of a criminal restitution order that is qualifying under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) A criminal restitution order must meet each of the following requirements to be considered qualifying:
(1) The restitution must be ordered in the sentencing of the participant as required by 18 U.S.C. 3663A and 18 U.S.C. 3664.
(2) The criminal restitution order must require the participant to pay a stated dollar amount as restitution.
(3) The criminal restitution order must be accompanied by an enforcement letter that states the restitution is ordered under 18 U.S.C. 3663A. The enforcement letter must expressly refer to the “Thrift Savings Plan” or describe the TSP in such a way that it cannot be confused with other Federal Government retirement benefits or non-Federal retirement benefits.
(c) The following orders will not be considered qualifying:
(1) A criminal restitution order relating to a TSP account with a zero dollar account balance;
(2) A criminal restitution order relating to a TSP account that contains only nonvested money, unless the money will become vested within 30 days of the date the TSP record keeper receives the order if the participant were to remain in Government service;
(3) A criminal restitution order accompanied by an enforcement letter that requires the TSP to make a payment in the future;
(4) A forfeiture order related to a monetary garnishment of funds;
(5) A criminal restitution order accompanied by an enforcement letter that requires TSP to make a series of payments;
(6) A criminal restitution order accompanied by an enforcement letter that designates the specific TSP core fund, source of contributions, or balance from which the payment or portions of the payment shall be made.
[79 FR 53604, Sept. 10, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 52605, Sept. 1, 2015; 87 FR 31691, May 24, 2022]
§ 1653.34
Processing Federal tax levies and criminal restitution orders.
(a) The payment of tax levies and criminal restitution orders from the TSP is governed solely by the Federal Employees' Retirement Systems Act, 5 U.S.C. chapter 84, and by the terms of this subpart. Although the TSP record keeper will honor tax levies or criminal restitution orders properly issued, those entities have no jurisdiction over the TSP and the TSP cannot be made a party to the underlying proceedings.
(b) The TSP record keeper will review a tax levy or criminal restitution order to determine whether it is enforceable against the TSP record keeper only after it has received a complete copy of the document. Receipt by an employing agency or any other agency of the Government does not constitute receipt by the TSP record keeper. Tax levies and criminal restitution orders should be submitted to the TSP record keeper at the current address as provided at
https://www.tsp.gov.
Receipt by the TSP record keeper is considered receipt by the TSP. To be complete, a tax levy or criminal restitution order must meet all the requirements of § 1653.32 or § 1653.33; it must also provide (or be accompanied by a document or enforcement letter that provides):
(1) The participant's TSP account number or Social Security number (SSN); and
(2) The name and mailing address of the payee.
(c) As soon as practicable after the TSP record keeper receives a document that purports to be a qualifying tax levy or criminal restitution order, the participant's account will be frozen. After the participant's account is frozen, no TSP withdrawal or loan disbursements will be allowed until the account is unfrozen. All other account activity will be permitted, including contributions, loan repayments, adjustments, investment elections, fund reallocations, and fund transfers. Once a disbursement from the account is made in accordance with the restitution order or levy, the hold will be removed from the participant's account.
(d) As soon as practicable after receipt of a complete copy of a tax levy or criminal restitution order, the TSP record keeper will review it to determine whether it is qualifying as described in § 1653.32 or § 1653.33. The TSP record keeper will mail a decision letter to all parties containing the following information:
(1) A determination regarding whether the restitution order or levy is qualifying;
(2) A statement of the applicable statutes and regulations;
(3) An explanation of the effect the restitution order or levy has on the participant's TSP account; and
(4) If the qualifying restitution order or levy requires payment, the letter will provide:
(i) An explanation of how the payment will be calculated and an estimated amount of payment;
(ii) The anticipated date of payment.
[87 FR 31691, May 24, 2022]
§ 1653.35
Calculating entitlement.
A tax levy or criminal restitution order can only require the payment of a stated dollar amount from the TSP. The payee's entitlement will be the lesser of:
(a) The dollar amount stated in the tax levy or enforcement letter; or
(b) The vested account balance on the date of disbursement, minus any outstanding loan balance.
[79 FR 53604, Sept. 10, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 52606, Sept. 1, 2015]
§ 1653.36
Payment.
(a) Payment pursuant to a qualifying tax levy or criminal restitution order will be made 30 days after the decision letter.
(b) In no case will payment exceed the participant's calculated entitlement.
(c) The entire amount of a criminal restitution order or tax levy entitlement must be disbursed at one time. A series of payments will not be made. A payment pursuant to a criminal restitution order or tax levy extinguishes all rights to any further payment under that order or tax levy, even if the entire amount of the entitlement cannot be paid. Any further award must be contained in a separate criminal restitution order or tax levy.
(d) If a participant has funds in more than one type of account, payment will be made from each account in the following order, until the amount required by the tax levy or stated in the enforcement letter is reached:
(1) Civilian account;
(2) Uniformed services account;
(3) Beneficiary participant account.
(e) Payment will be made pro rata from the participant's traditional and Roth balances. The distribution from the traditional balance will be further pro rated between the tax-deferred balance and tax-exempt balance. The payment from the Roth balance will be further pro rated between contributions in the Roth balance and earnings in the Roth balance. In addition, all payments will be distributed pro rata from all TSP core funds in which the participant's account is invested. All pro rated amounts will be based on the balances in each fund or source of contributions on the day the disbursement is made.
(f) The payment is taxable to the participant and is subject to Federal income tax withholding. The tax withholding will be taken from the payee's entitlement and the gross amount of the payment (
i.e.
, the net payment distributed to the payee plus the amount withheld from the payment for taxes) will be reported to the IRS as income to the participant.
(g) A properly paid tax levy or restitution order cannot be returned to the TSP.
(h) The TSP will not hold a payment pending appeal of a criminal restitution order or the underlying conviction. The TSP will treat the criminal restitution order as a final judgment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3664(o) and process payment as provided by this subpart.
[79 FR 53604, Sept. 10, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 52606, Sept. 1, 2015; 87 FR 31692, May 24, 2022]
Pt. 1655

# PART 1655—LOAN PROGRAM
Sec.
1655.1
Definitions.
1655.2
Eligibility for loans.
1655.3
Information concerning the cost of a loan.
1655.4
Number of loans.
1655.5
Loan repayment period.
1655.6
Amount of loan.
1655.7
Interest rate.
1655.8
[Reserved]
1655.9
Effect of loans on individual account.
1655.10
Loan request process.
1655.11
Loan acceptance.
1655.12
Loan agreement.
1655.13
Loan approval and issuance.
1655.14
Loan payments.
1655.15
Deemed Distributions and Loan Offsets.
1655.16
Reamortization.
1655.17
Prepayment.
1655.18
Spousal rights.
1655.19
Effect of court order on loan.
1655.20
Residential loans.
1655.21
Loan fee.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8432d, 8433(g), 8439(a)(3) and 8474.

# Source:
68 FR 35515, June 13, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1655.1
Definitions.
(a) Definitions generally applicable to the Thrift Savings Plan are set forth at 5 CFR 1690.1.
(b) As used in this part:
Amortization means
the reduction in a loan by periodic payments of principal and interest according to a schedule of payments.
Cure period
means the period set forth at § 1655.14(e).
Deemed distribution
means a deemed distribution under Internal Revenue Code section 72(p) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Also referred to as a loan taxation or taxed loan, it means the amount of outstanding principal and interest on a loan that must
be reported to the Internal Revenue Service as taxable income as a result of the failure of a participant who has not separated from Government service to:
(i) Make timely loan repayments before the end of the cure period; or
(ii) Repay the loan in full by the maximum term limit.
General purpose loan
means any TSP loan other than a loan for the purchase or construction of a primary residence.
Guaranteed funds
means a cashier's check, money order, certified check (
i.e.,
a check certified by the financial institution on which it is drawn), cashier's draft, or treasurer's check from a credit union.
Loan direct debit repayment
means a loan repayment made directly from a participant's personal savings or checking account.
Loan issue date
means the date on which the TSP record keeper disburses funds from the participant's account for the loan amount.
Loan offset
means a loan offset under Internal Revenue Code section 72(p) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Also referred to as a loan foreclosure, it means the amount of outstanding principal and interest on a loan that must be reported to the Internal Revenue Service as taxable income as the result of the failure of a participant who has separated from Government service to repay his or her loan in full or begin making repayments by the deadline imposed by the TSP record keeper.
Loan repayment period
means the time over which payments that are required to repay a loan in full are scheduled.
Principal
or
principal amount
means the amount borrowed by a participant from his or her individual account, or, after reamortization, the amount financed.
Reamortization
means the recalculation of periodic payments of principal and interest.
Residential loan
means a TSP loan for the purchase or construction of a primary residence.
[68 FR 35515, June 13, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 32217, June 1, 2005; 87 FR 31692, May 24, 2022]

# Editorial Note:
At 87 FR 31692, May 24, 2022, in § 1655.1 a definition of “date of request” was set out; however, the amendment could not be incorporated because no action was given for it.
§ 1655.2
Eligibility for loans.
A participant can apply for a TSP general purpose or residential loan if:
(a) More than 30 business days have elapsed since the participant has repaid in full any TSP loan;
(b) The participant is in pay status;
(c) The participant is eligible to contribute to the TSP; and
(d) The participant has at least $1,000 in employee contributions and attributable earnings in his or her account. Paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to loan requests made during a Government shutdown by participants who are furloughed or excepted from furlough due to the Government shutdown.
[87 FR 31692, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.3
Information concerning the cost of a loan.
Information concerning the cost of a loan is provided in the booklet TSP Loan Program (available on the TSP Web site, from the participant's personnel office or service, or from the TSP). From this information, a participant can determine the effects of a loan on his or her final account balance and can compare the cost of a loan to that of other sources of financing.
[68 FR 35515, June 13, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 31692, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.4
Number of loans.
A participant may have no more than two loans outstanding from his or her TSP account at any time. No more than one outstanding loan from an account may be a residential loan. A participant with both a civilian TSP account and a uniformed services TSP account may have two outstanding loans from each account.
[87 FR 31692, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.5
Loan repayment period.
(a)
Minimum.
The minimum repayment period a participant may request for a general purpose loan is 12 months of scheduled payments. The minimum
repayment period a participant may request for a residential loan is 61 months of scheduled payments.
(b)
Maximum.
The maximum repayment period a participant may request for a general purpose loan is 60 months of scheduled payments. The maximum repayment period a participant may request for a residential loan is 180 months years of scheduled payments.
[87 FR 31692, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.6
Amount of loan.
(a)
Minimum amount.
The initial principal amount of any loan may not be less than $1,000.
(b)
Maximum amount.
The principal amount of a new loan must be less than or equal to the smallest of the following:
(1) The portion of the participant's individual account balance that is attributable to employee contributions and attributable earnings (not including any outstanding loan principal);
(2) 50 percent of the participant's vested account balance that is attributable to employee contributions and attributable earnings (including any outstanding loan balance) or $10,000, whichever is greater, minus any outstanding loan balance; or
(3) $50,000 minus the participant's highest outstanding loan balance (if any) during the last 12 months.
(c) If a participant has both a civilian TSP account and a uniformed services TSP account, the maximum loan amount available will be based on a calculation that takes into consideration the account balances and outstanding loan balances for both accounts.
(d) Any amount invested through the mutual fund window at the time the participant makes a loan request will not be considered for purposes of determining either the minimum or maximum loan amounts.
[68 FR 35515, June 13, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 31692, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.7
Interest rate.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, loans will bear interest at the monthly G Fund interest rate established by the Department of the Treasury in effect on the 15th of the month prior to the date the loan request is made.
(b) The interest rate calculated under this section remains fixed until the loan is repaid, unless a civilian participant informs the TSP record keeper that he or she entered into active duty military service, and, as a result, requests that the interest rate on a loan issued before entry into active duty military service be reduced to an annual rate of 6 percent for the period of such service. The civilian participant must provide the record keeper with the beginning and ending dates of active duty military service.
[68 FR 35515, June 13, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 31692, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.8
[Reserved]
§ 1655.9
Effect of loans on individual account.
(a) The amount borrowed will be removed from the participant's account when the loan is disbursed. Consequently, these funds will no longer generate earnings.
(b) The loan principal will be disbursed from that portion of the account represented by employee contributions and attributable earnings,
pro rata
from each TSP core fund in which the account is invested and
pro rata
from tax-deferred and tax-exempt balances.
(c) The loan principal will be disbursed pro rata from the participant's traditional and Roth balances. The disbursement from the traditional balance will be further pro rated between the tax-deferred balance and tax-exempt balance. The disbursement from the Roth balance will be further pro rated between contributions in the Roth balance and earnings in the Roth balance. In addition, all loan disbursements will be distributed pro rata from all TSP core funds in which the participant's account is invested. All pro rated amounts will be based on the balances in each TSP core fund or source of contributions on the day the disbursement is processed.
(d) Loan payments, including both principal and interest, will be credited to the participant's individual account. Loan payments will be credited to the appropriate TSP Fund in accordance
with the participant's most recent contribution allocation. Loan payments will be credited to the participant's traditional and Roth balances in the same proportion that the loan was distributed from the participant's account.
(e) Loan disbursements will not be made from any amounts invested through the mutual fund window and loan payments will not be credited to a participant's mutual fund window account.
[68 FR 35515, June 13, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 32218, June 1, 2005; 77 FR 26429, May 4, 2012; 87 FR 31692, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.10
Loan request process.
(a) Any participant may apply for a loan by submitting a completed TSP loan request in the form and manner prescribed by the TSP record keeper.
(b) If a participant has a uniformed services account and a civilian account, a separate loan request must be made for each account.
[87 FR 31693, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.11
Loan acceptance.
If the requirements set forth in §§ 1655.2, 1655.4, and 1655.6(a) are satisfied, the TSP record keeper will nevertheless reject a loan request if:
(a) The participant has failed to provide all required information on the loan request;
(b) The participant has a pending loan request or in-service withdrawal request; or
(c) A hold has been placed on the account pursuant to 5 CFR 1653.3(c).
[87 FR 31693, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.12
Loan agreement.
(a) Upon determining that a loan request meets the requirements of this part, the TSP record keeper will provide the participant with the terms and conditions of the loan.
(b) By accepting the loan agreement, the participant agrees to be bound by all of its terms and conditions, agrees to repay the loan by payroll deduction, and certifies, under penalty of perjury, to the truth and completeness of all statements made in the loan request and loan agreement to the best of his or her knowledge.
(c) For loan requests not completed on the TSP website, the TSP record keeper must receive the completed loan agreement (including any required supporting documentation) before the expiration date stated on the loan agreement or the agreement will not be processed.
(d) The signed loan agreement must be accompanied by:
(1) In the case of a residential loan, supporting materials that document the purchase or construction of the residence and the amount requested (as described in § 1655.20); and
(2) Any other information that the Executive Director may require.
(e) A participant may request, in the form and manner prescribed by the TSP record keeper, that the loan be disbursed by direct deposit to a checking or savings account maintained by the participant in a financial institution.
[87 FR 31693, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.13
Loan approval and issuance.
(a) When the completed loan agreement is signed electronically or returned by the participant to the TSP record keeper, together with any documentation required to be submitted, the loan will be initially approved or denied by the TSP record keeper based upon the requirements of this part, including the following conditions:
(1) The participant has signed the promise to repay the loan, has agreed to repay the loan through payroll deductions, and has certified that the information given is true and complete to the best of the participant's knowledge;
(2) Processing of the loan would not be prohibited by § 1655.19 relating to court orders;
(3) The spouse of a FERS or uniformed services participant has consented to the loan or, if the spouse's whereabouts are unknown or exceptional circumstances make it inappropriate to secure the spouse's consent, an exception to the spousal requirement described in § 1655.18 has been granted;
(4) The spouse of a CSRS participant has been given notice or, if the spouse's
whereabouts are unknown, an exception to the spousal requirement described in § 1655.18 has been granted;
(5) When a paper agreement is required, the completed loan agreement, including all required supporting documentation, was received by the TSP record keeper before the expiration date specified on the loan agreement; and
(6) The participant has met any other conditions that the Executive Director may require.
(b) If approved, the loan will be issued unless:
(1) The participant's employing agency has reported the participant's separation from Government service;
(2) The TSP record keeper receives written notice that the participant has died;
(3) The participant's account balance on the loan issue date does not contain sufficient employee contributions and associated earnings to make a loan of at least $1,000;
(4) A hold on the account is processed before the loan is disbursed; or
(c) If the loan is otherwise acceptable but the amount available to borrow is less than the requested amount (but is at least $1,000), the loan will be issued in the maximum amount available at the time of the disbursement. In such a case, the periodic payment amount will remain the same and the loan term may be shortened.
(d) The loan issue date is considered to be the date the loan was made.
(e) If a loan disbursement is returned as undeliverable, the TSP record keeper will attempt to locate the participant. If the participant does not respond within 90 days, the TSP record keeper will repay the loan with the returned loan proceeds.
[68 FR 35515, June 13, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 31693, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.14
Loan payments.
(a) In the case of a participant who has not separated from Government service, loan payments must be made through payroll deduction in accordance with the loan agreement. Once loan payments begin, the employing agency cannot terminate the payroll deductions at the employee's request, unless the TSP or its record keeper instructs it to do so.
(b) The participant may make additional payments by mailing a check or guaranteed funds to the TSP record keeper or by enrolling in loan direct debit repayments from his or her personal savings or checking account. If the TSP record keeper receives a payment that repays the outstanding loan amount and overpays the loan by $10.00 or more, the overpayment will be refunded to the participant. Overpayments of less than $10.00 will be applied to the participant's account and will not be refunded. If a loan overpayment refund is returned as undeliverable, the TSP record keeper will attempt to locate the participant. If the participant does not respond within 90 days, the overpayment refund will be forfeited to the TSP. The participant can claim the forfeited funds, although they will not be credited with TSP investment fund returns.
(c) The initial payment on a loan is due on or before the 60th day following the loan issue date. Interest accrues on the loan from the date of issuance.
(d) Subsequent payments are due at regular intervals as prescribed in the loan agreement, or most recent amortization, according to the participant's pay cycle.
(e) In the case of a participant who has not separated from Government service, if a payment is not made when due, the TSP record keeper will notify the participant of the missed payment and the participant must make up the payment in full. The participant's make-up payment must be in the form of a check, guaranteed funds, or a one-time payment via loan direct debit from his or her personal savings or checking account. If the participant does not make up all missed payments by the end of the calendar quarter following the calendar quarter in which the first payment was missed, the TSP record keeper will declare the loan to be a deemed distribution in accordance with § 1655.15(a). The declaration of a deemed distribution does not relieve the participant of his or her obligation to repay the amount.
(f) Interest will accrue on all missed payments and will be included in the calculation of any deemed distribution
subsequently declared in accordance with § 1655.15(a). Interest will also accrue on payments missed while a participant is in nonpay status and on any deemed distribution until it is repaid in full.
(g) A participant who has separated from Government service with an outstanding loan balance may continue making loan repayments via check, guaranteed funds, or loan direct debit repayments. If a separated participant does not begin making post-separation loan repayments or pay off the loan in full by the deadline imposed by the TSP record keeper, the TSP record keeper will declare the outstanding loan balance and accrued interest to be a loan offset in accordance with § 1655.15(b). In the case of a separated participant who commences post-separation loan repayments, if a payment is not made when due, the TSP record keeper will notify the separated participant of the missed payment and he or she must make up the payment in full. The make-up payment must be in the form of a check, guaranteed funds, or a one-time payment via loan direct debit from his or her personal savings or checking account. If the participant does not make up all missed payments by the end of the calendar quarter following the calendar quarter in which the first payment was missed, the TSP record keeper will declare the outstanding loan balance and accrued interest to be a loan offset in accordance with § 1655.15(b).
[87 FR 31693, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.15
Deemed Distributions and Loan Offsets.
(a) The TSP record keeper will ensure that all requirements set forth in section 72(p) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to deemed distributions are satisfied.
(1) The TSP record keeper will declare the entire unpaid balance of an outstanding loan (including interest) to be a deemed distribution if:
(i) The participant misses two or more loan payments or the participant's payments are made for less than the required amount, and the delinquency is not cured within the cure period;
(ii) The loan is not repaid in full by the maximum term limit; or
(iii) A participant is in a confirmed nonpay status for a period of one year or more, has not advised the TSP record keeper that he or she is serving on active military duty, and payments are not resumed after the participant is notified the loan has been reamortized.
(2) Loan taxation does not relieve a participant of his or her obligation to repay the taxed loan amount. A participant may repay a taxed loan in full (including accrued interest) via check or money order up until the time he or she separates from Government service. The tax basis in a participant's TSP account will be adjusted to reflect the repayment of a taxed loan.
(3) If a participant does not repay a taxed loan:
(i) His or her account balance will be permanently reduced; and
(ii) The taxed loan will count as one of the two loans the participant is permitted per account and is treated as an outstanding loan balance when calculating the participant's maximum loan amount.
(b) The TSP record keeper will ensure that all requirements set forth in section 72(p) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to loan offsets are satisfied.
(1) The TSP record keeper will declare a loan offset in the following situations:
(i) A participant separates from Government service and does not begin making loan repayments or repay the outstanding loan principal and interest in full within the period specified by the notice to the participant from the TSP record keeper explaining the participant's repayment options; or
(ii) The participant dies.
(2) [Reserved]
(c) If a deemed distribution or loan offset occurs in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable, the TSP record keeper will notify the participant of the amount and date of the distribution. The TSP record keeper will report the distribution to the Internal Revenue Service as income for the year in which it occurs.
(d) If a participant dies and a loan offset occurs in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the TSP record keeper will notify the participant's estate of the amount and date of the distribution. Neither the estate nor any other person, including a beneficiary, may repay the loan of a deceased participant, nor can the funds be returned to the TSP.
(e) If, because of Board or TSP record keeper error, a TSP loan is declared a deemed distribution or loan offset under circumstances that make such a declaration inconsistent with this part, or inconsistent with other procedures established by the Board or TSP record keeper in connection with the TSP loan program, the distribution will be reversed. The participant will be provided an opportunity to reinstate loan payments or repay in full the outstanding balance on the loan.
[87 FR 31693, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.16
Reamortization.
(a) When a participant's pay cycle changes for any reason, he or she must notify the TSP record keeper of the change in the form and manner prescribed by the TSP record keeper. Upon notification, the participant's loan will be reamortized to adjust the scheduled payment to an equivalent amount in the new pay cycle. If the new pay cycle results in fewer payments per year and the participant does not reamortize the loan, the loan may be declared a deemed distribution pursuant to § 1655.15(a)(1).
(b) Upon reamortization, the outstanding principal balance remains the same. Any accrued interest is paid off first before payments are applied to principal and current interest.
(c) The interest rate on a reamortized loan will be the same as the interest rate on the original loan.
[87 FR 31694, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.17
Prepayment.
(a) A participant may repay a loan in full, without a penalty, at any time before the declaration of a deemed distribution or loan foreclosure under § 1655.15. Repayment in full means receipt by the TSP record keeper of a payment, by check or guaranteed funds made payable to the Thrift Savings Plan or via loan direct debit repayments, of all principal and interest due on the loan.
(b) If a participant returns a loan check to the TSP record keeper, it will be treated as a repayment; however, additional interest may be owed, which, if not paid, could result in a deemed distribution. The loan, even though repaid, will also be taken into account in determining the maximum amount available for future loans, in accordance with § 1655.6(b).
(c) The amount outstanding on a loan can be obtained from the TSP website, the ThriftLine, or by a written request to the TSP record keeper.
[87 FR 31694, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.18
Spousal rights.
(a)
Spouse of CSRS participant.
(1) Before a loan is disbursed to a CSRS participant, the TSP record keeper will send a notice to the participant's current spouse that the participant has applied for a loan.
(2) A CSRS participant may obtain an exception to the requirement described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section if the participant establishes, to the satisfaction of the Executive Director, that the spouse's whereabouts are unknown as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Spouse of FERS or uniformed services participant.
(1) Before a loan agreement is approved for a FERS or uniformed services participant, the spouse must consent to the loan by signing the loan agreement.
(2) A FERS or uniformed services participant may obtain an exception to the requirement described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the participant establishes, to the satisfaction of the Executive Director, that:
(i) The spouse's whereabouts are unknown; or
(ii) Exceptional circumstances prevent the participant from obtaining the spouse's consent.
(c)
Exception to spousal requirements.
The procedures for obtaining an exception to the spousal requirements described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of this section are the same as the procedures described in 5 CFR part 1650, subpart G.
(d)
Certification of truthfulness.
By completing a loan request, the participant certifies, under penalty of perjury, that all information provided to the TSP record keeper during the loan process is true and complete, including statements concerning the participant's marital status, the spouse's email or physical address at the time the application is filed, or the current spouse's consent to the loan.
[68 FR 35515, June 13, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 74451, Dec. 23, 2003; 87 FR 31694, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.19
Effect of court order on loan.
Upon receipt of a document that purports to be a qualifying retirement benefits court order, qualifying legal process relating to a participant's legal obligation to provide child support or to make alimony payments, or a qualifying child abuse order, the participant's TSP account will be frozen. After the account is frozen, no loan will be allowed until the account is unfrozen. The Board's procedures for processing court orders and legal processes are explained in 5 CFR part 1653.
§ 1655.20
Residential loans.
(a) A residential loan will be made only for the purchase or construction of the primary residence of the participant, or for the participant and his or her spouse, and for the amount required to close on the purchase. The participant must actually bear all or part of the cost of the purchase. If the participant purchases a primary residence with someone other than his or her spouse, only the portion of the purchase costs that is borne by the participant will be considered in making the loan. A residential loan will not be made for the purpose of paying off an existing mortgage or otherwise providing financing for a previously purchased primary residence.
(b) The participant's primary residence is his or her principal residence. A primary residence may include a house, a townhouse, a condominium, a share in a cooperative housing corporation, or a mobile home; a primary residence does not include a second home or vacation home. A participant cannot have more than one primary residence.
(c) Purchase of a primary residence means acquisition of the residence through the exchange of cash or other property or through the total construction of a new residence. A residential loan will not be made for a lease-to-buy option, unless the option to buy is being exercised and the documentation states that the funds are being used to purchase the primary residence. Construction of an addition to or the renovation of a residence or the purchase of land only does not constitute the purchase of a primary residence.
(d) The amount required to close on the purchase of a primary residence does not include points or loan origination fees charged for a loan. In addition, real estate taxes cannot be included.
(e) The documentation required for a loan under this section is as follows:
(1) For all purchases, except for construction, a signed sale/purchase contract/settlement offer or agreement or addendum; or
(2) For construction, a signed builder's agreement/contract; and
(3) For requests including closing costs and/or settlement charges, a loan estimate/worksheet/statement/closing disclosure from a mortgage company.
(f) The documentation provided under this section must meet the requirements set forth by the TSP record keeper.
[87 FR 31694, May 24, 2022]
§ 1655.21
Loan fee.
The TSP will charge a participant a $50.00 loan fee when it disburses a general purpose loan and a $100.00 loan fee when it disburses a residential loan and will deduct the applicable fee from the proceeds of the loan.
[87 FR 31695, May 24, 2022]
Pt. 1690

# PART 1690—THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1690.1
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Miscellaneous
1690.11
Plan year.
1690.12
Power of attorney.
1690.13
Guardianship and conservatorship orders.
1690.14
Checks made payable to the Thrift Savings Plan
1690.15
Freezing an account—administrative holds.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8474.

# Source:
68 FR 35519, June 13, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1690.1
Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
Agency automatic (1%) contributions
means any contributions made under 5 U.S.C. 8432(c)(1) and (c)(3). It also includes service automatic (1%) contributions made under 5 U.S.C. 8440e(e)(3)(A).
Agency matching contributions
means any contributions made under 5 U.S.C. 8432(c)(2). It also includes service matching contributions under 5 U.S.C. 8440e(e)(3)(B).
Basic pay
means basic pay as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8331(3). For CSRS and FERS employees, it is the rate of pay used in computing any amount the individual is otherwise required to contribute to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund as a condition of participating in the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees' Retirement System, as the case may be. For members of the uniformed services, it is basic pay payable under 37 U.S.C. 204 and compensation received under 37 U.S.C. chapter 206.
Beneficiary participant
means a spouse beneficiary for whom the TSP maintains a beneficiary participant account pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8433(e) and in accordance with 5 CFR 1651.19.
Beneficiary participant account
means an account maintained pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8433(e) and in accordance with 5 CFR 1651.19. The term includes both civilian beneficiary participant accounts and uniformed services beneficiary participant accounts.
Board
means the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board established under 5 U.S.C. 8472.
Bonus contributions
means contributions made by a participant from any part of any special or incentive pay that the participant receives under chapter 5 of title 37.
BRS
means the blended retirement system as established by the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2016, Public Law 114-92, secs. 631-635 (2015).
BRS participant
means a TSP participant covered by BRS.
C Fund
means the Common Stock Index Investment Fund established under 5 U.S.C. 8438(b)(1)(C).
Catch-up contributions
means TSP contributions from basic pay that are made by participants age 50 and over, which exceed the elective deferral limit of 26 U.S.C. 402(g) and meet the requirements of 5 CFR 1600.23.
Civilian account
means a TSP account to which contributions have been made by or on behalf of a civilian employee.
Civilian beneficiary participant account
means a beneficiary participant account that is established with a death benefit payment from a TSP account to which contributions were made by or on behalf of a civilian employee.
Civilian employee
or civilian participant means a TSP participant covered by the Federal Employees' Retirement System, the Civil Service Retirement System, or equivalent retirement plan.
Contribution election
means a request by an employee to start contributing to the TSP, to change the amount or type of contributions (traditional or Roth) made to the TSP each pay period, or to terminate contributions to the TSP.
Court of competent jurisdiction
means the court of any state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Virgin Islands, and any Indian court as defined by 25 U.S.C. 1301(3).
CSRS
means the Civil Service Retirement System established by 5 U.S.C. chapter 83, subchapter III, or any equivalent Federal retirement system.
CSRS employee
or
CSRS participant
means any employee or participant covered by CSRS.
Date of appointment
means the effective date of an employee's accession as established by the current employing agency.
Day
means calendar day, unless otherwise stated.
Eligible employer plan
means a plan qualified under I.R.C. section 401(a) (26 U.S.C. 401(a)), including a section 401(k) plan, profit-sharing plan, defined benefit plan, stock bonus plan, and money
purchase plan; an annuity plan described in I.R.C. section 403(a) (26 U.S.C. 403(a)); an annuity contract described in I.R.C. section 403(b) (26 U.S.C. 403(b)); and an eligible deferred compensation plan described in I.R.C. section 457(b) (26 U.S.C. 457(b)) which is maintained by an eligible employer described in I.R.C. section 457(e)(1)(A) (26 U.S.C. 457(e)(1)(A)).
Employee contributions
means traditional contributions and Roth contributions. Employee contributions are made at the participant's election pursuant to § 1600.12 and are deducted from compensation paid to the employee.
Employer contributions
means agency automatic (1%) contributions under 5 U.S.C. 8432(c)(1), 8432(c)(3), or 5 U.S.C. 8440e(e)(3)(A) and agency matching contributions under 5 U.S.C. 8432(c)(2) or 5 U.S.C. 8440e(e)(3)(B).
Employing agency
means the organization (or the payroll office that services the organization) that employs an individual eligible to contribute to the TSP and that has authority to make personnel compensation decisions for the individual. It includes the employing service for members of the uniformed services.
Executive Director
means the Executive Director of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board under 5 U.S.C. 8474.
F Fund
means the Fixed Income Investment Fund established under 5 U.S.C. 8438(b)(1)(B).
Federal civilian retirement system
means the Civil Service Retirement System established by 5 U.S.C. chapter 83, subchapter III, the Federal Employees' Retirement System established by 5 U.S.C. chapter 84, or any equivalent Federal civilian retirement system.
FERS
means the Federal Employees' Retirement System established by 5 U.S.C. chapter 84 or any equivalent Federal retirement system.
FERS employee
or
FERS participant
means any employee or TSP participant covered by FERS.
FERSA
means the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 (FERSA), Public Law 99-335, 100 Stat. 514. The provisions of FERSA that govern the TSP are codified primarily in subchapters III and VII of Chapter 84 of Title 5, United States Code.
Former spouse
means (as defined at 5 U.S.C. 8401(12)) the former spouse of a TSP participant if the participant performed at least 18 months of civilian service creditable under 5 U.S.C. 8411 as an employee or member, and if the participant and former spouse were married to one another for at least nine months.
G Fund
means the Government Securities Investment Fund established under 5 U.S.C. 8438(b)(1)(A).
G Fund interest rate
means the interest rate computed under 5 U.S.C. 8438(e)(2).
I Fund
means the International Stock Index Investment Fund established under 5 U.S.C. 8438(b)(1)(E).
In-service withdrawal request
means a properly completed withdrawal election for either an age-based in-service withdrawal under 5 CFR 1650.41 or a financial hardship in-service withdrawal under 5 CFR 1650.42.
Investment election
means the participant's apportionment of his or her future contributions, loan payments, and rollovers from eligible employer plans or traditional IRAs among the TSP core funds.
L Fund
means the Lifecycle Funds described in 5 CFR part 1601, subpart E.
PEBD
means the pay entry base date (or pay entry basic date for some services), which is determined by each uniformed service and is used to calculate how much time in service a member has for the purpose of determining longevity pay rates.
Plan participant
or
participant
means any person with an account (other than a beneficiary participant account) in the Thrift Savings Plan or who would have an account (other than a beneficiary account) but for an employing agency error.
Post-employment distribution request
means a properly completed distribution withdrawal election under 5 CFR 1650.24.
Posting
means the process of crediting or debiting transactions to an individual account.
Posting date
means the date on which a transaction is credited or debited to a participant's account.
Ready Reserve
means those members of the uniformed services described at 10 U.S.C. 10142.
Regular employee contributions
mean TSP contributions from taxable basic pay that are subject to the Internal Revenue Code limits on elective deferrals and contributions to qualified plans (26 U.S.C. 402(g) and 415(c), respectively), and the maximum contribution percentage limits of 5 U.S.C. 8351(b), 5 U.S.C. 8432(a), or 5 U.S.C. 8440f(a).
Roth 5 year non-exclusion period
means the period of five consecutive calendar years beginning on the first day of the calendar year in which the participant's Roth initiation date occurs. It is the period described in section 402A(d)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Roth balance
means the sum of:
(1) Roth contributions and associated earnings; and
(2) Amounts rolled over to the TSP from a Roth account maintained by an eligible employer plans and earnings on those amounts.
Roth contributions
means employee contributions made to the participant's Roth balance which are authorized by 5 U.S.C. 8432d. Roth contributions may be deducted from taxable pay on an after-tax basis or from pay exempt from taxation under 26 U.S.C. 112.
Roth initiation date
means
(1) The earlier of:
(i) The actual date of a participant's first Roth contribution to the TSP;
(ii) The “as of” date or attributable pay date (as defined in § 1605.1 of this subchapter) that established the date of the participant's first Roth contribution to the TSP; or
(iii) The date used, by a plan from which the participant directly rolled over Roth money into the TSP, to measure the participant's Roth 5 year non-exclusion period.
(2) If a participant has a civilian account and a uniformed services account, the Roth initiation date for both accounts will be the same.
Roth IRA
means an individual retirement plan described in Internal Revenue Code section 408A (26 U.S.C. 408A).
S Fund
means the Small Capitalization Stock Index Investment Fund established under 5 U.S.C. 8438(b)(1)(D).
Separation from Government service
means generally the cessation of employment with the Federal Government. For civilian employees it means termination of employment with the U.S. Postal Service or with any other employer from a position that is deemed to be Government employment for purposes of participating in the TSP for 31 or more full calendar days. For uniformed services members, it means the discharge from active duty or the Ready Reserve or the transfer to inactive status or to a retired list pursuant to any provision of title 10 of the United States Code. The discharge or transfer may not be followed, before the end of the 31-day period beginning on the day following the effective date of the discharge, by resumption of active duty, an appointment to a civilian position covered by the Federal Employees' Retirement System, the Civil Service Retirement System, or an equivalent retirement system, or continued service in or affiliation with the Ready Reserve. Reserve component members serving on full-time active duty who terminate their active duty status and subsequently participate in the drilling reserve are said to continue in the Ready Reserve. Active component members who are released from active duty and subsequently participate in the drilling reserve are said to affiliate with the Ready Reserve.
Share
means a portion of a TSP Fund. Transactions are posted to accounts in shares at the share price of the date the transaction is posted. The number of shares for a transaction is calculated by dividing the dollar amount of the transaction by the share price of the appropriate date for the fund in question. The number of shares is computed to four decimal places.
Share price
means the value of a share in a TSP Fund. The share price is calculated separately for each fund for each business day. The share price includes the cumulative net earnings or losses for each fund through the date the share price is calculated.
Source of contributions
means traditional contributions, Roth contributions, agency automatic (1%) contributions, or agency matching contributions. All amounts in a participant's account are attributed to one of these four sources. Catch-up contributions,
rollovers, and loan payments are included in the traditional contribution source or the Roth contribution source.
Special or incentive pay
means pay payable as special or incentive pay under 37 U.S.C. chapter 5.
Spouse
means the person to whom a TSP participant is married on the date he or she signs a form on which the TSP requests spousal information. Where a participant is seeking to reclaim an account that has been forfeited pursuant to 5 CFR 1650.16, spouse means the person to whom the participant was married on the withdrawal deadline. For purposes of 5 CFR 1651.5 and 5 CFR 1651.19, spouse means the person to whom the participant was married on the date of the participant's death. A TSP participant is considered to be married even if the parties are separated, unless a court decree of divorce or annulment has been entered. The laws of the jurisdiction in which the marriage was initially established will be used to determine whether a TSP participant is married.
Tax-deferred balance
means the sum of:
(1) All contributions and rollovers in a participant's traditional balance that would otherwise be includible in gross income if paid directly to the participant and earnings on those amounts; and
(2) Earnings on any tax-exempt contributions in the traditional balance. The tax-deferred balance does not include tax-exempt contributions.
Tax-deferred contributions
means employee contributions made to a participant's traditional balance that would otherwise be includible in gross income if paid directly to the participant.
Tax-exempt balance
means the sum of tax-exempt contributions within a participant's traditional balance. It does not include earnings on such contributions. Only a traditional balance in a uniformed services participant account or a uniformed services beneficiary participant account may contain a tax-exempt balance.
Tax-exempt contributions
means employee contributions made to the participant's traditional balance from pay which is exempt from taxation by 26 U.S.C. 112. The Federal income tax exclusion at 26 U.S.C. 112 is applicable to compensation for active service during a month in which a uniformed service member serves in a combat zone. The term “tax-exempt contributions” does not include contributions made to the participant's Roth balance from pay which is exempt from taxation by 26 U.S.C. 112.
Thrift Savings Fund
or
Fund
means the Fund described in 5 U.S.C. 8437.
Thrift Savings Plan, TSP,
or
Plan
means the Thrift Savings Plan established under subchapters III and VII of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986, 5 U.S.C. 8351 and 8401-8479.
ThriftLine
means the automated voice response system by which TSP participants may, among other things, access their accounts by telephone. The ThriftLine can be reached at (877) 968-3778.
Traditional balance
means the sum of:
(1) Tax-deferred contributions and associated earnings;
(2) Tax-deferred amounts rolled over into the TSP and associated earnings;
(3) Tax-exempt contributions and associated earnings;
(4) Agency matching contributions and associated earnings;
(5) Agency automatic (1%) contributions and associated earnings.
Traditional contributions
means tax-deferred employee contributions and tax-exempt employee contributions made to the participant's traditional balance.
Traditional IRA
means an individual retirement account described in I.R.C. section 408(a) (26 U.S.C. 408(a)) and an individual retirement annuity described in I.R.C. section 408(b) (26 U.S.C. 408(b)) (other than an endowment contract).
TSP core fund
means an investment fund established pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8438(b)(1)(A)-(E) and (c)(2).
TSP record keeper
means the entities the Board engages to perform record keeping and administration services for the Thrift Savings Plan.
TSP record keeper
means the entities the Board engages to perform record keeping and administration services for the Thrift Savings Plan.
TSP website
means the internet location(s) maintained by the TSP and/or
its record keeper, which contain(s) information about the TSP and by which TSP participants may, among other things, access their accounts by computer.
Uniformed service member
or uniformed services participant means a TSP participant who is a member of the uniformed services on active duty or a member of the Ready Reserve in any pay status.
Uniformed services
means the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps.
Uniformed services account
means a TSP account to which contributions have been made by or on behalf of a member of the uniformed services.
Uniformed services beneficiary participant account
means a beneficiary participant account that is established with a death benefit payment from a TSP account to which contributions were made by or on behalf of a member of the uniformed services.
Vested account balance
means that portion of an individual's account which is not subject to forfeiture under 5 U.S.C. 8432(g).
[68 FR 35519, June 13, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 32218, June 1, 2005; 71 FR 50320, Aug. 25, 2006; 75 FR 78880, Dec. 17, 2010; 77 FR 26429, May 4, 2012; 78 FR 57784, Sept. 20, 2013; 82 FR 60105, Dec. 19, 2017; 87 FR 31695, May 24, 2022]

# Subpart B—Miscellaneous
§ 1690.11
Plan year.
The Thrift Savings Plan's plan year is established on a calendar-year basis for all purposes, except where another applicable provision of law requires that a fiscal year or other basis be used. As used in this section, the term “calendar-year basis” means a twelve-month period beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31 of the same year.
§ 1690.12
Power of attorney.
(a) A participant or beneficiary can appoint an agent to conduct business with the TSP on his or her behalf by using a power of attorney (POA). The agent is called an attorney-in-fact. The TSP record keeper must approve a POA before the agent can conduct business with the TSP; however, the TSP record keeper will accept a document that was signed by the agent before the TSP record keeper approved the POA. The TSP record keeper will approve a POA if it meets the following conditions:
(1) The POA must give the agent either general or specific powers, as explained in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section;
(2) The POA must be signed by the participant;
(3) The POA must provide the names and addresses of the participant and the agent;
(4) The POA must meet the state law requirements of the participant's state of domicile as determined by the address on file with the TSP record keeper;
(5) The POA must be a complete document; and
(6) The POA must be submitted to the TSP record keeper for approval.
(b) A general POA gives an agent unlimited authority to conduct business with the TSP, including the authority to sign any TSP-related document. Additional information regarding general powers of attorney can be accessed at
https://www.tsp.gov.
(c) A specific power of attorney gives an agent the authority to conduct specific TSP transactions. A specific POA must expressly describe the authority it grants. Additional information regarding specifical powers of attorney, as well as a sample form, can be accessed at
https://www.tsp.gov.
[87 FR 31695, May 24, 2022]
§ 1690.13
Guardianship and conservatorship orders.
(a) A court order can authorize an agent to conduct business with the TSP on behalf of an incapacitated participant or beneficiary. The agent is called a guardian or conservator and the incapacitated person is called a ward. The TSP record keeper must approve a court order before an agent can conduct business with the TSP; however, the TSP record keeper will accept a document that was signed by the agent before the TSP record keeper approved the court order. The TSP record
keeper will approve a court order appointing an agent if the following conditions are met:
(1) A court of competent jurisdiction (as defined at § 1690.1) must have issued the court order;
(2) The court order must give the agent either general or specific powers, as explained in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section; and
(3) The agent must demonstrate that he or she meets any precondition specified in the court order, such as a bonding requirement.
(b) A general grant of authority gives a guardian or conservator unlimited authority to conduct business with the TSP, including the authority to sign any TSP-related document. By way of example, an order gives a general grant authority by appointing a “guardian of the ward's estate,” by permitting a guardian to “conduct business transactions” for the ward, or by authorizing a guardian to care for the ward's “personal property” or “Federal Government retirement benefits.”
(c) A specific grant of authority gives a guardian or conservator authority to conduct specific TSP transactions. Such an order must expressly describe the authority it grants. By way of example, an order may authorize an agent to “obtain information about the ward's TSP account” or “borrow or withdraw funds from the ward's TSP account.”
[87 FR 31696, May 24, 2022]
§ 1690.14
Checks made payable to the Thrift Savings Plan.
(a)
Accord and satisfaction.
The TSP does not agree to accept less than the total amount due by negotiating an instrument such as a check, share draft or money order with a restrictive legend on it (such as “payment in full” or “submitted in full satisfaction of claims”), or by negotiating an instrument that is conditionally tendered to the TSP with an offer of compromise.
(b)
TSP payment address.
The TSP record keeper has established an address for the receipt of specified TSP payments. The TSP record keeper will not answer correspondence mailed to that payment address.
[70 FR 32218, June 1, 2005, as amended at 87 FR 31696, May 24, 2022]
§ 1690.15
Freezing an account—administrative holds.
(a) The TSP record keeper may freeze (e.g., place an administrative hold on) a participant's account for any of the following reasons:
(1) Pursuant to a qualifying retirement benefits court order as set forth in part 1653 of this chapter;
(2) Pursuant to a request from the Department of Justice under the Mandatory Victims Restitution Act;
(3) Upon the death of a participant;
(4) Upon suspicion or knowledge of fraudulent account activity or identity theft;
(5) In response to litigation pertaining to an account;
(6) For operational reasons (e.g., to correct a processing error or to stop payment on a check when account funds are insufficient);
(7) Pursuant to a written request from a participant made in the manner prescribed by the TSP record keeper; and
(8) For any other reason necessary to ensure the integrity of TSP accounts or compliance with law.
(b) [Reserved]
[87 FR 31696, May 24, 2022]
PARTS 1691-1699 [RESERVED]
5 CFR Ch. VIII (1-1-25 Edition)
Office of Special Counsel

# CHAPTER VIII—OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL
Part
Page
1800
Filing of complaints and allegations
357
1810
Investigative authority of the Special Counsel
360
1811
Outside Inspector General
361
1820
Freedom of Information Act requests; production of records or testimony
361
1830
Privacy Act Regulations
371
1840
Subpoenas
375
1850
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of disability in programs or activities conducted by the Office of Special Counsel
375
1851-1899
[Reserved]
Pt. 1800

# PART 1800—FILING OF COMPLAINTS AND ALLEGATIONS
Sec.
1800.1
Scope and purpose.
1800.2
Filing complaints of prohibited personnel practices or other prohibited activities.
1800.3
Filing disclosures of information evidencing wrongdoing.
1800.4
Filing complaints of Hatch Act violations and requesting advisory opinions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 1212(e).

# Source:
87 FR 63405, Oct. 19, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1800.1
Scope and purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the U.S. Office of Special Counsel's (OSC) authorities at 5 U.S.C. 1212-1216 and should be read in concert with these statutory provisions. This part does not create new individual rights but instead is intended to inform individuals of filing options they may be entitled to under 5 U.S.C. 1212-1216, and 2302. Individuals are encouraged to go to OSC's website at
https://osc.gov
for more information about the OSC complaint form that should be used when filing with OSC.
§ 1800.2
Filing complaints of prohibited personnel practices or other prohibited activities.
(a)
Prohibited personnel practices.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 1214 and 1215, OSC has investigative and prosecutorial jurisdiction over allegations that one or more of the prohibited personnel practices enumerated at 5 U.S.C. 2302 were committed against current or former Federal employees or applicants for Federal employment, including:
(1) Discrimination, including discrimination based on marital status or political affiliation (
see
§ 1810.1 of this chapter for information about OSC's deferral policy for discrimination complaints);
(2) Soliciting or considering improper recommendations or statements about any individual requesting, or under consideration for, a personnel action;
(3) Coercing political activity, or engaging in retaliation for refusal to engage in political activity;
(4) Deceiving or obstructing any individual with respect to competition for employment;
(5) Influencing any individual to withdraw from competition to improve or injure the employment prospects of another individual;
(6) Granting an unauthorized preference or advantage to any individual to improve or injure the employment prospects of another individual;
(7) Nepotism involving a covered relative as defined at 5 U.S.C. 3110(a)(3);
(8) Retaliation for whistleblowing (whistleblowing is generally defined as the disclosure of information by an individual who reasonably believes that the information evidences a violation of any law, rule, or regulation; gross mismanagement; a gross waste of funds; an abuse of authority; a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety; or censorship related to scientific research or the integrity of the scientific process if the censorship will cause one of the aforementioned categories of wrongdoing);
(9) Retaliation for:
(i) Exercising certain grievance, complaint, or appeal rights;
(ii) Providing testimony or other assistance to any individual exercising such grievance, complaint, or appeal rights;
(iii) Cooperating with the Special Counsel, an Inspector General, or any other agency component responsible for internal investigation or review; or
(iv) Refusing to obey an order that would require the violation of law, rule, or regulation;
(10) Discrimination based on conduct that would not adversely affect job performance;
(11) Violating a veterans' preference requirement;
(12) Taking or failing to take a personnel action in violation of any law, rule, or regulation implementing or directly concerning merit system principles at 5 U.S.C. 2301(b);
(13) Implementing or enforcing any nondisclosure policy, form, or agreement that fails to include the statement found at 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(13) or fails to inform any individual that they retain their whistleblowing rights; and
(14) Accessing the medical record of any individual as part of, or otherwise
in furtherance of, any other prohibited personnel practice.
(b)
Other prohibited activities.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 1216, OSC also has investigative and prosecutorial jurisdiction over any allegation concerning the following:
(1) Prohibited political activity by Federal employees covered by the Hatch Act at title 5 of the U.S. Code, chapter 73, subchapter III;
(2) Prohibited political activity by State and local officers and employees covered by the Hatch Act at title 5 of the U.S. Code, chapter 15;
(3) Arbitrary and capricious withholding of information that should be released pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act at 5 U.S.C. 552 (except for certain foreign and counterintelligence information);
(4) Activities prohibited by any civil service law, rule, or regulation, including any activity relating to political intrusion in personnel decision-making;
(5) Involvement by any employee in any prohibited discrimination found by any court or appropriate administrative authority to have occurred in the course of any personnel action (unless OSC determines that the allegation may be resolved more appropriately under an administrative appeals procedure); and
(6) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 4324, violations of the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA), codified at 38 U.S.C. 4301,
et seq.
(c)
Procedures for filing complaints alleging prohibited personnel practices or other prohibited activities (other than the Hatch Act).
(1) Anyone may file a complaint with OSC alleging one or more prohibited personnel practices, or other prohibited activities within OSC's investigative jurisdiction. The OSC complaint form must be used to file all such complaints.
(2) OSC will not process a complaint filed in any format other than the completed OSC complaint form designated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. OSC will, however, accept material supplementing the contents of Form 14, as long as the filer also submits a signed form. If a filer does not use this form to submit a complaint, OSC will provide the filer with information about the form and obtain a signature on the form. The OSC complaint form will be considered to be filed on the date on which OSC receives a completed form.
(3) The OSC complaint form requests that the filer provide basic information about the alleged prohibited personnel practices or other prohibited activities. A complaint may be amended to clarify or include additional allegations. A complaint is sufficient for investigation when OSC receives information identifying the parties, identifying any relevant personnel action(s), and describing generally the practices or activities at issue.
(4) The OSC complaint form is available:
(i) Online at:
https://osc.gov
(to print out and complete on paper, or to complete online);
(ii) By writing to OSC at: U.S. Office of Special Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505; or
(iii) By calling OSC at: (800) 872-9855 (toll-free), or (202) 804-7000 (in the Washington, DC area).
(5) A complainant can file a completed OSC complaint form:
(i)
Electronically at: https://osc.gov;
(ii)
By email to: info@osc.gov;
or
(iii)
By mail to:
U.S. Office of Special Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505.
(d)
Alternate Dispute Resolution.
For selected cases, OSC may offer Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) pursuant to the voluntary Alternative Dispute Resolution Act of 1998, 5 U.S.C. 571-573. OSC provides information about its ADR program and process on its website at
https://osc.gov.
§ 1800.3
Filing disclosures of information evidencing wrongdoing.
(a)
General.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 1213, OSC is authorized to provide an independent and secure channel for use by current or former Federal employees and applicants for Federal employment to disclose information that they reasonably believe evidences wrongdoing by a Federal agency. Within 45 days of receipt of the disclosure, OSC must determine whether there is a substantial likelihood that the information discloses a violation of any law, rule, or
regulation; gross mismanagement; a gross waste of funds; an abuse of authority; a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety; or censorship related to scientific research or the integrity of the scientific process if the censorship will cause one of the aforementioned categories of wrongdoing. If it does, the law requires OSC to refer the information to the appropriate agency head for an investigation and a written report on the findings; and the agency head must submit the report to the Special Counsel. OSC may not disclose the identity of an individual who makes the disclosure unless the individual consents or the Special Counsel determines that the disclosure of the identity is necessary because of an imminent danger to public health or safety or imminent violation of any criminal law. The law does not authorize OSC to investigate any disclosure.
(1)
Deferral policy for certain disclosures.
When OSC determines that a disclosure is being or has been investigated by an Agency, OSC will usually defer to such investigation rather than make a substantial likelihood determination.
(2) [Reserved]
(b)
Procedures for filing disclosures.
Current or former Federal employees and applicants for Federal employment may file with OSC a disclosure of the type of information described in 5 U.S.C. 1213(a)(1). Such disclosures must be filed in writing.
(1) Filers are encouraged to use the OSC complaint form, which is available online, to file a disclosure of the type of information described in 5 U.S.C. 1213(a)(1). OSC's complaint form provides more information about OSC jurisdiction and procedures for processing whistleblower disclosures. The OSC complaint form is available:
(i) Online at:
https://osc.gov
(may be completed online or printed out and completed on paper);
(ii)
By writing to OSC at:
U.S. Office of Special Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505; or
(iii)
By calling OSC at:
(800) 572-2249 (toll-free), or (202) 804-7004 (in the Washington, DC area).
(2) Filers may use another written format to submit a disclosure to OSC, but the submission should include:
(i) The name, mailing address, and telephone number(s) of the individual(s) making the disclosure(s);
(ii) The department or agency, location, and organizational unit complained of; and
(iii) A statement as to whether the filer consents to disclosure of the filer's identity by OSC to the agency involved, in connection with any OSC referral to that agency.
§ 1800.4
Filing complaints of Hatch Act violations and requesting advisory opinions.
(a) Procedures for filing complaints alleging Hatch Act violations.
(1) Complainants are encouraged to use the OSC complaint form (Form 14) to file Hatch Act complaints. The OSC complaint form is available:
(i) Online at:
https://osc.gov
(to print out and complete on paper, or to complete online); or
(ii)
By writing to OSC at:
U.S. Office of Special Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505.
(2) Complaints alleging a violation of the Hatch Act not submitted on Form 14 may also be submitted in any written form, and should include:
(i) The complainant's name, mailing address, and telephone number (unless the matter is submitted anonymously);
(ii) The department or agency, location, and organizational unit complained of; and
(iii) A concise description of the actions complained about, names and positions of employees who took the actions, if known to the complainant, and dates of the actions, preferably in chronological order, together with any documentary evidence that the complainant can provide.
(3) Written Hatch Act complaints including the information in 1800.4(a)(2) above may be filed with OSC:
(i)
By email to: hatchact@osc.gov;
or
(ii)
By mail to:
U.S. Office of Special Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505.
(b) Procedures for requesting Hatch Act advisory opinions. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 1212(f), OSC is authorized to issue advisory opinions only about political activity of Federal officers and employees, and political activity of
certain State or local officers and employees. An individual can seek an advisory opinion from OSC:
(1)
By email to: hatchact@osc.gov;
(2)
By mail to:
U.S. Office of Special Counsel, Hatch Act Unit, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505; or
(3)
By phone at:
(800) 854-2824 (toll-free), or (202) 804-7002 (in the Washington, DC area).
Pt. 1810

# PART 1810—INVESTIGATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE SPECIAL COUNSEL
Sec.
1810.1
Investigative policy in certain discrimination and retaliation complaints.
1810.2
Access to agency information in investigations.
1810.3
Termination of certain OSC investigations.
1810.4
Investigative policy regarding agency liaisons.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 1212(e).

# Source:
87 FR 63407, Oct. 19, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1810.1
Investigative policy in certain discrimination and retaliation complaints.
OSC is authorized to investigate allegations of discrimination and retaliation prohibited by law, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(1) and (b)(9)(A)(ii). Because procedures for investigating discrimination and retaliation complaints have already been established in the agencies and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, OSC will usually avoid duplicating those procedures and will defer to those procedures rather than initiating an independent investigation.
§ 1810.2
Access to agency information in investigations.
(a) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 1212(b)(5), OSC is authorized to have timely access to all agency records, data, reports, audits, reviews, documents, papers, recommendations, information, or other material that relate to an OSC investigation, review, or inquiry.
(b) A claim of common law privilege, such as the attorney-client privilege, may not be used by any agency, or officer or employee of any agency, to withhold information from OSC. By providing such information to OSC, an agency will not be deemed to have waived the common law privilege against a non-Federal entity or against any individual in any other proceeding.
(c) In the event of contumacy or failure of an agency to comply with any request under this section, the Special Counsel shall submit a report to the committees of Congress with jurisdiction over OSC and the applicable agency.
§ 1810.3
Termination of certain OSC investigations.
(a) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 1214(a)(6), within 30 days of receiving a complaint alleging that a prohibited personnel practice occurred, OSC may terminate an investigation of the allegation without further inquiry if:
(1) The same allegation, based on the same set of facts and circumstances, had previously been:
(i) Made by the individual and investigated by OSC; or
(ii) Filed by the individual with the Merit Systems Protection Board;
(2) OSC does not have jurisdiction to investigate the allegation; or
(3) The individual knew or should have known of the alleged prohibited personnel practice more than 3 years before the allegation was received by OSC.
(b) Within 30 days of terminating an investigation described in paragraph (a), OSC shall notify the individual, in writing, of the basis for terminating the investigation.
§ 1810.4
Investigative policy regarding agency liaisons.
Agency liaisons facilitate their agency's cooperation with OSC's investigations by ensuring that agencies timely and accurately respond to OSC's requests for information and witness testimony, as well as by assisting with the resolution of complaints. To maintain the integrity of OSC's investigations and to avoid actual or perceived conflicts, agency liaisons should not have current or past involvement in the personnel actions at issue in the assigned case.
Pt. 1811

# PART 1811—OUTSIDE INSPECTOR GENERAL

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 1212(i).

# Source:
87 FR 63407, Oct. 19, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1811.1
Requirement to contract with an outside inspector general.
The Special Counsel shall enter into at least one agreement with the Inspector General of an agency under which—
(1) the Inspector General shall—
(A) receive, review, and investigate allegations of prohibited personnel practices or wrongdoing filed by employees of the Office of Special Counsel; and
(B) develop a method for an employee of the Office of Special Counsel to communicate directly with the Inspector General; and
(2) the Special Counsel—
(A) may not require an employee of the Office of Special Counsel to seek authorization or approval before directly contacting the Inspector General in accordance with the agreement; and
(B) may reimburse the Inspector General for services provided under the agreement.
[87 FR 63407, Oct. 19, 2022]

# PART 1820—FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUESTS; PRODUCTION OF RECORDS OR TESTIMONY
1820.1
General provisions.

# Subpart A—FOIA Regulations
1820.2
Requirements for making FOIA requests.
1820.3
Consultations and referrals.
1820.4
Timing of responses to requests.
1820.5
Responses to requests.
1820.6
Appeals.
1820.7
Fees.
1820.8
Business information.
1820.9
Other rights and services.

# Subpart B—Production of Records or Testimony
1820.10
Scope and purpose.
1820.11
Applicability.
1820.12
Definitions.
1820.13
General prohibition.
1820.14
Factors OSC will consider.
1820.15
Service of requests or demands.
1820.16
Requirements for litigants seeking documents or testimony.
1820.17
Processing requests or demands.
1820.18
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
1820.19
Restrictions that apply to released records.
1820.20
Procedure when a decision is not made prior to the time a response is required.
1820.21
Fees.
1820.22
Final determination.
1820.23
Penalties.
1820.24
Conformity with other laws.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552, 301, and 1212(e).

# Source:
87 FR 63407, Oct. 19, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1820.1
General provisions.
This part contains rules and procedures followed by the U.S. Office of Special Counsel (OSC) in processing requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), codified at 5 U.S.C. 552. These rules and procedures should be read together with the FOIA and the FOIA page of OSC's website (
https://osc.gov/FOIA
), which set forth additional information about access to agency records and information routinely provided to the public as part of a regular OSC activity. For example, forms, press releases, records published on OSC's website, or public lists maintained at OSC headquarter offices pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 1219, may be requested and provided to the public without following this part. This part also addresses responses to demands by a court or other authority to an OSC employee or former employee for production of official records or testimony in legal proceedings.

# Subpart A—FOIA Regulations
§ 1820.2
Requirements for making FOIA requests.
(a)
Submission of requests.
(1) A request for OSC records under the FOIA must be made in writing. The request must be sent:
(i)
By email to: foiarequest@osc.gov
or other electronic means described on the FOIA page of OSC's website (
https://osc.gov/FOIA
);
(ii)
Electronically to:
The National FOIA Portal for the entire federal government at
www.foia.gov;
or
(iii)
By mail to:
U.S. Office of Special Counsel, FOIA Officer, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505.
(2) Both the request letter and envelope or email subject line should be clearly marked “FOIA Request.”
(3) A FOIA request will not be considered to have been received by OSC until it reaches the FOIA Officer.
(b)
Description of records sought.
Requests must state in the letter, email, or other prescribed electronic method the words “FOIA Request” or “FOIA/Privacy Request.” The request must also describe the records sought in enough detail for them to be located with a reasonable amount of effort. When requesting records about an OSC case file, the case file number, name, and type (for example, prohibited personnel practice (PPP), Hatch Act, USERRA, Hatch Act advisory opinion, or whistleblower disclosure) should be provided, if known. Whenever possible, requests should describe any particular record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter. OSC requires proof of identification from requestors seeking their own case files. OSC requires a signed release of information from requestors seeking another individual's case file.
(c)
Agreement to pay fees.
By making a FOIA request the requestor agrees to pay all applicable fees chargeable under § 1820.7 unless the Special Counsel waives fees, the requestor is exempt, or the requestor otherwise qualifies for a waiver of fees.
§ 1820.3
Consultations and referrals.
When OSC receives a FOIA request for a record in its possession, it may determine that another Federal agency or entity is better able to decide whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. If so, OSC will either respond to the request for the record after consulting with the other Federal agency or entity or refer the responsibility for responding to the request to the other Federal agency or entity deemed better able to determine whether to release it. OSC will ordinarily respond promptly to consultations and referrals from other Federal agencies or entities.
§ 1820.4
Timing of responses to requests.
(a)
In general.
OSC ordinarily will respond to FOIA requests in order of receipt. In determining which records are responsive to a request, OSC ordinarily will include only records in its possession on the date that it begins its search. OSC will inform the requestor if it uses any other date.
(b)
Multitrack processing.
(1) OSC may use two or more processing tracks to distinguish between simple and more complex requests based on the amount of work and/or time estimated to process the request.
(2) When using multitrack processing, OSC may provide requestors in its slower track(s) with an opportunity to limit the scope of their requests in order to qualify for faster processing within the specified limits of the faster track(s).
(c)
Expedited processing.
(1) OSC will take requests and appeals out of order and provide expedited treatment whenever OSC has established to its satisfaction that:
(i) Failure to obtain requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;
(ii) An urgency exists to inform the public about an actual or alleged federal government activity and the requestor is primarily engaged in disseminating information; or
(iii) The requestor with a personal interest in a case for which they face an imminent filing deadline with the Merit Systems Protection Board or other administrative tribunal or court of law in an individual right of action, or in a USERRA case referred to OSC under title 38 of the U.S. Code. Expedited status granted under this provision will apply only to the following requested records: PPP case closure and notice of appeal rights letters sent to the complainant by OSC and the official complaint form submitted to OSC by a USERRA complainant or the original referred USERRA complaint if referred to OSC under title 38 of the U.S. Code.
(2) A request for expedited processing must be made in writing and sent to OSC's FOIA Officer. The expedited request is deemed received when it reaches the FOIA Officer.
(3) A requestor who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct to the best of that individual's knowledge and belief, explaining in detail the basis for requesting expedited processing. OSC may waive a certification as a matter of administrative discretion.
(4) OSC shall decide whether to grant a request for expedited processing and notify the requestor of its decision within ten (10) calendar days of the FOIA Officer's receipt of the request. If OSC grants the request for expedited processing, it will process the request as soon as practicable. If OSC denies the request for expedited processing, OSC shall rule expeditiously on any administrative appeal of that decision.
(d)
Aggregated requests.
OSC may aggregate multiple requests by the same requestor, or by a group of requestors acting in concert, if it reasonably believes that such requests actually constitute a single request that would otherwise create “unusual circumstances” as defined in § 1820.5, and that the requests involve clearly related matters.
§ 1820.5
Responses to requests.
(a)
General.
Ordinarily, OSC has twenty (20) business days from receipt to determine whether to grant or deny a FOIA request.
(1) In unusual circumstances, OSC may extend the twenty (20) business-day deadline by written notice to the requestor setting forth the unusual circumstances justifying the extension. OSC shall notify the requestor if OSC cannot process the request in 20 days and provide the requestor an opportunity to modify the request so that OSC can process the request within the 20-day time limit. OSC and the requestor can also negotiate an alternative time frame for processing the request or modified request. OSC's FOIA Public Liaison is available to assist in the resolution of any disputes between the requestor and OSC. OSC must also advise the requestor of the requestor's right to seek dispute resolution services from the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) Office of Government Information Services (OGIS). OSC may consider a requestor's refusal to reasonably modify the request or to negotiate an alternative time frame as a factor in determining whether unusual and/or exceptional circumstances exist.
(2)
Unusual circumstances
means—
(i) The need to search for and collect the requested records from OSC field offices, NARA storage facilities, or other locations away from OSC's FOIA office;
(ii) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records demanded in a single request; or
(iii) The need for consultation and/or referral with another OSC unit where the information concerns two or more components of OSC or with a Federal entity that has an interest in the information requested.
(3)
Exceptional circumstances
means—
(i) OSC has a backlog of pending requests and is making reasonable progress in reducing the backlog; and
(ii) OSC estimates a search yield of more than 5000 pages.
(b) OSC will notify the requestor in writing of its determination to grant or deny in full or in part a FOIA request.
(c)
Adverse determinations.
Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, consist of: A determination to withhold any requested record in whole or in part; that a requested record does not exist or cannot be located; that a record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requestor; that the request does not seek a record subject to the FOIA; a determination on any disputed fee matter; or a denial of a request for expedited treatment. A notification to a requestor of an adverse determination on a request shall include:
(1) A brief statement of the reason(s) for the denial of the request, including any FOIA exemption applied by OSC in denying the request; and
(2) A statement that the denial may be appealed under § 1820.6(a), with a description of the requirements of that subsection.
(d)
Dispute resolution program.
OSC shall inform FOIA requestors at all stages of the FOIA process of the availability of dispute resolution services provided by the FOIA Public Liaison or by NARA's OGIS.
§ 1820.6
Appeals.
(a)
Appeals of adverse determinations.
A requestor may appeal an adverse determination to OSC's Office of General Counsel. The appeal must be in writing, and must be submitted either:
(1)
By email to: foiaappeal@osc.gov,
or other electronic means as described on the FOIA page of OSC's website (
https://osc.gov/FOIA
); or
(2)
By mail to:
U.S. Office of Special Counsel, Office of General Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505.
(b)
Submission and content.
The Office of General Counsel must receive the appeal within ninety (90) calendar days of the date of the adverse determination letter. The appeal letter and envelope or email subject line should be clearly marked “FOIA Appeal.” The appeal must clearly identify the OSC determination (including the assigned FOIA request number, if known) being appealed. OSC will not ordinarily act on a FOIA appeal if the request becomes a matter of FOIA litigation.
(c)
Responses to appeals.
Ordinarily, OSC must issue a written appeal decision within twenty (20) business days from receipt of the appeal. A decision affirming a denial in whole or in part shall inform the requestor of the provisions for judicial review of that decision, and of the availability of dispute resolution services. If OSC's appeal decision reverses or modifies its denial, OSC's notice will state that OSC will reprocess the request in accordance with that appeal decision.
§ 1820.7
Fees.
(a)
In general.
OSC provides the first two hours of search time and the first 100 pages of duplication free of charge to all requestors. In exceptional circumstances, OSC may charge fees. At the discretion of the Special Counsel, OSC may exempt certain requestors from search and duplication fees, including PPP complainants and subjects; Hatch Act complainants and subjects; Hatch Act advisory opinion requestors; whistleblowers; and USERRA complainants. OSC charges commercial users for search, review, and duplication fees under the FOIA in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, except where a waiver or reduction of fees is granted under paragraph (h) of this section. OSC charges duplication fees, but not search fees, to educational or non-commercial scientific institutions; and to representative of the news media or news media requestors. OSC charges both search fees and duplication fees to all other requestors. If an exempted requestor abuses its exempt fee status to file numerous, duplicative, and/or voluminous FOIA requests, OSC may suspend the requestor's exempt status and charge search and duplication fees. OSC may require up-front payment of fees before sending copies of requested records to a requestor. Requestors must pay fees by submitting to OSC's FOIA Officer a check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States.
See generally Uniform Freedom of Information Act Fee Schedule and Guidelines
(hereinafter
OMB Fee Guidelines
), 52 FR 10,012, 10,017-18 (Mar. 27, 1987).
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
All other requestors
means all requestors who do not fall into the categories of commercial use, educational institution, noncommercial scientific institution, and representatives of the news media.
Commercial use request
means a request from or on behalf of an individual who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers commercial, trade, or profit interests, which can include furthering those interests through litigation. If OSC determines that the requestor seeks to put the records to a commercial use, either because of the nature of the request or because OSC has reasonable cause to doubt a requestor's stated use, OSC shall provide the requestor with a reasonable opportunity to clarify.
Direct costs
mean those expenses that OSC incurs in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial use requests, reviewing) records to respond to a FOIA request. Direct costs include, for example, the salary of the
employee performing the work (the basic rate of pay for the employee plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating duplicating equipment. Direct costs do not include overhead expenses such as rent, heating, or lighting the record storage facility.
Duplication
means the reasonable direct cost of making copies of documents.
Educational institution
means any school that operates a program of scholarly research.
See
OMB Fee Guidelines, 52 FR at 10,019. To be in this category, a requestor must show that the request is authorized by and is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use but are sought to further scholarly research.
Non-commercial scientific institution
means an entity that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry and are not for commercial use.
Representative of the news media
or
news media requestor
means any individual or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. A non-exhaustive list of news media entities includes print newspapers, electronic outlets for print newspapers, broadcast and cable television networks and stations, broadcast and satellite radio networks and stations, internet-only outlets, and other alternative media as methods of news delivery evolve. For “freelance” journalists to be regarded as working for a news organization, they must demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization, whether print or electronic. A requestor seeking to qualify as a news media requestor must not be seeking the requested records for a commercial use. The requestor's news-dissemination function is not considered to be a commercial use.
Review
means the process of examining a record located in response to a request in order to determine whether any portion of the record is exempt from release. Review includes redacting exempt material, and otherwise evaluating and preparing the records for release. Review includes time spent obtaining and considering any formal objection to release made by a business submitter under § 1820.8(f). Review does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues about the application of exemptions. OSC may charge for review costs in connection with commercial use requests even if a record ultimately is not released.
Search
means the process of looking for and retrieving records or information responsive to a FOIA request, as well as page-by-page or line-by-line identification of responsive information within records.
(c)
Fees.
OSC charges the following fees for responding to FOIA requests:
(1)
Search.
(i) The first two hours of search are free. OSC may charge for time spent searching even if it fails to locate responsive records, or even if OSC determines that located records are exempt from release.
(ii) OSC charges $5.50 per quarter hour spent by clerical personnel in searching for and retrieving a requested record; $9.00 per quarter hour of search time spent by professional personnel; and $17.50 per quarter hour for search assistance from managerial personnel.
(iii) OSC charges the direct costs of conducting electronic searches, including the costs of operator or programmer staff time apportionable to the search.
(iv) OSC may charge additional costs in accordance with the applicable billing schedule established by NARA for requests requiring the retrieval of records from any Federal Records Center.
(2)
Duplication.
OSC charges all non-exempt requestors duplication fees after the first 100 pages. OSC's duplication fee for a standard paper photocopy of a record will be 25 cents per page. For copies produced by computer, such as discs or printouts, OSC will charge the direct costs, including staff time, of producing the copy. For other forms of duplication, OSC will charge the direct costs of that duplication.
(3)
Review.
OSC charges review fees to commercial use requestors. OSC will
not charge for review at the administrative appeal level.
(d)
Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.
OSC shall notify the requestor of the actual or estimated fees when OSC determines or estimates that fees charged under this section would exceed $25.00, unless the requestor has indicated a willingness to pay fees at that level or if OSC waived fees before undertaking the search. OSC will not conduct a search or process responsive records until OSC and the requestor reach an agreement on the fees. If a requestor wants to pay a lower amount than $25.00, the fee notice will offer the requestor an opportunity to work with OSC to reformulate or narrow the request to try to lower the anticipated fees.
(e)
Charges for other services.
OSC will notify requestors in advance if OSC intends to charge additional fees to provide special services, such as shipping records by other than ordinary mail.
(f)
Aggregating separate requests.
OSC may aggregate requests and charge appropriate fees where OSC reasonably believes that a requestor or a group of requestors seek to avoid fees by dividing a request into a series of requests. OSC may presume that multiple such requests made within a 30-day period were divided in order to avoid fees. OSC will aggregate requests separated by more than 30 days only where a reasonable basis exists for determining that aggregation is warranted under the circumstances involved.
(g)
Advance payments.
(1) For requests other than those described in paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section, OSC will not require the requestor to make an advance payment before work is begun or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (that is, pre-payment after processing a request but before copies are sent to the requestor) is not an advance payment.
(2) OSC may require advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request if OSC determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00.
(3) OSC may require the requestor to make an advance payment in full of the anticipated fee where a requestor has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee within 30 business days of the date of billing.
(h)
Requirements for waiver or reduction of fees.
(1) OSC will furnish records responsive to a request without charge or at a charge reduced below that established under paragraph (c) of this section where OSC determines, based on all available information, that the requestor has demonstrated that:
(i) Release of the requested records is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government; and
(ii) Release of the records is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requestor.
(2) To determine whether the first fee waiver requirement is met, OSC will consider the following factors:
(i) Whether the subject of the requested records concerns a direct and clear connection to “the operations or activities of the government,” not remote or attenuated.
(ii) Whether the release is “likely to contribute” to an understanding of government operations or activities. The requested records must be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities in order to be “likely to contribute” to an increased public understanding of those operations or activities. The release of records already in the public domain is unlikely to contribute to such understanding.
(iii) Whether release of the requested records will contribute to “public understanding.” The release must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of individuals interested in the subject. OSC shall consider a requestor's expertise in the subject area and ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public. A representative of the news media presumptively satisfies this consideration.
(iv) Whether the release is likely to contribute “significantly” to public understanding of government operations or activities. The requestor must demonstrate that the release would significantly enhance the
public's understanding of the subject in question.
(3) To determine whether the second fee waiver requirement is met, OSC will consider the following factors:
(i) Whether the requestor has a commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested release. OSC shall consider any commercial interest of the requestor (with reference to the definition of “commercial use” in paragraph (b)(1) of this section), or of any individual on whose behalf the requestor may be acting, that would be furthered by the requested release. Requestors shall be given an opportunity to provide explanatory information about this consideration.
(ii) Whether any identified commercial interest in the disclosure, is equal to or less than that of any identified public interest. OSC ordinarily shall presume that a news media requestor has satisfied the public interest standard. Release to data brokers or others who primarily compile and market government information for direct economic return shall be presumed not to primarily serve the public interest.
(4) Where only a portion of the records to be released satisfies the requirements for a waiver of fees, a waiver shall be granted for that portion.
(5) Requests for the waiver or reduction of fees should address the factors listed in paragraphs (h)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, insofar as they apply to each request. OSC fee reduction or waiver decisions may consider the cost-effectiveness of its allocation of administrative resources.
(i)
No assessment of fees.
OSC may not assess any search fees if it misses the statutory 20-business-day deadline to respond to the request, except under paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If OSC determined that unusual circumstances apply and OSC provided a timely written notice to the requestor, OSC may extend the 20-day deadline by 10 business days. OSC may not assess any search fees, however, if it misses the extended deadline.
(2) OSC may charge search fees if the search yield would exceed 5,000 pages, and if OSC provides a timely written notice to the requestor.
(ii) [Reserved]
§ 1820.8
Business information.
(a)
In general.
Business information obtained by OSC from a submitter may be released only pursuant to this section.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Business information
means trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained by OSC from a submitter that may be protected from release under FOIA Exemption 4. 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
Submitter
means any individual or entity from whom OSC obtains business information, directly or indirectly.
(c)
Designation of business information.
A submitter of business information must use good-faith efforts to designate, by appropriate markings, any portion of its submission that it considers to be protected from release under FOIA Exemption 4.
(d)
Notice to submitters.
OSC shall provide a submitter with prompt written notice of a FOIA request or administrative appeal that appears to seek confidential business information wherever required under paragraph (e) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, in order to give the submitter an opportunity to object to release of any specified portion of those records under paragraph (f) of this section. The notice shall either describe the confidential business information requested or include copies of the requested records or record portions containing the information.
(e)
When notice is required.
Notice shall be given to a submitter whenever:
(1) The submitter designated the records in good faith as considered protected from release under FOIA Exemption 4; or
(2) OSC has reason to believe that the records or portions of records may be protected from release under FOIA Exemption 4.
(f)
Opportunity to object to release.
OSC will allow a submitter a reasonable time to respond to the notice described in paragraph (d) of this section and will specify that time period within the notice. The submitter must submit any objections to release in a detailed written statement. The statement must specify all grounds for withholding any
portion of the records under any exemption of the FOIA and, in the case of Exemption 4, it must show why the information contained in the record is privileged or confidential. Submitters who fail to respond timely to the notice are deemed to have consented to release of the records. Information provided by a submitter under this paragraph may itself be subject to release under FOIA.
(1)
Notice of intent to release.
OSC shall consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds for non-release in deciding whether to release business information. If OSC decides to release business information over the objection of a submitter, OSC shall provide written notice including the reason(s) why OSC overruled the submitter's objections; a description of the business information to be released; and a reasonable specified release date.
(2) [Reserved]
(g)
Exceptions to notice requirements.
The notice requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall not apply if:
(1) OSC determines that the information should not be released;
(2) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;
(3) Release of the information is required by statute (other than the FOIA) or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600; or
(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (c) of this section appears obviously frivolous—except that, in such a case, OSC shall, within a reasonable time prior to a specified release date, give the submitter written notice of any final decision to release the information.
(h)
Notice of FOIA lawsuit.
OSC shall promptly notify a submitter if a requestor files a lawsuit seeking to compel the release of the submitter's business information.
(i)
Corresponding notice to requestors.
OSC shall notify requestor(s): that it provided submitters the opportunity to object to release under paragraph (d) of this section; if OSC subsequently releases the requested records under paragraph (g) of this section; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit seeking to prevent OSC's release of business information.
§ 1820.9
Other rights and services.
This subpart does not create a right or entitlement for any individual to any service or to the release of any record other than those available under FOIA.

# Subpart B—Production of Records or Testimony
§ 1820.10
Scope and purpose.
(a) This part establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures with respect to the production of official information, records, or testimony by current and former OSC employees, contractors, advisors, and consultants in connection with federal or state litigation or administrative proceedings in which OSC is not a party.
(b) OSC intends this part to:
(1) Conserve OSC employee time for conducting official business;
(2) Minimize OSC employee involvement in issues unrelated to OSC's mission;
(3) Maintain OSC employee impartiality in disputes between non-OSC litigants; and
(4) Protect OSC's sensitive, confidential information and deliberative processes.
(c) OSC does not waive the sovereign immunity of the United States when allowing OSC employees to provide testimony or records under this part.
§ 1820.11
Applicability.
This part applies to demands and requests from non-OSC litigants for testimony from current and former OSC employees, contractors, advisors, and consultants relating to official OSC information and/or for production of official OSC records or information in legal proceedings in which OSC is not a party.
§ 1820.12
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part.
Demand
means an order, subpoena, or other command of a court or other
competent authority for OSC's production or release of records or for an OSC employee's appearance and testimony in a legal proceeding.
General Counsel
means OSC's General Counsel or an individual to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority under this part.
Legal proceeding
means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding.
OSC employee
or
employee
means any current or former OSC employee or contractor, including but not limited to OSC: temporary employees, interns, volunteers, consultants, and/or other advisors.
Records
or
official records and information
means all information in OSC's custody and control, relating to information in OSC's custody and control, or acquired by an OSC employee in the performance of official duties.
Request
means any request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony which has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority.
Testimony
means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, and interviews made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.
§ 1820.13
General prohibition.
No OSC employee may testify or produce official records or information in response to a demand or request without the General Counsel's prior written approval.
§ 1820.14
Factors OSC will consider.
The General Counsel has discretion to grant an employee permission to testify on matters relating to official information or produce official records and information, in response to a demand or request, with the general proviso that OSC's release of information is subject to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and applicable privileges including but not limited to the attorney work product and deliberative process privileges. See especially §§ 1830.1(e)(2)(ii) and 1830.10(a) below. The General Counsel may also consider whether:
(a) The purposes of this part are met;
(b) Allowing such testimony or production of records would be necessary to prevent a miscarriage of justice; would assist or hinder OSC in performing its statutory duties; or would be in the best interest of OSC or the United States;
(c) The records or testimony can be obtained from other sources;
(d) The demand or request is unduly burdensome or otherwise inappropriate under the applicable rules of discovery or the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand or request arose;
(e) Release would violate a statute, Executive Order, or regulation; would reveal trade secrets, confidential, sensitive, or privileged information, or information that would otherwise be inappropriate for release; or would impede or interfere with an ongoing law enforcement investigation or proceeding, or compromise constitutional rights or national security interests;
(f) Allowing such testimony or production of records would result in OSC appearing to favor one litigant over another;
(g) A substantial government interest is implicated;
(h) The demand or request is within the authority of the party making it; and/or
(i) The demand or request is sufficiently specific to be answered.
§ 1820.15
Service of requests or demands.
Requests or demands for official records or information or testimony under this subpart must be served by mail to the U.S. Office of Special Counsel, Office of General Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505; or by email to
ogc@osc.gov.
The subject line should read “Touhy Request.”
§ 1820.16
Requirements for litigants seeking documents or testimony.
A litigant must comply with the following requirements when submitting a request for testimony or official records and information under this
part. A request should be submitted before a demand is issued.
(a) The request must be in writing (email suffices) and must be submitted to the General Counsel.
(b) The written request must contain the following information:
(1) The caption of the legal or administrative proceeding, docket number, and name and address of the court or other administrative or regulatory authority involved;
(2) A copy of the complaint or equivalent document setting forth the assertions in the case and any other pleading or document necessary to show relevance;
(3) A list of categories of records sought, a detailed description of how the information sought is relevant to the issues in the legal or administrative proceeding, and a specific description of the substance of the testimony or records sought;
(4) A statement addressing the factors set out in § 1820.14;
(5) A statement indicating that the information sought is not available from another source;
(6) If testimony is requested, the intended use of the testimony, and a showing that no document could be provided and used in lieu of testimony;
(7) A description of all prior decisions, orders, or pending motions in the case that bear upon the relevance of the requested records or testimony;
(8) The name, address, and telephone number of counsel to each party in the case; and
(9) An estimate of the amount of time that the requestor and other parties will require of each OSC employee for time spent by the employee to prepare for testimony, in travel, and for attendance in the legal proceeding.
(c) OSC reserves the right to require additional information to complete the request where appropriate.
(d) The request should be submitted at least 14 days before the date that records or testimony is required.
(e) The General Counsel may deny a request for records or testimony based on a requestor's failure to cooperate in good faith to enable the General Counsel to make an informed decision.
(f) The request should state that the requestor will provide a copy of the OSC employee's testimony free of charge and that the requestor will permit OSC to have a representative present during the employee's testimony.
§ 1820.17
Processing requests or demands.
(a) Absent exigent circumstances, OSC will issue a determination within 10 business days after the General Counsel received the request or demand.
(b) The General Counsel may grant a waiver of any procedure described by this subpart where a waiver is considered necessary to promote a significant interest of OSC or the United States, or for other good cause.
(c) On request, OSC may certify that records are true copies in order to facilitate their use as evidence.
§ 1820.18
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
(a) The General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on OSC employee testimony including, for example:
(1) Limiting the areas of testimony;
(2) Requiring the requestor and other parties to the legal proceeding to agree that the transcript of the testimony will be kept under seal;
(3) Requiring that the transcript will be used or made available only in the particular legal proceeding for which testimony was requested.
(b) OSC may offer the employee's written declaration in lieu of testimony.
(c) If authorized to testify under this part, employees may testify as to facts within their personal knowledge, but, unless specifically authorized to do so by the General Counsel, the employee shall not:
(1) Reveal confidential or privileged information; or
(2) For a current OSC employee, testify as an expert or opinion witness with regard to any matter arising out of the employee's official duties or the functions of OSC unless testimony is being given on behalf of the United States (see also 5 CFR 2635.805).
(d) The scheduling of an employee's testimony, including the amount of time that the employee will be made
available for testimony, will be subject to OSC's approval.
§ 1820.19
Restrictions that apply to released records.
(a) The General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the release of official OSC records and information, including the requirement that parties to the proceeding obtain a protective order or execute a confidentiality agreement to limit access and any further disclosure.
(b) If the General Counsel so determines, original OSC records may be presented for examination in response to a request, but they may not be presented as evidence or otherwise used in a manner by which they could lose their identity as official OSC records, nor may they be marked or altered.
§ 1820.20
Procedure in the event a decision is not made prior to the time a response is required.
If a requestor needs a response to a demand or request before the General Counsel makes a determination whether to grant the demand or request, the employee upon whom the demand or request is made, unless otherwise advised by the General Counsel, will appear, if necessary, at the stated time and place, produce a copy of this part, state that the employee has been advised by counsel not to provide the requested testimony or produce documents at this time, and respectfully decline to comply with the demand or request, citing
United States ex rel. Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951).
§ 1820.21
Fees.
(a)
Witness fees.
OSC may assess fees for attendance by a witness. Such fees will include fees, expenses, and allowances prescribed by the court's rules. If no such fees are prescribed, witness fees will be determined based on 28 U.S.C. 1821, and upon the rule of the federal district closest to the location where the witness will appear. Such fees will include the costs of time spent by the witness to prepare for testimony, in travel, and for attendance in the legal proceeding, plus travel costs.
(b)
Payment of fees.
A requestor must pay witness fees for current OSC employees and any record certification fees by submitting to the General Counsel a check or money order for the appropriate amount made payable to the United States Department of Treasury.
§ 1820.22
Final determination.
The General Counsel will notify the requestor and, when appropriate, the court or other body of the final determination, the reasons for the response to the request or demand, and any conditions that the General Counsel may impose on the testimony of an OSC employee or the release of OSC records or information. The General Counsel has the sole discretion to make the final determination regarding requests to employees for testimony or production of official records and information in litigation in which OSC is not a party. The General Counsel's decision exhausts administrative remedies for purposes of release of the information.
§ 1820.23
Penalties.
(a) An employee who releases official records or information or gives testimony relating to official information, except as expressly authorized by OSC, or as ordered by a court after OSC has had the opportunity to be heard, may face the penalties provided under applicable laws. Additionally, former OSC employees are subject to the restrictions and penalties of 18 U.S.C. 207 and 216.
(b) A current OSC employee who testifies or produces official records and information in violation of this part may be subject to disciplinary action.
§ 1820.24
Conformity with other laws and regulations; other rights.
This regulation is not intended to conflict with 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(13) or with any statutory or common law privilege against the release of protected information. This part does not create any right, entitlement, or benefit, substantive or procedural, that a party may rely upon in any legal proceeding against the United States.
Pt. 1830

# PART 1830—PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
Sec.
1830.1
Scope and purpose.
1830.2
Definitions.
1830.3
Requirements for making Privacy Act requests.
1830.4
Medical records.
1830.5
Requirements for requesting amendment of records.
1830.6
Appeals.
1830.7
Exemptions.
1830.8
Fees.
1830.9
Accounting for releases.
1830.10
Conditions of disclosure.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a(f), 301, and 1212(e).

# Source:
87 FR 63413, Oct. 19, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1830.1
Scope and purpose.
(a) This part contains rules and procedures followed by OSC in processing requests for records under the Privacy Act. Further information about access to OSC records generally is available on OSC's website at
https://osc.gov/Privacy.
(b) This part implements the Privacy Act of 1974, codified at 5 U.S.C. 552a, by establishing OSC policies and procedures for the release of records and maintenance of certain systems of records.
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(f). This part also establishes policies and procedures for an individual to correct or amend their record if they believe it is not accurate, timely, complete, or relevant or necessary to accomplish an OSC function.
(c) OSC personnel protected by the Privacy Act include all staff, experts, contractors, consultants, volunteers, interns, and temporary employees.
(d) Other individuals engaging with OSC protected by the Privacy Act include, but are not limited to, PPP complainants, subjects of PPP complaints, Hatch Act complainants, subjects of Hatch Act complaints, Hatch Act advisory opinion requesters, whistleblowers filing disclosures under 5 U.S.C. 1213, and USERRA complainants, and the subjects of USERRA complaints.
(e) This part does not:
(1) Apply to OSC record systems that are not Privacy Act Record Systems.
(2) Make any records available to individuals other than:
(i) individuals who are the subjects of the records (“subject individuals”);
(ii) individuals who can prove they have the consent of the subject individual; or
(iii) individuals acting as legal representatives on behalf of such subject individuals.
(3) Make available information compiled by OSC in reasonable anticipation of court litigation or formal administrative proceedings. The availability of such information, including to any subject individual or party to such litigation or proceeding, shall be governed by applicable constitutional principles, rules of discovery, privileges, and part 1820 of this chapter; or
(4) Apply to personnel records maintained by the Human Capital Office of OSC. Those records are subject to regulations of the Office of Personnel Management in 5 CFR parts 293, 294, and 297.
§ 1830.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Access
means availability of a record to a subject individual.
Disclosure
means the availability or release of a record.
Maintain
means to maintain, collect, use, or disseminate when used in connection with the term “record;” and to have control over or responsibility for a system of records when used in connection with the term “system of records.”
Notification
means communication to an individual whether or not they are a subject individual.
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by OSC, including, but not limited to, the individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, criminal, or employment history, that contains a name or an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. When used in this part, record means only a record that is in a system of records.
Release
means making available all or part of the information or records contained in an OSC system of records.
Responsible OSC official
means the officer listed in a notice of a system of records as the system manager or another individual listed in the notice of a system of records to whom requests may be made, or the designee of either such officer or individual.
Subject individual
means that individual to whom a record pertains.
System of records
means any group of records under the control of OSC from which a record is retrieved by personal identifier such as the name of the individual, number, symbol or other unique retriever assigned to the individual. Single records or groups of records which are not retrieved by a personal identifier are not part of a system of records. See 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(5).
§ 1830.3
Requirements for making Privacy Act requests.
(a)
Submission of requests.
A request for OSC records under the Privacy Act must be made in writing. The request must be sent:
(1)
By email to: foiarequest@osc.gov;
or
(2)
By mail to:
U.S. Office of Special Counsel, Chief Privacy Officer, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505.
(3) Both the request letter and envelope or email should clearly be marked “Privacy Act Request.” A Privacy Act request is deemed received by OSC when it reaches the Chief Privacy Officer.
(b)
Description of records sought.
Requestors must describe the records sought in enough detail for OSC to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort, including, where known, data such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the requested record.
(c)
Proof of identity.
OSC requires proof of identity from requestors seeking their own files, preferably a government-issued document bearing the subject individual's photograph. OSC requires a signed consent from the subject individual to release records to an individual's representative.
(d)
Freedom of Information Act processing.
OSC also processes all Privacy Act requests for access to records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, by following the rules contained in part 1820 of this chapter.
§ 1830.4
Medical records.
When a request for access involves medical records that are not otherwise exempt from disclosure, OSC may advise the requesting individual that OSC will only provide the records to a licensed health care professional the individual designates in writing. Upon receipt of the designation, the licensed health care professional will be permitted to review the records or to receive copies by mail upon proper verification of identity.
§ 1830.5
Requirements for requesting amendment of records.
(a)
Submission of requests.
Individuals may request amendment of records pertaining to them that are subject to amendment under the Privacy Act and this part. The request must be sent:
(1)
By email to: foiarequest@osc.gov;
or
(2)
By mail to:
Chief Privacy Officer, U.S. Office of Special Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505.
(3) Both the request letter and envelope or email should be clearly marked “Privacy Act Amendment Request.” Whether sent by mail or email, a Privacy Act amendment request is considered received by OSC when it reaches the Chief Privacy Officer.
(b)
Description of amendment sought.
Requests for amendment should include the identification of the records together with a statement of the basis for the requested amendment and all available supporting documents and materials. The request needs to articulate whether information should be added, deleted, or substituted with another record and clearly articulate the reason for believing that the record should be corrected or amended.
(c)
Proof of identity.
Rules and procedures set forth in § 1830.3 apply to requests made under this section.
(d)
Acknowledgement and response.
Requests for amendment shall be acknowledged by OSC no later than ten (10) business days after receipt by the Chief Privacy Officer and a determination on the request shall be made promptly.
(e)
What will not change.
The Privacy Act amendment or correction process will not be used to alter, delete, or amend information which is part of a determination of fact or which is evidence received in the record of a claim in any form of an administrative appeal process. Disagreements with these determinations are to be resolved
through the assigned OSC Program Office.
(f)
Notice of error.
If the record is wrong, OSC will correct it promptly. If wrong information was disclosed from the record, we will tell those of whom we are aware received that information that it was wrong and will give them the correct information. This will not be necessary if the change is not due to an error—e.g., a change of name or address.
(g)
Record found to be correct.
If the record is correct, OSC will inform the requestor in writing of the reason why we refuse to amend the record, the right to appeal the refusal, and the name and address of the official to whom the appeal should be sent.
(h)
Record of another government agency.
If you request OSC to correct or amend a record governed by the regulation of another government agency, we will forward your request to such government agency for processing and we will inform you in writing of the referral.
§ 1830.6
Appeals.
(a)
Appeals of adverse determinations.
A requestor may appeal a denial of a Privacy Act request for access to or amendment of records to OSC's Office of General Counsel. The appeal must be in writing and be sent:
(1)
By email to: foiarequest@osc.gov;
or
(2)
By mail to:
U.S. Office of Special Counsel, Office of General Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505.
(3) The appeal must be received by the Office of General Counsel within 45 calendar days of the date of the letter denying the request. Both the appeal letter and envelope or email should be clearly marked “Privacy Act Appeal.” An appeal is considered received by OSC when it reaches the Office of General Counsel. The appeal letter may include as much or as little related information as the requestor wishes, as long as it clearly identifies OSC's determination (including the assigned request number, if known) being appealed. An appeal ordinarily will not be acted on if the request becomes a matter of litigation.
(b)
Responses to appeals.
OSC's decision on an appeal will be made in writing. A final determination will be issued within 20 business days—unless OSC shows good cause to extend the 20-day period.
§ 1830.7
Exemptions.
OSC exempts investigatory material from records subject to Privacy Act record requests or requests to amend records. This exemption aims to prevent interference with OSC's inquiries into matters under its jurisdiction, and to protect identities of confidential sources of information. OSC also reserves the right to assert exemptions for records received from another agency that could be properly claimed by that agency. OSC may exempt any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a legal action or proceeding.
§ 1830.8
Fees.
Requests for records under this section shall be subject to the fees set forth in part 1820 of this chapter.
§ 1830.9
Accounting for releases.
OSC will maintain an accounting of all releases of a record for six (6) years or for the life of the record in accordance with the General Records Schedule, whichever is longer—except that, we will not make an accounting for releases:
(a) Of a subject individual's records record made with the subject individual's consent;
(b) To employees of OSC who have a need for the record to perform their duties; and
(c) Required under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and part 1820 of this chapter.
§ 1830.10
Conditions of release.
OSC shall not release any record that is contained in a system of records to any individual or to another agency, except as follows:
(a)
Consent to release by the subject individual.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section authorizing releases of records without consent, no release of a record will be made without the consent of the subject individual. The consent shall be in writing and signed by the subject individual. The consent shall specify the
individual, agency, or other entity to whom the record may be released, which record may be released and, where applicable, during which time frame the record may be released. The subject individual's identity and, where applicable, the identity of the individual to whom the record is to be released shall be verified as set forth in § 1830.3(c).
(b)
Releases without the consent of the subject individual.
The releases listed in this paragraph may be made without the consent of the subject individual, including:
(1) To employees and contractors of the Office of Special Counsel who have a need for the record to perform their duties.
(2) As required by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and part 1820 of this chapter.
(3) To the entities listed in in the Privacy Act at 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(1) through (12).
Pt. 1840

# PART 1840—SUBPOENAS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 1212(e).
§ 1840.1
Service of subpoenas by mail.
In addition to all other methods of authorized service, an Office of Special Counsel subpoena may be served by mailing a copy to the person at his or her residence or place of business by certified or registered mail.
[54 FR 47345, Nov. 14, 1989]

# PART 1850—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL
Sec.
1850.101
Purpose.
1850.102
Application.
1850.103
Definitions.
1850.104-1850.109
[Reserved]
1850.110
Notice.
1850.111-1850.119
[Reserved]
1850.120
General prohibitions against discrimination against individuals with disabilities.
1850.121-1850.129
[Reserved]
1850.130
Employment of qualified individuals with disabilities.
1850.131-1850.139
[Reserved]
1850.140
Program accessibility: Discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities prohibited.
1850.141-1850.149
[Reserved]
1850.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
1850.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
1850.152-1850.159
[Reserved]
1850.160
Communications.
1850.161-1850.169
[Reserved]
1850.170
Compliance procedures.
1850.171-1850.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
87 FR 63415, Oct. 19, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1850.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 1850.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by OSC, except for programs or activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals with disabilities in the United States.
§ 1850.103
Definitions.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable individuals with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by OSC. For example, auxiliary aids useful for individuals with impaired vision include readers, Braille materials, audio recordings, and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for individuals with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf individuals (TDDs), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes
OSC's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform OSC of the nature and date of the alleged violation of Section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on the complainant's behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Days
means calendar days, unless otherwise stated.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Individual with a disability
means any individual who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. The following phrases used in this definition are further defined as follows:
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(1) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(2) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities.
(3) Also, physical and mental impairment includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alcoholism.
Major life activities
include functions such as—
(1) Caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, seeing, hearing, eating, sleeping, walking, standing, sitting, reaching, lifting, bending, speaking, breathing, learning, reading, concentrating, thinking, writing, communicating, interacting with others, and working; and
(2) The operation of a
major bodily function,
such as the functions of the immune system, special sense organs and skin, normal cell growth, and digestive, genitourinary, bowel, bladder, neurological, brain, respiratory, circulatory, cardiovascular, endocrine, hemic, lymphatic, musculoskeletal, and reproductive systems. The operation of a major bodily function includes the operation of an individual organ within a body system.
Qualified individual with a disability
means—
(1) With respect to any OSC program or activity under which an individual is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with a disability who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of OSC's program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that OSC can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(2) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with a disability who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(3) Qualified individuals with disabilities as that term is defined for purposes of employment in
29
CFR 1614.203, which is made applicable to this part by § 1850.130.
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(1) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(2) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(3) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Section 504
means Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973
(
Pub. L.
No. 93-112,
87 Stat. 394
(
29 U.S.C. 794
)), as amended by the
Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974
(
Pub. L.
No. 93-516,
88 Stat. 1617
); the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (
Pub. L.
No. 95-
602, 92 Stat. 2955
); and the
Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1986
(Pub. L. 99-506,
100 Stat. 1810
). As used in this part, Section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
§§ 1850.104-1850.109
[Reserved]
§ 1850.110
Notice.
OSC shall make available to all interested individuals information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by OSC as necessary to apprise such individuals of the protections assured them by Section 504 and this part.
§§ 1850.111-1850.119
[Reserved]
§ 1850.120
General prohibitions against discrimination against individuals with disabilities.
(a) No qualified individual with a disability shall, on the basis of such disability, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by OSC.
(b) OSC, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of disability—
(1) Deny a qualified individual with a disability the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(2) Afford a qualified individual with a disability an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(3) Provide a qualified individual with a disability with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(4) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to individuals with disabilities or to any class of individuals with disabilities than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with disabilities with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(5) Deny a qualified individual with a disability the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards;
(6) Otherwise limit a qualified individual with a disability in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(7) OSC may not exclude a qualified individual with a disability from participation in any of OSC's programs or activities, even though permissibly separate or different programs or activities exist.
(c) OSC may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(1) Subject qualified individuals with disabilities to discrimination on the basis of disability; or
(2) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with disabilities.
(d) OSC may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(1) Exclude individuals with disabilities from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by OSC, or;
(2) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with disabilities.
(e) OSC, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified individuals with disabilities to discrimination on the basis of disability.
(f) OSC may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with disabilities to discrimination on the basis of disability, nor may OSC establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified individuals with disabilities to discrimination on the basis of disability. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by OSC are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(g) This part does not prohibit the exclusion of nondisabled individuals from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to individuals with disabilities or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with disabilities from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of individuals with disabilities.
(h) OSC shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with disabilities.
§§ 1850.121-1850.129
[Reserved]
§ 1850.130
Employment of qualified individuals with disabilities.
OSC shall not subject any qualified individual with a disability, on the basis of such disability, to discrimination in employment under any program or activity OSC conducts. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of Section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 1850.131-1850.139
[Reserved]
§ 1850.140
Program accessibility: Discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 1850.150, no qualified individual with disabilities shall, because OSC's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with disabilities, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by OSC.
§§ 1850.141-1850.149
[Reserved]
§ 1850.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
OSC shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require OSC to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require OSC to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require OSC to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where OSC personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, OSC has the burden of proving that compliance with this paragraph (a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Special Counsel or the Special Counsel's designee after considering all OSC resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, OSC shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with disabilities receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
OSC may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services
to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. OSC is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. OSC, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, OSC shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with disabilities in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section in historic preservation programs, OSC shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to individuals with disabilities. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of paragraphs (a)(2) or (3) of this section, alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning individuals to guide individuals with disabilities into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
§ 1850.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of OSC shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in
41 CFR
101-
19.
600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 1850.152-1850.159
[Reserved]
§ 1850.160
Communications.
(a) OSC shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) OSC shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with a disability an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by OSC.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, OSC shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with a disability.
(ii) OSC need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where OSC communicates with parties by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf individuals or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with individuals with impaired hearing.
(b) OSC shall ensure that interested individuals, including individuals with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) OSC shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, if any, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require OSC to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where OSC personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, OSC
has the burden of proving that compliance with this section would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Special Counsel or the Special Counsel's designee after considering all OSC resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, OSC shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with disabilities receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 1850.161-1850.169
[Reserved]
§ 1850.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) OSC shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(b) All complaints of discrimination on the basis of disability in programs and activities conducted by OSC shall be filed under the procedures described in this paragraph.
(1)
Who may file.
Any individual who believes that they have been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part, or an authorized representative of such individual, may file a complaint. Any individual who believes that any specific class of individuals has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part and who is a member of that class or the authorized representative of a member of that class may file a complaint. A charge on behalf of an individual or member of a class of individuals claiming to be aggrieved may be made by any individual, agency, or organization.
(2)
Where and when to file.
Complaints shall be filed with the Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO Director), U.S. Office of Special Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036 within 35-calendar days of the alleged act of discrimination. A complaint filed by personal delivery is considered filed on the date it is received by the EEO Director. The date of filing by email is the date the email is sent. The date of filing by mail is determined by the postmark date; if no legible postmark date appears on the mailing, the submission is presumed to have been mailed five days (excluding days on which the agency is closed for business) before its receipt. The date of filing by commercial overnight delivery is the date the document was delivered to the commercial overnight delivery service.
(3)
Acceptance of complaint.
(i) OSC shall accept a complete complaint that is filed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and over which it has jurisdiction. The EEO Director shall notify the complainant of receipt and acceptance of the complaint.
(ii) If OSC receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate entity.
(iii) If the EEO Director receives a complaint that is not complete, the Director shall notify the complainant that additional information is needed. If the complainant fails to complete the complaint and return it to the EEO Director within 15 days of the complainant's receipt of the request for additional information, the EEO Director shall dismiss the complaint with prejudice and shall inform the complainant.
(4) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint, the EEO Director shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in an initial decision containing—
(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(ii) When applicable, a description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(iii) A notice of the right to appeal.
(5) Any appeal of the EEO Director's initial decision must be filed with the Principal Deputy Special Counsel (PDSC), U.S. Office of Special Counsel, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036 by the complainant
within 35 days of the date the EEO Director issues the decision required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section. OSC may extend this time for good cause when a complainant shows that circumstances beyond the complainant's control prevented the filing of an appeal within the prescribed time limit. An appeal filed by personal delivery is considered filed on the date it is received by the PDSC. The date of filing by mail is determined by the postmark date; if no legible postmark date appears on the mailing, the submission is presumed to have been mailed five days (excluding days on which the agency is closed for business) before its receipt. The date of filing by commercial overnight delivery is the date the document was delivered to the commercial overnight delivery service. The appeal should be clearly marked “Appeal of Section 504 Decision” and must contain specific objections explaining why the complainant believes the initial decision was factually or legally wrong. A copy of the initial decision being appealed should be attached to the appeal letter.
(6) The PDSC shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the PDSC needs additional information from the complainant, the PDSC shall have 60 days from the date the additional information is received to make a determination on the appeal.
(7) The time limits cited in paragraphs (b)(2) and (5) of this section may be extended for an individual case when the PDSC determines there is good cause, based on the particular circumstances of that case.
(8) OSC may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies or may contract with a nongovernmental investigator to perform the investigation, but the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another entity.
(c) OSC shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.
PARTS 1851-1899 [RESERVED]
5 CFR Ch. IX (1-1-25 Edition)
Appalachian Regional Commission

# CHAPTER IX—APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION
Part
Page
1900
Employee responsibilities and conduct
385
1901-1999
[Reserved]
Pt. 1900

# PART 1900—EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7301, 40 U.S.C. App. 106.
§ 1900.100
Cross-references to employee ethical conduct standards and financial disclosure regulations.
Officers and employees of the Appalachian Regional Commission Federal Staff are subject to the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch at 5 CFR part 2635 and the executive branch-wide financial disclosure regulations at 5 CFR part 2634.
[60 FR 62702, Dec. 7, 1995; 61 FR 13051, Mar. 26, 1996]
PARTS 1901-1999 [RESERVED]
5 CFR Ch. XI (1-1-25 Edition)
Armed Forces Retirement Home

# CHAPTER XI—ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME
Part
Page
2100
Armed Forces Retirement Home Privacy Act procedures
389
2101-2199
[Reserved]
Pt. 2100

# PART 2100—ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME PRIVACY ACT PROCEDURES
Sec.
2100.1
Purpose.
2100.2
Definitions.
2100.3
Procedure for requesting information.
2100.4
Requirements for identification.
2100.5
Access by individuals.
2100.6
Schedule of fees.
2100.7
Request for correction or amendment.
2100.8
Review of request for amendment.
2100.9
Appeal of denial to grant access or to amend records.
2100.10
Conditions of disclosure and accounting of certain disclosures.
2100.11
Penalties.
2100.12
Accounting of disclosure.
2100.13
Specific exemptions.

# Authority:
Public Law 93-579, 88 Stat. 1896, 5 U.S.C. 552a(f).

# Source:
59 FR 30669, June 15, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2100.1
Purpose.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended, the following rules of procedures are established with respect to access and amendment of records maintained on the individual subjects of these records by the Armed Forces Retirement Home, which includes the continuing care retirement communities of the U.S. Soldiers' and Airmen's Home and the U.S. Naval Home. These rules do not apply to civilian employees' records maintained by the individual facilities which are covered by the Office of Personnel Management systems of records.
§ 2100.2
Definitions.
(a) All terms used in this part which are defined in 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended, shall have the same meaning herein.
(b)
Agency,
as used in this part, means the Armed Forces Retirement Home (AFRH).
(c)
Facility
or
facilities
refers to the continuing care retirement communities of the U.S. Soldiers' and Airmen's Home (USSAH) and the U.S. Naval Home (USNH), which are incorporated within the Armed Forces Retirement Home (AFRH).
(d)
Access
means providing a copy of a record to, or allowing review of the original record by, the individual or the individual's authorized representative, legal guardian or conservator.
§ 2100.3
Procedure for requesting information.
Individuals shall submit written inquiries regarding all AFRH records to the appropriate facility at the following addresses: Associate Director, Resource Management, U.S. Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, 3700 N. Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC 20317-0002; or, Administrative Services, U.S. Naval Home, 1800 Beach Drive, Gulfport, Mississippi 39507-1597. All personal (walk-in) requests will require some form of common identification.
§ 2100.4
Requirements for identification.
Only upon proper identification will any individual be granted access to records which pertain to him/her. Identification is required both for accurate record identification and to avoid disclosing records to unauthorized individuals. Individuals must provide their full name and as much information as possible in order that a proper search for records can be accomplished. Requests made by mail shall be signed by the individual requesting his/her records. Inclusion of a telephone number for the requester is recommended to expedite certain matters. Requesters applying in person must provide an identification with photograph, such as a driver's license, military or annuitant identification card, or any official document as acceptable identification validation. Personal requests can only be accepted on regularly scheduled workdays (Monday through Friday, excluding Federal holidays) between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.
§ 2100.5
Access by individuals.
(a) No individual will be allowed access to any information compiled or maintained in reasonable anticipation of civil actions or proceedings, or otherwise exempt under § 2100.12. Requests for pending investigations will be denied and the requester instructed to
forward another request giving adequate time for the investigation to be completed. Requesters shall be provided the telephone number so they can call and check on the status in order to know when to resubmit the request.
(b) Any individual may authorize the facility to provide a copy of his/her records to a third party. This authorization must be in writing and shall be provided to the facility with the initial request.
(c) Access to records may be authorized to the legal guardian or conservator acting on behalf of an individual who has been declared to be incompetent due to physical or mental incapacity or age by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(d) When an individual requesting access to his/her record wishes to be accompanied by another individual during the course of the examination of the record, the individual making the request shall submit to the official having operational control of the record, a signed statement authorizing that person access to the record.
(e) If medical records are requested and a USSAH or USNH practitioner believes that access to the records by the subject could harm that person's mental or physical health, the requester will be asked to name a practitioner to receive the records. If this requirement poses a hardship on the individual, he/she will be offered the service of an USSAH or USNH practitioner other than the one who provided treatment. If the individual refuses to name a recipient, the record will not be released.
§ 2100.6
Schedule of fees.
(a) Individuals will not be charged for:
(1) The search and review of the record.
(2) Copies of the record produced as a necessary part of the process of making the record available for access; or,
(3) Copies of the requested record when it has been determined that access can only be accomplished by providing a copy of the record through the mail.
(b) Waiver. The official having operational control at the appropriate facility may at no charge, provide copies of a record if it is determined the production of the copies is in the interest of the Government.
(c) Fee Schedule and method of payment. With the exception of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, fees will be charged as indicated below:
(1) Records will be duplicated at a rate of $.10 per page for all copying of 5 pages or more. There is no charge for duplication of 4 or fewer pages.
(2) Where it is anticipated that the fees chargeable under this section will amount to more than $30.00, the requester shall be promptly notified of the amount of the anticipated fee or such portion thereof as can readily be estimated. In instances where the estimated fees will exceed $30.00, an advance deposit may be required. The notice or request for advance deposit shall extend an offer to the requester in order to reformulate the request in a manner which will reduce the fees, yet still meet the needs of the requester.
(3) Fees should be paid in full prior to issuance of requested copies. In the event the requester is in arrears for previous requested copies, no subsequent request will be processed until the arrears have been paid in full.
(4) Remittances shall be in the form either of a personal check, bank draft drawn on a bank in the United States, or a postal money order. Remittances shall be made payable to the facility to which the request is being made, and mailed or delivered to the appropriate facility (see § 2100.3 of this part).
(5) A receipt for fees paid will be given upon request.
§ 2100.7
Request for correction or amendment.
(a) Requests to correct or amend a file shall be addressed to the system manager in which the file is located. The request must reasonably describe the record to be amended, the items to be changed as specifically as possible, the type of amendment (e.g., deletion, correction, amendment), and the reason for the amendment. The request should also include the reasons why the requester believes the record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. The burden of proof will be upon the individual to furnish sufficient facts to persuade the change of the
record of the inaccuracy, irrelevancy, timeliness, or incompleteness of the record. Normally all documents submitted, to include court orders, shall be certified. Amendments under this part are limited to correcting factual matters and not matters of official judgement or opinions.
(b) Requirements of identification as outlined in § 2100.4 apply to requests to correct or amend a file.
(c) Incomplete requests shall not be honored, but the requester shall be contacted for the additional information needed to process the request.
(d) The amendment process is not intended to permit the alteration of evidence presented in the course of judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings. Any amendments or changes to these records normally are made through the specific procedures established for the amendment of such records.
(e) When records sought to be amended are actually covered by another issuance, the administrative procedures under that issuance must be exhausted before using the procedures under the Privacy Act.
§ 2100.8
Review of request for amendment.
(a) A written acknowledgement of the receipt of a request for amendment of a record will be provided to the requester within 10 working days, unless final action regarding approval or denial will constitute acknowledgment.
(b) Where there is a determination to grant all or a portion of a request to amend a record, the record shall be promptly amended and the requesting individual notified. Individuals, agencies or components shown by disclosure accounting records to have received copies of the record, or to whom disclosure has been made, will be notified of the amendment by the system manager in which the file is located.
(c) Where there is a determination to deny all or a portion of a request to amend a record, a designated official will promptly advise the requesting individual of the specifics of the refusal and the reasons; and inform the individual that he/she may request a review of the denial(s).
§ 2100.9
Appeal of denial to grant access or to amend records.
(a) All appeals of denial to grant access or to amend records should be addressed to the appropriate facility at the following addresses: Associate Director, Resource Management, U.S. Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, 3700 N. Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC 20317-0002; or, Administrative Services, U.S. Naval Home, 1800 Beach Drive, Gulfport, Mississippi 39507-1597. The appeal should be concise and should specify the reasons the requester believes that the initial action was not satisfactory. If an appeal is denied, the designated official will notify the requester of the reason for denial and of the right to judicial review pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(g). If an initial denial of a request to amend records is upheld, the requestor will also be advised of his or her right to file a statement of dispute disagreeing with the denial and such statement will be provided to all future users of the file.
(b) If the designated official decides to amend the record, the requester and all previous recipients of the disputed information will be notified of the amendment. If the appeal is denied, the designated official will notify the requester of the reason of the denial, of the requester's right to file a statement of dispute disagreeing with the denial, that such statement of dispute will be retained in the file, that the statement will be provided to all future users of the file, and that the requester may file suit in a Federal district court to contest the decision not to amend the record.
(c) The designated official will respond to all appeals within 30 working days or will notify the requester of an estimated date of completion if the 30 day limit cannot be met.
§ 2100.10
Conditions of disclosure and accounting of certain disclosures.
No record containing personally identifiable information within an AFRH system of records shall be disclosed by any means to any person or agency outside the AFRH, except by written request or prior written consent of the individual subject of the record, or as provided for in the Privacy Act of 1974,
as amended, unless when such disclosure is:
(a) To those officers and employees of the agency which maintains the record and who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties;
(b) Required under 5 U.S.C. 552;
(c) For a routine use of the record compatible with the purpose for which it was collected;
(d) To the Bureau of the Census for purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity pursuant to 13 U.S.C.;
(e) To a recipient who has provided the AFRH with advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record, and the record is to be transferred in a form that is not individually identifiable;
(f) To the National Archives of the United States as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the U.S. Government or for evaluation by the Archivist of the United States, or his/her designee, to determine whether the record has such value;
(g) To another agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authorized by law, and if the head of the agency or instrumentality, has made a written request to the agency which maintains the record specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought;
(h) To a person pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual if upon such disclosure notification is transmitted to the last known address of such individual;
(i) To either House of Congress, or, to the extent of matter within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee;
(j) To the Comptroller General, or any authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office;
(k) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction; or
(l) To a consumer reporting agency in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(f).
§ 2100.11
Penalties.
(a) An individual may bring a civil action against the AFRH to correct or amend the record, or where there is a refusal to comply with an individual request or failure to maintain any record with accuracy, relevance, timeliness and completeness, so as to guarantee fairness, or failure to comply with any other provision of the Privacy Act. The court may order correction or amendment of records. The court may enjoin the AFRH from withholding the records and order the production of the record.
(b) Where it is determined that the action was willful or intentional with respect to 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(C) or (D), the United States may be liable for the actual damages sustained.
(c) Criminal penalties may be imposed against an officer or employee of the USSAH or USNH who discloses material, which he/she knows is prohibited from disclosure, or who willfully maintains a system of records without compliance with the notice requirements.
(d) Criminal penalties may be imposed against any person who knowingly and willfully requests or obtains any record concerning another individual from an agency under false pretenses.
(e) All of these offenses are misdemeanors with a fine not to exceed $5,000.
§ 2100.12
Accounting of disclosure.
(a) The AFRH or agency will maintain a record of disclosures in cases where records about the individual are disclosed from a system of records except—
(1) When the disclosure is made pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended; or
(2) When the disclosure is made to those officers and employees of the AFRH who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties.
(b) This accounting of the disclosures will be retained for a least 5 years or for the life of the record, whichever is longer, and will contain the following information:
(1) A brief description of the record disclosed;
(2) The date, nature, and purpose for the disclosure; and,
(3) The name and address of the person, agency, or other entity to whom the disclosure is made.
(c) Except for the accounting of disclosure made to agencies, individuals, or entities in law enforcement activities or disclosures made from the AFRH exempt systems of records, the accounting of disclosures will be made available to the data subject upon request in accordance with the access procedures of this part.
§ 2100.13
Specific exemptions.
Subsection (k) of 5 U.S.C. 552a authorizes the AFRH to adopt rules designating eligible system of records as exempt from certain requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a. To be eligible for a specific exemption under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k), the pertinent records within a designated system must contain one or more of the following:
(a) Investigative records compiled for law enforcement purposes. If this information has been used to deny someone a right however, the AFRH must release it unless doing so would reveal the identify of a confidential source ((k)(2) exemption).
(b) Records used only for statistical, research, or other evaluation purposes, and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or privileges of individuals, except as permitted by 13 U.S.C. 8 (Use of census data) ((k)(4) exemption).
(c) Data compiled to determine suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. This information may be withheld only if disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source ((k)(5) exemption).
(d) Test or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service, the disclosure of which would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process ((k)(6) exemption).
PARTS 2101-2199 [RESERVED]
5 CFR Ch. XIV (1-1-25 Edition)
Federal Labor Relations Authority

# CHAPTER XIV—FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY, GENERAL COUNSEL OF THE FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY AND FEDERAL SERVICE IMPASSES PANEL
SUBCHAPTER A—TRANSITION RULES AND REGULATIONS [RESERVED]
Part
Page
2400-2410
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER B—GENERAL PROVISIONS
2411
Availability of official information
397
2412
Privacy
410
2413
Open meetings
417
2414
Ex parte communications
419
2415
Employee responsibilities and conduct
422
2416
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the Federal Labor Relations Authority
422
2417
Testimony by employees relating to official information and production of official records in legal proceedings
427
2418
FLRA debt collection
433

# SUBCHAPTER C—FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY AND GENERAL COUNSEL OF THE FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY
2420
Purpose and scope
450
2421
Meaning of terms as used in this subchapter
450
2422
Representation proceedings
453
2423
Unfair labor practice proceedings
465
2424
Negotiability proceedings
479
2425
Review of arbitration awards
488
2426
National consultation rights and consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations
492
2427
General statements of policy or guidance
496
2428
Enforcement of Assistant Secretary standards of conduct decisions and orders
497
2429
Miscellaneous and general requirements
497
2430
Awards of attorney fees and other expenses
507

# SUBCHAPTER D—FEDERAL SERVICE IMPASSES PANEL
2470
General
512
2471
Procedures of the panel
512
2472
Impasses arising pursuant to agency determinations not to establish or to terminate flexible or compressed work schedules
517
2473
Subpoenas
521
2474-2499
[Reserved]
Appendix A to 5 CFR Chapter XIV—Current Addresses and Geographic Jurisdictions
522
Appendix B to 5 CFR Chapter XIV—Memorandum Describing the Authority and Assigned Responsibilities of the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
523
SUBCHAPTER A—TRANSITION RULES AND REGULATIONS [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER B—GENERAL PROVISIONS
PARTS 2400-2410 [RESERVED]
Pt. 2411

# PART 2411—AVAILABILITY OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION
Sec.
2411.1
Purpose.
2411.2
Scope.
2411.3
Delegation of authority.
2411.4
Information policy.
2411.5
Procedure for obtaining information.
2411.6
Identification of information requested.
2411.7
Format of disclosure.
2411.8
Time limits for processing requests.
2411.9
Business information.
2411.10
Appeal from denial of request.
2411.11
Modification of time limits.
2411.12
Effect of failure to meet time limits.
2411.13
Fees.
2411.14
Record retention and preservation.
2411.15
Annual report.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552, as amended; Freedom of Information Improvement Act of 2016, Pub. L. 114-185, 130 Stat. 528; Openness Promotes Effectiveness in our National Government Act of 2007 (OPEN Government Act), Pub. L. 110-175, 121 Stat. 2524.

# Source:
74 FR 50674, Oct. 1, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2411.1
Purpose.
This part contains the rules that the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA), including the three-Member Authority component (Authority), the General Counsel of the FLRA (General Counsel), the Federal Service Impasses Panel (Panel), and the Inspector General of the FLRA (IG), follow in processing requests for information under the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552 (FOIA) These regulations should be read in conjunction with the text of the FOIA and the Uniform Freedom of Information Fee Schedule and Guidelines published by the Office of Management and Budget. Requests by individuals for records about themselves under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, are processed in accordance with the Authority's Privacy Act regulations,
see
5 CFR part 2412, as well as under this subpart.
[82 FR 2850, Jan. 10, 2017]
§ 2411.2
Scope.
(a) For the purpose of this part, the term record and any other term used in reference to information includes any information that would be subject to the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552 when maintained by the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG in any format, including an electronic format. All written requests for information from the public that are not processed under parts 2412 and 2417 of this chapter will be processed under this part. The Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, and the IG may each continue, regardless of this part, to furnish the public with the information that it has furnished in the regular course of performing its official duties, unless furnishing the information would violate the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, or another law.
(b) When the subject of a record, or the subject's representative, requests the record from a Privacy Act system of records, as that term is defined by 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(5), and the FLRA retrieves the record by the subject's name or other personal identifier, the FLRA will handle the request under the procedures and subject to the fees set out in part 2412. When a third party requests access to those records, without the written consent of the subject of the record, the FLRA will process the request under this part.
(c) Nothing in 5 U.S.C. 552 or this part requires that the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG, as appropriate, create a new record in order to respond to a request for the records.
[82 FR 2850, Jan. 10, 2017]
§ 2411.3
Delegation of authority.
(a) Chief FOIA Officer. The Chairman of the FLRA designates the Chief FOIA
Officer, who has agency-wide responsibility for the efficient and appropriate compliance with the FOIA. The Chief FOIA Officer monitors the implementation of the FOIA throughout the agency.
(b) Solicitor/IG. The Solicitor of the FLRA and the IG are delegated the exclusive authority to act upon all requests for information, documents, and records that are received from any person or organization under § 2411.5(a) and (b).
(c) FOIA Public Liaison(s). The Chief FOIA Officer shall designate the FOIA Public Liaison(s), who shall serve as the supervisory official(s) to whom a FOIA requester can raise concerns about the service that the FOIA requester has received following an initial response.
[82 FR 2850, Jan. 10, 2017, as amended at 88 FR 67059, Sept. 29, 2023]
§ 2411.4
Information policy.
(a)(1) It is the policy of the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, and the IG to make available for public inspection in an electronic format:
(i) Final decisions and orders of the Authority and administrative rulings of the General Counsel; procedural determinations, final decisions and orders of the Panel; factfinding and arbitration reports; and reports and executive summaries of the IG;
(ii) Statements of policy and interpretations that have been adopted by the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG and that are not published in the
Federal Register
;
(iii) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public (except those establishing internal operating rules, guidelines, and procedures for the investigation, trial, and settlement of cases);
(iv) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format, that have been released to any person under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) and that:
(A) Because of the nature of their subject matter, the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG determines have become, or are likely to become, the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records; or
(B) Have been requested three or more times; and
(v) A general index of the records referred to in paragraph (a)(i)-(iv) of this section.
(2) It is the policy of the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, and the IG to make promptly available for public inspection in an electronic format, upon request by any person, other records where the request reasonably describes such records and otherwise conforms to the procedures of this part.
(b)(1) Any person may examine and copy items in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, at each regional office of the Authority and at the offices of the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, and the IG, respectively, in Washington, DC, under conditions prescribed by the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, and the IG, respectively, and at reasonable times during normal working hours, so long as it does not interfere with the efficient operations of the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG. To the extent required to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, identifying details may be deleted and, in each case, the justification for the deletion shall be fully explained in writing. On the released portion of the record, the amount of information deleted, and the exemption under which the deletion is made, shall be indicated unless an interest protected by the exemption would be harmed.
(2) All records covered by this section are available on the FLRA's Web site (
https://www.flra.gov/elibrary
).
(c) The Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, and the IG shall maintain and make available for public inspection in an electronic format the current indexes and supplements to the records that are required by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) and, as appropriate, a record of the final votes of each Member of the Authority and of the Panel in every agency proceeding. Any person may examine and copy such document or record of the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG at the offices of either the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG, as appropriate, in Washington, DC, under
conditions prescribed by the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG at reasonable times during normal working hours, so long as it does not interfere with the efficient operations of the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG.
(d) All agency records, except those exempt from mandatory disclosure by one or more provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b), will be made promptly available to any person submitting a written request in accordance with the procedures of this part.
(e)(1) The formal documents constituting the record in a case or proceeding are matters of official record and, until destroyed pursuant to applicable statutory authority, are available to the public for inspection and copying at the appropriate regional office of the Authority, or the offices of the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG in Washington, DC, as appropriate, under conditions prescribed by the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG at reasonable times during normal working hours so long as it does not interfere with the efficient operations of the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG.
(2) The Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG, as appropriate, shall certify copies of the formal documents upon request made a reasonable time in advance of need and payment of lawfully prescribed costs.
(f)(1) Copies of forms prescribed by the General Counsel for the filing of charges and petitions may be obtained without charge from any regional office of the Authority or on the Authority's Web site at:
https://www.flra.gov/resources-training/resources/forms-checklists.
(2) Copies of forms prescribed by the Panel for the filing of requests may be obtained without charge from the Panel's offices in Washington, DC or on the Authority's Web site at:
https://www.flra.gov/resources-training/resources/forms-checklists.
(3) Copies of optional forms for filing exceptions or appeals with the Authority may be obtained without charge from the Office of Case Intake and Publication at the Authority's offices in Washington, DC or on the Authority's Web site at:
https://www.flra.gov/resources-training/resources/forms-checklists.
[74 FR 50674, Oct. 1, 2009, as amended at 82 FR 2850, Jan. 10, 2017]
§ 2411.5
Procedure for obtaining information.
(a) Any person who desires to inspect or copy any records, documents, or other information of the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG, covered by this part, other than those specified in § 2411.4(a)(1) and (c), shall submit an electronic written request via the FOIAXpress system or a written, facsimiled, or email request (
see
FOIAXpress, office and email addresses listed at
https://www.flra.gov/foia_contact
) as follows:
(1) If the request is for records, documents, or other information in the Authority, the Office of General Counsel, or the Panel, it should be made to the Office of the Solicitor, Washington, DC;
(2) If the request is for records, documents or other information in the offices of the IG in Washington, DC, it should be made to the IG, Washington, DC.
(b) Each request under this part should be clearly and prominently identified as a request for information under the FOIA and, if submitted by mail or otherwise submitted in an envelope or other cover, should be clearly identified as such on the envelope or other cover. A request shall be considered an agreement by the requester to pay all applicable fees charged under § 2411.13, up to $25.00, unless the requester seeks a waiver of fees. When making a request, the requester may specify a willingness to pay a greater or lesser amount. Fee charges will be assessed for the full allowable direct costs of document search, review, and duplication, as appropriate, in accordance with § 2411.13. If a request does not comply with the provisions of this paragraph, it shall not be deemed received by the Office of the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate.
[88 FR 67059, Sept. 29, 2023]
§ 2411.6
Identification of information requested.
(a)
Reasonably describe and identify records.
Each request under this part shall reasonably describe the records being sought in a way that the FLRA can identify and locate them. A request shall be legible and include all pertinent details that will help identify the records sought. Before submitting a request, a requester may contact the FLRA's Chief FOIA Officer or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records that the individual seeks and to receive assistance in describing the records.
(b)
Agency efforts to further identify records.
If the description does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the officer processing the request shall so notify the person making the request and indicate the additional information needed. Every reasonable effort shall be made to assist in the identification and location of the records sought. A requester who is attempting to reformulate or modify his or her request may discuss the request with the FLRA's Chief FOIA Officer or FOIA Public Liaison.
(c)
Public logs.
Upon receipt of a request for records, the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, shall enter it in a public log. The log shall state: The request number; the date received; the nature of the records requested; the action taken on the request; the agency's response date; any exemptions that were applied (if applicable) and their descriptions; and whether any fees were charged for processing the request.
(d)
Consultation, referral, and coordination.
When reviewing records located in response to a request, the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, will determine whether another agency of the Federal Government is better able to determine whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. As to any such record, the Solicitor or the IG will proceed in one of the following ways:
(1)
Consultation.
When records originated with the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, or the IG, but contain within them information of interest to another agency or other Federal Government component, the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, will typically consult with that other entity prior to making a release determination.
(2)
Referral.
(i) When the Solicitor or the IG believes that a different agency or component is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, the Solicitor or the IG will typically refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to that agency or component. Ordinarily, the agency or component that originated the record is presumed to be the best agency or component to make the disclosure determination. However, if the FLRA and the originating agency or component jointly agree that the FLRA is in the best position to respond regarding the record, then the record may be handled as a consultation.
(ii) Whenever the Solicitor or the IG refers any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another Federal agency, it must document the referral, maintain a copy of the record that it refers, and notify the requester of the referral, informing the requester of the name(s) of the agency to which the record was referred, including that agency's FOIA contact information.
(3)
Coordination.
The standard referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the agency to which the referral would be made could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national-security interests. In such instances, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, the Solicitor or the IG should coordinate with the originating agency to seek its views on the disclosability of the record. The release determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination should then be conveyed to the requester by the Solicitor or the IG.
[82 FR 2851, Jan. 10, 2017, as amended at 88 FR 67059, Sept. 29, 2023]
§ 2411.7
Format of disclosure.
(a) After a determination has been made to grant a request in whole or in part, the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, will notify the requester in writing. The notice will describe the manner in which the record will be disclosed and will inform the requester of the availability of the Authority's
FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance. The Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, will provide the record in the form or format requested if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format, provided the requester has agreed to pay and/or has paid any fees required by § 2411.13 of this part. The Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, will determine on a case-by-case basis what constitutes a readily reproducible format. These offices will make a reasonable effort to maintain their records in commonly reproducible forms or formats.
(b) Alternatively, the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, may make a copy of the releasable portions of the record available to the requester for inspection at a reasonable time and place. The procedure for such an inspection will not unreasonably disrupt the operations of the office.
[88 FR 67060, Sept. 29, 2023]
§ 2411.8
Time limits for processing requests.
(a) The 20-day period (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and federal public holidays), established in this section, shall commence on the date on which the request is first received by the Solicitor or the IG, but in any event not later than 10 days after the request is first received by the FLRA component responsible for receiving FOIA requests under part 2411. The 20-day period does not run when:
(1) the Solicitor or the IG makes one request to the requester for information and is awaiting such information that it has reasonably requested from the requester;
(2) it is necessary to clarify with the requester issues regarding fee assessment; or
(3) the Solicitor's or the IG's s receipt of the requested information or clarification triggers the commencement of the 20-day period.
(b) A request for records shall be logged by the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, pursuant to § 2411.6(c). All requesters must reasonably describe the records sought. An oral request for records shall not begin any time requirement. A written request for records sent to other than the appropriate officer will be forwarded to that officer by the receiving officer, but, in that event, the applicable time limit for response shall begin as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Except as provided in § 2411.11, the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, shall, within 20 working days following receipt of the request, as provided by paragraph (a) of this section, respond in writing to the requester, determining whether, or the extent to which, the request shall be complied with.
(1) If all of the records requested have been located, and a final determination has been made with respect to disclosure of all of the records requested, the response shall so state.
(2) If all of the records have not been located, or a final determination has not been made with respect to disclosure of all of the records requested, the response shall state the extent to which the records involved shall be disclosed pursuant to the rules established in this part.
(3) If the request is expected to involve allowed charges in excess of $250.00, the response shall specify or estimate the fee involved and shall require prepayment of any charges in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (g) of § 2411.13 before the request is processed further.
(4) Whenever possible, subject to the provisions of paragraph (g) of § 2411.13, the response relating to a request for records that involves a fee of less than $250.00 shall be accompanied by the requested records. Where this is not possible, the records shall be forwarded as soon as possible thereafter, consistent with other obligations of the Solicitor or the IG.
(5) Search fees shall not be assessed to requesters (or duplication fees in the case of an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, whose purpose is scholarly or scientific research; or a representative of the news media requester, as defined by § 2411.13(a)(8)) under this subparagraph if an agency component fails to comply with any of the deadlines in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(A), except as provided in the following paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii) below:
(i) If the Solicitor or the IG has determined that unusual circumstances apply (as the term is defined in
§ 2411.11(b)) and the Solicitor or the IG provided a timely written notice to the requester in accordance with § 2411.11(a), a failure described in this paragraph (c)(5) is excused for an additional 10 days. If the Solicitor or the IG fails to comply with the extended time limit, the Solicitor or the IG may not assess any search fees (or, in the case of a requester described in § 2411.13(a)(8), duplication fees).
(ii) If the Solicitor or the IG determines that unusual circumstances apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, the Solicitor or the IG may charge search fees or, in the case of requesters defined in § 2411.13(6) through (8), may charge duplication fees, if the following steps are taken. The Solicitor or the IG must have provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA and must have discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii). If this exception is satisfied, the Solicitor or the IG may charge all applicable fees incurred in the processing of the request.
(iii) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
(d) If a request will take longer than 10 days to process:
(1) An individualized tracking number will be assigned to the request and provided to the requester; and
(2) Using the tracking number, the requester can find, by calling the Office of the Solicitor, emailing
solmail@flra.gov,
or visiting FOIAXPress (see telephone numbers and addresses at
https://www.flra.gov/foia_contact
), status information about the request including:
(i) The date on which the agency originally received the request; and
(ii) An estimated date on which the agency will complete action on the request.
(e) If any request for records is denied in whole or in part, the response required by paragraph (c) of this section shall notify the requester of the denial. Such denial shall specify the reason therefore, set forth the name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial, and notify the person making the request of the right to appeal the denial under the provisions of § 2411.10. Such denial shall also notify the requester of the assistance available from the FLRA's FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services of the National Archives and Records Administration (OGIS).
[74 FR 50674, Oct. 1, 2009, as amended at 82 FR 2852, Jan. 10, 2017; 88 FR 67060, Sept. 29, 2023]
§ 2411.9
Business information.
(a)
In general.
Business information obtained by the FLRA from a submitter will be disclosed under the FOIA only under this section.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Business information means commercial or financial information obtained by the FLRA from a submitter that may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA.
(2) Submitter means any person or entity from whom the FLRA obtains business information, directly or indirectly. The term includes corporations; state, local, and tribal governments; and foreign governments.
(c)
Designation of business information.
A submitter of business information will use good-faith efforts to designate, by appropriate markings, either at the time of submission or at a reasonable time thereafter, any portions of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4. These designations will expire ten years after the date of the submission unless the submitter requests, and provides justification for, a longer designation period.
(d)
Notice to submitters.
The FLRA shall provide a submitter with prompt written notice of a FOIA request or administrative appeal that seeks its business information wherever required under paragraph (e) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (h) of
this section, in order to give the submitter an opportunity to object to disclosure of any specified portion of that information under paragraph (f) of this section. The notice shall either describe the business information requested or include copies of the requested records or record portions containing the information. When notification of a voluminous number of submitters is required, notification may be made by posting or publishing the notice in a place reasonably likely to accomplish it.
(e)
Where notice is required.
Notice shall be given to a submitter wherever:
(1) The information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under Exemption 4; or
(2) The FLRA has reason to believe that the information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4.
(f) Opportunity to object to disclosure. The FLRA will allow a submitter a reasonable time to respond to the notice described in paragraph (d) of this section and will specify that time period within the notice. If a submitter has any objection to disclosure, it is required to submit a detailed written statement. The statement must specify all grounds for withholding any portion of the information under any exemption of the FOIA and, in the case of Exemption 4, it must show why the information is a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. In the event that a submitter fails to respond to the notice within the time specified in it, the submitter will be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. Information provided by the submitter that is not received by the FLRA until after it has made its disclosure decision shall not be considered by the FLRA. Information provided by a submitter under this paragraph may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(g) Notice of intent to disclose. The FLRA shall consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose business information. Whenever the FLRA decides to disclose business information over the objection of a submitter, the FLRA shall give the submitter written notice, which shall include:
(1) A statement of the reason(s) why each of the submitter's disclosure objections were not sustained;
(2) A description of the business information to be disclosed; and
(3) A specified disclosure date, which shall be a reasonable time subsequent to the notice.
(h)
Exceptions to notice requirements.
The notice requirements of paragraphs (d) and (g) of this section shall not apply if:
(1) The FLRA determines that the information should not be disclosed;
(2) The information lawfully has been published or has been officially made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by statute (other than the FOIA) or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600, (52 FR 23781, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp. p. 235); or
(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (c) of this section appears to be obviously frivolous—except that, in such a case, the FLRA shall, within a reasonable time prior to a specified disclosure date, give the submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information.
(i) Notice of FOIA lawsuit. Whenever a requester files a lawsuit seeking to compel the disclosure of business information, the FLRA shall promptly notify the submitter.
(j) Corresponding notice to requesters. Whenever the FLRA provides a submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure under paragraph (d) of this section, the FLRA shall also notify the requester(s). Whenever the FLRA notifies a submitter of its intent to disclose requested information under paragraph (g) of this section, the FLRA shall also notify the requester(s). Whenever a submitter files a lawsuit seeking to prevent the disclosure of business information, the FLRA shall notify the requester(s).
[74 FR 50674, Oct. 1, 2009, as amended at 82 FR 2853, Jan. 10, 2017]
§ 2411.10
Appeal from denial of request.
(a)(1) When a request for records is denied, in whole or in part, a requester may appeal the denial by submitting a written appeal by mail or online that is postmarked, or in the case of an electronic submission, transmitted, within 90 calendar days after the requester receives notification that the request has been denied or after the requester receives any records being made available, in the event of partial denial. The appeal should clearly identify the agency determination that is being appealed and the assigned request number.
(i) If the denial was made for records related to work performed by the Authority component of the FLRA, including the IG, the appeal shall be filed with the Chairman of the Authority or the Chairman's designee in Washington, DC.
(ii) If the denial was made for records related to work performed by the Office of the General Counsel, the appeal shall be filed with the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee in Washington, DC.
(iii) If the denial was made for records related to work performed by the Panel, the appeal shall be filed with the Chairman of the Panel or the Chairman's designee.
(2) The Chairman of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, or their designees, as appropriate, shall, within 20 working days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and federal public holidays) from the time of receipt of the appeal, except as provided in § 2411.11, make a determination on the appeal and respond in writing to the requester, determining whether, or the extent to which, the request shall be granted. An appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of FOIA litigation.
(i) If the determination is to grant the request and the request is expected to involve an assessed fee in excess of $250.00, the determination shall specify or estimate the fee involved, and it shall require prepayment of any charges due in accordance with the provisions of § 2411.13(a) before the records are made available.
(ii) Whenever possible, the determination relating to a request for records that involves a fee of less than $250.00 shall be accompanied by the requested records when there is no history of the requester having previously failed to pay fees in a timely manner. Where this is not possible, the records shall be forwarded as soon as possible thereafter, consistent with other obligations of the Solicitor or the IG.
(b) If, on appeal, the denial of the request for records is upheld in whole or in part by the Chairman of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, or their designees, as appropriate, the person making the request shall be notified of the reasons for the determination, the name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial, and the provisions for judicial review of that determination under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4). The determination will also inform the requester of the mediation services offered by the National Archives, Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. Mediation is a voluntary process. If the FLRA agrees to participate in the mediation services provided by the OGIS, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
(c) Even though no appeal is filed from a denial in whole or in part of a request for records by the person making the request, the Chairman of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, or their designees, as appropriate, may, without regard to the time limit for filing of an appeal, sua sponte initiate consideration of a denial under this appeal procedure by written notification to the person making the request. In such event, the time limit for making the determination shall commence with the issuance of such notification.
(d) Before seeking judicial review of the FLRA's denial of a request, a requester generally must first submit a timely administrative appeal.
[82 FR 2854, Jan. 10, 2017, as amended at 88 FR 67060, Sept. 29, 2023]
§ 2411.11
Modification of time limits.
(a) In unusual circumstances, as specified in this section, the time limits prescribed with respect to initial determinations or determinations on appeal may be extended by written notice from the agency component handling the request (either initial or on appeal) to the person making such request setting forth the reasons for such extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be dispatched. As appropriate, the notice shall provide the requester with an opportunity to limit the scope of the request so that it may be processed within the time limit or an opportunity to arrange with the processing agency component an alternative time frame for processing the request or a modified request. No such notice shall specify a date that would result in a total extension of more than 10 working days. To aid the requester, the FOIA Public Liaison shall assist in the resolution of any disputes between the requester and the processing agency component, and shall notify the requester of the requester's right to seek dispute resolution services from the OGIS.
(b) As used in this section, “unusual circumstances” means, but only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of the particular request:
(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the processing agency component;
(2) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records that are demanded in a single request; or
(3) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components of the agency having substantial subject matter interest therein.
(c) Expedited processing of a request for records, or an appeal of a denial of a request for expedited processing, shall be provided when the requester demonstrates a compelling need for the information and in other cases as determined by the officer processing the request. A requester seeking expedited processing can demonstrate a compelling need by submitting a statement certified by the requester to be true and correct to the best of such person's knowledge and belief and that satisfies the statutory and regulatory definitions of compelling need. Requesters shall be notified within 10 calendar days after receipt of such a request whether expedited processing, or an appeal of a denial of a request for expedited processing, was granted. As used in this section, “compelling need” means:
(1) That a failure to obtain requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or
(2) With respect to a request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity.
[82 FR 2854, Jan. 10, 2017]
§ 2411.12
Effect of failure to meet time limits.
Failure by the Solicitor or the IG either to deny or grant any request under this part within the time limits prescribed by the FOIA, as amended and these regulations shall be deemed to be an exhaustion of the administrative remedies available to the person making this request.
[88 FR 67061, Sept. 29, 2023]
§ 2411.13
Fees.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section:
(1) The term
direct costs
means those expenditures that the Solicitor or the IG actually incurs in searching for and duplicating (and in the case of commercial requesters, reviewing) documents to respond to a FOIA request. Direct costs include, for example, the salary of the employee performing work (the basic rate of pay for the employee plus 16 percent of the rate to
cover benefits) and the cost of operating duplication machinery. Not included in direct costs are overhead expenses such as costs of space, and heating or lighting the facility in which the records are stored.
(2) The term
search
includes all time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents as well as all reasonable efforts to locate and retrieve information from records maintained in electronic form or format. Searches may be done manually or by computer using existing programming. The Solicitor or the IG shall ensure that searches are done in the most efficient and least expensive manner reasonably possible. For example, if duplicating an entire document would be quicker and less expensive, a line-by-line search should not be done.
(3) The term
duplication
refers to the process of making a copy of a document necessary to respond to a FOIA request. Such copies can take the form of paper copy, audio-visual materials, or machine-readable documentation, among others.
(4) The term
review
refers to the process of examining documents located in response to a commercial-use request (see paragraph (a)(5) of this section) to determine whether any portion of any document located is permitted to be withheld. It also includes processing any documents for disclosure, e.g., doing all that is necessary to prepare them for release. Review does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
(5) The term
commercial-use request
refers to a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made. In determining whether a requester properly belongs in this category, the Solicitor or the IG will look first to the use to which a requester will put the document requested. Where the Solicitor or the IG has reasonable cause to doubt the use to which a requester will put the records sought, or where that use is not clear from the request itself, the Solicitor or the IG may seek additional clarification before assigning the request to a specific category.
(6) The term
educational institution
refers to a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of professional education, or an institution of vocational education that operates a program or programs of scholarly research.
(7) The term
non-commercial scientific institution
refers to an institution that is not operated on a commercial basis as that term is referenced in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
(8) The term
representative of the news media
refers to any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term
news
means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news-media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate “news” and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public including news organizations that disseminate solely on the Internet. These examples are not intended to be all-inclusive. Moreover, as methods of news delivery evolve, such alternative media shall be considered to be news-media entities. A freelance journalist shall be regarded as working for a news-media entity if the journalist can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that entity, whether or not the journalist is actually employed by the entity. A publication contract would present a solid basis for such an expectation; the FLRA may also consider the past publication record of the requester in making such a determination.
(b)
Exceptions to fee charges.
(1) With the exception of requesters seeking documents for a commercial use, the
Solicitor or the IG will provide the first 100 pages of duplication and the first two hours of search time without charge. The word
pages
in this paragraph refers to paper copies of standard size, usually 8
1/2
by 11. The term
search time
in this paragraph is based on a manual search for records. In applying this term to searches made by computer, when the cost of the search as set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section equals the equivalent dollar amount of two hours of the salary of the person performing the search, the Solicitor or the IG will begin assessing charges for the computer search. No search or review fees will be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.
(2) The Solicitor or the IG will not charge fees to any requester, including commercial-use requesters, if the cost of collecting the fee would be equal to or greater than the fee itself.
(3) As provided in § 2411.8(c)(5), the Solicitor or the IG will not charge search fees (or duplication fees if the requester is an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, whose purpose is scholarly or scientific research; or a representative of the news media, as described in this section), when the time limits are not met.
(4)(i) The Solicitor or the IG will provide documents without charge or at reduced charges if disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government; and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(ii) In determining whether disclosure is in the “public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government” under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, will consider the following factors:
(A)
The subject of the request.
The subject of the requested records must concern identifiable operations or activities of the Federal government, with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated;
(B)
The informative value of the information to be disclosed.
The disclosable portions of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities in order to be “likely to contribute” to an increased public understanding of those operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either a duplicative or a substantially identical form, would not be as likely to contribute to such understanding where nothing new would be added to the public's understanding;
(C)
The contribution to an understanding of the subject by the general public likely to result from disclosure.
The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area and his or her ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public shall be considered. It shall be presumed that a representative of the news media will satisfy this consideration; and
(D)
The significance of the contribution to the public understanding.
The public's understanding of the subject in question, as compared to the level of public understanding existing prior to the disclosure, must be enhanced by the disclosure to a significant extent. The Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, shall not make value judgments about whether information that would contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government is “important” enough to be made public.
(iii) In determining whether disclosure “is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester” under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, will consider the following factors:
(A)
The existence and magnitude of a commercial interest.
The processing agency component will identify any commercial interest of the requester (with reference to the definition of “commercial use” in paragraph (a)(5) of this section), or of any person on
whose behalf the requester may be acting, that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. Requesters shall be given an opportunity in the administrative process to provide explanatory information regarding this consideration; and,
(B)
The primary interest in disclosure.
A fee waiver or reduction is justified where the public interest standard is satisfied and that public interest is greater in magnitude than that of any identified commercial interest in disclosure. The Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, ordinarily shall presume that where a news media requester has satisfied the public interest standard, the public interest will be the interest primarily served by disclosure to that requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market government information for direct economic return shall not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.
(iv) A request for a fee waiver based on the public interest under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section must address these factors as they apply to the request for records in order to be considered by the Solicitor or the IG.
(v) Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees should be made when the request is first submitted to the Solicitor or the IG. A requester may submit a fee-waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees, and that waiver is denied, the requester must pay any costs incurred up to the date on which the fee-waiver request was received.
(vi) When only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver of fees, a waiver shall be granted for those records.
(c)
Level of fees to be charged.
The level of fees to be charged by the Solicitor or the IG, in accordance with the schedule set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, depends on the category of the requester. The fee levels to be charged are as follows:
(1) A request for documents appearing to be for commercial use will be charged to recover the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing for release, and duplicating the records sought.
(2) A request for documents from an educational or non-commercial scientific institution will be charged for the cost of duplication alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, requesters—whether faculty, staff, or students—must show that the request is being made in connection with their role at the institution, and that the records are not sought for a commercial use, but are sought in furtherance of scholarly (if the request is from an educational institution) or scientific (if the request is from a non-commercial scientific institution) research.
(3) The Solicitor or the IG shall provide documents to requesters who are representatives of the news media for the cost of duplication alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages.
(4) The Solicitor or the IG shall charge requesters who do not fit into any of the categories of this section fees that recover the full direct cost of searching for and duplicating records that are responsive to the request, except that the first 100 pages of duplication and the first two hours of search time shall be furnished without charge. Requests from record subjects for records about themselves filed in Authority, Office of General Counsel, Panel, or IG systems of records will continue to be treated under the fee provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, which permits fees only for duplication.
(d) The following fees shall be charged in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section:
(1)
Manual searches for records.
The salary rate (
i.e.,
basic pay plus 16 percent) of the employee(s) making the search. Search time under this paragraph and paragraph (d)(2) of this section may be charged for even if the Solicitor or the IG fails to locate records or if records located are determined to be exempt from disclosure.
(2)
Computer searches for records.
The actual direct cost of providing the service, including the cost of operating computers and other electronic equipment, and the salary (
i.e.,
basic pay plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) of the employee conducting the search.
(3)
Review of records.
The salary rate (
i.e.,
basic pay plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) of the employee(s) conducting the review. This charge applies only to requesters who are seeking documents for commercial use, and only to the review necessary at the initial administrative level to determine the applicability of any relevant FOIA exemptions, and not at the administrative-appeal level of an exemption already applied.
(4)
Duplication of records.
Twenty-five cents per page for paper-copy duplication of documents, which the Solicitor or the IG has determined is the reasonable direct cost of making such copies, taking into account the average salary of the operator and the cost of the duplication machinery. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks, or other media, the Solicitor or the IG shall charge the actual cost of production, including operator time. When paper documents must be scanned in order to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, the requester shall pay the direct costs associated with scanning those materials, including operator time. For all other forms of duplication, the Solicitor or the IG will charge the direct costs, including operator time.
(5)
Forwarding material to destination.
Postage, insurance, and special fees will be charged on an actual-cost basis.
(e)
Aggregating requests.
When the Solicitor or the IG reasonably believes that a requester or group of requesters is attempting to break a request down into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, the Solicitor or the IG will aggregate any such requests and charge accordingly.
(f)
Charging interest.
Interest at the rate prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717 may be charged to those requesters who fail to pay fees charged, beginning on the 31st day following the billing date. Receipt of a fee by the Solicitor or the IG, whether processed or not, will stay the accrual of interest.
(g)
Advance payments.
The Solicitor or the IG will not require a requester to make an advance payment,
i.e.,
payment before work is commenced or continued on a request, unless:
(1) The Solicitor or the IG estimates or determines that allowable charges that a requester may be required to pay are likely to exceed $250. In those circumstances, the Solicitor or the IG will notify the requester of the likely cost and obtain satisfactory assurance of full payment, where the requester has a history of prompt payment of FOIA fees, or require an advance payment of an amount up to the full estimated charges in the case of requesters with no history of payment; or
(2) A requester has previously failed to pay a fee charged in a timely fashion (
i.e.,
within 30 days of the date of the billing), in which case the Solicitor or the IG requires the requester to pay the full amount owed plus any applicable interest, as provided in this section, or demonstrate that the requester has, in fact, paid the fee, and to make an advance payment of the full amount of the estimated fee before the agency begins to process a new request or a pending request from that requester. When the Solicitor or the IG has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented his or her identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity. When the Solicitor or the IG acts under paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section, the administrative time limits prescribed in subsection (a)(6) of the FOIA (
i.e.,
20 working days from receipt of initial requests and 20 working days from receipt of appeals from initial denial, plus permissible extension of these time limits) will begin only after the Solicitor or the IG has received fee payments described in this section. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 calendar days after the date of the fee determination, the request will be closed.
(h) When a person other than a party to a proceeding before the FLRA makes a request for a copy of a transcript or recording of the proceeding, the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, will handle the request under this part.
(i) Payment of fees shall be made by check or money order payable to the U.S. Treasury.
(j) The fee schedule of this section does not apply to fees charged under any statute that specifically requires
the Authority, the General Counsel, the Panel, the Solicitor or the IG to set and collect fees for particular types of records. In instances in which records responsive to a request are subject to a statutorily based fee-schedule program, the Solicitor or the IG will inform the requester of the contact information for that program.
[74 FR 50674, Oct. 1, 2009, as amended at 82 FR 2855, Jan. 10, 2017; 88 FR 67061, Sept. 29, 2023]
§ 2411.14
Record retention and preservation.
The Solicitor and the IG shall preserve all correspondence pertaining to the requests that it receives under this subpart, as well as copies of all requested records, until such time as disposition or destruction is authorized by title 44 of the United States Code or the National Archives and Records Administration's General Records Schedule 14. Records will not be disposed of while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, or lawsuit under the FOIA.
[88 FR 67063, Sept. 29, 2023]
§ 2411.15
Annual report.
Each year, on or around February 1, as requested by the Department of Justice's Office of Information Policy, the Chief FOIA Officer of the FLRA shall submit a report of the activities of the Solicitor and the IG with regard to public information requests during the preceding fiscal year to the Attorney General of the United States and the Director of the OGIS. The report shall include those matters required by 5 U.S.C. 552(e), and it shall be made available electronically. The Chief FOIA Officer of the FLRA shall make each such report available for public inspection in an electronic format. In addition, the Chief FOIA Officer of the FLRA shall make the raw statistical data used in each report available in a timely manner for public inspection in an electronic format, which shall be available—
(a) Without charge, license, or registration requirement;
(b) In an aggregated, searchable format; and
(c) In a format that may be downloaded in bulk.
[88 FR 67063, Sept. 29, 2023]
Pt. 2412

# PART 2412—PRIVACY
Sec.
2412.1
Purpose and scope.
2412.2
Definitions.
2412.3
Notice and publication.
2412.4
Existence-of-records requests.
2412.5
Individual access requests.
2412.6
Records about other individuals, medical records, and limitations on disclosures.
2412.7
Initial decision on access requests.
2412.8
Accountings of disclosures and requests for accountings.
2412.9
Requests for amendment or correction of records.
2412.10
Initial decision on amendment or correction.
2412.11
Amendment or correction of previously disclosed records.
2412.12
Agency review of refusal to inform, to provide access to, or to amend or correct records.
2412.13
Fees.
2412.14
Penalties.
2412.15
Exemptions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
88 FR 84067, Dec. 4, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2412.1
Purpose and scope.
This part contains the regulations that the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA), including the Authority component (Authority), the General Counsel of the FLRA (General Counsel), the Inspector General (IG), and the Federal Service Impasses Panel (Panel), follow under the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a. These regulations should be read together with the Privacy Act, which provides additional information about records maintained on individuals. The regulations apply to all records maintained by the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, and the Panel that are contained in a system of records, as defined at § 2412.2(d), and that are retrieved by an individual's name or personal identifier. They describe the procedures by which individuals may request access to records about themselves, request amendment or correction of those records, and request an accounting of disclosures of those records. In addition, the regulations
limit the access of other persons to those records. The Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, and the Panel also process all Privacy Act requests for access to records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, giving requesters the benefit of both statutes. These regulations do not relate to those personnel records of Federal Government employees, which are under the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) jurisdiction, to the extent such records are subject to OPM regulations.
§ 2412.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part—
Individual
means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
Maintain
includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate.
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, or the Panel including, but not limited to, information regarding the individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history, that contains the individual's name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph.
Request for access
to a record means a request made under the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1).
Request for amendment or correction
of a record means a request made under the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2).
Request for an accounting
means a request made under the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3).
Requester
means an individual who makes an existence-of-records request, a request for access, a request for amendment or correction, or a request for an accounting under the Privacy Act.
Routine use
means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected.
System of records
means a group of any records under the control of the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, or the Panel from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying particular assigned to the individual.
§ 2412.3
Notice and publication.
The Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, and the Panel will publish in the
Federal Register
such notices describing systems of records as are required by law.
§ 2412.4
Existence-of-records requests.
(a) If you want to know whether a system of records maintained by the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, or the Panel contains a record pertaining to you, you may submit a written existence-of-records request by mail to the FLRA's Solicitor or IG, as appropriate, at the Authority's offices in Washington, DC, or by email to
privacy@flra.gov
.
(b) You should clearly and prominently identify your request as a Privacy Act request. If you submit the request by mail, it should bear the mark “Privacy Act Request” on the envelope or other cover, as well as your return address. If you submit the request by email, the subject line of the email should include the phrase “Privacy Act Request.” If you do not comply with the provisions of this paragraph, your request will not be deemed received until the time it is actually received by the FLRA's Solicitor or IG.
(c) An existence-of-records request must include your name and address and must reasonably describe the system of records in question. Whenever possible, the request should also describe the time periods in which you believe the records were compiled and the name or identifying number of each system of records in which you believe the records are kept. The Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, and the Panel have published descriptions of the systems of records they maintain in the
Federal Register
.
(d) When you make an existence-of-records request regarding records about yourself, you must verify your identity. You must state your full name, current address, and date and place of birth. You must sign your request and your signature must either be notarized or submitted by you under
28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization. In order to help the identification and location of requested records, you may also, at your option, include your social security number.
(e) When making an existence-of-records request as the parent or guardian of a minor or as the guardian of someone determined by a court to be incompetent, you must establish:
(1) The identity of the individual who is the subject of the record, by stating the name, current address, date and place of birth, and, at your option, the social security number of the individual;
(2) Your own identity, following the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section;
(3) That you are the parent or guardian of that individual, which you may prove by providing a copy of the individual's birth certificate showing your parentage or by providing a court order establishing your guardianship; and
(4) That you are acting on behalf of that individual in making the request.
(f) The Solicitor or IG, as appropriate, will advise you in writing within ten (10) working days from receipt of your request whether the system of records you identified contains a record pertaining to you or to the individual for whom you are a parent or guardian and, if so, the office in which that record is located. If the Solicitor or IG is prohibited from, or there is otherwise an exemption that prevents, disclosing whether a system of records contains a record pertaining to you or to the individual for whom you are a parent or guardian, you will be notified in writing of the reasons of that determination, and of your right to appeal that determination under the provisions § 2412.12.
§ 2412.5
Individual access requests.
(a) You may make a request for access to a record about yourself that is contained in a system of records maintained by the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, or the Panel by submitting a written request reasonably identifying the records sought to be inspected or copied by mail to the FLRA's Solicitor or the IG at the Authority's offices in Washington, DC, or by email to
privacy@flra.gov
. You must describe the records that you want in enough detail to enable Authority, General Counsel, IG, or Panel personnel to locate the system of records containing them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, your request should describe the time periods in which you believe the records were compiled and the name or identifying number of each system of records in which you believe the records are kept. The Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, and the Panel have published descriptions of the systems of records they maintain in the
Federal Register
.
(b) Your written request should be clearly and prominently identified as a Privacy Act request. If you submit the request by mail, it should bear the mark “Privacy Act Request” on the envelope or other cover, as well as your return address. If you submit the request by email, the subject line of the email should include the phrase “Privacy Act Request.” If your request does not comply with the provisions of this paragraph, it will not be deemed received until the time it is actually received by the FLRA's Solicitor or IG.
(c) If you desire, you may be accompanied by another person during your review of the records. If you desire to be accompanied by another person during the inspection, you must notify the Solicitor or IG at least twenty-four hours in advance of the agreed-upon inspection date. Additionally, you must sign a statement and provide it to the representative of the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, or the Panel, as appropriate, at the time of the inspection, authorizing that person to accompany you. The agency may require a written statement from you authorizing discussion of your record in the accompanying person's presence.
(d) When you make a request for access to records about yourself, you must verify your identity. You must state your full name, current address, and date and place of birth. You must sign your request and your signature must either be notarized or submitted by you under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for
notarization. In order to help the identification and location of requested records, you may also, at your option, include your social security number.
(e) When making a request as the parent or guardian of a minor or as the guardian of someone determined by a court to be incompetent, for access to records about that individual, you must establish:
(1) The identity of the individual who is the subject of the record, by stating the name, current address, date and place of birth, and, at your option, the social security number of the individual;
(2) Your own identity, following the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section;
(3) That you are the parent or guardian of that individual, which you may prove by providing a copy of the individual's birth certificate showing your parentage or by providing a court order establishing your guardianship; and
(4) That you are acting on behalf of that individual in making the request.
§ 2412.6
Records about other individuals, medical records, and limitations on disclosures.
(a) Requests for records about an individual made by person other than that individual shall also be directed to the FLRA's Solicitor or IG, as appropriate, at the Authority's offices in Washington, DC, or by email to
privacy@flra.gov.
You must describe the records that you want in enough detail to enable Authority, General Counsel, IG, or Panel personnel to locate the system of records containing them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, your request should describe the time periods in which you believe the records were compiled and the name or identifying number of each system of records in which you believe the records are kept. The Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, and the Panel have published descriptions of the systems of records they maintain in the
Federal Register
.
(b) Such records shall only be made available to persons other than that individual in the following circumstances:
(1) To any person with the prior written consent of the individual about whom the records are maintained;
(2) To officers and employees of the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, and the Panel who have a need for the records in the performance of their official duties;
(3) For a routine use compatible with the purpose for which it was collected, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(7) and as described under 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(D);
(4) To any person to whom disclosure is required by the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552;
(5) To the Bureau of the Census for purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity pursuant to title 13 of the United States Code;
(6) In a form not individually identifiable to a recipient who has provided the Solicitor or IG with advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record;
(7) To the National Archives and Records Administration or other appropriate entity as a record which has sufficient historical or other value warranting its preservation, or for evaluation by the Archivist of the United States or the designee of such official to determine whether the record has such value;
(8) To another agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity that is authorized by law if the head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request for the record to the Solicitor or IG, in accordance with part 2417 of this chapter, specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought;
(9) To a person pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual, provided that notification of such a disclosure shall be immediately mailed to the last known address of the individual;
(10) To either House of Congress or to any committee thereof with appropriate jurisdiction;
(11) To the Comptroller General, or any of Comptroller General's authorized representatives, in the performance of the official duties of the General Accountability Office;
(12) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction; or
(13) To a consumer reporting agency in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(e).
(c) The request shall be in writing and should be clearly and prominently identified as a Privacy Act request and, if submitted by mail or otherwise submitted in an envelope or other cover, should bear the mark “Privacy Act Request” on the envelope or other cover. If a request does not comply with the provisions of this paragraph, it shall not be deemed received until the time it is actually received by the Solicitor or the IG.
(d) If medical records are requested for inspection which, in the opinion of the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate, may be harmful to the requester if personally inspected by such person, such records will be furnished only to a licensed health care professional designated to receive such records by the requester. Prior to such disclosure, the requester must furnish a signed written authorization to make such disclosure and the licensed health care professional must furnish a written request for the licensed health care professional's receipt of such records to the Solicitor or the IG, as appropriate.
(1) If such authorization is not executed within the presence of an Authority, General Counsel, or Panel representative, the authorization must be accompanied by a notarized statement verifying the identification of the requester.
(2) [Reserved]
§ 2412.7
Initial decision on access requests.
(a) Within ten (10) working days of the receipt of a request pursuant to § 2412.5, the FLRA's Solicitor or IG will make an initial decision regarding whether the requested records exist and whether they will be made available to the requester. The Solicitor or IG will promptly communicate that initial decision to you in writing or other appropriate form.
(b) When the initial decision is to provide access to the requested records, the writing or other appropriate communication notifying you of the decision will:
(1) Briefly describe the records to be made available;
(2) State whether any records maintained about you in the system of records in question are not being made available;
(3) State whether any further verification of your identity is necessary; and
(4) Notify you of any fee charged under § 2412.13.
(5) The Solicitor or IG will promptly disclose the requested records to you upon payment of any applicable fee under § 2412.13.
(c) When the initial decision is not to provide access to requested records and accountings, the Solicitor or IG will, by writing or other appropriate communication, explain the reason for that decision. The Solicitor or IG will only refuse to provide you access when:
(1) Your verification of identity is inadequate under § 2412.5(d);
(2) No such records are maintained or an exemption applies;
(3) Your information is contained in, and inseparable from, another individual's record;
(4) The requested records have been compiled in reasonable anticipation of civil or criminal action or other proceedings.
§ 2412.8
Accountings of disclosures and requests for accountings.
(a) The FLRA's Solicitor or IG, as appropriate, will maintain a record (“accounting”) of every instance in which records about an individual are made available, pursuant to this part, to any person other than:
(1) Officers or employees of the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, or the Panel in the performance of their duties; or
(2) Any person pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552.
(b) The accounting which shall be retained for at least five (5) years or the life of the record, whichever is longer, shall contain the following information:
(1) A brief description of records disclosed;
(2) The date, nature and, where known, the purpose of the disclosure; and
(3) The name and address of the person or agency to whom the disclosure is made.
(c) Except when accountings of disclosures are not required to be kept (as stated in paragraph (a) of this section) or are withheld accounting of disclosures that were made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(7), you may make a request for an accounting of any disclosure that has been made by the Solicitor or IG, to another person, organization, or agency of any record about you. This accounting contains the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure, as well as the name and address of the person, organization, or agency to which the disclosure was made. Your request for an accounting should identify each particular record in question and should be made by writing to the FLRA's Solicitor or IG, as appropriate, following the procedures in § 2412.5.
(d) The FLRA's Solicitor or IG, as appropriate, will respond to your request for access to an accounting following the procedures in § 2412.7. You may appeal the Solicitor or IG's decision on your request under the procedures in § 2412.12.
§ 2412.9
Requests for amendment or correction of records.
(a) Unless the record is not subject to amendment or correction as stated in paragraph (b) of this section, you may make a request for amendment or correction of an Authority, General Counsel, IG, or Panel record about yourself or about an individual for whom you are a parent or guardian by submitting a written request to the FLRA's Solicitor or IG, as appropriate, following the procedures in § 2412.5. Your request should identify each particular record in question, state the amendment or correction that you want, and state why you believe that the record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. Please note that a requester bears the burden of proving by the preponderance of the evidence that information is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. You may submit any documentation that you think would be helpful. If you believe that the same record is in more than one system of records, your request should state that.
(b) The following records are not subject to amendment or correction:
(1) Transcripts of testimony given under oath or written statements made under oath;
(2) Transcripts of grand jury proceedings, judicial proceedings, or quasi-judicial proceedings, which are the official record of those proceedings;
(3) Records in systems of records that have been exempted from amendment and correction under the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k), by notice published in the
Federal Register
; and
(4) Records compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
§ 2412.10
Initial decision on amendment or correction.
(a) Within ten (10) working days after receiving your request for amendment or correction, the FLRA's Solicitor or IG, as appropriate, will acknowledge receipt of the request and, under normal circumstances, the Solicitor or IG will notify you, by mail or other appropriate means, of the decision regarding the request not later than thirty (30) working days after receiving of the request.
(b) The notice of decision will include:
(1) A statement of whether the Solicitor or IG has granted or denied your request, in whole or in part;
(2) A quotation or description of any amendment or correction made to any records; and
(3) When a request is denied in whole or in part, an explanation of the reason for that denial and of your right to appeal the decision to the Chairman of the Authority, pursuant to § 2412.12.
§ 2412.11
Amendment or correction of previously disclosed records.
When a record is amended or corrected pursuant to § 2412.10, or a written statement of disagreement filed, pursuant to § 2412.12, the FLRA's Solicitor or IG, as appropriate, will give notice of that correction, amendment, or written statement of disagreement to
all persons to whom such records or copies have been disclosed, as recorded in the accounting kept pursuant to § 2412.8.
§ 2412.12
Agency review of refusal to inform, to provide access to, or to amend or correct records.
(a) If your request for information regarding whether a system of records contains information about you or an individual for whom you are a parent or guardian, or your request for access to, or amendment or correction of, records of the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, or the Panel, or an accounting of disclosure from such records, has been denied in whole or in part by an initial decision, you may, within thirty (30) working days after your receipt of notice of the initial decision, appeal that decision by filing a written request by mail to the Chairman of the Authority at the Authority's offices in Washington, DC, or by email to
privacy@flra.gov
.
(b) The appeal must describe:
(1) The request you initially made for information regarding, access to, or the amendment or correction of, records;
(2) The initial decision of the FLRA's Solicitor or IG on the request; and
(3) The reasons why that initial decision should be modified by the Chairman of the Authority.
(c) Not later than thirty (30) working days after receipt of a request for review (unless such period is extended by the Chairman of the Authority or the Chairman's designee for good cause shown), the Chairman of the Authority or the Chairman's designee will notify you of their decision on your request. If the Chairman of the Authority or the Chairman's designee upholds the initial decision not to inform the individual of whether requested records exist, or not to provide access to requested records or accountings, or not to amend or correct the records as requested, then the Chairman of the Authority or the Chairman's designee will notify you of your right:
(1) To judicial review of the Chairman of the Authority or the Chairman's designee's decision pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1); and
(2) To file with the FLRA's Solicitor or IG, as appropriate, a concise written statement of disagreement with the determination. That written statement of disagreement will be made a part of the record and will accompany that record in any use or disclosure of the record.
§ 2412.13
Fees.
(a) Your Privacy Act request for access to records will be considered an agreement to pay all applicable fees charged under paragraph (b) of this section, up to $25.00. When making a request, you may specify a willingness to pay a greater or lesser amount.
(b) There will be a charge of twenty-five cents per page for paper-copy duplication of records disclosed under this part. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks, or other media, the Solicitor or IG will charge the actual cost of production, including operator time.
(c) The FLRA's Solicitor or IG may waive or reduce any charges under this section whenever it is in the public interest to do so.
§ 2412.14
Penalties.
Any person who knowingly and willfully requests or obtains any record concerning an individual from the Authority, the General Counsel, the IG, or the Panel under false pretenses will be subject to criminal prosecution under 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(3), which provides that such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000.
§ 2412.15
Exemptions.
(a)
Files of FLRA's Office of Inspector General (OIG) compiled for the purpose of a criminal investigation and for related purposes.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), the FLRA hereby exempts the system of records entitled “FLRA/OIG-1, Office of Inspector General Investigative Files,” insofar as it consists of information compiled for the purposes of a criminal investigation or for other purposes within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), from the application of 5 U.S.C. 552a, except for 5 U.S.C. 552a(b), (c)(1) and (2), (e)(4)(A) through (F), (e)(6), (7), (9), (10), (11) and (i).
(b)
OIG files compiled for other law enforcement purposes.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the FLRA hereby exempts the system of records entitled “FLRA/OIG-1, Office of Inspector General Investigative Files,” insofar as it consists of information compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), from the application of 5 U.S.C. 552a, (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
Pt. 2413

# PART 2413—OPEN MEETINGS
Sec.
2413.1
Purpose and scope.
2413.2
Public observation of meetings.
2413.3
Definition of meeting.
2413.4
Closing of meetings; reasons therefor.
2413.5
Action necessary to close meeting; record of votes.
2413.6
Notice of meetings; public announcement and publication.
2413.7
Transcripts, recordings or minutes of closed meeting; public availability; retention.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552b.

# Source:
45 FR 3494, Jan. 17, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2413.1
Purpose and scope.
This part contains the regulations of the Federal Labor Relations Authority implementing the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b.
§ 2413.2
Public observation of meetings.
Every portion of every meeting of the Authority shall be open to public observation, except as provided in § 2413.4, and Authority members shall not jointly conduct or dispose of agency business other than in accordance with the provisions of this part.
§ 2413.3
Definition of meeting.
For purposes of this part,
meeting
shall mean the deliberations of at least two (2) members of the Authority where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official agency business, but does not include deliberations to determine whether a meeting should be closed to public observation in accordance with the provisions of this part.
§ 2413.4
Closing of meetings; reasons therefor.
(a) Except where the Authority determines that the public interest requires otherwise, meetings, or portions thereof, shall not be open to public observation where the deliberations concern the issuance of a subpena, the Authority's participation in a civil action or proceeding or an arbitration, or the initiation, conduct or disposition by the Authority of particular cases of formal agency adjudication pursuant to the procedures in 5 U.S.C. 554 or otherwise involving a determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing, or any court proceedings collateral or ancillary thereto.
(b) Meetings, or portions thereof, may also be closed by the Authority, except where it determines that the public interest requires otherwise, when the deliberations concern matters or information falling within the reasons for closing meetings specified in 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(1) (secret matters concerning national defense or foreign policy); (c)(2) (internal personnel rules and practices); (c)(3) (matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute); (c)(4) (privileged or confidential trade secrets and commercial or financial information); (c)(5) (matters of alleged criminal conduct or formal censure); (c)(6) (personal information where disclosure would cause a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy); (c)(7) (certain materials or information from investigatory files compiled for law enforcement purposes); or (c)(9)(B) (disclosure would significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed agency action).
§ 2413.5
Action necessary to close meeting; record of votes.
A meeting shall be closed to public observation under § 2413.4, only when a majority of the members of the Authority who will participate in the meeting vote to take such action.
(a) When the meeting deliberations concern matters specified in § 2413.4(a), the Authority members shall vote at the beginning of the meeting, or portion thereof, on whether to close such meeting, or portion thereof, to public observation and on whether the public interest requires that a meeting which
may properly be closed should nevertheless be open to public observation. A record of such vote, reflecting the vote of each member of the Authority, shall be kept and made available to the public at the earliest practicable time.
(b) When the meeting deliberations concern matters specified in § 2413.4(b), the Authority shall vote on whether to close such meeting, or portion thereof, to public observation, and on whether there is a public interest which requires that a meeting which may properly be closed should nevertheless be open to public observation. The vote shall be taken at a time sufficient to permit inclusion of information concerning the open or closed status of the meeting in the public announcement thereof. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings at which the deliberations will concern the same particular matters where such subsequent meetings are scheduled to be held within thirty (30) days after the initial meeting. A record of such vote, reflecting the vote of each member of the Authority, shall be kept and made available for the public within one (1) day after the vote is taken.
(c) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by deliberations during a meeting, or a portion thereof, requests that the Authority close that meeting, or portion thereof, to public observation for any of the reasons specified in 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(5) (matters of alleged criminal conduct or formal censure), (c)(6) (personal information where disclosure would cause a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy), or (c)(7) (certain materials or information from investigatory files compiled for law enforcement purposes), the Authority members participating in the meeting, upon request of any one of its members, shall vote on whether to close such meeting, or a portion thereof, for that reason. A record of such vote, reflecting the vote of each member of the Authority participating in the meeting, shall be kept and made available to the public within one (1) day after the vote is taken.
(d) After public announcement of a meeting as provided in § 2413.6, a meeting, or portion thereof, announced as closed may be opened, or a meeting, or portion thereof, announced as open may be closed only if a majority of the members of the Authority who will participate in the meeting determine by a recorded vote that Authority business so requires and that an earlier announcement of the change was not possible. The change made and the vote of each member on the change shall be announced publicly at the earliest practicable time.
(e) Before a meeting may be closed pursuant to § 2413.4, the Solicitor of the Authority shall certify that in the Solicitor's opinion the meeting may properly be closed to public observation. The certification shall set forth each applicable exemptive provision for such closing. Such certification shall be retained by the agency and made publicly available as soon as practicable.
§ 2413.6
Notice of meetings; public announcement and publication.
(a) A public announcement setting forth the time, place and subject matter of meetings, or portions thereof, closed to public observation pursuant to the provisions of § 2413.4(a), shall be made at the earliest practicable time.
(b) Except for meetings closed to public observation pursuant to the provisions of § 2413.4(a), the agency shall make public announcement of each meeting to be held at least seven (7) days before the scheduled date of the meeting. The announcement shall specify the time, place and subject matter of the meeting, whether it is to be open to public observation or closed, and the name, address, and phone number of an agency official designated to respond to requests for information about the meeting. The seven (7) day period for advance notice may be shortened only upon a determination by a majority of the members of the Authority who will participate in the meeting that agency business requires that such meeting be called at an earlier date, in which event the public announcements shall be made at the earliest practicable time. A record of the vote to schedule a meeting at an earlier date shall be kept and made available to the public.
(c) Within one (1) day after a vote to close a meeting, or any portion thereof, pursuant to the provisions § 2413.4(b),
the agency shall make publicly available a full written explanation of its action closing the meeting, or portion thereof, together with a list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliation.
(d) If after public announcement required by paragraph (b) of this section has been made, the time and place of the meeting are changed, a public announcement shall be made at the earliest practicable time. The subject matter of the meeting may be changed after the public announcement only if a majority of the members of the Authority who will participate in the meeting determine that agency business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible. When such a change in subject matter is approved, a public announcement of the change shall be made at the earliest practicable time. A record of the vote to change the subject matter of the meeting shall be kept and made available to the public.
(e) All announcements or changes thereto issued pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section or pursuant to the provisions of § 2413.5(d) shall be submitted for publication in the
Federal Register
immediately following their release to the public.
(f) Announcements of meetings made pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be made publicly available by the Executive Director.
§ 2413.7
Transcripts, recordings or minutes of closed meeting; public availability; retention.
(a) For every meeting, or portion thereof, closed under the provisions of § 2413.4, the presiding officer shall prepare a statement setting forth the time and place of the meeting and the persons present, which statement shall be retained by the agency. For each such meeting, or portion thereof, there shall also be maintained a complete transcript or electronic recording of the proceedings, except that for meetings closed pursuant to § 2413.4(a), the Authority may, in lieu of a transcript or electronic recording, maintain a set of minutes fully and accurately summarizing any action taken, the reasons therefor and views thereon, documents considered and the members' vote on each rollcall vote.
(b) The agency shall make promptly available to the public copies of transcripts, recordings or minutes maintained as provided in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, except to the extent the items therein contain information which the agency determines may be withheld pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552b(c). Copies of transcripts or minutes, or transcriptions of electronic recordings including the identification of speakers, shall to the extent determined to be publicly available, be furnished to any person, subject to the payment of duplication costs in accordance with the schedule of fees set forth in § 2411.10 of this subchapter and the actual cost of transcription.
(c) The agency shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of at least two (2) years after such meeting or until one (1) year after the conclusion of any agency proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion was held whichever occurs later.
Pt. 2414

# PART 2414—EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS
Sec.
2414.1
Purpose and scope.
2414.2
Unauthorized communications.
2414.3
Definitions.
2414.4
Duration of prohibition.
2414.5
Communications prohibited.
2414.6
Communications not prohibited.
2414.7
Solicitation of prohibited communications.
2414.8
Reporting of prohibited communications; penalties.
2414.9
Penalties and enforcement.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7134.

# Source:
45 FR 3495, Jan. 17, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2414.1
Purpose and scope.
This part contains the regulations of the Federal Labor Relations Authority relating to ex parte communications.
§ 2414.2
Unauthorized communications.
(a) No interested person outside this agency shall, in any agency proceeding subject to 5 U.S.C. 557(a), make or knowingly cause to be made any prohibited ex parte communication to any Authority member, Administrative Law Judge, or other Authority employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the proceeding.
(b) No Authority member, Administrative Law Judge, or other Authority employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the proceeding relevant to the merits of the proceeding shall: (1) Request any prohibited ex parte communications; or (2) make or knowingly cause to be made any prohibited ex parte communications about the proceeding to any interested person outside this agency relevant to the merits of the proceeding.
§ 2414.3
Definitions.
When used in this part:
(a) The term
person outside this agency,
to whom the prohibitions apply, shall include any individual outside the Authority, labor organization, agency, or other entity, or an agent thereof, and the General Counsel or his representative when prosecuting an unfair labor practice proceeding before the Authority pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7118.
(b) The term
ex parte communication
means an oral or written communication not on the public record with respect to which reasonable prior notice to all parties is not given, subject however, to the provisions of §§ 2414.5 and 2414.6.
§ 2414.4
Duration of prohibition.
Unless otherwise provided by specific order of the Authority entered in the proceeding, the prohibition of § 2414.2 shall be applicable in any agency proceeding subject to 5 U.S.C. 557(a) beginning at the time of which the proceeding is noticed for hearing, unless the person responsible for the communication has knowledge that it will be noticed, in which case the prohibitions shall apply beginning at the time of such person's acquisition of such knowledge.
§ 2414.5
Communications prohibited.
Except as provided in § 2414.6, ex parte communications prohibited by § 2414.2 shall include:
(a) Such communications, when written, if copies thereof are not contemporaneously served by the communicator on all parties to the proceeding in accordance with the provisions of part 2429 of this chapter; and
(b) Such communications, when oral, unless advance notice thereof is given by the communicator to all parties in the proceeding and adequate opportunity afforded to them to be present.
§ 2414.6
Communications not prohibited.
Ex parte communications prohibited by § 2414.2 shall not include:
(a) Oral or written communications which relate solely to matters which the Hearing Officer, Regional Director, Administrative Law Judge, General Counsel or member of the Authority is authorized by law or Authority rules to entertain or dispose of on an ex parte basis;
(b) Oral or written requests for information solely with respect to the status of a proceeding;
(c) Oral or written communications which all the parties to the proceeding agree, or which the responsible official formally rules, may be made on an ex parte basis;
(d) Oral or written communications proposing settlement or an agreement for disposition of any or all issues in the proceeding;
(e) Oral or written communications which concern matters of general significance to the field of labor-management relations or administrative practice and which are not specifically related to any agency proceeding subject to 5 U.S.C. 557(a); or
(f) Oral or written communications from the General Counsel to the Authority when the General Counsel is acting on behalf of the Authority under 5 U.S.C. 7123(d).
§ 2414.7
Solicitation of prohibited communications.
No person shall knowingly and willfully solicit the making of an unauthorized ex parte communication by any other person.
§ 2414.8
Reporting of prohibited communications; penalties.
(a) Any Authority member, Administrative Law Judge, or other Authority employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the proceeding relevant to the merits of the proceeding to whom a prohibited oral ex parte communication is attempted to be made, shall refuse to listen to the communication, inform the communicator of this rule, and advise such person that if the person has anything to say it should be said in writing with copies to all parties. Any such Authority member, Administrative Law Judge, or other Authority employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the proceeding relevant to the merits of the proceeding who receives, or who makes or knowingly causes to be made, an unauthorized ex parte communication, shall place or cause to be placed on the public record of the proceeding: (1) The communication, if it was written; (2) a memorandum stating the substance of the communication, if it was oral; (3) all written responses to the prohibited communication; and (4) memoranda stating the substance of all oral responses to the prohibited communication. The Executive Director, if the proceeding is then pending before the Authority, the Administrative Law Judge, if the proceeding is then pending before any such judge, or the Regional Director, if the proceeding is then pending before a Hearing Officer or the Regional Director, shall serve copies of all such materials placed on the public record of the proceeding on all other parties to the proceeding and on the attorneys of record for the parties. Within ten (10) days after the mailing of such copies, any party may file with the Executive Director, Administrative Law Judge, or Regional Director serving the communication, as appropriate, and serve on all other parties, a statement setting forth facts or contentions to rebut those contained in the prohibited communication. All such responses shall be placed in the public record of the proceeding, and provision may be made for any further action, including reopening of the record, which may be required under the circumstances. No action taken pursuant to this provision shall constitute a waiver of the power of the Authority to impose an appropriate penalty under § 2414.9.
§ 2414.9
Penalties and enforcement.
(a) Where the nature and circumstances of a prohibited communication made by or caused to be made by a party to the proceeding are such that the interests of justice and statutory policy may require remedial action, the Authority, Administrative Law Judge, or Regional Director, as appropriate, may issue to the party making the communication a notice to show cause, returnable before the Authority, Administrative Law Judge, or Regional Director, within a stated period not less than seven (7) days from the date thereof, why the Authority, Administrative Law Judge, or Regional Director should not determine that the interests of justice and statutory policy require that the claim or interest in the proceeding of a party who knowingly makes a prohibited communication or knowingly causes a prohibited communication to be made, should be dismissed, denied, disregarded or otherwise adversely affected on account of such violation.
(b) Upon notice and hearing, the Authority may censure, suspend, or revoke the privilege of practice before the agency of any person who knowingly and willfully makes or solicits the making of a prohibited ex parte communication. However, before the Authority institutes formal proceedings under this subsection, it shall first advise the person or persons concerned in writing that it proposes to take such action and that they may show cause, within a period to be stated in such written advice, but not less than seven (7) days from the date thereof, why it should not take such action.
(c) The Authority may censure, or, to the extent permitted by law, suspend, dismiss, or institute proceedings for the dismissal of, any Authority agent who knowingly and willfully violates the prohibitions and requirements of this rule.
Pt. 2415

# PART 2415—EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT

# Authority:
E.O. 12674, 54 FR 15159 (April 12, 1989), as modified by E.O. 12731, 55 FR 42547 (October 17, 1990); 5 CFR 735.101,
et seq.,
2634.101,
et seq.,
2635.101,
et seq.,
and 2637.101,
et seq.
§ 2415.1
Employee responsibilities and conduct.
The Federal Labor Relations Authority, the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and the Federal Service Impasses Panel, respectively, hereby adopt the rules and regulations contained in parts 735, 2634, 2635, and 2637 of title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations, prescribing standards of conduct and responsibilities, and governing statements reporting employment and financial interests for officers and employees, including special Government employees, for application, as appropriate, to the officers and employees, including special Government employees, of the Authority, the General Counsel and the Panel.
[74 FR 51742, Oct. 8, 2009]
Pt. 2416

# PART 2416—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY
Sec.
2416.101
Purpose.
2416.102
Application.
2416.103
Definitions.
2416.104-2416.109
[Reserved]
2416.110
Notice.
2416.111-2416.129
[Reserved]
2416.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
2416.131-2416.139
[Reserved]
2416.140
Employment.
2416.141-2416.148
[Reserved]
2416.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
2416.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
2416.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
2416.152-2416.159
[Reserved]
2416.160
Communications.
2416.161-2416.169
[Reserved]
2416.170
Compliance procedures.
2416.171-2416.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
53 FR 25881, 25885, July 8, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2416.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this regulation is to effectuate section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
[74 FR 51742, Oct. 8, 2009]
§ 2416.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency, except for programs or activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals with disabilities in the United States.
[74 FR 51742, Oct. 8, 2009]
§ 2416.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this regulation, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings, and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall
be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Individual with disabilities
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
Qualified individual with disabilities
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, an individual with disabilities who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency;
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with disabilities who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with disabilities who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified disabled person
as that term is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1615.103, which is made applicable to this regulation by § 2416.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617); the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955); and the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-506, 100 Stat. 1810). As used in this regulation, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
[53 FR 25881, 25885, July 8, 1988, as amended at 74 FR 51742, Oct. 8, 2009]
§§ 2416.104-2416.109
[Reserved]
§ 2416.110
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this regulation and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
[53 FR 25881, 25885, July 8, 1988. Redesignated at 75 FR 48273, Aug. 10, 2010]
§§ 2416.111-2416.129
[Reserved]
§ 2416.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified individual with disabilities shall, on the basis of disability, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of disability—
(i) Deny a qualified individual with disabilities the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified individual with disabilities an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified individual with disabilities with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to individuals with disabilities or to any class of individuals with disabilities than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with disabilities with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified individual with disabilities the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards;
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified individual with disabilities in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified individual with disabilities the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified individuals with disabilities to discrimination on the basis of disability; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with disabilities.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude individuals with disabilities from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with disabilities.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified individuals with disabilities to discrimination on the basis of disability.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with disabilities to discrimination on the basis of disability, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified individuals with disabilities to discrimination on the basis of disability. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this regulation.
(c) The exclusion of individuals without a disability from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to individuals with disabilities or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with disabilities from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of individuals with disabilities is not prohibited by this regulation.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with disabilities.
[74 FR 51743, Oct. 8, 2009]
§§ 2416.131-2416.139
[Reserved]
§ 2416.140
Employment.
No qualified individual with disabilities shall, on the basis of disability, be subject to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of
section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
[74 FR 51743, Oct. 8, 2009]
§§ 2416.141-2416.148
[Reserved]
§ 2416.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 2416.150, no qualified individual with disabilities shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with disabilities, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
[74 FR 51743, Oct. 8, 2009]
§ 2416.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 2416.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with disabilities receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with disabilities in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 2416.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to individuals with disabilities. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 2416.150(a) (2) or (3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an
historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide individuals with disabilities into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
[74 FR 51743, Oct. 8, 2009]
§ 2416.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
[74 FR 51744, Oct. 8, 2009]
§§ 2416.152-2416.159
[Reserved]
§ 2416.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with disabilities.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 2416.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with disabilities receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
[53 FR 25881, 25885, July 8, 1988, as amended at 74 FR 51744, Oct. 8, 2009]
§§ 2416.161-2416.169
[Reserved]
§ 2416.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of disability in programs and activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Director, Equal Employment Opportunity, shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to Director, Equal Employment Opportunity, Federal Labor Relations Authority, 1400 K Street, NW., Washington, DC 20424-0001.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate Government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157) is not readily accessible to and useable by individuals with disabilities.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 2416.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[53 FR 25881, 25885, July 8, 1988, as amended at 53 FR 25881, July 8, 1988; 68 FR 10953, Mar. 7, 2003; 74 FR 51744, Oct. 8, 2009]
§§ 2416.171-2416.999
[Reserved]
Pt. 2417

# PART 2417—TESTIMONY BY EMPLOYEES RELATING TO OFFICIAL INFORMATION AND PRODUCTION OF OFFICIAL RECORDS IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
2417.101
Scope and purpose.
2417.102
Applicability.
2417.103
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Requests or Demands for Testimony and Production of Documents
2417.201
General prohibition and designation of the appropriate decision-maker.
2417.202
Factors that the decision-maker will consider.
2417.203
Filing requirements for litigants seeking documents or testimony.
2417.204
Where to submit a request or demand.
2417.205
Consideration of requests or demands.
2417.206
Final determinations.
2417.207
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
2417.208
Restrictions that apply to released records.
2417.209
Procedure when a decision is not made before the time that a response is required.
2417.210
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.

# Subpart C—Schedule of Fees
2417.301
Fees.

# Subpart D—Penalties
2417.401
Penalties.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7105; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 44 U.S.C. 3101-3107.

# Source:
74 FR 11640, Mar. 19, 2009, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 2417.101
Scope and purpose.
(a) These regulations establish policy, assign responsibilities and prescribe procedures with respect to:
(1) The production or disclosure of official information or records by employees, members, advisors, and consultants of the Federal Labor Relations Authority's (FLRA's) three-Member Authority component (the Authority), the Office of the General Counsel(the General Counsel), or the Federal Service Impasses Panel (the Panel); and
(2) The testimony of current and former employees, members, advisors, and consultants of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel relating to official information, official duties, or official records, in connection with a legal proceeding on behalf of any party to a cause pending in civil federal or state litigation, including any proceeding before the FLRA or any other board, commission, or administrative agency of the United States.
(b) The FLRA intends these provisions to:
(1) Conserve employees' time for conducting official business;
(2) Minimize employees' involvement in issues unrelated to the FLRA's mission;
(3) Maintain employees' impartiality in disputes between private litigants; and
(4) Protect sensitive, confidential information and the integrity of the FLRA's administrative and deliberative processes.
(c) In providing for these requirements, the FLRA does not waive the sovereign immunity of the United States.
(d) This part provides guidance for the FLRA's internal operations. It does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, that a party may rely upon in any legal proceeding against the United States.
[74 FR 11640, Mar. 19, 2009,as amended at 81 FR 63362, Sept. 15, 2016]
§ 2417.102
Applicability.
This part applies to requests and demands to current and former employees, members, advisors, and consultants for factual or expert testimony relating to official information or official duties, or for production of official records or information, in civil legal proceedings. This part does not apply to:
(a) Requests for or demands upon an employee to testify as to facts or events that are unrelated to his or her official duties, or that are unrelated to the functions of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel;
(b) Requests for or demands upon a former employee to testify as to matters in which the former employee was not directly or materially involved while at the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel;
(c) Requests for the release of records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, or the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a;
(d) Congressional requests and demands for testimony, records, or information; or
(e) Requests or demands for testimony, records, or information by any Federal, state, or local agency in furtherance of an ongoing investigation of possible violations of criminal law.
[74 FR 11640, Mar. 19, 2009,as amended at 81 FR 63362, Sept. 15, 2016]
§ 2417.103
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part:
Demand
means an order, subpoena, or other command of a court or other competent authority for the production, disclosure, or release of records, or for the appearance and testimony of an employee in a civil legal proceeding.
Employee
means:
(1)(i) Any current or former employee or member of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel;
(ii) Any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or
on behalf of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel, or who has performed or is performing services under such an agreement for the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel; and
(iii) Any individual who served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel, whether formal or informal.
(2) This definition does not include former FLRA employees who agree to testify about general matters, matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with the FLRA.
Legal proceeding
means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a civil legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation.
Records or official records and information
means all information in the custody and control of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel, relating to information in the custody and control thereof, or acquired by an employee while in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status, while the individual was employed by or on behalf of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel.
Request
means any request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony that has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority.
Requester
means anyone who makes a request or demand under this part upon the FLRA.
Testimony
means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.
[81 FR 63362, Sept. 15, 2016]

# Subpart B—Requests or Demands for Testimony and Production of Documents
§ 2417.201
General prohibition and designation of the appropriate decision-maker.
(a)
General prohibition.
No employee or former employee of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel may produce official records and information or provide any testimony relating to official information in response to a request or demand without the prior, written approval of the Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate.
(b)
Appropriate decision-maker.
(1) The Chairman of the FLRA, or his or her designee, determines whether to grant approval if the record requested or demanded is maintained by the FLRA's Authority component, or the person who is the subject of the request or demand is subject to the supervision or control of the FLRA's Authority component or was subject to such supervision or control when formerly employed at the FLRA.
(2) The General Counsel, or his or her designee, determines whether to grant approval if the record requested or demanded is maintained by the General Counsel, or the person who is the subject of the request or demand is subject to the supervision or control of the General Counsel or was subject to such supervision or control when formerly employed at the FLRA.
(3) The Chairman of the Panel, or his or her designee, determines whether to grant approval if the record requested or demanded is maintained by the Panel, or the person who is the subject of the request or demand is subject to the supervision or control of the Panel or was subject to such supervision or control when formerly employed at the FLRA.
[81 FR 63362, Sept. 15, 2016]
§ 2417.202
Factors that the decision-maker will consider.
The Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate, in his or her sole discretion, may grant an employee permission to testify on matters relating
to official information, or produce official records and information, in response to a request or demand. Among the relevant factors that the Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel may consider in making this decision are whether:
(a) The purposes of this part are met;
(b) Allowing such testimony or production of records would be necessary to prevent a miscarriage of justice;
(c) Allowing such testimony or production of records would assist or hinder the FLRA in performing its statutory duties;
(d) Allowing such testimony or production of records would be in the best interest of the FLRA;
(e) The records or testimony can be obtained from other sources;
(f) The request or demand is unduly burdensome or otherwise inappropriate under the applicable rules of discovery or the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the request or demand arose;
(g) Disclosure would violate a statute, Executive Order or regulation;
(h) Disclosure would reveal confidential, sensitive, or privileged information; trade secrets or similar, confidential or financial information; otherwise protected information; or information that would otherwise be inappropriate for release;
(i) Disclosure would impede or interfere with an ongoing law-enforcement investigation or proceeding, or compromise constitutional rights or national-security interests;
(j) Disclosure would result in the FLRA appearing to favor one litigant over another;
(k) The request was served before the demand;
(l) A substantial Government interest is implicated;
(m) The request or demand is within the authority of the party making it;
(n) The request or demand is sufficiently specific to be answered; and
(o) Any other factor deemed relevant under the circumstances of the particular request or demand.
[74 FR 11640, Mar. 19, 2009,as amended at 81 FR 63363, Sept. 15, 2016]
§ 2417.203
Filing requirements for litigants seeking documents or testimony.
A requester must comply with the following requirements when filing a request or demand for official records and information or testimony under part 2417. Requesters should file a request before a demand.
(a) The request or demand must be in writing and must be submitted to the FLRA's Office of the Solicitor.
(b) The written request or demand must contain the following information:
(1) The caption of the legal proceeding, docket number, and name and address of the court or other authority involved;
(2) A copy of the complaint or equivalent document setting forth the assertions in the case and any other pleading or document necessary to show relevance;
(3) A list of categories of records sought, a detailed description of how the information sought is relevant to the issues in the legal proceeding, and a specific description of the substance of the testimony or records sought;
(4) A statement as to how the need for the information outweighs any need to maintain the confidentiality of the information and the burden on the FLRA to produce the records or provide testimony;
(5) A statement indicating that the information sought is not available from another source, from other persons or entities, or from the testimony of someone other than an employee, such as a retained expert;
(6) If testimony is sought, the intended use of the testimony, and a showing that no document could be provided and used in lieu of testimony;
(7) A description of all prior decisions, orders, or pending motions in the case that bear upon the relevance of the requested records or testimony;
(8) The name, address, and telephone number of counsel to each party in the case; and
(9) An estimate of the amount of time that the requester and other parties will require for each employee to prepare for testimony, to travel to the legal proceeding, and to attend the legal proceeding.
(c) The Office of the Solicitor reserves the right to require additional information to complete the request, where appropriate.
(d) Requesters should submit their request or demand at least 30 days before the date that records or testimony are required. Requests or demands submitted fewer than 30 days before records or testimony are required must be accompanied by a written explanation stating the reasons for the late request or demand and the reasons that would justify expedited processing.
(e) Failure to cooperate in good faith to enable the FLRA to make an informed decision may serve as the basis for a determination not to comply with the request or demand.
(f) The request or demand should state that the requester will provide a copy of the employee's statement at the expense of the requester and that the requester will permit the FLRA to have a representative present during the employee's testimony.
[74 FR 11640, Mar. 19, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 63362, Sept. 15, 2016]
§ 2417.204
Where to submit a request or demand.
(a) Requests or demands for official records, information, or testimony under this part must be served on the Office of the Solicitor at the following address: Office of the Solicitor, Federal Labor Relations Authority, 1400 K Street NW, Suite 300, Washington, DC 20424-0001; telephone: (771) 444-5775; fax: (202) 343-1007; or email:
solmail@flra.gov.
The request or demand must be sent by mail, fax, or email and clearly marked “Part 2417 Request for Testimony or Official Records in Legal Proceedings.”
(b) A person requesting public FLRA information and non-public FLRA information under this part may submit a combined request for both to the Office of the Solicitor. If a requester decides to submit a combined request under this section, the FLRA will process the combined request under this part and not under part 2411 (the FLRA's Freedom of Information Act regulations).
[81 FR 63363, Sept. 15, 2016, as amended at 89 11701, Feb. 15, 2024]
§ 2417.205
Consideration of requests or demands.
(a) After receiving service of a request or a demand for official records, information, or testimony, the appropriate decision-maker will review the request and, in accordance with the provisions of this part, determine whether, or under what conditions, to authorize the employee to testify on matters relating to official information and/or produce official records and information.
(b) Absent exigent circumstances, the appropriate decision-maker will issue a determination within 30 days from the date that it receives the request.
(c) The appropriate decision-maker may grant a waiver of any procedure described by this part where a waiver is considered necessary to promote a significant interest of the FLRA or the United States or for other good cause.
(d) The FLRA may certify that records are true copies in order to facilitate their use as evidence. If a requester seeks certification, the requester must request certified copies from the Office of the Solicitor at least 30 days before the date that they will be needed.
[81 FR 63363, Sept. 15, 2016]
§ 2417.206
Final determination.
The Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate, makes the final determination on demands or requests to employees thereof for production of official records and information or testimony in civil litigation under this part. All final determinations are within the sole discretion of the Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate. The appropriate decision-maker will notify the requester and, when appropriate, the court or other competent authority of the final determination, the reasons for the grant or denial of the request, and any conditions that may be imposed on the release of records or information, or on the testimony of an employee. This final determination exhausts administrative remedies for discovery of the information.
[81 FR 63363, Sept. 15, 2016]
§ 2417.207
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
(a) Conditions or restrictions may be imposed on the testimony of employees including, for example:
(1) Limiting the areas of testimony;
(2) Requiring the requester and other parties to the legal proceeding to agree that the transcript of the testimony will be kept under seal;
(3) Requiring that the transcript will be used or made available only in the particular legal proceeding for which testimony was requested. The requester may also be required to provide a copy of the transcript of testimony at the requester's expense.
(b) The employee's written declaration may be provided in lieu of testimony.
(c) If authorized to testify pursuant to this part, an employee may testify as to facts within his or her personal knowledge, but, unless specifically authorized to do so by the Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate, the employee shall not:
(1) Disclose confidential or privileged information; or
(2) For a current employee, testify as an expert or opinion witness with regard to any matter arising out of the employee's official duties or the functions of the FLRA unless testimony is being given on behalf of the United States (see also 5 CFR 2635.805).
(d) The scheduling of an employee's testimony, including the amount of time that the employee will be made available for testimony, will be subject to the approval of the Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate.
[74 FR 11640, Mar. 19, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 63364, Sept. 15, 2016]
§ 2417.208
Restrictions that apply to released records.
(a) The Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate may impose conditions or restrictions on the release of official records and information, including the requirement that parties to the proceeding obtain a protective order or execute a confidentiality agreement to limit access and any further disclosure. The terms of the protective order or of a confidentiality agreement must be acceptable to the Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate. In cases where protective orders or confidentiality agreements have already been executed, the Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate may condition the release of official records and information on an amendment to the existing protective order or confidentiality agreement.
(b) If the Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate so determines, original records may be presented for examination in response to a request, but they may not be presented as evidence or otherwise used in a manner by which they could lose their identity as official records, nor may they be marked or altered. In lieu of the original records, certified copies may be presented for evidentiary purposes.
[81 FR 63364, Sept. 15, 2016]
§ 2417.209
Procedure when a decision is not made before the time that a response is required.
If a response to a demand or request is required before the Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel can make the determination referred to in § 2417.206, the Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, when necessary, will provide the court or other competent authority with a copy of this part, inform the court or other competent authority that the request is being reviewed, provide an estimate as to when a decision will be made, and seek a stay of the demand or request pending a final determination.
[81 FR 63364, Sept. 15, 2016]
§ 2417.210
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.
If the court or other competent authority fails to stay a demand or request, the employee upon whom the demand or request is made, unless otherwise advised by the Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the
Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate, will appear, if necessary, at the stated time and place, produce a copy of this part, state that the employee has been advised by counsel not to provide the requested testimony or produce documents, and respectfully decline to comply with the demand or request, citing
United States ex rel. Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951).
[81 FR 63364, Sept. 15, 2016]

# Subpart C—Schedule of Fees
§ 2417.301
Fees.
(a)
Generally.
The Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate, may condition the production of records or appearance for testimony upon advance payment of a reasonable estimate of the costs.
(b)
Fees for records.
Fees for producing records will include fees for searching, reviewing, and duplicating records; costs for employee time spent reviewing the request; and expenses generated by materials and equipment used to search for, produce, and copy the responsive information. The FLRA will calculate and charge these fees, costs, and expenses as it charges like fees and costs arising from requests made pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act regulations in part 2411 of this chapter.
(c)
Witness fees.
Fees for attendance by a witness will include fees, expenses, and allowances prescribed by the court's rules. If no such fees are prescribed, witness fees will be determined based upon the rule of the Federal district court closest to the location where the witness will appear and on 28 U.S.C. 1821, as applicable. Such fees will include costs for time spent by the witness to prepare for testimony, to travel to the legal proceeding, and to attend the legal proceeding.
(d)
Payment of fees.
A requester must pay witness fees for current employees and any record certification fees by submitting to the Office of the Solicitor a check or money order for the appropriate amount made payable to the Treasury of the United States. In the case of testimony of former employees, the requester must pay applicable fees directly to the former employee in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1821 or other applicable statutes.
(e)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
The Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate, in his or her sole discretion, may, upon a showing of reasonable cause, waive or reduce any fees in connection with the testimony, production, or certification of records.
(f)
De minimis fees.
The FLRA will not assess fees if the total charge would be $10.00 or less.
[81 FR 63364, Sept. 15, 2016]

# Subpart D—Penalties
§ 2417.401
Penalties.
(a) An employee who discloses official records or information, or who gives testimony relating to official information, except as expressly authorized by the Chairman of the FLRA, the General Counsel, or the Chairman of the Panel, as appropriate, or as ordered by a Federal court after the FLRA has had the opportunity to be heard, may face the penalties provided in 18 U.S.C. 641 and other applicable laws. Additionally, former employees are subject to the restrictions and penalties of 18 U.S.C. 207 and 216.
(b) A current employee who testifies or produces official records and information in violation of this part may be subject to disciplinary action.
[74 FR 11640, Mar. 19, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 63364, Sept. 15, 2016]
Pt. 2418

# PART 2418—FLRA DEBT COLLECTION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
2418.1
What definitions apply to the regulations in this part?
2418.2
Why is the FLRA issuing these regulations, and what do they cover?
2418.3
Do these regulations adopt the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS)?

# Subpart B—Procedures to Collect FLRA Debts
2418.4
What notice will the FLRA send to a debtor when collecting an FLRA debt?
2418.5
How will the FLRA add interest, penalty charges, and administrative costs to an FLRA debt?
2418.6
When will the FLRA allow a debtor to pay an FLRA debt in installments instead of one lump sum?
2418.7
When will the FLRA compromise an FLRA debt?
2418.8
When will the FLRA suspend or terminate debt collection on an FLRA debt?
2418.9
When will the FLRA transfer an FLRA debt to the Treasury Department's Financial Management Service for collection?
2418.10
How will the FLRA use administrative offset (offset of non-tax Federal payments) to collect an FLRA debt?
2418.11
How will the FLRA use tax refund offset to collect an FLRA debt?
2418.12
How will the FLRA offset a Federal employee's salary to collect an FLRA debt?
2418.13
How will the FLRA use administrative wage garnishment to collect an FLRA debt from a debtor's wages?
2418.14
How will the FLRA report FLRA debts to credit bureaus?
2418.15
How will the FLRA refer FLRA debts to private collection agencies?
2418.16
When will the FLRA refer FLRA debts to the Department of Justice?
2418.17
How does a debtor request a special review based on a change in circumstances such as catastrophic illness, divorce, death, or disability?
2418.18
Will the FLRA issue a refund if money is erroneously collected on a debt?

# Subpart C—Procedures for Offset of FLRA Payments to Collect Debts Owed to Other Federal Agencies
2418.19
How do other Federal agencies use the offset process to collect debts from payments issued by the FLRA?
2418.20
What does the FLRA do upon receipt of a request to offset the salary of an FLRA employee to collect a debt owed by the employee to another Federal agency?
Appendix A To Part 2418—Waiving Claims Against Flra Employees For Erroneous Payments

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5514; 5 U.S.C. 5584; 5 U.S.C. 6402; 31 U.S.C. 3701, 3711; 3716, 3717, 3718, 3720A, 3720D.

# Source:
80 FR 24780, May 1, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 2418.1
What definitions apply to the regulations in this part?
As used in this part:
Administrative offset
or
offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States (including funds payable by the United States on behalf of a State Government) to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the person. The term “administrative offset” includes, but is not limited to, the offset of Federal salary, vendor, retirement, and Social-Security-benefit payments. The terms “centralized administrative offset” and “centralized offset” refer to the process by which the Treasury Department's Financial Management Service offsets Federal payments through the Treasury Offset Program.
Administrative wage garnishment
means the process by which a Federal agency orders a non-Federal employer to withhold amounts from a debtor's wages to satisfy a debt, as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3720D, 31 CFR 285.11, and this part.
Agency
or
federal agency
means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations.
Chairman
means the Chairman of the FLRA or his or her designee.
Creditor agency
means any Federal agency that is owed a debt.
Debt
means any amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal Government to be owed to the United States by a person. As used in this part, the term “debt” does not include, as described in 31 U.S.C. 3701(d), debts arising under: The Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
); the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), except to the extent provided under sections 204(f) and 1631(b)(4) of such Act [42 U.S.C. 404(f) and 1383(b)(4)] and section 3716(c) [31 U.S.C. 3716(c)], or the tariff laws of the United States.
Debtor
means a person who owes a debt to the United States.
Delinquent debt
means a debt that has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written demand for payment or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency payment agreement) unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made.
Delinquent FLRA debt
means a delinquent debt owed to the FLRA.
Disposable pay
has the same meaning as that term is defined in 5 CFR 550.1103.
Employee
or
Federal employee
means a current employee of the FLRA or other Federal agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces, Reserve of the Armed Forces of the United States, or the National Guard.
Executive Director
means the Executive Director of the FLRA or his or her designee.
FCCS
means the Federal Claims Collection Standards, which were jointly published by the Departments of the Treasury and Justice and codified at 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.
Financial Management Service
means the Financial Management Service, a bureau of the Treasury Department, which is responsible for the centralized collection of delinquent debts through the offset of Federal payments and other means.
FLRA
means the Federal Labor Relations Authority and all of its components.
FLRA debt
means a debt that a person owes the FLRA.
Payment agency
or
Federal payment agency
means any Federal agency that transmits payment requests in the form of certified payment vouchers, or other similar forms, to a disbursing official for disbursement. The “payment agency” may be the agency that employs the debtor. In some cases, the FLRA may be both the creditor agency and the payment agency.
Person
means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than a Federal agency.
Salary offset
means a type of administrative offset to collect, from the current pay account of a Federal employee, a debt that the employee owes.
Tax refund offset
is defined in 31 CFR 285.2(a).
Treasury Department
means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to an agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, 5 U.S.C. 8346(b), 42 U.S.C. 404(b), or any other law.
§ 2418.2
Why is the FLRA issuing these regulations, and what do they cover?
(a)
Scope.
This part provides procedures for the collection of FLRA debts. This part also provides procedures for collection of other debts owed to the United States when the FLRA receives, from another agency, a request for offset of an FLRA payment (for example, when an FLRA employee owes a debt to the United States Department of Education).
(b)
Applicability.
(1) This part applies to the FLRA when collecting an FLRA debt, to persons who owe FLRA debts, and to Federal agencies requesting offset of a payment issued by the FLRA as a payment agency (including salary payments to FLRA employees).
(2) This part does not apply to tax debts or to any debt for which there is an indication of fraud or misrepresentation, as described in 31 CFR 900.3 of the FCCS, unless the Department of Justice returns the debt to the FLRA for handling.
(3) Nothing in this part precludes collection or disposition of any debt under statutes and regulations other than those described in this part. See, for example, 5 U.S.C. 5705, Advancements and Deductions, which authorizes agencies to recover travel advances by offset of up to 100% of a Federal employee's accrued pay. See, also, 5 U.S.C. 4108, governing the collection of training expenses. To the extent that the provisions of laws and other regulations differ from the provisions of this part, those provisions of law and other regulations—and not the provisions of this part—apply to the remission or mitigation of fines, penalties, and forfeitures, as well as debts arising under the tariff laws of the United States.
(c)
Duplication not required.
Nothing in this part requires the FLRA to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract, this part, or other laws or regulations.
(d)
Use of multiple collection remedies allowed.
The FLRA and other Federal agencies may simultaneously use multiple collection remedies to collect a debt, except as prohibited by law. This
part is intended to promote aggressive debt collection, using for each debt all available collection remedies. These remedies are not listed in any prescribed order, so that the FLRA may have flexibility in determining which remedies will be most efficient in collecting the particular debt.
§ 2418.3
Do these regulations adopt the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS)?
This part adopts and incorporates all provisions of the FCCS. This part also supplements the FCCS by prescribing procedures consistent with the FCCS, as necessary and appropriate for FLRA operations.

# Subpart B—Procedures to Collect FLRA Debts
§ 2418.4
What notice will the FLRA send to a debtor when collecting an FLRA debt?
(a)
Notice requirements.
The FLRA shall aggressively collect FLRA debts. The FLRA shall promptly send at least one written notice to a debtor informing the debtor of the consequences of failing to pay or otherwise resolve an FLRA debt. The notice(s) shall be sent to the debtor at the most current address of the debtor in the FLRA's records. Generally, before starting the collection actions described in §§ 2418.5 and 2418.9 through 2418.16, the FLRA will send no more than two written notices to the debtor. The purpose of the notice(s) is to explain why the debt is owed, the amount of the debt, how a debtor may pay the debt or make alternative payment arrangements, how a debtor may review documents related to the debt, how a debtor may dispute the debt, the collection remedies available to the FLRA if the debtor refuses to pay the debt, and other consequences to the debtor if the debt is not paid. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the written notice(s) shall explain to the debtor:
(1) The nature and amount of the debt, and the facts giving rise to the debt;
(2) How interest, penalties, and administrative costs are added to the debt, the date by which payment should be made to avoid such charges, and that such assessments must be made unless excused in accordance with 31 CFR 901.9 (see § 2418.5);
(3) The date by which payment should be made to avoid the enforced collection actions described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section;
(4) The FLRA's willingness to discuss alternative payment arrangements and how the debtor may enter into a written agreement to repay the debt under terms acceptable to the FLRA (see § 2418.6);
(5) The name, address, and telephone number of a contact person or office within the FLRA;
(6) The FLRA's intention to enforce collection if the debtor fails to pay or otherwise resolve the debt, by taking one or more of the following actions:
(i)
Offset.
Offset the debtor's Federal payments, including income-tax refunds, salary, certain benefit payments (such as Social Security), retirement, vendor, travel reimbursements and advances, and other Federal payments (see §§ 2418.10 through 2418.12);
(ii)
Private collection agency.
Refer the debt to a private collection agency (see § 2418.15);
(iii)
Credit-bureau reporting.
Report the debt to a credit bureau (see § 2418.14);
(iv)
Administrative wage garnishment.
Garnish the debtor's wages through administrative wage garnishment (see § 2418.13);
(v)
Litigation.
Refer the debt to the Department of Justice to initiate litigation to collect the debt (see § 2418.16);
(vi)
Treasury Department's Financial Management Service.
Refer the debt to the Financial Management Service for collection (see § 2418.9);
(7) That Treasury debts over 180 days delinquent must be referred to the Financial Management Service for the collection actions described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section (see § 2418.9);
(8) How the debtor may inspect and copy records related to the debt;
(9) How the debtor may request a review of the FLRA's determination that the debtor owes a debt and present evidence that the debt is not delinquent or legally enforceable (see §§ 2418.10(c) and 2418.11(c));
(10) How a debtor may request a hearing if the FLRA intends to garnish the debtor's private-sector (
i.e.,
non-Federal) wages (see § 2418.13(a)), including:
(i) The method and time period for requesting a hearing;
(ii) That the timely filing of a request for a hearing on or before the 15th business day following the date of the notice will stay the commencement of administrative wage garnishment, but not necessarily other collection procedures; and
(iii) The name and address of the office to which the request for a hearing should be sent.
(11) How a debtor who is a Federal employee subject to Federal salary offset may request a hearing (see § 2418.12(e)), including:
(i) The method and time period for requesting a hearing;
(ii) That the timely filing of a request for a hearing on or before the 15th calendar day following receipt of the notice will stay the commencement of salary offset, but not necessarily other collection procedures;
(iii) The name and address of the office to which the request for a hearing should be sent;
(iv) That the FLRA will refer the debt to the debtor's employing agency or to the Financial Management Service to implement salary offset, unless the employee files a timely request for a hearing;
(v) That a final decision on the hearing, if requested, will be issued at the earliest practical date, but not later than 60 days after the filing of the request for a hearing, unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(vi) That any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the Federal employee to penalties under the False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729-3731) or other applicable statutory authority, and criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 1001, and 1002, or other applicable statutory authority;
(vii) That, unless prohibited by contract or statute, amounts paid on or deducted for the debt that are later waived or found not owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee; and
(viii) That 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716 govern proceedings with respect to such debt.
(12) How the debtor may request a waiver of the debt, if applicable (see Appendix A of this part);
(13) How the debtor's spouse may claim his or her share of a joint-income-tax refund by filing Form 8379 with the Internal Revenue Service (see
http://www.irs.gov
);
(14) How the debtor may exercise other statutory or regulatory rights and remedies available to the debtor;
(15) That an employee's involuntary payment of all or any portion of a debt being collected will not be construed as a waiver of any rights that the employee may have under any provision of contract or law, unless there are statutory, regulatory, or contractual provisions to the contrary; and
(16) That the debtor should advise the FLRA of a bankruptcy proceeding of the debtor or another person liable for the debt being collected.
(b)
Exceptions to notice requirements.
The FLRA may omit from a notice to a debtor one or more of the provisions contained in paragraphs (a)(6) through (16) of this section if the FLRA, in consultation with its legal counsel, determines that any provision is not legally required given the collection remedies to be applied to a particular debt.
(c)
Respond to debtors; comply with FCCS.
The FLRA will respond promptly to communications from debtors and comply with other FCCS provisions applicable to the administrative collection of debts. See 31 CFR part 901.
§ 2418.5
How will the FLRA add interest, penalty charges, and administrative costs to an FLRA debt?
(a)
Assessment and notice.
The FLRA shall assess interest, penalties, and administrative costs on FLRA debts in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3717 and 31 CFR 901.9. Interest shall be charged in accordance with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3717(a). Penalties shall accrue at the rate of 6% per year, or such other higher rate as authorized by law. The FLRA shall determine administrative costs, that is, the costs of processing and handling a delinquent debt. In the notice to the debtor described in § 2418.4, the FLRA
must explain how interest, penalties, costs, and other charges are assessed, unless the requirements are included in a contract or repayment agreement.
(b)
Waiver of interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
Unless otherwise required by law, the FLRA may not charge interest if the amount due on the debt is paid within 30 days after the date from which the interest accrues. See 31 U.S.C. 3717(d). The FLRA may waive interest, penalties, and administrative costs, or any portion thereof, when it would be against equity and good conscience or not in the FLRA's best interest to collect such charges, in accordance with FLRA guidelines for waiving claims against FLRA employees for erroneous overpayments. See appendix A of this part.
(c)
Accrual during suspension of debt collection.
In most cases, interest, penalties, and administrative costs will begin and continue to accrue 30 days after notice is given to the employee and during any period when collection has been suspended for any reason (for example, when the debtor has requested a hearing). The FLRA may suspend accrual of any or all of these charges when accrual would be against equity and good conscience or not in the FLRA's best interest, in accordance with FLRA guidelines for waiving claims against FLRA employees for erroneous overpayments. See appendix A of this part.
§ 2418.6
When will the FLRA allow a debtor to pay an FLRA debt in installments instead of one lump sum?
If a debtor is financially unable to pay the debt in one lump sum, then the FLRA may accept payment of an FLRA debt in regular installments, in accordance with 31 CFR 901.8.
§ 2418.7
When will the FLRA compromise an FLRA debt?
If the FLRA cannot collect the full amount of an FLRA debt, then the FLRA may compromise the debt in accordance with 31 CFR part 902.
§ 2418.8
When will the FLRA suspend or terminate debt collection on an FLRA debt?
If, after pursuing all appropriate means of collection, the FLRA determines that an FLRA debt is uncollectible, then the FLRA may suspend or terminate debt-collection activity in accordance with the provisions of 31 CFR part 903 and the FLRA's policies and procedures.
§ 2418.9
When will the FLRA transfer an FLRA debt to the Treasury Department's Financial Management Service for collection?
(a) The FLRA will transfer any eligible debt that is more than 180 days delinquent to the Financial Management Service for debt-collection services, a process known as “cross-servicing.” See 31 U.S.C. 3711(g) and 31 CFR 285.12. The FLRA may transfer debts delinquent 180 days or less to the Financial Management Service in accordance with the procedures described in 31 CFR 285.12. The Financial Management Service takes appropriate action to collect or compromise the transferred debt, or to suspend or terminate collection action thereon, in accordance with the statutory and regulatory requirements and authorities applicable to the debt and the collection action to be taken. See 31 CFR 285.12(c)(2). Appropriate action includes, but is not limited to: Contact with the debtor; referral of the debt to the Treasury Offset Program, private collection agencies, or the Department of Justice; reporting of the debt to credit bureaus; and administrative wage garnishment.
(b) At least sixty (60) days before transferring an FLRA debt to the Financial Management Service, the FLRA will send notice to the debtor as required by § 2418.4. The FLRA will certify to the Financial Management Service, in writing, that the debt is valid, delinquent, legally enforceable, and that there are no legal bars to collection. In addition, the FLRA will certify its compliance with all applicable due-process and other requirements as described in this part and other Federal laws. See 31 CFR 285.12(i) regarding the certification requirement.
(c) As part of its debt-collection process, the Financial Management Service uses the Treasury Offset Program to collect Treasury debts by administrative and tax-refund offset. See 31 CFR 285.12(g). The Treasury Offset Program
is a centralized offset program administered by the Financial Management Service to collect delinquent debts owed to Federal agencies and states (including past-due child support). Under the Treasury Offset Program, before a Federal payment is disbursed, the Financial Management Service compares the name and taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the payee with the names and TINs of debtors that have been submitted by Federal agencies and states to the Treasury Offset Program database. If there is a match, the Financial Management Service (or, in some cases, another Federal disbursing agency) offsets all or a portion of the Federal payment, disburses any remaining payment to the payee, and pays the offset amount to the creditor agency. Federal payments eligible for offset include, but are not limited to, income-tax refunds, salary, travel advances and reimbursements, retirement and vendor payments, and Social Security and other benefit payments.
§ 2418.10
How will the FLRA use administrative offset (offset of non-tax Federal payments) to collect an FLRA debt?
(a)
Centralized administrative offset through the Treasury Offset Program.
(1) In most cases, the Financial Management Service uses the Treasury Offset Program to collect Treasury debts by the offset of Federal payments. See § 2418.9(c). If not already transferred to the Financial Management Service under § 2418.9, the FLRA will refer any eligible debt over 180 days delinquent to the Treasury Offset Program for collection by centralized administrative offset. See 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6); 31 CFR part 285, subpart A; and 31 CFR 901.3(b). The FLRA may refer any eligible debt less than 180 days delinquent to the Treasury Offset Program for offset.
(2) At least sixty (60) days prior to referring a debt to the Treasury Offset Program, in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the FLRA will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 2418.4. The FLRA will certify to the Financial Management Service, in writing, that the debt is valid, delinquent, legally enforceable, and that there are no legal bars to collection by offset. In addition, the FLRA will certify its compliance with the requirements described in this part.
(b)
Non-centralized administrative offset for FLRA debts.
(1) When centralized administrative offset through the Treasury Offset Program is not available or appropriate, the FLRA may collect past-due, legally enforceable FLRA debts through non-centralized administrative offset. See 31 CFR 901.3(c). In these cases, the FLRA may offset a payment internally or make an offset request directly to a Federal payment agency.
(2) At least thirty (30) days prior to offsetting a payment internally or requesting a Federal payment agency to offset a payment, the FLRA will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 2418.4. (For debts outstanding more than ten (10) years on or before June 11, 2009, the FLRA will comply with the additional notification requirements of 31 CFR 285.7(d).) When referring a debt for offset under this paragraph (b), the FLRA will certify, in writing, that the debt is valid, delinquent, legally enforceable, and that there are no legal bars to collection by offset. In addition, the FLRA will certify its compliance with these regulations concerning administrative offset. See 31 CFR 901.3(c)(2)(ii).
(c)
Administrative review.
The notice described in § 2418.4 shall explain to the debtor how to request an administrative review of the FLRA's determination that the debtor owes an FLRA debt and how to present evidence that the debt is not delinquent or legally enforceable. In addition to challenging the existence and amount of the debt, the debtor may seek a review of the terms of repayment. In most cases, the FLRA will provide the debtor with a “paper hearing” based upon a review of the written record, including documentation provided by the debtor. The FLRA shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the FLRA determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or
veracity. Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although the FLRA will carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing. The FLRA may suspend collection through administrative offset and/or other collection actions pending the resolution of a debtor's dispute.
(d)
Procedures for expedited offset.
Under the circumstances described in 31 CFR 901.3(b)(4)(iii), the FLRA may effect an offset against a payment to be made to the debtor prior to sending a notice to the debtor, as described in § 2418.4, or completing the procedures described in paragraph (b)(2) and (c) of this section. The FLRA shall give the debtor notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the Government.
§ 2418.11
How will the FLRA use tax-refund offset to collect an FLRA debt?
(a)
Tax-refund offset.
In most cases, the Financial Management Service uses the Treasury Offset Program to collect FLRA debts by the offset of tax refunds and other Federal payments. See § 2418.9(c). If not already transferred to the Financial Management Service under § 2418.9, the FLRA will refer to the Treasury Offset Program any past-due, legally enforceable debt for collection by tax-refund offset. See 26 U.S.C. 6402(d), 31 U.S.C. 3720A and 31 CFR 285.2.
(b)
Notice.
At least sixty (60) days before referring a debt to the Treasury Offset Program, the FLRA will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 2418.4. The FLRA will certify to the Financial Management Service's Treasury Offset Program, in writing, that the debt is past due and legally enforceable in the amount submitted and that the FLRA has made reasonable efforts to obtain payment of the debt as described in 31 CFR 285.2(d). In addition, the FLRA will certify its compliance with all applicable due-process and other requirements described in this part and other Federal laws. See 31 U.S.C. 3720A(b) and 31 CFR 285.2.
(c)
Administrative review.
The notice described in § 2418.4 shall provide the debtor with at least 60 days prior to the initiation of tax-refund offset to request an administrative review as described in § 2418.10(c). The FLRA may suspend collection through tax-refund offset and/or other collection actions pending the resolution of the debtor's dispute.
§ 2418.12
How will the FLRA offset a Federal employee's salary to collect an FLRA debt?
(a)
Federal salary offset.
(1) Salary offset is used to collect debts that FLRA employees and other Federal employees owe to the United States. If a Federal employee owes an FLRA debt, then the FLRA may offset the employee's Federal salary to collect the debt in the manner described in this section. For information on how a Federal agency other than the FLRA may collect debt from the salary of an FLRA employee, see §§ 2418.19 and 2418.20.
(2) Nothing in this part requires the FLRA to collect an FLRA debt in accordance with this section if Federal law allows otherwise. See, for example, 5 U.S.C. 5705 (travel advances not used for allowable travel expenses are recoverable from the employee or his estate by setoff against accrued pay and other means) and 5 U.S.C. 4108 (recovery of training expenses).
(3) The FLRA may use the administrative-wage-garnishment procedure described in § 2418.13 to collect a debt from an individual's non-Federal wages.
(b)
Centralized salary offset through the Treasury Offset Program.
As described in § 2418.9(a), the FLRA will refer FLRA debts to the Financial Management Service for collection by administrative offset, including salary offset, through the Treasury Offset Program. When possible, the FLRA will attempt salary offset through the Treasury Offset Program before applying the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section. See 5 CFR 550.1109.
(c)
Non-centralized salary offset for FLRA debts.
When centralized salary offset through the Treasury Offset Program is not available or appropriate, the FLRA may collect delinquent FLRA debts through non-centralized
salary offset. See 5 CFR 550.1109. In these cases, the FLRA may offset a payment internally or make a request directly to a Federal payment agency to offset a salary payment to collect a delinquent debt that a Federal employee owes. At least thirty (30) days prior to offsetting internally or requesting a Federal agency to offset a salary payment, the FLRA will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 2418.4. (For debts outstanding more than ten (10) years on or before June 11, 2009, the FLRA will comply with the additional notification requirements of 31 CFR 285.7(d).) When referring a debt for offset, the FLRA will certify to the payment agency, in writing, that the debt is valid, delinquent, and legally enforceable in the amount stated, and that there are no legal bars to collection by salary offset. In addition, the FLRA will certify that all due-process and other prerequisites to salary offset have been met. See 5 U.S.C. 5514, 31 U.S.C. 3716(a), and this section for a description of the due-process and other prerequisites for salary offset.
(d)
When prior notice not required.
The FLRA is not required to provide prior notice to an employee when the FLRA makes the following adjustments to an FLRA employee's pay:
(1) Any adjustment to pay arising out of any employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal-benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less;
(2) A routine intra-agency adjustment of pay that is made to correct an overpayment of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within the four pay periods preceding the adjustment, and, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and the point of contact for contesting such adjustment; or
(3) Any adjustment to collect a debt amounting to $ 50 or less, if, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment.
(e)
Hearing procedures
—(1)
Request for a hearing.
A Federal employee who has received a notice that his or her FLRA debt will be collected by means of salary offset may request a hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt. The Federal employee also may request a hearing concerning the amount proposed to be deducted from the employee's pay each pay period. The employee must send any request for hearing, in writing, to the office designated in the notice described in § 2418.4. See § 2418.4(a)(11). The request must be received by the designated office on or before the 15th calendar day following the employee's receipt of the notice. The employee must sign the request and specify whether an oral or paper hearing is requested. If an oral hearing is requested, then the employee must explain why the matter cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence alone. An oral hearing may, at the debtor's option, be conducted either in-person or by telephone conference. All travel expenses incurred by the Federal employee in connection with an in-person hearing will be borne by the employee. All telephonic charges incurred during the hearing will be the responsibility of the agency.
(2)
Failure to submit timely request for hearing.
If the employee fails to submit a request for hearing within the time period described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, then the employee will have waived the right to a hearing, and salary offset may be initiated. However, the FLRA will accept a late request for hearing if the employee can show that the late request was the result of circumstances beyond the employee's control or because of a failure to receive actual notice of the filing deadline.
(3)
Hearing official.
The FLRA must obtain the services of a hearing official who is not under the supervision or control of the Chairman. The FLRA may contact an agent of any agency designated in appendix A to 5 CFR part 581 (List of Agents Designated to Accept Legal Process) to request a hearing official.
(4)
Notice of hearing.
After the employee requests a hearing, the designated hearing official shall inform the employee of the form of the hearing to be provided. For oral hearings, the notice shall set forth the date, time, and location of the hearing. For paper hearings, the notice shall notify the employee of the date by which he or she should submit written arguments to the designated hearing official. The hearing official shall give the employee reasonable time to submit documentation in support of the employee's position. The hearing official shall schedule a new hearing date if requested by both parties. The hearing official shall give both parties reasonable notice of the time and place of a rescheduled hearing.
(5)
Oral hearing.
The hearing official will conduct an oral hearing if he or she determines that the matter cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (for example, when an issue of credibility or veracity is involved). The hearing need not take the form of an evidentiary hearing, but may be conducted in a manner determined by the hearing official, including but not limited to:
(i) Informal conferences with the hearing official, in which the employee and agency representative will be given full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and argument;
(ii) Informal meetings with an interview of the employee by the hearing official; or
(iii) Formal written submissions, with an opportunity for oral presentation.
(6)
Paper hearing.
If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, then he or she will make the determination based upon a review of the available written record, including any documentation submitted by the employee in support of his or her position.
(7)
Failure to appear or submit documentary evidence.
In the absence of good cause shown (for example, excused illness), if the employee fails to appear at an oral hearing or fails to submit documentary evidence as required for a paper hearing, then the employee will have waived the right to a hearing, and salary offset shall be initiated. If the FLRA representative fails to appear at an oral hearing, then the hearing official shall proceed with the hearing as scheduled, and make his or her determination based upon the oral testimony presented and the documentary evidence submitted by both parties.
(8)
Burden of proof.
The FLRA will have the initial burden to prove the existence and amount of the debt. Thereafter, if the employee disputes the existence or amount of the debt, then the employee must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that no debt exists or that the amount of the debt is incorrect. In addition, the employee may present evidence that the proposed terms of the repayment schedule are unlawful, would cause a financial hardship to the employee, or that collection of the debt may not be pursued due to operation of law.
(9)
Record.
The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of any hearing provided by this part. Witnesses will testify under oath or affirmation in oral hearings.
(10)
Date of decision.
The hearing official shall issue a written opinion stating his or her decision, based upon documentary evidence and information developed at the hearing, as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than 60 days after the date on which the FLRA received the request for hearing. If the employee requests a delay in the proceedings, then the deadline for the decision may be postponed by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed. When a decision is not timely rendered, the FLRA shall waive penalties applied to the debt for the period beginning with the date the decision is due and ending on the date the decision is issued.
(11)
Content of decision.
The written decision shall include:
(i) A statement of the facts presented to support the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;
(ii) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions; and
(iii) The terms of any repayment schedules, if applicable.
(12)
Final agency action.
The hearing official's decision shall be final.
(f)
Waiver not precluded.
Nothing in this part precludes an employee from requesting waiver of an overpayment
under 5 U.S.C. 5584 or 8346(b), 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, or other statutory authority.
(g)
Salary-offset process
—(1)
Determination of disposable pay.
The FLRA's Office of the Executive Director will determine the amount of an FLRA employee's disposable pay (as defined in § 2418.1) and will implement salary offset when requested to do so by the FLRA, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, or another agency, as described in § 2418.19. If the debtor is not employed by the FLRA, then the agency employing the debtor will determine the amount of the employee's disposable pay and will implement salary offset upon request.
(2)
When salary offset begins.
Deductions shall normally begin within three official pay periods following receipt of the creditor agency's request for offset.
(3)
Amount of salary offset.
The amount to be offset from each salary payment will be up to 15 percent of a debtor's disposable pay, as follows:
(i) If the amount of the debt is equal to or less than 15 percent of the disposable pay, then such debt generally will be collected in one lump-sum payment;
(ii) Installment deductions will be made over a period of no greater than the anticipated period of employment. An installment deduction will not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount, or a higher deduction has been ordered by a court under section 124 of Public Law 97-276 (96 Stat. 1195), or the creditor agency has determined that smaller deductions are appropriate based on the employee's ability to pay.
(4)
Final salary payment.
After the employee has separated either voluntarily or involuntarily from the payment agency, the payment agency may make a lump-sum deduction exceeding 15 percent of disposable pay from any final salary or other payments pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716 in order to satisfy a debt.
(h)
Payment agency's responsibilities.
(1) As required by 5 CFR 550.1109, if the employee separates from the payment agency from which the FLRA has requested salary offset, then the payment agency must certify the total amount of its collection and notify the FLRA and the employee of the amounts collected. If the payment agency is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement Fund and Disability Fund, the Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar payments, then it must provide written notification to the payment agency responsible for making such payments that the debtor owes a debt, the amount of the debt, and that the FLRA has complied with the provisions of this section. The FLRA must submit a properly certified claim to the new payment agency before the collection can be made.
(2) If the employee is already separated from employment and all payments due from his or her former payment agency have been made, then the FLRA may request that money due and payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement Fund and Disability Fund, the Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar funds, be administratively offset to collect the debt. Generally, the FLRA will collect such monies through the Treasury Offset Program as described in § 2418.9(c).
(3) When an employee transfers to another agency, the FLRA should resume collection with the employee's new payment agency in order to continue salary offset.
§ 2418.13
How will the FLRA use administrative wage garnishment to collect an FLRA debt from a debtor's wages?
(a) The FLRA is authorized to collect debts from a debtor's wages by means of administrative wage garnishment in accordance with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3720D and 31 CFR 285.11. This part adopts and incorporates all of the provisions of 31 CFR 285.11 concerning administrative wage garnishment, including the hearing procedures described in 31 CFR 285.11(f). The FLRA may use administrative wage garnishment to collect a delinquent FLRA debt unless the debtor is making timely payments under an agreement to pay the debt in installments (see § 2418.6). At least thirty (30) days before
initiating an administrative wage garnishment, the FLRA will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 2418.4 of this part, including the requirements of § 2418.4(a)(10). (For debts outstanding more than ten (10) years on or before June 11, 2009, the FLRA will comply with the additional notification requirements of 31 CFR 285.7(d).) For FLRA debts referred to the Financial Management Service under § 2418.9, the FLRA may authorize the Financial Management Service to send a notice informing the debtor that administrative wage garnishment will be initiated and how the debtor may request a hearing as described in § 2418.4(a)(10). If a debtor makes a timely request for a hearing, administrative wage garnishment will not begin until a hearing is held and a decision is sent to the debtor. See 31 CFR 285.11(f)(4). If a debtor's hearing request is not timely, then the FLRA may suspend collection by administrative wage garnishment in accordance with the provisions of 31 CFR 285.11(f)(5). All travel expenses incurred by the debtor in connection with an in-person hearing will be borne by the debtor. If a hearing is conducted telephonically, all telephonic charges incurred during the hearing will be the responsibility of the agency.
(b) This section does not apply to Federal salary offset, the process by which the FLRA collects debts from the salaries of Federal employees (see § 2418.12).
§ 2418.14
How will the FLRA report FLRA debts to credit bureaus?
The FLRA shall report delinquent FLRA debts to credit bureaus in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(e), 31 CFR 901.4, and the Office of Management and Budget Circular A-129, “Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Nontax Receivables.” For additional information, see Financial Management Service's “Guide to the Federal Credit Bureau Program,” which may be found at
http://www.fms.treas.gov/debt.
At least sixty (60) days prior to reporting a delinquent debt to a consumer-reporting agency, the FLRA will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 2418.4. Before disclosing information to a consumer-reporting agency, the FLRA shall provide, on request of a person alleged to be responsible for the delinquent debt, for a review of the obligation of the debtor, including an opportunity for reconsideration of the initial decision on the debt. The FLRA may authorize the Financial Management Service to report to credit bureaus those delinquent FLRA debts that have been transferred to the Financial Management Service under § 2418.9.
§ 2418.15
How will the FLRA refer FLRA debts to private collection agencies?
The FLRA will transfer delinquent FLRA debts to the Financial Management Service to obtain debt-collection services provided by private collection agencies. See § 2418.9.
§ 2418.16
When will the FLRA refer FLRA debts to the Department of Justice?
(a)
Compromise or suspension or termination of collection activity.
The FLRA shall refer FLRA debts having a principal balance over $ 100,000, or such higher amount as authorized by the Attorney General, to the Department of Justice for approval of any compromise of a debt or suspension or termination of collection activity. See §§ 2418.7 and 2418.8; 31 CFR 902.1; 31 CFR 903.1.
(b)
Litigation.
The FLRA shall promptly refer to the Department of Justice for litigation delinquent FLRA debts on which aggressive collection activity has been taken in accordance with this part and that should not be compromised, and on which collection activity should not be suspended or terminated. See 31 CFR part 904. The FLRA may authorize the Financial Management Service to refer to the Department of Justice for litigation those delinquent FLRA debts that have been transferred to the Financial Management Service under § 2418.9.
§ 2418.17
How does a debtor request a special review based on a change in circumstances such as catastrophic illness, divorce, death, or disability?
(a)
Material change in circumstances.
A debtor who owes an FLRA debt may, at any time, request a special review by the FLRA of the amount of any offset, administrative wage garnishment, or
voluntary payment, based on materially changed circumstances beyond the control of the debtor such as, but not limited to, catastrophic illness, divorce, death, or disability.
(b)
Inability to pay.
For purposes of this section, in determining whether an involuntary or voluntary payment would prevent the debtor from meeting essential subsistence expenses (costs incurred for food, housing, clothing, transportation, and medical care), the debtor shall submit a detailed statement and supporting documents for the debtor, his or her spouse, and dependents, indicating:
(1) Income from all sources;
(2) Assets;
(3) Liabilities;
(4) Number of dependents;
(5) Expenses for food, housing, clothing, and transportation;
(6) Child-care or elder-care expenses;
(7) Medical expenses; and
(8) Exceptional expenses, if any.
(c)
Alternative payment arrangement.
If the debtor requests a special review under this section, the debtor shall submit an alternative proposed payment schedule and a statement to the FLRA, with supporting documents, showing why the current offset, garnishment, or repayment schedule imposes an extreme financial hardship on the debtor. The FLRA will evaluate the statement and documentation and determine whether the current offset, garnishment, or repayment schedule imposes extreme financial hardship on the debtor. The FLRA shall notify the debtor in writing of such determination, including, if appropriate, a revised offset, garnishment, or payment schedule. If the special review results in a revised offset, garnishment, or repayment schedule, then the FLRA will notify the appropriate agency or other persons about the new terms.
§ 2418.18
Will the FLRA issue a refund if money is erroneously collected on a debt?
The FLRA shall promptly refund to a debtor any amount collected on an FLRA debt when the debt is waived or otherwise found not to be owed to the United States, or as otherwise required by law. Refunds under this part shall not bear interest unless required by law.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Offset of FLRA Payments to Collect Debts Owed to Other Federal Agencies
§ 2418.19
How do other Federal agencies use the offset process to collect debts from payments issued by the FLRA?
(a)
Offset of FLRA payments to collect debts owed to other Federal agencies.
(1) In most cases, Federal agencies submit eligible debts to the Treasury Offset Program to collect delinquent debts from payments issued by the FLRA and other Federal agencies, a process known as “centralized offset.” When centralized offset is not available or appropriate, any Federal agency may ask the FLRA (when acting as a “payment agency”) to collect a debt owed to such agency by offsetting funds payable to a debtor by the FLRA, including salary payments issued to FLRA employees. This section and § 2418.20 apply when a Federal agency asks the FLRA to offset a payment issued by the FLRA to a person who owes a debt to the United States.
(2) This subpart does not apply to FLRA debts. See §§ 2418.10 through 2418.12 for offset procedures applicable to FLRA debts.
(3) This subpart does not apply to the collection of non-FLRA debts through tax refund offset. See 31 CFR 285.2 for tax-refund-offset procedures.
(b)
Administrative offset (including salary offset); certification.
The FLRA will initiate a requested offset only upon receipt of written certification from the creditor agency that the debtor owes the past-due, legally enforceable debt in the amount stated, and that the creditor agency has fully complied with all applicable due-process and other requirements contained in 31 U.S.C. 3716, 5 U.S.C. 5514, and the creditor agency's regulations, as applicable. Offsets will continue until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the creditor agency.
(c)
Where a creditor agency makes requests for offset.
Requests for offset under this section shall be sent to the Federal Labor Relations Authority,
ATTN: Office of the Executive Director, 1400 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20424.
(d)
Incomplete certification.
The FLRA will return an incomplete debt certification to the creditor agency with notice that the creditor agency must comply with paragraph (b) of this section before action will be taken to collect a debt from a payment issued by the FLRA.
(e)
Review.
The FLRA is not authorized to review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.
(f)
When the FLRA will not comply with offset request.
The FLRA will comply with the offset request of another agency unless the FLRA determines that the offset would not be in the best interests of the United States, or would otherwise be contrary to law.
(g)
Multiple debts.
When two or more creditor agencies are seeking offsets from payments made to the same person, or when two or more debts are owed to a single creditor agency, the FLRA may determine the order in which the debts will be collected or whether one or more debts should be collected by offset simultaneously.
(h)
Priority of debts owed to FLRA.
For purposes of this section, debts owed to the FLRA generally take precedence over debts owed to other agencies. The FLRA may determine whether to pay debts owed to other agencies before paying a debt owed to the FLRA. The FLRA will determine the order in which the debts will be collected based on the best interests of the United States.
§ 2418.20
What does the FLRA do upon receipt of a request to offset the salary of an FLRA employee to collect a debt owed by the employee to another Federal agency?
(a)
Notice to the FLRA employee.
When the FLRA receives proper certification of a debt owed by one of its employees, the FLRA will begin deductions from the employee's pay at the next officially established pay period. The FLRA will send a written notice to the employee indicating that a certified debt claim has been received from the creditor agency, the amount of the debt that the creditor agency claims is owed, the date deductions from salary will begin, and the amount of such deductions.
(b)
Amount of deductions from FLRA employee's salary.
The amount deducted under § 2418.19(b) will be the lesser of the amount of the debt certified by the creditor agency or an amount up to 15% of the debtor's disposable pay. Deductions shall continue until the FLRA knows that the debt is paid in full or until otherwise instructed by the creditor agency. Alternatively, the amount offset may be an amount that the debtor and the creditor agency agree upon in writing. See § 2418.12(g) (salary-offset process).
(c)
When the debtor is no longer employed by the FLRA
—(1)
Offset of final and subsequent payments.
If an FLRA employee retires or resigns or if his or her employment otherwise ends before collection of the debt is complete, then the FLRA will continue to offset, under 31 U.S.C. 3716, up to 100% of an employee's subsequent payments until the debt is paid or otherwise resolved. Such payments include a debtor's final salary payment, lump-sum leave payment, and other payments payable to the debtor by the FLRA. See 31 U.S.C. 3716 and 5 CFR 550.1104(l) and 550.1104(m).
(2)
Notice to the creditor agency.
If the employee is separated from the FLRA before the debt is paid in full, then the FLRA will certify to the creditor agency the total amount of its collection. If the FLRA is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar payments, then the FLRA will provide written notice to the agency making such payments that the debtor owes a debt (including the amount) and that the provisions of 5 CFR 550.1109 have been fully complied with. The creditor agency is responsible for submitting a certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before collection may begin. Generally, creditor agencies will collect such monies through the Treasury Offset Program as described in § 2418.9(c).
(3)
Notice to the debtor.
The FLRA will provide to the debtor a copy of any notices sent to the creditor agency under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(d)
When the debtor transfers to another Federal agency
—(1)
Notice to the creditor agency.
If the debtor transfers to another Federal agency before the debt is paid in full, then the FLRA will notify the creditor agency and will certify the total amount of its collection on the debt. The FLRA will provide a copy of the certification to the creditor agency. The creditor agency is responsible for submitting a certified claim to the debtor's new employing agency before collection may begin.
(2)
Notice to the debtor.
The FLRA will provide to the debtor a copy of any notices and certifications sent to the creditor agency under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(e)
Request for hearing official.
The FLRA will provide a hearing official upon the creditor agency's request with respect to an FLRA employee. See 5 CFR 550.1107(a).
Pt. 2418, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 2418—Waiving Claims Against FLRA Employees for Erroneous Payments
Date: May 1, 2015.
Subject: Waiving Claims Against FLRA Employees for Erroneous Payments.

# 1. Purpose
This appendix establishes the FLRA's policies and procedures for waiving claims by the Government against an employee for erroneous payments of: (1) Pay and allowances (e.g., health and life insurance) and (2) travel, transportation, and relocation expenses and allowances.

# 2. Background
a. 5 U.S.C. 5584 authorizes the waiver of claims by the United States in whole or in part against an employee arising out of erroneous payments of pay and allowances, travel, transportation, and relocation expenses and allowances. A waiver may be considered when collection of the claim would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interest of the United States, provided that there does not exist, in connection with the claim, an indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim.
b. The General Accounting Office Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-316), Title I, section 103(d), enacted October 19, 1996, amended 5 U.S.C. 5584 by transferring the authority to waive claims for erroneous payments exceeding $1,500 from the Comptroller General of the United States to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). OMB subsequently redelegated this waiver authority to the executive agency that made the erroneous payment. The authority to waive claims not exceeding $1,500, which was vested in the head of each agency prior to the enactment of Public Law 104-316, was unaffected by the Act.
c. 5 U.S.C. 5514 authorizes the head of each agency, upon a determination that an employee is indebted to the United States for debts to which the United States is entitled to be repaid at the time of the determination, to deduct up to 15%, or a greater amount if agreed to by the employee or a higher deduction has been ordered by a court under section 124 of Public Law 97-276 (96 Stat. 1195), from the employee's pay at officially established pay intervals in order to repay the debt.

# 3. Delegation
The Executive Director is delegated the authority to waive, in whole or in part, a claim of the United States against an employee for an erroneous payment of pay and allowances, travel, transportation, and relocation expenses and allowances, in accordance with the limitations and standards in 5 U.S.C. 5584.

# 4. Responsibilities
The Office of the Executive Director shall:
(1) Promptly notify an employee upon discovery of an erroneous payment to that employee;
(2) Promptly act to collect the erroneous overpayment, following established debt-collection policies and procedures;
(3) Establish time frames for employees to request a waiver in writing and for the Executive Director to review the waiver request. These time frames must take into consideration the responsibilities of the United States to take prompt action to pursue enforced collection on overdue debts, which may arise from erroneous payments.
(4) Notify employees whose requests for waiver of claims are denied in whole or in part of the basis for the denial.
(5) Pay a refund when appropriate if a waiver is granted;
(6) Fulfill all labor-relations responsibilities when implementing the provisions of this appendix; and
(7) Fulfill any other responsibility of the agency imposed by 5 U.S.C. 5584 or other applicable laws and regulations.
Additionally, the Office of the Executive Director may initiate a waiver application during the processing of a claim under 5 CFR part 2418.

# 5. Reporting Requirements
a. The FLRA shall maintain a register of waiver actions. The register shall cover each fiscal year and be prepared by December 31 of each year for the preceding fiscal year. The register shall contain the following information:
(1) The total amount waived by the FLRA;
(2) The number and dollar amount of waiver applications granted in full;
(3) The number and dollar amount of waiver applications granted in part and denied in part, and the dollar amount of each;
(4) The number and dollar amount of waiver applications denied in their entirety; and
(5) The number of waiver applications referred to the Executive Director for initial action.
b. The FLRA shall retain a written record of each waiver action for 6 years and 3 months. At a minimum, the written record shall contain:
(1) The FLRA's summary of the events surrounding the erroneous payment;
(2) Any written comments submitted by the employee from whom collection is sought;
(3) An account of the waiver action taken and the reasons for such action; and
(4) Other pertinent information such as any action taken to refund amounts repaid.

# 6. Effect of Request for Waiver
A request for a waiver of a claim shall not affect an employee's opportunity under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(2)(D) for a hearing on the determination of the agency concerning the existence or the amount of the debt, or the terms of the repayment schedule. A request by an employee for a hearing under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(2)(D) shall not affect an employee's right to request a waiver of the claim. The determination whether to waive a claim may be made at the discretion of the deciding official either before or after a final decision is rendered pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(2)(D) concerning the existence or the amount of the debt, or the terms of the repayment schedule.

# 7. Guidelines for Determining Requests
a. A request for a waiver shall not be granted if the deciding official determines there exists, in connection with the claim, an indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim. There are no exceptions to this rule for financial hardship or otherwise.
(1) “Fault” exists if, in light of all the circumstances, it is determined that the employee knew or should have known that an error existed, but failed to take action to have it corrected. Fault can derive from an act or a failure to act. Unlike fraud, fault does not require a deliberate intent to deceive. Whether an employee should have known about an error in pay is determined from the perspective of a reasonable person. Pertinent considerations in finding fault include whether:
(a) The payment resulted from the employee's incorrect, but not fraudulent, statement that the employee should have known was incorrect;
(b) The payment resulted from the employee's failure to disclose material facts that were in the employee's possession and that the employee should have known to be material; or
(c) The employee accepted a payment, that the employee knew or should have known to be erroneous.
(2) Every case must be examined in light of its particular facts. For example, where an employee is promoted to a higher grade but the step level for the employee's new grade is miscalculated, it may be appropriate to conclude that there is no fault on the employee's part because employees are not typically expected to be aware of and understand the rules regarding determination of step level upon promotion. On the other hand, a different conclusion as to fault potentially may be reached if the employee in question is a personnel specialist or an attorney who concentrates on personnel law.
b. If the deciding official finds an indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim, then the request for a waiver must be denied.
c. If the deciding official finds no indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim, then the employee is not automatically entitled to a waiver. Before a waiver can be granted, the deciding official must also determine that collection of the claim against an employee would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States. Factors to consider when determining whether collection of a claim against an employee would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States include, but are not limited to:
(1) Whether collection of the claim would cause serious financial hardship to the employee from whom collection is sought.
(2) Whether, because of the erroneous payment, the employee either has relinquished a valuable right or changed positions for the worse, regardless of the employee's financial circumstances.
(a) To establish that a valuable right has been relinquished, it must be shown that the right was, in fact, valuable; that it cannot be regained; and that the action was based chiefly or solely on reliance on the overpayment.
(b) To establish that the employee's position has changed for the worse, it must be shown that the decision would not have been made but for the overpayment, and that the decision resulted in a loss.
(c) An example of a “detrimental reliance” would be a decision to sign a lease for a more expensive apartment based chiefly or solely upon reliance on an erroneous calculation of salary, and the funds spent for rent cannot be recovered.
(3) The cost of collecting the claim equals or exceeds the amount of the claim;
(4) The time elapsed between the erroneous payment and discovery of the error and notification of the employee;
(5) Whether failure to make restitution would result in unfair gain to the employee;
(6) Whether recovery of the claim would be unconscionable under the circumstances.
d. The burden is on the employee to demonstrate that collection of the claim would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interest of the United States.

# 8. Authorities
a. 5 U.S.C. 5584, “Claims for Overpayment of Pay and Allowances, and of Travel, Transportation and Relocation Expenses and Allowances.”
b. 31 U.S.C. 3711, “Collection and Compromise.”
c. 31 U.S.C. 3716, “Administrative Offset.”
d. 31 U.S.C. 3717, “Interest and Penalty on Claims.”
e. 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, “Collection by Offset from Indebted Government Employees.”
f. 31 CFR part 5, subpart B, “Salary Offset.”
g. Determination with Respect to Transfer of Functions Pursuant to Public Law 104-316, OMB, December 17, 1996.

# 9. Cancellation
FLRA Internal Regulation 2790, dated December 29, 1986, is superseded.

# SUBCHAPTER C—FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY AND GENERAL COUNSEL OF THE FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY
Pt. 2420

# PART 2420—PURPOSE AND SCOPE

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 431; 5 U.S.C. 7134.
§ 2420.1
Purpose and scope.
The regulations contained in this subchapter are designed to implement the provisions of chapter 71 of title 5 and, where applicable, section 431 of title 3 of the United States Code. They prescribe the procedures, basic principles or criteria under which the Federal Labor Relations Authority or the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority, as applicable, will:
(a) Determine the appropriateness of units for labor organization representation under 5 U.S.C. 7112;
(b) Supervise or conduct elections to determine whether a labor organization has been selected as an exclusive representative by a majority of the employees in an appropriate unit and otherwise administer the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7111 relating to the according of exclusive recognition to labor organizations;
(c) Resolve issues relating to the granting of national consultation rights under 5 U.S.C. 7113;
(d) Resolve issues relating to determining compelling need for agency rules and regulations under 5 U.S.C. 7117(b);
(e) Resolve issues relating to the duty to bargain in good faith under 5 U.S.C. 7117(c);
(f) Resolve issues relating to the granting of consultation rights with respect to conditions of employment under 5 U.S.C. 7117(d);
(g) Conduct hearings and resolve complaints of unfair labor practices under 5 U.S.C. 7118;
(h) Resolve exceptions to arbitrators' awards under 5 U.S.C. 7122; and
(i) Take such other actions as are necessary and appropriate effectively to administer the provisions of chapter 71 of title 5 of the United States Code.
[45 FR 3497, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 63 FR 46158, Aug. 31, 1998]
Pt. 2421

# PART 2421—MEANING OF TERMS AS USED IN THIS SUBCHAPTER
Sec.
2421.1
Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
2421.2
Terms defined in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a); General Counsel; Assistant Secretary.
2421.3
National consultation rights; consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations; exclusive recognition; unfair labor practices.
2421.4
Activity.
2421.5
Primary national subdivision.
2421.6
Regional Director.
2421.7
Executive Director.
2421.8
Hearing Officer.
2421.9
Administrative Law Judge.
2421.10
Chief Administrative Law Judge.
2421.11
Party.
2421.12
Intervenor.
2421.13
Certification.
2421.14
Appropriate unit.
2421.15
Secret ballot.
2421.16
Showing of interest.
2421.17
Regular and substantially equivalent employment.
2421.18
Petitioner.
2421.19
Eligibility period.
2421.20
Election agreement.
2421.21
Affected by issues raised.
2421.22
Determinative challenged ballots.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 431; 5 U.S.C. 7134.

# Source:
45 FR 3497, Jan. 17, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2421.1
Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
The term
Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute
means chapter 71 of title 5 of the United States Code.
§ 2421.2
Terms defined in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a); General Counsel; Assistant Secretary.
(a) The terms
person, employee, agency, labor organization, dues, Authority, Panel, collective bargaining agreement, grievance, supervisor, management official, collective bargaining, confidential
employee, conditions of employment, professional employee, exclusive representative, firefighter,
and
United States,
as used in this subchapter shall have the meanings set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a). The terms
covered employee, employee, employing office,
and
agency,
when used in connection with the Presidential and Executive Office Accountability Act, 3 U.S.C. 401
et seq.,
shall have the meaning set out in 3 U.S.C. 401(b), and 431(b) and (d)(2). Employees who are employed in the eight offices listed in 3 U.S.C. 431(d)(2) shall be excluded from coverage if the Authority determines that such exclusion is required because of a conflict of interest, an appearance of a conflict of interest, or the President's or Vice President's constitutional responsibilities, in addition to the exemptions currently set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a).
(b) The term
General Counsel
means the General Counsel of the Authority.
(c) The term
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Labor-Management Relations.
[45 FR 3497, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 63 FR 46158, Aug. 31, 1998]
§ 2421.3
National consultation rights; consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations; exclusive recognition; unfair labor practices.
(a)
National consultation rights
has the meaning as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7113;
(b)
Consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations
has the meaning as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7117(d);
(c)
Exclusive recognition
has the meaning as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7111; and
(d)
Unfair labor practices
has the meaning as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7116.
§ 2421.4
Activity.
Activity
means any facility, organizational entity, or geographical subdivision or combination thereof, of any agency.
§ 2421.5
Primary national subdivision.
Primary national subdivision
of an agency means a first-level organizational segment which has functions national in scope that are implemented in field activities.
§ 2421.6
Regional Director.
Regional Director
means the Director of a region of the Authority with geographical boundaries as fixed by the Authority.
§ 2421.7
Executive Director.
Executive Director
means the Executive Director of the Authority.
§ 2421.8
Hearing Officer.
Hearing Officer
means the individual designated to conduct a hearing involving a question concerning the appropriateness of a unit or such other matters as may be assigned.
§ 2421.9
Administrative Law Judge.
Administrative Law Judge
means the Chief Administrative Law Judge or any Administrative Law Judge designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge to conduct a hearing in cases under 5 U.S.C. 7116, and such other matters as may be assigned.
§ 2421.10
Chief Administrative Law Judge.
Chief Administrative Law Judge
means the Chief Administrative Law Judge of the Authority.
§ 2421.11
Party.
Party
means:
(a) Any labor organization, employing agency or activity or individual filing a charge, petition, or request;
(b) Any labor organization or agency or activity
(1) Named as
(i) A charged party in a charge,
(ii) A respondent in a complaint, or
(iii) An employing agency or activity or an incumbent labor organization in a petition;
(2) Whose intervention in a proceeding has been permitted or directed by the Authority; or
(3) Who participated as a party
(i) In a matter that was decided by an agency head under 5 U.S.C. 7117, or
(ii) In a matter where the award of an arbitrator was issued; and
(c) The General Counsel, or the General Counsel's designated representative, in appropriate proceedings.
[60 FR 67291, Dec. 29, 1995]
§ 2421.12
Intervenor.
Intervenor
means a party in a proceeding whose intervention has been permitted or directed by the Authority, its agents or representatives.
§ 2421.13
Certification.
Certification
means the determination by the Authority, its agents or representatives, of the results of an election, or the results of a petition to consolidate existing exclusively recognized units.
§ 2421.14
Appropriate unit.
Appropriate unit
means that grouping of employees found to be appropriate for purposes of exclusive recognition under 5 U.S.C. 7111, and for purposes of allotments to representatives under 5 U.S.C. 7115(c), and consistent with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7112. In determining an appropriate unit in a proceeding under part 2422 of this Chapter, for the eight offices listed in 3 U.S.C. 431(d)(2), employees shall be excluded from the unit if it is determined that such exclusion is required because of a conflict of interest or appearance of a conflict of interest or because of the President's or Vice President's constitutional responsibilities, in addition to the standards set out in 5 U.S.C. 7112.
[63 FR 46158, Aug. 31, 1998]
§ 2421.15
Secret ballot.
Secret ballot
means the expression by ballot, voting machine or otherwise, but in no event by proxy, of a choice with respect to any election or vote taken upon any matter, which is cast in such a manner that the person expressing such choice cannot be identified with the choice expressed, except in that instance in which any determinative challenged ballot is opened.
§ 2421.16
Showing of interest.
Showing of interest
means evidence of membership in a labor organization; employees' signed and dated authorization cards or petitions authorizing a labor organization to represent them for purposes of exclusive recognition; allotment of dues forms executed by an employee and the labor organization's authorized official; current dues records; an existing or recently expired agreement; current exclusive recognition or certification; employees' signed and dated petitions or cards indicating that they no longer desire to be represented for the purposes of exclusive recognition by the currently recognized or certified labor organization; employees' signed and dated petitions or cards indicating a desire that an election be held on a proposed consolidation of units; or other evidence approved by the Authority.
§ 2421.17
Regular and substantially equivalent employment.
Regular and substantially equivalent employment
means employment that entails substantially the same amount of work, rate of pay, hours, working conditions, location of work, kind of work, and seniority rights, if any, of an employee prior to the cessation of employment in an agency because of any unfair labor practice under 5 U.S.C. 7116.
§ 2421.18
Petitioner.
Petitioner
means the party filing a petition under part 2422 of this subchapter.
[60 FR 67291, Dec. 29, 1995]
§ 2421.19
Eligibility period.
Eligibility period
means the payroll period during which an employee must be in an employment status with an agency or activity in order to be eligible to vote in a representation election under part 2422 of this subchapter.
[60 FR 67291, Dec. 29, 1995]
§ 2421.20
Election agreement.
Election agreement
means an agreement under part 2422 of this subchapter signed by all the parties, and approved by the Regional Director, concerning the details and procedures of a representation election in an appropriate unit.
[60 FR 67291, Dec. 29, 1995]
§ 2421.21
Affected by issues raised.
The phrase
affected by issues raised,
as used in part 2422, should be construed broadly to include parties and other
labor organizations, or agencies or activities that have a connection to employees affected by, or questions presented in, a proceeding.
[60 FR 67291, Dec. 29, 1995]
§ 2421.22
Determinative challenged ballots.
Determinative challenged ballots
are challenges that are unresolved prior to the tally and sufficient in number after the tally to affect the results of the election.
[60 FR 67291, Dec. 29, 1995]
Pt. 2422

# PART 2422—REPRESENTATION PROCEEDINGS
Sec.
2422.1
What is your purpose for filing a petition?
2422.2
Who may file a petition?
2422.3
What information should you include in your petition?
2422.4
What service requirements must you meet when filing a petition?
2422.5
Where do you file petitions?
2422.6
How are parties notified of the filing of a petition?
2422.7
Will an activity or agency post a notice of filing of a petition?
2422.8
What is required to file an intervention or cross-petition?
2422.9
How is the adequacy of a showing of interest determined?
2422.10
How do you challenge the validity of a showing of interest?
2422.11
How do you challenge the status of a labor organization?
2422.12
What circumstances does the Region consider to determine whether your petition is timely filed?
2422.13
How are issues raised by your petition resolved?
2422.14
What is the effect of your withdrawal or the Regional Director's dismissal of a petition?
2422.15
Do parties have a duty to provide information and cooperate after a petition is filed?
2422.16
May parties enter into election agreements, and if they do not will the Regional Director direct an election?
2422.17
What are a notice of hearing and prehearing conference?
2422.18
What is the purpose of a representation hearing and what procedures are followed?
2422.19
When is it appropriate for a party to file a motion at a representation hearing?
2422.20
What rights do parties have at a hearing?
2422.21
What are the duties and powers of a Hearing Officer?
2422.22
What are objections and exceptions concerning the conduct of the hearing?
2422.23
What election procedures are followed?
2422.24
What are challenged ballots?
2422.25
When does the Region tally the ballots?
2422.26
How are objections to the election processed?
2422.27
How does the Region address determinative challenged ballots and objections?
2422.28
When is a runoff election required?
2422.29
How does the Region address an inconclusive election?
2422.30
When does a Regional Director investigate a petition, issue notices of hearings, take actions, and issue Decisions and Orders?
2422.31
When do you file an application for review of a Regional Director Decision and Order?
2422.32
When does a Regional Director issue a certification or a revocation of certification?
2422.33
Relief under part 2423 of this chapter.
2422.34
What are the parties' rights and obligations when a representation proceeding is pending?

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 431; 5 U.S.C. 7134.

# Source:
77 FR 37752, June 25, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2422.1
What is your purpose for filing a petition?
You, the petitioner, may file a petition for the following purposes:
(a)
Elections or eligibility for dues allotment.
To request:
(1)(i) An election to determine whether employees in an appropriate unit wish to be represented for the purpose of collective bargaining by an exclusive representative, and/or
(ii) A determination of eligibility for dues allotment in an appropriate unit without an exclusive representative; or
(2) An election to determine whether employees in a unit no longer wish to be represented for the purpose of collective bargaining by an exclusive representative.
(3) Petitions under this subsection must be accompanied by an appropriate showing of interest.
(b)
Clarification or amendment.
To clarify, and/or amend:
(1) A recognition or certification then in effect; and/or
(2) Any other matter relating to representation.
(c)
Consolidation.
To consolidate two or more units, with or without an election, in an agency where a labor organization is the exclusive representative.
§ 2422.2
Who may file a petition?
An individual; a labor organization; two or more labor organizations acting as a joint-petitioner; an individual acting on behalf of any employee(s); an agency or activity; or a combination of the above may file a representation petition. But,
(a) Only a labor organization may file a petition under § 2422.1(a)(1);
(b) Only an individual may file a petition under § 2422.1(a)(2); and
(c) Only an agency or a labor organization may file a petition under § 2422.1(b) or (c).
§ 2422.3
What information should you include in your petition?
(a) You must file a petition either in writing with your signature or electronically using the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at
www.flra.gov.
Your petition must provide the following information on a form designated by the Authority, or on a substantially similar form, or electronically using the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at
www.flra.gov:
(1) The name and mailing address for each agency or activity affected by issues raised in the petition, including street number, city, state and zip code.
(2) The name, mailing address and work telephone number, fax number and email address (if known) of the contact person for each agency or activity affected by issues raised in the petition.
(3) The name and mailing address for each labor organization affected by issues raised in the petition, including street number, city, state and zip code. If a labor organization is affiliated with a national organization, the local designation and the national affiliation should both be included. If a labor organization is an exclusive representative of any of the employees affected by issues raised in the petition, the date of the recognition or certification and the date any collective bargaining agreement covering the unit will expire or when the most recent agreement did expire should be included, if known.
(4) The name, mailing address and work telephone number, fax number and email address (if known) of the contact person for each labor organization affected by issues raised in the petition.
(5) Your name and mailing address, including street number, city, state and zip code, and fax number and email address. If you are a labor organization affiliated with a national organization, the local designation and the national affiliation should both be included.
(6) A description of the unit(s) affected by issues raised in the petition. The description should generally indicate the geographic locations and the classifications of the employees included (or sought to be included) in, and excluded (or sought to be excluded) from, the unit.
(7) The approximate number of employees in the unit(s) affected by issues raised in the petition.
(8) A clear and concise statement of the issues raised by the petition and the results the petitioner seeks.
(9) A declaration by the person signing the petition, under the penalties of the Criminal Code (18 U.S.C. 1001), that the contents of the petition are true and correct to the best of the person's knowledge and belief.
(10) The title, mailing address and telephone number of the person filing the petition.
(b)
Certification of compliance with 5 U.S.C. 7111(e).
A labor organization/petitioner complies with 5 U.S.C. 7111(e) by submitting to the agency or activity and to the Department of Labor a roster of its officers and representatives, a copy of its constitution and bylaws, and a statement of its objectives. By signing the petition form, the labor organization/petitioner certifies that it has submitted these documents to the activity or agency and to the Department of Labor.
(c)
Showing of interest supporting a representation petition (defined at 5 U.S.C. 2421.16).
When filing a petition requiring a showing of interest, you must:
(1) So indicate on the petition form;
(2) Submit with the petition a showing of interest of not less than thirty percent (30%) of the employees in the unit involved in the petition; and
(3) Include an alphabetical list of the names constituting the showing of interest.
(d)
Petition seeking dues allotment.
When there is no exclusive representative, a petition seeking certification for dues allotment must be accompanied by a showing of membership in the petitioner of not less than ten percent (10%) of the employees in the unit claimed to be appropriate. An alphabetical list of names constituting the showing of membership must be submitted.
§ 2422.4
What service requirements must you meet when filing a petition?
You must serve every petition, motion, brief, request, challenge, written objection, or application for review on all parties affected by issues raised in the filing. The service must include all supporting documentation, with the exceptions of a showing of interest, evidence supporting challenges to the validity of a showing of interest, and evidence supporting objections to an election. You must submit a statement of service to the Regional Director.
§ 2422.5
Where do you file petitions?
(a)
Where to file.
You must file a petition with the Regional Director for the region in which the unit or employee(s) affected by issues raised in the petition are located. If the unit(s) or employees are located in two or more regions of the Authority, you must file the petitions with the Regional Director for the region where the headquarters of the agency or activity is located.
(b)
Method of filing.
You may file a petition with the Regional Director in person or by commercial delivery, first class mail, facsimile, certified mail, or electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at
www.flra.gov.
If you file electronically or by facsimile transmission you are not required to file an original copy of the petition with the Region. You assume responsibility for the Regional Director's receipt of a petition.
(c)
Date of filing.
When a Regional Director receives a petition, it is deemed filed. A petition filed during business hours by facsimile or electronic means is deemed received on the business day on which it is received (either by the Regional Office fax machine or by the eFiling system), until midnight local time in the Region where it is filed. But when a Region receives a petition by any other method after the close of business day, it will be deemed received and docketed on the next business day. The business hours for each of the Regional Offices are set forth at
http://www.flra.gov.
§ 2422.6
How are parties notified of the filing of a petition?
(a)
Notification to parties.
After you file a petition the Regional Director will notify any labor organization, agency, or activity identified as being affected by issues raised by the petition, that a petition has been filed. The Regional Director will also make reasonable efforts to identify and notify any other party affected by the issues raised by the petition.
(b)
Contents of the notification.
The notification will inform the labor organization, agency, or activity of:
(1) Your name (the petitioner);
(2) The description of the unit(s) or employees affected by issues raised in the petition; and,
(3) A statement that all affected parties should advise the Regional Director in writing of their interest in the issues raised in the petition.
§ 2422.7
Will an activity or agency post a notice of filing of a petition?
(a)
Posting notice of petition.
After you file a petition, when appropriate, the Regional Director will direct the agency or activity to post copies of a notice to all employees in places where notices are normally posted for the employees affected by issues raised in the petition and/or distribute copies of a notice in a manner by which notices are normally distributed.
(b)
Contents of notice.
The notice must advise affected employees about the petition.
(c)
Duration of notice.
The notice must be conspicuously posted for a period of ten (10) days and must not be altered, defaced, or covered by other material.
§ 2422.8
What is required to file an intervention or cross-petition?
(a)
Cross-petitions.
A cross-petition is a petition that involves any employees in a unit covered by a pending representation petition. If you file a cross-petition, it must be filed under the requirements of this subpart.
(b)
Intervention requests and cross-petitions.
(1) You may file a request to intervene, along with any necessary showing of interest, with either the Regional Director or the Hearing Officer. This must be filed either in person, or by commercial delivery, first-class mail, certified mail or facsimile. You must file a request to intervene before the hearing opens, unless you show good cause for granting an extension. If no hearing is held, you must file a request to intervene before action is taken under § 2422.30.
(2) You may file a cross-petition, along with any necessary showing of interest, with either the Regional Director or the Hearing Officer. This must be filed electronically through the use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at
www.flra.gov
or, in person, by commercial delivery, first-class mail, certified mail or facsimile. Any cross-petition must be filed before the hearing opens, unless you show good cause for granting an extension. If no hearing is held, you must file a cross-petition before action is taken under § 2422.30.
(c)
Labor organization intervention requests.
Except for incumbent intervenors, a labor organization seeking to intervene must submit a statement that it has complied with 5 U.S.C. 7111(e) and one of the following:
(1) A showing of interest of ten percent (10%) or more of the employees in the unit covered by a petition seeking an election, with an alphabetical list of the names of the employees establishing the showing of interest; or
(2) A current or recently expired collective bargaining agreement covering any of the employees in the unit affected by issues raised in the petition; or
(3) Evidence that it is or was, before a reorganization, the recognized or certified exclusive representative of any of the employees affected by issues raised in the petition.
(d)
Incumbent.
An incumbent exclusive representative, without regard to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, will be considered a party in any representation proceeding raising issues that affect employees the incumbent represents, unless it serves the Regional Director with a written disclaimer of any representation interest in the claimed unit.
(e)
Employing agency.
An agency or activity will be considered a party if any of its employees are affected by issues raised in the petition.
(f)
Agency or activity intervention.
An agency or activity seeking to intervene in any representation proceeding must submit evidence that one or more employees of the agency or activity may be affected by issues raised in the petition.
§ 2422.9
How is the adequacy of a showing of interest determined?
(a)
Adequacy.
Adequacy of a showing of interest refers to the percentage of employees in the unit involved as required by §§ 2422.3(c) and (d) and 2422.8(c)(1).
(b)
Regional Director investigation of showing of interest and Decision and Order.
The Regional Director will conduct an investigation if deemed appropriate. A Regional Director's determination that the showing of interest is adequate is final and binding and not subject to collateral attack at a representation hearing or on appeal to the Authority. If the Regional Director determines that a showing of interest is inadequate, the Regional Director will issue a Decision and Order dismissing the petition, or denying a request for intervention.
§ 2422.10
How do you challenge the validity of a showing of interest?
(a)
Validity.
Validity questions are raised by challenges to a showing of interest on grounds other than adequacy.
(b)
Validity challenge.
The Regional Director or any party may challenge the validity of a showing of interest.
(c)
When and where validity challenges may be filed.
Your challenges to the validity of a showing of interest must be in writing and filed with the Regional Director or the Hearing Officer before the hearing opens, unless you show good cause for granting an extension. If no hearing is held, you must file challenges to the validity of a showing of interest before action is taken under § 2422.30.
(d)
Contents of validity challenges.
Your challenges to the validity of a showing of interest must be supported with evidence.
(e)
Regional Director investigation and Decision and Order.
The Regional Director will conduct an investigation if deemed appropriate. The Regional Director's determination that a showing of interest is valid is final and binding and is not subject to collateral attack or appeal to the Authority. If the Regional Director finds that the showing of interest is not valid, the Regional Director will issue a Decision and Order dismissing the petition or denying the request to intervene.
§ 2422.11
How do you challenge the status of a labor organization?
(a)
Basis of challenge to labor organization status.
Non-compliance with 5 U.S.C. 7103(a)(4) is the only basis on which you may challenge the status of a labor organization.
(b)
Format and time for filing a challenge.
If you file a challenge to the status of a labor organization involved in the processing of a petition you must do so in writing to the Regional Director or the Hearing Officer before the hearing opens, unless you show good cause for granting an extension. If no hearing is held, you must file challenges before action is taken under § 2422.30.
§ 2422.12
What circumstances does the Region consider to determine whether your petition is timely filed?
(a)
Election bar.
Where there is no certified exclusive representative, a petition seeking an election will not be considered timely if filed within twelve (12) months of a valid election involving the same unit or a subdivision of the same unit.
(b)
Certification bar.
Where there is a certified exclusive representative of employees, a petition seeking an election will not be considered timely if filed within twelve (12) months after the certification of the exclusive representative of the employees in an appropriate unit. If a collective bargaining agreement covering the claimed unit is pending agency head review under 5 U.S.C. 7114(c) or is in effect, paragraphs (c), (d), or (e) of this section apply.
(c)
Bar during 5 U.S.C. 7114(c) agency head review.
A petition seeking an election will not be considered timely if filed during the period of agency head review under 5 U.S.C. 7114(c). This bar expires upon either the passage of thirty (30) days absent agency head action, or upon the date of any timely agency head action.
(d)
Contract bar where the contract is for three (3) years or less.
Where a collective bargaining agreement is in effect covering the claimed unit and has a term of three (3) years or less from the date it became effective, a petition seeking an election will be considered timely if filed not more than one hundred and five (105) and not less than sixty (60) days before the expiration of the agreement.
(e)
Contract bar where the contract is for more than three (3) years.
Where a collective bargaining agreement is in effect covering the claimed unit and has a term of more than three (3) years from the date on which it became effective, a petition seeking an election will be considered timely if filed not more than one hundred and five (105) and not less than sixty (60) days before the expiration of the initial three (3) year period, and any time after the expiration of the initial three (3) year period.
(f)
Unusual circumstances.
A petition seeking an election or a determination relating to representation matters may be filed at any time when unusual circumstances exist that substantially affect the unit or majority representation.
(g)
Premature extension.
Where a collective bargaining agreement with a term of three (3) years or less has been
extended before sixty (60) days before its expiration date, the extension will not serve as a basis for dismissal of a petition seeking an election filed in accordance with this section.
(h)
Contract requirements.
Collective bargaining agreements, including agreements that go into effect under 5 U.S.C. 7114(c) and those that automatically renew without further action by the parties, are not a bar to a petition seeking an election under this section unless a clear effective date, renewal date where applicable, duration, and termination date are ascertainable from the agreement and relevant accompanying documentation.
§ 2422.13
How are issues raised by your petition resolved?
(a)
Meetings before filing a representation petition.
All parties affected by the representation issues that may be raised in a petition are encouraged to meet before the filing of the petition to discuss their interests and narrow and resolve the issues. If requested by all parties, a representative of the appropriate Regional Office will participate in these meetings.
(b)
Meetings to narrow and resolve the issues after the petition is filed.
The Regional Director may require all affected parties to meet to narrow and resolve the issues raised in the petition.
§ 2422.14
What is the effect of your withdrawal or the Regional Director's dismissal of a petition?
(a)
Withdrawal/dismissal less than sixty (60) days before contract expiration.
(1) If you withdraw a timely filed petition seeking an election, or the Regional Director dismisses the petition less than sixty (60) days before the existing agreement between the incumbent exclusive representative and the agency or activity expires, or any time after the agreement expires, another petition that seeks an election will not be considered timely if filed within a ninety (90) day period beginning with either:
(i) The date on which the Regional Director approves the withdrawal; or
(ii) The date on which the Regional Director dismisses the petition when the Authority does not receive an application for review; or
(iii) The date on which the Authority rules on an application for review.
(2) Other pending petitions that have been timely filed under this part will continue to be processed.
(b)
Withdrawal by petitioner.
If you submit a withdrawal request for a petition seeking an election that the Regional Director receives after the notice of hearing issues or after approval of an election agreement, whichever occurs first, you will be barred from filing another petition seeking an election for the same unit or any subdivision of the unit for six (6) months from the date on which the Regional Director approves the withdrawal.
(c)
Withdrawal by incumbent.
When an election is not held because the incumbent disclaims any representation interest in a unit, an incumbent's petition seeking an election involving the same unit or a subdivision of the same unit will be considered untimely if filed within six (6) months of cancellation of the election.
§ 2422.15
Do parties have a duty to provide information and cooperate after a petition is filed?
(a)
Relevant information.
After you file a petition, all parties must, upon request of the Regional Director, provide the Regional Director and serve all parties affected by issues raised in the petition with information concerning parties, issues, and agreements raised in or affected by the petition.
(b)
Inclusions and exclusions.
After you file a petition seeking an election, the Regional Director may direct the agency or activity to provide the Regional Director and all parties affected by issues raised in the petition with a current alphabetized list of employees and job classifications included in and/or excluded from the existing or claimed unit affected by issues raised in the petition.
(c)
Cooperation.
All parties are required to cooperate in every aspect of the representation process. This obligation includes cooperating fully with the Regional Director, submitting all required and requested information, and participating in prehearing conferences and hearings. The Regional
Director may take appropriate action, including dismissal of the petition or denial of intervention, if parties fail to cooperate in the representation process.
§ 2422.16
May parties enter into election agreements, and if they do not will the Regional Director direct an election?
(a)
Election agreements.
Parties are encouraged to enter into election agreements.
(b)
Regional Director directed election.
If the parties are unable to agree on procedural matters, specifically, the eligibility period, method of election, dates, hours, or locations of the election, the Regional Director will decide election procedures and issue a Direction of Election, without prejudice to the rights of a party to file objections to the procedural conduct of the election.
(c)
Opportunity for a hearing.
Before directing an election, the Regional Director must provide affected parties an opportunity for a hearing on non-procedural matters, and then may:
(1) Issue a Decision and Order; or
(2) If there are no questions regarding unit appropriateness, issue a Direction of Election without a Decision and Order.
(d)
Challenges or objections to a directed election.
A Direction of Election issued under this section will be issued without prejudice to the right of a party to file a challenge to the eligibility of any person participating in the election and/or objections to the election.
§ 2422.17
What are a notice of hearing and prehearing conference?
(a)
Purpose of notice of a hearing.
The Regional Director may issue a notice of hearing involving any issues raised in the petition.
(b)
Contents.
The notice of hearing will advise affected parties about the hearing. The Regional Director will also notify affected parties of the issues raised in the petition and establish a date for the prehearing conference.
(c)
Prehearing conference.
A prehearing conference will be conducted by the Hearing Officer, either by meeting or teleconference. All parties must participate in a prehearing conference and be prepared to fully discuss, narrow, and resolve the issues set forth in the notification of the prehearing conference.
(d)
No interlocutory appeal of hearing determination.
A party may not appeal to the Authority a Regional Director's determination of whether to issue a notice of hearing.
§ 2422.18
What is the purpose of a representation hearing and what procedures are followed?
(a)
Purpose of a hearing.
Representation hearings are considered investigatory and not adversarial. The purpose of the hearing is to develop a full and complete record of relevant and material facts.
(b)
Conduct of hearing.
Hearings will be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the Hearing Officer. There is no burden of proof, with the exception of proceedings on objections to elections under § 2422.27(b). Formal rules of evidence do not apply.
(c)
Hearing officer.
The Regional Director appoints a hearing officer to conduct a hearing. Another hearing officer may be substituted for the presiding Hearing Officer at any time.
(d)
Transcript.
An official reporter will make the official transcript of the hearing. Copies of the official transcript may be examined in the appropriate Regional Office during normal working hours. Parties should contact the official hearing reporter to purchase copies of the official transcript.
§ 2422.19
When is it appropriate for a party to file a motion at a representation hearing?
(a)
Purpose of a motion.
After the Regional Director issues a Notice of Hearing in a representation proceeding, a party who seeks a ruling, an order, or relief must do so by filing or raising a motion stating the order or relief sought and the grounds in support. The Regional Director or Hearing Officer may treat challenges and other filings referenced in other sections of this subpart as a motion.
(b)
Prehearing motions.
Parties must file prehearing motions in writing with the Regional Director. Any response
must be filed with the Regional Director within five (5) days after service of the motion. The Regional Director may rule on the motion or refer the motion to the Hearing Officer.
(c)
Motions made at the hearing.
During the hearing, parties may make oral motions on the record to the Hearing Officer unless required to be in writing. Responses may be oral on the record or in writing, but must be provided before the hearing closes, absent permission of the Hearing Officer. When appropriate, the Hearing Officer will rule on motions made at the hearing or referred to the Hearing Officer by the Regional Director.
(d)
Posthearing motions.
Parties must file motions made after the hearing closes in writing with the Regional Director. Any response to a posthearing motion must be filed with the Regional Director within five (5) days after service of the motion.
§ 2422.20
What rights do parties have at a hearing?
(a)
Rights.
A party at a hearing will have the right:
(1) To appear in person or by a representative;
(2) To examine and cross-examine witnesses; and
(3) To introduce into the record relevant evidence.
(b)
Documentary evidence and stipulations.
Parties must submit two (2) copies of documentary evidence to the Hearing Officer and copies to all other parties. Stipulations of fact between the parties may be introduced into evidence.
(c)
Oral argument.
Parties will have a reasonable period before the close of the hearing for oral argument. Presentation of a closing oral argument does not preclude a party from filing a brief under paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Briefs.
A party will be given an opportunity to file a brief with the Regional Director.
(1) A party must file an original and two (2) copies of a brief with the Regional Director within thirty (30) days from the close of the hearing.
(2) No later than five (5) days before the date the brief is due a party must file and the Regional Director must receive a written request for an extension of time to file a brief.
(3) Absent the Regional Director's permission, parties may not file a reply brief.
§ 2422.21
What are the duties and powers of the Hearing Officer?
(a)
Duties of the Hearing Officer.
The Hearing Officer receives evidence and inquires fully into the relevant and material facts concerning the matters that are the subject of the hearing. The Hearing Officer may make recommendations on the record to the Regional Director.
(b)
Powers of the Hearing Officer.
After the Regional Director assigns a case to a Hearing Officer and before the close of the hearing, the Hearing Officer may take any action necessary to schedule, conduct, continue, control, and regulate the hearing, including ruling on motions when appropriate.
§ 2422.22
What are objections and exceptions concerning the conduct of the hearing?
(a)
Objections.
Objections are oral or written complaints concerning the conduct of a hearing.
(b)
Exceptions to rulings.
There are automatic exceptions to all adverse rulings.
§ 2422.23
What election procedures are followed?
(a)
Regional Director conducts or supervises election.
The Regional Director will decide to either conduct or supervise the election. In supervised elections, agencies will perform all acts as specified in the Election Agreement or Direction of Election.
(b)
Notice of election.
Before the election the activity posts a notice of election, prepared by the Regional Director. The notice is posted in places where notices to employees are customarily posted and/or distributed in a manner by which notices are normally distributed. The notice of election contains the details and procedures of the election, including the appropriate unit, the eligibility period, the date(s), hour(s) and location(s) of the election, a sample ballot, and the effect of the vote.
(c)
Sample ballot.
The reproduction of any document that claims to be a copy of the official ballot and that suggests either directly or indirectly to employees that the Authority endorses a particular choice in the election may constitute grounds for setting aside an election if objections are filed under § 2422.26.
(d)
Secret ballot.
All elections are by secret ballot.
(e)
Intervenor withdraws from ballot.
When two or more labor organizations are included as choices in an election, an intervening labor organization may, before the approval of an election agreement or before the direction of an election, file a written request with the Regional Director to remove its name from the ballot. If the Regional Director does not receive the request before the approval of an election agreement or before the direction of an election, the intervening labor organization will remain on the ballot, unless the parties and the Regional Director agree otherwise. The Regional Director's decision on the request is final, and no party may file an application for review with the Authority.
(f)
Incumbent withdrawal from ballot in an election to decertify an incumbent representative.
When there is no intervening labor organization, an election to decertify an incumbent exclusive representative is not held if the incumbent provides the Regional Director with a written disclaimer of any representation interest in the unit. When there is an intervenor, an election is held if the intervening labor organization proffers a thirty percent (30%) showing of interest within the time period established by the Regional Director.
(g)
Petitioner withdraws from ballot in an election.
When there is no intervening labor organization, an election is not held if the petitioner provides the Regional Director with a written request to withdraw the petition. When there is an intervenor, an election is held if the intervening labor organization presents a thirty percent (30%) showing of interest within the time period established by the Regional Director.
(h)
Observers.
Subject to the Regional Director's approval, all parties may select representatives to observe at the polling location(s).
(1) A party who wants to name observers must file a written request with specific names with the Regional Director. This must be filed at least fifteen (15) days before an election. The Regional Director may grant an extension of time to file a request for named observers for good cause where a party requests an extension or on the Regional Director's own motion. The request must name and identify the observers requested.
(2) An agency or activity may use as its observers any employees who are not eligible to vote in the election, except:
(i) Supervisors or management officials;
(ii) Employees who have any official connection with any of the labor organizations involved; or
(iii) Non-employees of the Federal government.
(3) A labor organization may use as its observers any employees eligible to vote in the election, except:
(i) Employees on leave without pay status who are working for the labor organization involved; or
(ii) Employees who hold an elected office in the union.
(4) Within five (5) days after service of the request for observers, any party that objects must file an objection with the Regional Director that states the reasons.
(5) The Regional Director's ruling on requests for and objections to observers is final and binding, and parties may not file an application for review with the Authority.
§ 2422.24
What are challenged ballots?
(a)
Filing challenges.
A party or the Regional Director may, for good cause, challenge the eligibility of any person to participate in the election.
(b)
Challenged ballot procedure.
An individual whose eligibility to vote is in dispute will be given the opportunity to vote a challenged ballot. If the parties and the Region are unable to resolve the challenged ballot(s) before the tally of ballots, the Region will impound and preserve the unresolved challenged ballot(s) until the Regional
Director makes a determination, if necessary.
§ 2422.25
When does the Region tally the ballots?
(a)
Tallying the ballots.
When the election is concluded, the Regional Director will tally the ballots.
(b)
Service of the tally.
When the tally is completed, the Regional Director will serve the tally of ballots on the parties in accordance with the election agreement or direction of election.
(c)
Valid ballots cast.
Representation will be determined by the majority of the valid ballots cast.
§ 2422.26
How are objections to the election processed?
(a)
Filing objections to the election.
Any party may file objections to the procedural conduct of the election or to conduct that may have improperly affected the results of the election. A party must file an objection and the Regional Director must receive it within five (5) days after the tally of ballots has been served. Any objections must be timely regardless of whether the challenged ballots are sufficient in number to affect the results of the election. The objections must be supported by clear and concise reasons. A party must file an original and two (2) copies of the objections.
(b)
Supporting evidence.
The objecting party must file evidence, including signed statements, documents, and other materials supporting the objections, with the Regional Director within ten (10) days after the party files the objections.
§ 2422.27
How does the Region address determinative challenged ballots and objections?
(a)
Investigation.
The Regional Director investigates objections and/or determinative challenged ballots that are sufficient in number to affect the results of the election.
(b)
Burden of proof.
An objecting party bears the burden of proof on objections by a preponderance of the evidence. However, no party bears the burden of proof on challenged ballots.
(c)
Regional Director action.
After investigation, the Regional Director takes appropriate action consistent with § 2422.30.
(d)
Consolidated hearing on objections and/or determinative challenged ballots and an unfair labor practice hearing.
When appropriate, and under § 2422.33, a Regional Director may consolidate objections and/or determinative challenged ballots with an unfair labor practice hearing. An Administrative Law Judge conducts these consolidated hearings, except the following provisions do not apply:
(1) Sections 2423.18 and 2423.19(j) of this subchapter concerning the burden of proof and settlement conferences are not applicable;
(2) The Administrative Law Judge may not recommend remedial action to be taken or notices to be posted as provided by § 2423.26(a) of this subchapter.
(e)
Party exceptions filed with the Authority.
A party may file exceptions and related submissions with the Authority, and the Authority then issues a decision under part 2423 of this chapter.
§ 2422.28
When is a runoff election required?
(a)
When a runoff may be held.
A runoff election is required in an election involving at least three (3) choices, one of which is “no union” or “neither,” when no choice receives a majority of the valid ballots cast. However, a runoff may not be held until the Regional Director has ruled on objections to the election and determinative challenged ballots.
(b)
Eligibility.
Employees who were eligible to vote in the original election and who are also eligible on the date of the runoff election may vote in the runoff election.
(c)
Ballot.
The ballot in the runoff election will provide for a selection between the two choices receiving the highest and second highest number of votes in the election.
§ 2422.29
How does the Region address an inconclusive election?
(a)
Inconclusive elections.
An inconclusive election is one where challenged ballots are not sufficient to affect the outcome of the election and one of the following occurs:
(1) The ballot provides for at least three (3) choices, one of which is “no
union” or “neither,” and the votes are equally divided; or
(2) The ballot provides for at least three (3) choices, the choice receiving the highest number of votes does not receive a majority, and at least two other choices receive the next highest and same number of votes; or
(3) When a runoff ballot provides for a choice between two labor organizations and results in the votes being equally divided; or
(4) When the Regional Director determines that there have been significant procedural irregularities.
(b)
Eligibility to vote in a rerun election.
The Region uses the latest payroll period to determine eligibility to vote in a rerun election.
(c)
Ballot.
If the Regional Director determines that the election is inconclusive, the election will be rerun with all the choices that appeared on the original ballot.
(d)
Number of reruns.
There will be only one rerun of an inconclusive election. If the rerun results in another inconclusive election, the tally of ballots will show a majority of valid ballots has not been cast for any choice, and the Regional Director will issue a certification of results. If necessary, a runoff may be held when an original election is rerun.
§ 2422.30
When does a Regional Director investigate a petition, issue notices of hearings, take actions, and issue Decisions and Orders?
(a)
Regional Director investigation.
The Regional Director will investigate the petition and any other matter as the Regional Director deems necessary.
(b)
Regional Director notice of hearing.
The Regional Director will issue a notice of hearing to inquire into any matter about which a material issue of fact exists, and any time there is reasonable cause to believe a question exists regarding unit appropriateness.
(c)
Regional Director action.
After investigation or hearing, the Regional Director can direct an election, or approve an election agreement, or issue a Decision and Order.
(d)
Appeal of Regional Director Decision and Order.
A party may file with the Authority an application for review of a Regional Director Decision and Order.
(e)
Contents of the Record.
When there has not been a hearing all material submitted to and considered by the Regional Director during the investigation becomes a part of the record. When a hearing has been held, the transcript and all material entered into evidence, including any posthearing briefs, become a part of the record.
§ 2422.31
When do you file an application for review of a Regional Director Decision and Order?
(a)
Filing an application for review.
A party must file an application for review with the Authority within sixty (60) days of the Regional Director's Decision and Order. The sixty (60) day time limit under 5 U.S.C. 7105(f) may not be extended or waived. The filing party must serve a copy on the Regional Director and all other parties, and must also file a statement of service with the Authority.
(b)
Contents.
An application for review must be sufficient for the Authority to rule on the application without looking at the record. However, the Authority may, in its discretion, examine the record in evaluating the application. An application must specify the matters and rulings to which exception(s) is taken, include a summary of evidence relating to any issue raised in the application, and make specific references to page citations in the transcript if a hearing was held. An application may not raise any issue or rely on any facts not timely presented to the Hearing Officer or Regional Director.
(c)
Review.
The Authority may grant an application for review only when the application demonstrates that review is warranted on one or more of the following grounds:
(1) The decision raises an issue for which there is an absence of precedent;
(2) Established law or policy warrants reconsideration; or,
(3) There is a genuine issue over whether the Regional Director has:
(i) Failed to apply established law;
(ii) Committed a prejudicial procedural error; or
(iii) Committed a clear and prejudicial error concerning a substantial factual matter.
(d)
Opposition.
A party may file with the Authority an opposition to an application for review within ten (10) days after the party is served with the application. The opposing party must serve a copy on the Regional Director and all other parties, and must also file a statement of service with the Authority.
(e)
Regional Director Decision and Order becomes the Authority's action.
A Decision and Order of a Regional Director becomes the action of the Authority when:
(1) No party files an application for review with the Authority within sixty (60) days after the date of the Regional Director's Decision and Order; or
(2) A party files a timely application for review with the Authority and the Authority does not undertake to grant review of the Regional Director's Decision and Order within sixty (60) days of the filing of the application; or
(3) The Authority denies an application for review of the Regional Director's Decision and Order.
(f)
Authority grant of review and stay.
The Authority may rule on the issue(s) in an application for review in its order granting the application for review. Neither filing nor granting an application for review will stay any action ordered by the Regional Director unless specifically ordered by the Authority.
(g)
Briefs if review is granted.
If the Authority does not rule on the issue(s) in the application for review in its order granting review, the Authority may, in its discretion, give the parties an opportunity to file briefs. The briefs will be limited to the issue(s) referenced in the Authority's order granting review.
§ 2422.32
When does a Regional Director issue a certification or a revocation of certification?
(a)
Certifications.
The Regional Director issues an appropriate certification when:
(1) After an election, runoff, or rerun,
(i) No party files an objection or challenged ballots are not determinative, or
(ii) The Region decides and resolves objections and determinative challenged ballots; or
(2) The Regional Director issues a Decision and Order requiring a certification and the Decision and Order becomes the action of the Authority under § 2422.31(e) or the Authority directs the issuance of a certification.
(b)
Revocations.
Without prejudice to any rights and obligations that may exist under the Statute, the Regional Director revokes a recognition or certification, as appropriate, and provides a written statement of reasons when:
(1) An incumbent exclusive representative files, during a representation proceeding, a disclaimer of any representational interest in the unit; or
(2) Due to a substantial change in the character and scope of the unit, the unit is no longer appropriate and an election is not warranted.
§ 2422.33
Relief under part 2423 of this chapter.
Remedial relief that was or could have been obtained as a result of a motion, objection, or challenge filed or raised under this subpart, may not be the basis for similar relief under part 2423 of this chapter: But related matters may be consolidated for hearing as noted in § 2422.27(d) of this subpart.
§ 2422.34
What are the parties' rights and obligations when a representation proceeding is pending?
(a)
Existing recognitions, agreements, and obligations under the Statute.
When a representation proceeding is pending, parties must maintain existing recognitions, follow the terms and conditions of existing collective bargaining agreements, and fulfill all other representational and bargaining responsibilities under the Statute.
(b)
Unit status of individual employees.
A party may take action based on its position regarding the bargaining unit status of individual employees, under 3 U.S.C. 431(d)(2), 5 U.S.C. 7103(a)(2), and 7112(b) and (c). But its actions may be challenged, reviewed, and remedied where appropriate.
Pt. 2423

# PART 2423—UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICE PROCEEDINGS
Sec.
2423.0
Applicability of this part.

# Subpart A—Filing, Investigating, Resolving, and Acting on Charges
2423.1
Can a Regional Office help the parties resolve unfair labor practice disputes before a Regional Director decides whether to issue a complaint?
2423.2
What Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) services does the OGC provide?
2423.3
Who may file charges?
2423.4
What must you state in the charge and what supporting evidence and documents should you submit?
2423.5
[Reserved]
2423.6
What is the process for filing and serving copies of charges?
2423.7
[Reserved]
2423.8
How are charges investigated?
2423.9
How are charges amended?
2423.10
What actions may the Regional Director take with regard to your charge?
2423.11
What happens if a Regional Director decides not to issue a complaint?
2423.12
What types of settlements of unfair labor practice charges are possible after a Regional Director decides to issue a complaint but before issuance of a complaint?
2423.13-2423.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Post Complaint, Prehearing Procedures
2423.20
Issuance and contents of the complaint; answer to the complaint; amendments; role of Office of the Administrative Law Judges.
2423.21
Motions procedure.
2423.22
Intervenors.
2423.23
Prehearing disclosure.
2423.24
Powers and duties of the Administrative Law Judge during prehearing proceedings.
2423.25
Post complaint, prehearing settlements.
2423.26
Stipulations of fact submissions.
2423.27
Summary judgment motions.
2423.28
Subpoenas.
2423.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Hearing Procedures
2423.30
General rules.
2423.31
Powers and duties of the Administrative Law Judge at the hearing.
2423.32
Burden of proof before the Administrative Law Judge.
2423.33
Posthearing briefs.
2423.34
Decision and record.
2423.35-2423.39
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Post-Transmission and Exceptions to Authority Procedures
2423.40
Exceptions; oppositions and cross-exceptions; oppositions to cross-exceptions; waiver.
2423.41
Action by the Authority; compliance with Authority decisions and orders.
2423.42
Backpay proceedings.
2423.43-2423.49
[Reserved]

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 431; 5 U.S.C. 7134.

# Source:
62 FR 40916, July 31, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2423.0
Applicability of this part.
This part applies to any unfair labor practice cases that are pending or filed with the FLRA on or after July 25, 2012.
[77 FR 37759, June 25, 2012]

# Subpart A—Filing, Investigating, Resolving, and Acting on Charges

# Source:
77 FR 37759, June 25, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2423.1
Can a Regional Office help the parties resolve unfair labor practice disputes before a Regional Director decides whether to issue a complaint?
(a)
Resolving unfair labor practice disputes before filing a charge.
The purposes and policies of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute (Statute) can best be achieved by the collaborative efforts of all persons covered by that law. The General Counsel encourages all persons to meet and, in good faith, attempt to resolve unfair labor practice disputes before filing unfair labor practice charges. If requested, and the parties agree, a representative of the Regional Office, in appropriate circumstances, may participate in these meetings to assist the parties to identify the issues and their interests and to resolve the dispute. Parties' attempts to resolve unfair labor practice disputes before filing an unfair labor practice charge do not toll the time limitations for filing a charge set forth at 5 U.S.C. 7118(a)(4).
(b)
Resolving unfair labor practice disputes after filing a charge.
The General Counsel encourages the informal resolution of unfair labor practice allegations after a charge is filed and before
the Regional Director makes a merit determination. A representative of the appropriate Regional Office, as part of the investigation, may assist the parties in informally resolving their dispute.
§ 2423.2
What Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) services does the OGC provide?
(a)
Purpose of ADR services.
The Office of the General Counsel furthers its mission and implements the agency-wide Federal Labor Relations Authority Collaboration and Alternative Dispute Resolution Program by promoting stable and productive labor-management relationships governed by the Statute and by providing services that assist labor organizations and agencies, on a voluntary basis, to:
(1) Develop collaborative labor-management relationships;
(2) Avoid unfair labor practice disputes; and
(3) Informally resolve unfair labor practice disputes.
(b)
Types of ADR Services.
Agencies and labor organizations may jointly request, or agree to, the provision of the following services by the Office of the General Counsel:
(1)
Facilitation.
Assisting the parties in improving their labor-management relationship as governed by the Statute;
(2)
Intervention.
Intervening when parties are experiencing or expect significant unfair labor practice disputes;
(3)
Training.
Training labor organization officials and agency representatives on their rights and responsibilities under the Statute and how to avoid litigation over those rights and responsibilities, and on using problem-solving and ADR skills, techniques, and strategies to resolve informally unfair labor practice disputes; and
(4)
Education.
Working with the parties to recognize the benefits of, and establish processes for, avoiding unfair labor practice disputes, and resolving any unfair labor practice disputes that arise by consensual, rather than adversarial, methods.
(c)
ADR services after initiation of an investigation.
As part of processing an unfair labor practice charge, the Office of the General Counsel may suggest to the parties, as appropriate, that they may benefit from these ADR services.
§ 2423.3
Who may file charges?
(a)
Filing charges.
Any person may charge an activity, agency, or labor organization with having engaged in, or engaging in, any unfair labor practice prohibited under 5 U.S.C. 7116.
(b)
Charging Party.
Charging Party means the individual, labor organization, activity, or agency filing an unfair labor practice charge with a Regional Director.
(c)
Charged Party.
Charged Party means the activity, agency, or labor organization charged with allegedly having engaged in, or engaging in, an unfair labor practice.
§ 2423.4
What must you state in the charge and what supporting evidence and documents should you submit?
(a)
What to file.
You, the Charging Party, may file a charge alleging a violation of 5 U.S.C. 7116 by providing the following information on a form designated by the General Counsel, or on a substantially similar form, or electronically through the use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at
www.flra.gov,
or by facsimile transmission:
(1) The Charging Party's name and mailing address, including street number, city, state, and zip code;
(2) The Charged Party's name and mailing address, including street number, city, state, and zip code;
(3) The Charging Party's point of contact's name, address, telephone number, facsimile number, if known, and email address, if known;
(4) The Charged Party's point of contact's name, address, telephone number, facsimile number, if known, and email address, if known;
(5) A clear and concise statement of the facts alleged to constitute an unfair labor practice, a statement of how those facts allegedly violate specific section(s) and paragraph(s) of the Statute, and the date and place of occurrence of the particular acts; and
(6) A statement whether the subject matter raised in the charge:
(i) Has been raised previously in a grievance procedure;
(ii) Has been referred to the Federal Service Impasses Panel, the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Merit Systems Protection Board, or the Office of Special Counsel for consideration or action;
(iii) Involves a negotiability issue that you raised in a petition pending before the Authority under part 2424 of this subchapter; or
(iv) Has been the subject of any other administrative or judicial proceeding.
(7) A statement describing the result or status of any proceeding identified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
(b)
When and how to file.
Under 5 U.S.C. 7118(a)(4), a charge alleging an unfair labor practice must be in writing and signed or filed electronically using the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at
www.flra.gov.
It is normally filed within six (6) months of its occurrence unless one of the two (2) circumstances described under paragraph (B) of 5 U.S.C. 7118(a)(4) applies.
(c)
Declarations of truth and statement of service.
A charge must also contain a declaration by the individual signing the charge, under the penalties of the Criminal Code (18 U.S.C. 1001), that its contents are true and correct to the best of that individual's knowledge and belief.
(d)
Statement of service.
You must also state that you served the charge on the Charged Party, and you must list the name, title and location of the individual served, and the method of service.
(e)
Self-contained document.
A charge must be a self-contained document describing the alleged unfair labor practice without a need to refer to supporting evidence and documents submitted under paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)
Submitting supporting evidence and documents and identifying potential witnesses.
When filing a charge, you must submit to the Regional Director any supporting evidence and documents, including, but not limited to, correspondence and memoranda, records, reports, applicable collective bargaining agreement clauses, memoranda of understanding, minutes of meetings, applicable regulations, statements of position, and other documentary evidence. You also must identify potential witnesses with contact information (telephone number, email address, and facsimile number) and provide a brief synopsis of their expected testimony.
§ 2423.5
[Reserved]
§ 2423.6
What is the process for filing and serving copies of charges?
(a)
Where to file.
You must file the charge with the Regional Director for the region in which the alleged unfair labor practice has occurred or is occurring. A charge alleging that an unfair labor practice has occurred or is occurring in two or more regions may be filed with the Regional Director in any of those regions.
(b)
Date of filing.
When a Regional Director receives a charge, it is deemed filed. A charge filed during business hours by facsimile or electronic means is deemed received on the business day on which it is received (either by the Regional Office fax machine or by the eFiling system), until midnight local time in the Region where it is filed. But when a Region receives a charge after the close of the business day by any other method, it will be deemed received and docketed on the next business day. The business hours for each of the Regional Offices are set forth at
http://www.FLRA.gov.
(c)
Method of filing.
You may file a charge with the Regional Director in person or by commercial delivery, first class mail, certified mail, facsimile, or electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at
www.flra.gov.
If filing by facsimile transmission or by electronic means, you are not required to file an original copy of the charge with the Region. You assume responsibility for the Regional Director's receipt of a charge. Supporting evidence and documents must be submitted to the Regional Director in person, by commercial delivery, first class mail, certified mail, facsimile transmission, or through the FLRA's eFiling system.
(d)
Service of the charge.
You must serve a copy of the charge (without supporting evidence and documents) on the Charged Party. Where facsimile equipment is available, you may serve the charge by facsimile transmission,
as paragraph (c) of this section discusses. Alternatively, you may serve the charge by electronic mail (“email”), but only if the Charged Party has agreed to be served by email. The Region routinely serves a copy of the charge on the Charged Party, but you remain responsible for serving the charge, consistent with the requirements in this paragraph.
§ 2423.7
[Reserved]
§ 2423.8
How are charges investigated?
(a)
Investigation.
The Regional Director, on behalf of the General Counsel, conducts an investigation of the charge as deemed necessary. During the course of the investigation, all parties involved are given an opportunity to present their evidence and views to the Regional Director.
(b)
Cooperation.
The purposes and policies of the Statute can best be achieved by the parties' full cooperation and their timely submission of all relevant information from all potential sources during the investigation. All persons must cooperate fully with the Regional Director in the investigation of charges. A failure to cooperate during the investigation of a charge may provide grounds to dismiss a charge for failure to produce evidence supporting the charge. Cooperation includes any of the following actions, when deemed appropriate by the Regional Director:
(1) Making union officials, employees, and agency supervisors and managers available to give sworn/affirmed testimony regarding matters under investigation;
(2) Producing documentary evidence pertinent to the matters under investigation;
(3) Providing statements of position on the matters under investigation; and
(4) Responding to an agent's communications during an investigation in a timely manner.
(c)
Investigatory subpoenas.
If a person fails to cooperate with the Regional Director in the investigation of a charge, the General Counsel, upon recommendation of a Regional Director, may decide in appropriate circumstances to issue a subpoena under 5 U.S.C. 7132 for the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary or other evidence. However, no subpoena, which requires the disclosure of intramanagement guidance, advice, counsel, or training within an agency or between an agency and the Office of Personnel Management, will issue under this section.
(1) A subpoena can only be served by any individual who is at least 18 years old and who is not a party to the proceeding. The individual who served the subpoena must certify that he or she did so:
(i) By delivering it to the witness in person;
(ii) By registered or certified mail; or
(iii) By delivering the subpoena to a responsible individual (named in the document certifying the delivery) at the residence or place of business (as appropriate) of the person for whom the subpoena was intended. The subpoena must show on its face the name and address of the Regional Director and the General Counsel.
(2) Any person served with a subpoena who does not intend to comply must, within 5 days after the date of service of the subpoena upon such person, petition in writing to revoke the subpoena. A copy of any petition to revoke must be served on the General Counsel.
(3) The General Counsel must revoke the subpoena if the witness or evidence, the production of which is required, is not material and relevant to the matters under investigation or in question in the proceedings, or the subpoena does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence the production of which is required, or if for any other reason sufficient in law the subpoena is invalid. The General Counsel must state the procedural or other grounds for the ruling on the petition to revoke. The petition to revoke becomes part of the official record if there is a hearing under subpart C of this part.
(4) Upon the failure of any person to comply with a subpoena issued by the General Counsel, the General Counsel must determine whether to institute proceedings in the appropriate district court for the enforcement of the subpoena. Enforcement must not be
sought if to do so would be inconsistent with law, including the Statute.
(d)
Confidentiality.
It is the General Counsel's policy to protect the identity of individuals who submit statements and information during the investigation, and to protect against the disclosure of documents obtained during the investigation, to ensure the General Counsel's ability to obtain all relevant information. However, after a Regional Director issues a complaint and when necessary to prepare for a hearing, the Region may disclose the identification of witnesses, a synopsis of their expected testimony, and documents proposed to be offered into evidence at the hearing, as required by the prehearing disclosure requirements in § 2423.23.
§ 2423.9
How are charges amended?
Before the issuance of a complaint, the Charging Party may amend the charge under the requirements set forth in § 2423.6.
§ 2423.10
What actions may the Regional Director take with regard to your charge?
(a)
Regional Director action.
The Regional Director, on behalf of the General Counsel, may take any of the following actions, as appropriate:
(1) Approve a request to withdraw a charge;
(2) Dismiss a charge;
(3) Approve a written settlement agreement under § 2423.12;
(4) Issue a complaint; or
(5) Withdraw a complaint.
(b)
Request for appropriate temporary relief.
Parties may request the General Counsel to seek appropriate temporary relief (including a restraining order) under 5 U.S.C. 7123(d). The General Counsel may initiate and prosecute injunctive proceedings under 5 U.S.C. 7123(d) only upon approval of the Authority. A determination by the General Counsel not to seek approval of the Authority to seek temporary relief is final and cannot be appealed to the Authority.
(c)
General Counsel requests to the Authority.
When a complaint issues and the Authority approves the General Counsel's request to seek appropriate temporary relief (including a restraining order) under 5 U.S.C. 7123(d), the General Counsel may make application for appropriate temporary relief (including a restraining order) in the district court of the United States within which the unfair labor practice is alleged to have occurred or in which the party sought to be enjoined resides or transacts business. The General Counsel may seek temporary relief if it is just and proper and the record establishes probable cause that an unfair labor practice is being committed. Temporary relief will not be sought if it would interfere with the ability of the agency to carry out its essential functions.
(d)
Actions subsequent to obtaining appropriate temporary relief.
The General Counsel must inform the district court that granted temporary relief under 5 U.S.C. 7123(d) whenever an Administrative Law Judge recommends dismissal of the complaint, in whole or in part.
§ 2423.11
What happens if a Regional Director decides not to issue a complaint?
(a)
Opportunity to withdraw a charge.
If the Regional Director determines that the charge has not been timely filed, that the charge fails to state an unfair labor practice, or for other appropriate reasons, the Regional Director may request the Charging Party to withdraw the charge.
(b)
Dismissal letter.
If the Charging Party does not withdraw the charge within a reasonable period of time, the Regional Director will dismiss the charge and provide the parties with a written statement of the reasons for not issuing a complaint.
(c)
Appeal of a dismissal letter.
The Charging Party may obtain review of the Regional Director's decision to dismiss a charge by filing an appeal with the General Counsel, either in writing or by email to
ogc.appeals@flra.gov,
within 25 days after the Regional Director served the decision. A Charging Party must serve a copy of the appeal on the Regional Director. The General Counsel must serve notice on the Charged Party that the Charging Party has filed an appeal.
(d)
Extension of time.
The Charging Party may file a request, either in writing or by email to
ogc.appeals@flra.gov,
for an extension of
time to file an appeal, which must be received by the General Counsel not later than five (5) days before the date the appeal is due. A Charging Party must serve a copy of the request for an extension of time on the Regional Director.
(e)
Grounds for granting an appeal.
The General Counsel may grant an appeal when the appeal establishes at least one of the following grounds:
(1) The Regional Director's decision did not consider material facts that would have resulted in issuance of a complaint;
(2) The Regional Director's decision is based on a finding of a material fact that is clearly erroneous;
(3) The Regional Director's decision is based on an incorrect statement or application of the applicable rule of law;
(4) There is no Authority precedent on the legal issue in the case; or
(5) The manner in which the Region conducted the investigation has resulted in prejudicial error.
(f)
General Counsel action.
The General Counsel may deny the appeal of the Regional Director's dismissal of the charge, or may grant the appeal and remand the case to the Regional Director to take further action. The General Counsel's decision on the appeal states the grounds listed in paragraph (e) of this section for denying or granting the appeal, and is served on all the parties. Absent a timely motion for reconsideration, the General Counsel's decision is final.
(g)
Reconsideration.
After the General Counsel issues a final decision, the Charging Party may move for reconsideration of the final decision if it can establish extraordinary circumstances in its moving papers. The motion must be filed within 10 days after the date on which the General Counsel's final decision is postmarked. A motion for reconsideration must state with particularity the extraordinary circumstances claimed and must be supported by appropriate citations. The decision of the General Counsel on a motion for reconsideration is final.
§ 2423.12
What types of settlements of unfair labor practice charges are possible after a Regional Director decides to issue a complaint but before issuance of a complaint?
(a)
Bilateral informal settlement agreement.
Before issuing a complaint, the Regional Director may give the Charging Party and the Charged Party a reasonable period of time to enter into an informal settlement agreement to be approved by the Regional Director. When a Charged Party complies with the terms of an informal settlement agreement approved by the Regional Director, no further action is taken in the case. If the Charged Party fails to perform its obligations under the approved informal settlement agreement, the Regional Director may institute further proceedings.
(b)
Unilateral informal settlement agreement.
If the Charging Party elects not to become a party to a bilateral settlement agreement, which the Regional Director concludes fulfills the policies of the Statute, the Regional Director may choose to approve a unilateral settlement between the Regional Director and the Charged Party. The Regional Director, on behalf of the General Counsel, must issue a letter stating the grounds for approving the settlement agreement and declining to issue a complaint. The Charging Party may obtain review of the Regional Director's action by filing an appeal with the General Counsel under § 2423.11(c) and (d). The General Counsel may grant an appeal when the Charging Party has shown that the Regional Director's approval of a unilateral settlement agreement does not fulfill the purposes and policies of the Statute. The General Counsel must take action on the appeal as set forth in § 2423.11(b) through (g).
§§ 2423.13-2423.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Post Complaint, Prehearing Procedures
§ 2423.20
Issuance and contents of the complaint; answer to the complaint; amendments; role of Office of Administrative Law Judges.
(a)
Complaint.
Whenever formal proceedings are deemed necessary, the Regional Director shall file and serve, in accordance with § 2429.12 of this subchapter, a complaint with the Office of Administrative Law Judges. The decision to issue a complaint shall not be subject to review. Any complaint may be withdrawn by the Regional Director prior to the hearing. The complaint shall set forth:
(1) Notice of the charge;
(2) The basis for jurisdiction;
(3) The facts alleged to constitute an unfair labor practice;
(4) The particular sections of 5 U.S.C., chapter 71 and the rules and regulations involved;
(5) Notice of the date, time, and place that a hearing will take place before an Administrative Law Judge; and
(6) A brief statement explaining the nature of the hearing.
(b)
Answer.
Within 20 days after the date of service of the complaint, but in any event, prior to the beginning of the hearing, the Respondent shall file and serve, in accordance with part 2429 of this subchapter, an answer with the Office of Administrative Law Judges. The answer shall admit, deny, or explain each allegation of the complaint. If the Respondent has no knowledge of an allegation or insufficient information as to its truthfulness, the answer shall so state. Absent a showing of good cause to the contrary, failure to file an answer or respond to any allegation shall constitute an admission. Motions to extend the filing deadline shall be filed in accordance with § 2423.21.
(c)
Amendments.
The Regional Director may amend the complaint at any time before the answer is filed. The Respondent then has 20 days from the date of service of the amended complaint to file an answer with the Office of Administrative Law Judges. Prior to the beginning of the hearing, the answer may be amended by the Respondent within 20 days after the answer is filed. Thereafter, any requests to amend the complaint or answer must be made by motion to the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
(d)
Office of Administrative Law Judges.
Pleadings, motions, conferences, hearings, and other matters throughout as specified in subparts B, C, and D of this part shall be administered by the Office of Administrative Law Judges, as appropriate. The Chief Administrative Law Judge, or any Administrative Law Judge designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge, shall administer any matters properly submitted to the Office of Administrative Law Judges. Throughout subparts B, C, and D of this part, “Administrative Law Judge” or “Judge” refers to the Chief Administrative Law Judge or his or her designee.
§ 2423.21
Motions procedure.
(a)
General requirements.
All motions, except those made during a prehearing conference or hearing, shall be in writing. Motions for an extension of time, postponement of a hearing, or any other procedural ruling shall include a statement of the position of the other parties on the motion. All written motions and responses in subparts B, C, or D of this part shall satisfy the filing and service requirements of part 2429 of this subchapter.
(b)
Motions made to the Administrative Law Judge.
Prehearing motions and motions made at the hearing shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge. Unless otherwise specified in subparts B or C of this part, or otherwise directed or approved by the Administrative Law Judge:
(1) Prehearing motions shall be filed at least 10 days prior to the hearing, and responses shall be filed within 5 days after the date of service of the motion;
(2) Responses to motions made during the hearing shall be filed prior to the close of hearing;
(3) Posthearing motions shall be filed within 10 days after the date the hearing closes, and responses shall be filed within 5 days after the date of service of the motion; and
(4) Motions to correct the transcript shall be filed with the Administrative
Law Judge within 10 days after receipt of the transcript, and responses shall be filed within 5 days after the date of service of the motion.
(c)
Post-transmission motions.
After the case has been transmitted to the Authority, motions shall be filed with the Authority. Responses shall be filed within 5 days after the date of service of the motion.
(d)
Interlocutory appeals.
Motions for an interlocutory appeal of any ruling and responses shall be filed in accordance with this section and § 2423.31(c).
§ 2423.22
Intervenors.
Motions for permission to intervene and responses shall be filed in accordance with § 2423.21. Such motions shall be granted upon a showing that the outcome of the proceeding is likely to directly affect the movant's rights or duties. Intervenors may participate only: on the issues determined by the Administrative Law Judge to affect them; and to the extent permitted by the Judge. Denial of such motions may be appealed pursuant to § 2423.21(d).
§ 2423.23
Prehearing disclosure.
Unless otherwise directed or approved by the Judge, the parties shall exchange, in accordance with the service requirements of § 2429.27(b) of this subchapter, the following items at least 14 days prior to the hearing:
(a)
Witnesses.
Proposed witness lists, including a brief synopsis of the expected testimony of each witness;
(b)
Documents.
Copies of documents, with an index, proposed to be offered into evidence; and
(c)
Theories.
A brief statement of the theory of the case, including relief sought, and any and all defenses to the allegations in the complaint.
§ 2423.24
Powers and duties of the Administrative Law Judge during prehearing proceedings.
(a)
Prehearing procedures.
The Administrative Law Judge shall regulate the course and scheduling of prehearing matters, including prehearing orders, conferences, disclosure, motions, and subpoena requests.
(b)
Changing date, time, or place of hearing.
After issuance of the complaint or any prehearing order, the Administrative Law Judge may, in the Judge's discretion or upon motion by any party through the motions procedure in § 2423.21, change the date, time, or place of the hearing.
(c)
Prehearing order.
(1) The Administrative Law Judge may, in the Judge's discretion or upon motion by any party through the motions procedure in § 2423.21, issue a prehearing order confirming or changing:
(i) The date, time, or place of the hearing;
(ii) The schedule for prehearing disclosure of witness lists and documents intended to be offered into evidence at the hearing;
(iii) The date for submission of procedural and substantive motions;
(iv) The date, time, and place of the prehearing conference; and
(v) Any other matter pertaining to prehearing or hearing procedures.
(2) The prehearing order shall be served in accordance with § 2429.12 of this subchapter.
(d)
Prehearing conferences.
The Administrative Law Judge shall conduct one or more prehearing conferences, either by telephone or in person, at least 7 days prior to the hearing date, unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that a prehearing conference would serve no purpose and no party has moved for a prehearing conference in accordance with § 2423.21. If a prehearing conference is held, all parties must participate in the prehearing conference and be prepared to discuss, narrow, and resolve the issues set forth in the complaint and answer, as well as any prehearing disclosure matters or disputes. When necessary, the Administrative Law Judge shall prepare and file for the record a written summary of actions taken at the conference. Summaries of the conference shall be served on all parties in accordance with § 2429.12 of this subchapter. The following may also be considered at the prehearing conference:
(1) Settlement of the case, either by the Judge conducting the prehearing conference or pursuant to § 2423.25;
(2) Admissions of fact, disclosure of contents and authenticity of documents, and stipulations of fact;
(3) Objections to the introduction of evidence at the hearing, including oral
or written testimony, documents, papers, exhibits, or other submissions proposed by a party;
(4) Subpoena requests or petitions to revoke subpoenas;
(5) Any matters subject to official notice;
(6) Outstanding motions; or
(7) Any other matter that may expedite the hearing or aid in the disposition of the case.
(e)
Sanctions.
The Administrative Law Judge may, in the Judge's discretion or upon motion by any party through the motions procedure in § 2423.21, impose sanctions upon the parties as necessary and appropriate to ensure that a party's failure to fully comply with subpart B or C of this part is not condoned. Such authority includes, but is not limited to, the power to:
(1) Prohibit a party who fails to comply with any requirement of subpart B or C of this part from, as appropriate, introducing evidence, calling witnesses, raising objections to the introduction of evidence or testimony of witnesses at the hearing, presenting a specific theory of violation, seeking certain relief, or relying upon a particular defense.
(2) Refuse to consider any submission that is not filed in compliance with subparts B or C of this part.
§ 2423.25
Post complaint, prehearing settlements.
(a)
Informal and formal settlements.
Post complaint settlements may be either informal or formal.
(1) Informal settlement agreements provide for withdrawal of the complaint by the Regional Director and are not subject to approval by or an order of the Authority. If the Respondent fails to perform its obligations under the informal settlement agreement, the Regional Director may reinstitute formal proceedings consistent with this subpart.
(2) Formal settlement agreements are subject to approval by the Authority, and include the parties' agreement to waive their right to a hearing and acknowledgment that the Authority may issue an order requiring the Respondent to take action appropriate to the terms of the settlement. The formal settlement agreement shall also contain the Respondent's consent to the Authority's application for the entry of a decree by an appropriate federal court enforcing the Authority's order.
(b)
Informal settlement procedure.
If the Charging Party and the Respondent enter into an informal settlement agreement that is accepted by the Regional Director, the Regional Director shall withdraw the complaint and approve the informal settlement agreement. If the Charging Party fails or refuses to become a party to an informal settlement agreement offered by the Respondent, and the Regional Director concludes that the offered settlement will effectuate the policies of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the Regional Director shall enter into the agreement with the Respondent and shall withdraw the complaint. The Charging Party then may obtain a review of the Regional Director's action by filing an appeal with the General Counsel as provided in subpart A of this part.
(c)
Formal settlement procedure.
If the Charging Party and the Respondent enter into a formal settlement agreement that is accepted by the Regional Director, the Regional Director shall withdraw the complaint upon approval of the formal settlement agreement by the Authority. If the Charging Party fails or refuses to become a party to a formal settlement agreement offered by the Respondent, and the Regional Director concludes that the offered settlement will effectuate the policies of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the agreement shall be between the Respondent and the Regional Director. The formal settlement agreement together with the Charging Party's objections, if any, shall be submitted to the Authority for approval. The Authority may approve a formal settlement agreement upon a sufficient showing that it will effectuate the policies of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
(d)
Settlement judge program.
The Administrative Law Judge, in the Judge's discretion or upon the request of any party, may assign a judge or other appropriate official, who shall be other
than the hearing judge unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the parties, to conduct negotiations for settlement.
(1) The settlement official shall convene and preside over settlement conferences by telephone or in person.
(2) The settlement official may require that the representative for each party be present at settlement conferences and that the parties or agents with full settlement authority be present or available by telephone.
(3) The settlement official shall not discuss any aspect of the case with the hearing judge.
(4) No evidence regarding statements, conduct, offers of settlement, and concessions of the parties made in proceedings before the settlement official shall be admissible in any proceeding before the Administrative Law Judge or Authority, except by stipulation of the parties.
§ 2423.26
Stipulations of fact submissions.
(a)
General.
When all parties agree that no material issue of fact exists, the parties may jointly submit a motion to the Administrative Law Judge or Authority requesting consideration of the matter based upon stipulations of fact. Briefs of the parties are required and must be submitted within 30 days of the joint motion. Upon receipt of the briefs, such motions shall be ruled upon expeditiously.
(b)
Stipulations to the Administrative Law Judge.
Where the stipulation adequately addresses the appropriate material facts, the Administrative Law Judge may grant the motion and decide the case through stipulation.
(c)
Stipulations to the Authority.
Where the stipulation provides an adequate basis for application of established precedent and a decision by the Administrative Law Judge would not assist in the resolution of the case, or in unusual circumstances, the Authority may grant the motion and decide the case through stipulation.
(d)
Decision based on stipulation.
Where the motion is granted, the Authority will adjudicate the case and determine whether the parties have met their respective burdens based on the stipulation and the briefs.
§ 2423.27
Summary judgment motions.
(a)
Motions.
Any party may move for a summary judgment in its favor on any of the issues pleaded. Unless otherwise approved by the Administrative Law Judge, such motion shall be made no later than 10 days prior to the hearing. The motion shall demonstrate that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. Such motions shall be supported by documents, affidavits, applicable precedent, or other appropriate materials.
(b)
Responses.
Responses must be filed within 5 days after the date of service of the motion. Responses may not rest upon mere allegations or denials but must show, by documents, affidavits, applicable precedent, or other appropriate materials, that there is a genuine issue to be determined at the hearing.
(c)
Decision.
If all issues are decided by summary judgment, no hearing will be held and the Administrative Law Judge shall prepare a decision in accordance with § 2423.34. If summary judgment is denied, or if partial summary judgment is granted, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an opinion and order, subject to interlocutory appeal as provided in § 2423.31(c) of this subchapter, and the hearing shall proceed as necessary.
§ 2423.28
Subpoenas.
(a)
When necessary.
Where the parties are in agreement that the appearance of witnesses or the production of documents is necessary, and such witnesses agree to appear, no subpoena need be sought.
(b)
Requests for subpoenas.
A request for a subpoena by any person, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a)(1), shall be in writing and filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges not less than 10 days prior to the hearing, or with the Administrative Law Judge during the hearing. Requests for subpoenas made less than 10 days prior to the hearing shall be granted on sufficient explanation of why the request was not timely filed.
(c)
Subpoena procedures.
The Office of Administrative Law Judges, or any
other employee of the Authority designated by the Authority, as appropriate, shall furnish the requester the subpoenas sought, provided the request is timely made. Requests for subpoenas may be made ex parte. Completion of the specific information in the subpoena and the service of the subpoena are the responsibility of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued.
(d)
Service of subpoena.
A subpoena may be served by any person who is at least 18 years old and who is not a party to the proceeding. The person who served the subpoena must certify that he or she did so:
(1) By delivering it to the witness in person,
(2) By registered or certified mail, or
(3) By delivering the subpoena to a responsible person (named in the document certifying the delivery) at the residence or place of business (as appropriate) of the person for whom the subpoena was intended. The subpoena shall show on its face the name and address of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued.
(e)(1)
Petition to revoke subpoena.
Any person served with a subpoena who does not intend to comply shall, within 5 days after the date of service of the subpoena upon such person, petition in writing to revoke the subpoena. A copy of any petition to revoke a subpoena shall be served on the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued. Such petition to revoke, if made prior to the hearing, and a written statement of service, shall be filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges for ruling. A petition to revoke a subpoena filed during the hearing, and a written statement of service, shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
(2) The Administrative Law Judge, or any other employee of the Authority designated by the Authority, as appropriate, shall revoke the subpoena if the person or evidence, the production of which is required, is not material and relevant to the matters under investigation or in question in the proceedings, or the subpoena does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence the production of which is required, or if for any other reason sufficient in law the subpoena is invalid. The Administrative Law Judge, or any other employee of the Authority designated by the Authority, as appropriate, shall state the procedural or other ground for the ruling on the petition to revoke. The petition to revoke, any answer thereto, and any ruling thereon shall not become part of the official record except upon the request of the party aggrieved by the ruling.
(f)
Failure to comply.
Upon the failure of any person to comply with a subpoena issued and upon the request of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued, the Solicitor of the Authority shall institute proceedings on behalf of such party in the appropriate district court for the enforcement thereof, unless to do so would be inconsistent with law and the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
§ 2423.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Hearing Procedures
§ 2423.30
General rules.
(a)
Open hearing.
The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge.
(b)
Administrative Procedure Act.
The hearing shall, to the extent practicable, be conducted in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554-557, and other applicable provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act.
(c)
Rights of parties.
A party shall have the right to appear at any hearing in person, by counsel, or by other representative; to examine and cross-examine witnesses; to introduce into the record documentary or other relevant evidence; and to submit rebuttal evidence, except that the participation of any party shall be limited to the extent prescribed by the Administrative Law Judge.
(d)
Objections.
Objections are oral or written complaints concerning the conduct of a hearing. Any objection not raised to the Administrative Law Judge shall be deemed waived.
(e)
Oral argument.
Any party shall be entitled, upon request, to a reasonable period prior to the close of the hearing for oral argument, which shall be included in the official transcript of the hearing.
(f)
Official transcript.
An official reporter shall make the only official transcript of such proceedings. Copies of the transcript may be examined in the appropriate Regional Office during normal working hours. Parties desiring a copy of the transcript shall make arrangements for a copy with the official hearing reporter.
§ 2423.31
Powers and duties of the Administrative Law Judge at the hearing.
(a)
Conduct of hearing.
The Administrative Law Judge shall conduct the hearing in a fair, impartial, and judicial manner, taking action as needed to avoid unnecessary delay and maintain order during the proceedings. The Administrative Law Judge may take any action necessary to schedule, conduct, continue, control, and regulate the hearing, including ruling on motions and taking official notice of material facts when appropriate. No provision of these regulations shall be construed to limit the powers of the Administrative Law Judge provided by 5 U.S.C. 556, 557, and other applicable provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act.
(b)
Evidence.
The Administrative Law Judge shall receive evidence and inquire fully into the relevant and material facts concerning the matters that are the subject of the hearing. The Administrative Law Judge may exclude any evidence that is immaterial, irrelevant, unduly repetitious, or customarily privileged. Rules of evidence shall not be strictly followed.
(c)
Interlocutory appeals.
Motions for an interlocutory appeal shall be filed in writing with the Administrative Law Judge within 5 days after the date of the contested ruling. The motion shall state why interlocutory review is appropriate, and why the Authority should modify or reverse the contested ruling.
(1) The Judge shall grant the motion and certify the contested ruling to the Authority if:
(i) The ruling involves an important question of law or policy about which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion; and
(ii) Immediate review will materially advance completion of the proceeding, or the denial of immediate review will cause undue harm to a party or the public.
(2) If the motion is granted, the Judge or Authority may stay the hearing during the pendency of the appeal. If the motion is denied, exceptions to the contested ruling may be filed in accordance with § 2423.40 of this subchapter after the Judge issues a decision and recommended order in the case.
(d)
Bench decisions.
Upon joint motion of the parties, the Administrative Law Judge may issue an oral decision at the close of the hearing when, in the Judge's discretion, the nature of the case so warrants. By so moving, the parties waive their right to file posthearing briefs with the Administrative Law Judge, pursuant to § 2423.33. If the decision is announced orally, it shall satisfy the requirements of § 2423.34(a)(1)-(5) and a copy thereof, excerpted from the transcript, together with any supplementary matter the judge may deem necessary to complete the decision, shall be transmitted to the Authority, in accordance with § 2423.34(b), and furnished to the parties in accordance with § 2429.12 of this subchapter.
(e)
Settlements after the opening of the hearing.
As set forth in § 2423.25(a), settlements may be either informal or formal.
(1)
Informal settlement procedure: Judge's approval of withdrawal.
If the Charging Party and the Respondent enter into an informal settlement agreement that is accepted by the Regional Director, the Regional Director may request the Administrative Law Judge for permission to withdraw the complaint and, having been granted such permission, shall withdraw the complaint and approve the informal settlement between the Charging Party and Respondent. If the Charging Party fails or refuses to become a party to an informal settlement agreement offered by the Respondent, and the Regional Director concludes that the offered settlement will effectuate the policies of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the Regional Director shall enter into the agreement with the Respondent and shall, if
granted permission by the Administrative Law Judge, withdraw the complaint. The Charging Party then may obtain a review of the Regional Director's decision as provided in subpart A of this part.
(2)
Formal settlement procedure: Judge's approval of settlement.
If the Charging Party and the Respondent enter into a formal settlement agreement that is accepted by the Regional Director, the Regional Director may request the Administrative Law Judge to approve such formal settlement agreement, and upon such approval, to transmit the agreement to the Authority for approval. If the Charging Party fails or refuses to become a party to a formal settlement agreement offered by the Respondent, and the Regional Director concludes that the offered settlement will effectuate the policies of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the agreement shall be between the Respondent and the Regional Director. After the Charging Party is given an opportunity to state on the record or in writing the reasons for opposing the formal settlement, the Regional Director may request the Administrative Law Judge to approve such formal settlement agreement, and upon such approval, to transmit the agreement to the Authority for approval.
§ 2423.32
Burden of proof before the Administrative Law Judge.
The General Counsel shall present the evidence in support of the complaint and have the burden of proving the allegations of the complaint by a preponderance of the evidence. The Respondent shall have the burden of proving any affirmative defenses that it raises to the allegations in the complaint.
§ 2423.33
Posthearing briefs.
Except when bench decisions are issued pursuant to § 2423.31(d), posthearing briefs may be filed with the Administrative Law Judge within a time period set by the Judge, not to exceed 30 days from the close of the hearing, unless otherwise directed by the judge, and shall satisfy the filing and service requirements of part 2429 of this subchapter. Reply briefs shall not be filed absent permission of the Judge. Motions to extend the filing deadline or for permission to file a reply brief shall be filed in accordance with § 2423.21.
§ 2423.34
Decision and record.
(a)
Recommended decision.
Except when bench decisions are issued pursuant to § 2423.31(d), the Administrative Law Judge shall prepare a written decision expeditiously in every case. All written decisions shall be served in accordance with § 2429.12 of this subchapter. The decision shall set forth:
(1) A statement of the issues;
(2) Relevant findings of fact;
(3) Conclusions of law and reasons therefor;
(4) Credibility determinations as necessary; and
(5) A recommended disposition or order.
(b)
Transmittal to Authority.
The Judge shall transmit the decision and record to the Authority. The record shall include the charge, complaint, service sheet, answer, motions, rulings, orders, prehearing conference summaries, stipulations, objections, depositions, interrogatories, exhibits, documentary evidence, basis for any sanctions ruling, official transcript of the hearing, briefs, and any other filings or submissions made by the parties.
§§ 2423.35-2423.39
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Post-Transmission and Exceptions to Authority Procedures
§ 2423.40
Exceptions; oppositions and cross-exceptions; oppositions to cross-exceptions; waiver.
(a)
Exceptions.
Any exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge's decision must be filed with the Authority within 25 days after the date of service of the Judge's decision. Exceptions shall satisfy the filing and service requirements of part 2429 of this subchapter. Exceptions shall consist of the following:
(1) The specific findings, conclusions, determinations, rulings, or recommendations being challenged; the grounds relied upon; and the relief sought.
(2) Supporting arguments, which shall set forth, in order: all relevant facts with specific citations to the record; the issues to be addressed; and a separate argument for each issue, which shall include a discussion of applicable law. Attachments to briefs shall be separately paginated and indexed as necessary.
(3) Exceptions containing 25 or more pages shall include a table of legal authorities cited.
(b)
Oppositions and cross-exceptions.
Unless otherwise directed or approved by the Authority, oppositions to exceptions, cross-exceptions, and oppositions to cross-exceptions may be filed with the Authority within 20 days after the date of service of the exceptions or cross-exceptions, respectively. Oppositions shall state the specific exceptions being opposed. Oppositions and cross-exceptions shall be subject to the same requirements as exceptions set out in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Reply briefs.
Reply briefs shall not be filed absent prior permission of the Authority.
(d)
Waiver.
Any exception not specifically argued shall be deemed to have been waived.
[62 FR 40916, July 31, 1997, as amended at 77 FR 26433, May 4, 2012]
§ 2423.41
Action by the Authority; compliance with Authority decisions and orders.
(a)
Authority decision; no exceptions filed.
In the absence of the filing of exceptions within the time limits established in § 2423.40, the findings, conclusions, and recommendations in the decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall, without precedential significance, become the findings, conclusions, decision and order of the Authority, and all objections and exceptions to the rulings and decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be deemed waived for all purposes. Failure to comply with any filing requirement established in § 2423.40 may result in the information furnished being disregarded.
(b)
Authority decision; exceptions filed.
Whenever exceptions are filed in accordance with § 2423.40, the Authority shall issue a decision affirming or reversing, in whole or in part, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge or disposing of the matter as is otherwise deemed appropriate.
(c)
Authority's order.
Upon finding a violation, the Authority shall, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 7118(a)(7), issue an order directing the violator, as appropriate, to cease and desist from any unfair labor practice, or to take any other action to effectuate the purposes of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute. With regard to employees covered by 3 U.S.C. 431, upon finding a violation, the Authority's order may not include an order of reinstatement, in accordance with 3 U.S.C. 431(a).
(d)
Dismissal.
Upon finding no violation, the Authority shall dismiss the complaint.
(e)
Report of compliance.
After the Authority issues an order, the Respondent shall, within the time specified in the order, provide to the appropriate Regional Director a report regarding what compliance actions have been taken. Upon determining that the Respondent has not complied with the Authority's order, the Regional Director shall refer the case to the Authority for enforcement or take other appropriate action.
[62 FR 40916, July 31, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 46158, Aug. 31, 1998]
§ 2423.42
Backpay proceedings.
After the entry of an Authority order directing payment of backpay, or the entry of a court decree enforcing such order, if it appears to the Regional Director that a controversy exists between the Authority and a Respondent regarding backpay that cannot be resolved without a formal proceeding, the Regional Director may issue and serve on all parties a notice of hearing before an Administrative Law Judge to determine the backpay amount. The notice of hearing shall set forth the specific backpay issues to be resolved. The Respondent shall, within 20 days after the service of a notice of hearing, file an answer in accordance with § 2423.20. After the issuance of a notice of hearing, the procedures provided in subparts B, C, and D of this part shall be followed as applicable.
§§ 2423.43-2423.49
[Reserved]
Pt. 2424

# PART 2424—NEGOTIABILITY PROCEEDINGS

# Subpart A—Applicability of This Part and Definitions
Sec.
2424.1
Applicability of this part.
2424.2
Definitions.
2424.3-2424.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Alternative Dispute Resolution; Requesting and Providing Allegations Concerning the Duty To Bargain
2424.10
Collaboration and Alternative Dispute Resolution Program.
2424.11
Requesting and providing written allegations concerning the duty to bargain.
2424.12-2424.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Filing and Responding to a Petition for Review; Conferences
2424.20
Who may file a petition for review.
2424.21
Time limits for filing a petition for review.
2424.22
Exclusive representative's petition for review; purpose; divisions; content; service.
2424.23
Post-petition conferences; conduct and record.
2424.24
Agency's statement of position; purpose; time limits; content; service.
2424.25
Response of the exclusive representative; purpose; time limits; content; severance; service.
2424.26
Agency's reply; purpose; time limits; content; service.
2424.27
Additional submissions to the Authority.
2424.28-2424.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Processing a Petition for Review
2424.30
Procedure through which the petition for review will be resolved.
2424.31
Hearings and other appropriate action.
2424.32
Parties' responsibilities; failure to raise, support, or respond to arguments; failure to participate in conferences or respond to Authority orders.
2424.33-2424.39
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Decision and Order
2424.40
Authority decision and order.
2424.41
Compliance.
2424.42-2424.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Criteria for Determining Compelling Need for Agency Rules and Regulations
2424.50
Illustrative criteria.
2424.51-2424.59
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7134.

# Source:
63 FR 66413, Dec. 2, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Applicability of This Part and Definitions
§ 2424.1
Applicability of this part.
This part applies to all petitions for review filed on or after October 12, 2023.
[88 FR 62455, Sept. 12, 2023]
§ 2424.2
Definitions.
In this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Bargaining obligation dispute
means a disagreement between an exclusive representative and an agency concerning whether, in the specific circumstances involved in a particular case, the parties are obligated by law to bargain over a proposal that otherwise may be negotiable. Examples of bargaining obligation disputes include disagreements between an exclusive representative and an agency concerning agency claims that:
(1) A proposal concerns a matter that is covered by a collective bargaining agreement;
(2) Bargaining is not required because there has not been a change in bargaining-unit employees' conditions of employment or because the effect of the change is de minimis; and
(3) The exclusive representative is attempting to bargain at the wrong level of the agency.
(b)
Collaboration and Alternative Dispute Resolution Program
refers to the Federal Labor Relations Authority's program that assists parties in reaching agreements to resolve disputes.
(c)
Negotiability dispute
means a disagreement between an exclusive representative and an agency concerning the legality of a proposal or provision. A negotiability dispute exists when an exclusive representative disagrees with
an agency contention that (without regard to any bargaining obligation dispute) a proposal is outside the duty to bargain, including disagreement with an agency contention that a proposal is bargainable only at its election. A negotiability dispute also exists when an exclusive representative disagrees with an agency head's disapproval of a provision as contrary to law. A negotiability dispute may exist where there is no bargaining obligation dispute. Examples of negotiability disputes include disagreements between an exclusive representative and an agency concerning whether a proposal or provision:
(1) Affects a management right under 5 U.S.C. 7106(a);
(2) Affects bargaining-unit employees' conditions of employment;
(3) Enforces an “applicable law,” within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 7106(a)(2);
(4) Concerns a matter negotiable at the election of the agency under 5 U.S.C. 7106(b)(1);
(5) Constitutes a “procedure” or “appropriate arrangement,” within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 7106(b)(2) and (3), respectively;
(6) Is consistent with a Government-wide rule or regulation; and
(7) Is negotiable notwithstanding agency rules or regulations because:
(i) The proposal or provision is consistent with agency rules or regulations for which a compelling need exists under 5 U.S.C. 7117(a)(2);
(ii) The agency rules or regulations violate applicable law, rule, regulation, or appropriate authority outside the agency;
(iii) The agency rules or regulations were not issued by the agency or by any primary national subdivision of the agency;
(iv) The exclusive representative represents an appropriate unit including not less than a majority of the employees in the rule- or regulation-issuing agency or primary national subdivision; or
(v) No compelling need exists for the rules or regulations to bar negotiations.
(d)
Petition for review
means an appeal filed with the Authority by an exclusive representative requesting resolution of a negotiability dispute. An appeal that concerns only a bargaining obligation dispute may not be resolved under this part.
(e)
Proposal
means any matter offered for bargaining that has not been agreed to by the parties. If a petition for review concerns more than one proposal, then the term “proposal” includes each proposal concerned.
(f)
Provision
means any matter that has been disapproved by the agency head on review pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7114(c). If a petition for review concerns more than one provision, then the term “provision” includes each provision concerned.
(g)
Service
means the delivery of copies of documents filed with the Authority to the other party's principal bargaining representative and, in the case of an exclusive representative, also to the head of the agency. Compliance with part 2429 of this subchapter is required.
(h)
Severance
means the division of a proposal or provision into separate parts having independent meaning, for the purpose of determining whether any of the separate parts is within the duty to bargain or is contrary to law. In effect, severance results in the creation of separate proposals or provisions. Severance applies when some parts of the proposal or provision are determined to be outside the duty to bargain or contrary to law.
(i)
Written allegation concerning the duty to bargain
means an agency allegation that the duty to bargain in good faith does not extend to a proposal.
[63 FR 66413, Dec. 2, 1998, as amended at 88 FR 62455, Sept. 12, 2023; 88 FR 69873, Oct. 10, 2023]
§§ 2424.3-2424.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Alternative Dispute Resolution; Requesting and Providing Allegations Concerning the Duty To Bargain
§ 2424.10
Collaboration and Alternative Dispute Resolution Program.
Where an exclusive representative and an agency are unable to resolve disputes that arise under this part, they may request assistance from the Collaboration and Alternative Dispute
Resolution (CADR) Program or the Office of Case Intake and Publication (CIP), which will refer requests to the CADR Program. Upon request, as resources permit, and as agreed upon by the parties, CADR representatives will attempt to assist the parties to resolve these disputes. Parties seeking information or assistance under this part may call the CADR Office at (771) 444-5802 or the Office of CIP at (771) 444-5805, or write those offices at 1400 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20424-0001. A brief summary of CADR activities is available on the internet at
www.flra.gov.
[88 FR 62456, Sept. 12, 2023]
§ 2424.11
Requesting and providing written allegations concerning the duty to bargain.
(a)
General.
An exclusive representative may file a petition for review after receiving a written allegation concerning the duty to bargain from the agency. An exclusive representative also may file a petition for review if it requests in writing that the agency provide it with a written allegation concerning the duty to bargain and the agency does not respond to the request within ten (10) days.
(b)
Agency allegation in response to request.
The agency has an obligation to respond within ten (10) days to a written request by the exclusive representative for a written allegation concerning the duty to bargain. The agency's allegation in response to the exclusive representative's request must be in writing and must be served in accord with § 2424.2(g).
(c)
Unrequested agency allegation.
If an agency provides an exclusive representative with an unrequested written allegation concerning the duty to bargain, then the exclusive representative may either file a petition for review under this part, or continue to bargain and subsequently request in writing a written allegation concerning the duty to bargain, if necessary. If the exclusive representative chooses to file a petition for review based on an unrequested written allegation concerning the duty to bargain, then the time limit in § 2424.21(a)(1) applies.
[88 FR 62456, Sept. 12, 2023; 88 FR 69873, Oct. 10, 2023]
§§ 2424.12-2424.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Filing and Responding to a Petition for Review; Conferences
§ 2424.20
Who may file a petition for review.
A petition for review may be filed by an exclusive representative that is a party to the negotiations.
§ 2424.21
Time limits for filing a petition for review.
(a) A petition for review must be filed within fifteen (15) days after the date of service of either:
(1) An agency's written allegation that the exclusive representative's proposal is not within the duty to bargain, or
(2) An agency head's disapproval of a provision.
(b) If the agency has not served a written allegation on the exclusive representative within ten (10) days after the agency's principal bargaining representative has received a written request for such allegation, as provided in § 2424.11(a), then the petition may be filed at any time, subject to the following:
(1) If the agency serves a written allegation on the exclusive representative more than ten (10) days after receiving a written request for such allegation, then the petition must be filed within fifteen (15) days after the date of service of that allegation on the exclusive representative.
(2) [Reserved]
[88 FR 62456, Sept. 12, 2023]
§ 2424.22
Exclusive representative's petition for review; purpose; divisions; content; service.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of a petition for review is to initiate a negotiability proceeding and provide the agency with notice that the exclusive representative requests a decision from the Authority that a proposal or provision is within the duty to bargain or not contrary to law, respectively.
(b)
Divisions.
The petition will be resolved according to how the exclusive representative divides matters into proposals or provisions. If the exclusive
representative seeks a negotiability determination on particular matters standing alone, then the exclusive representative must submit those matters as distinct proposals or provisions. However, the exclusive representative will have an opportunity to divide proposals or provisions into separate parts when the exclusive representative files a response under § 2424.25.
(c)
Content.
You must file a petition for review on a form that the Authority has provided for that purpose, or in a substantially similar format. You meet this requirement if you file your petition electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov.
That website also provides copies of petition forms. You must date the petition, unless you file it electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system. And, regardless of how you file the petition, you must ensure that it includes the following:
(1) The exact wording and explanation of the meaning of the proposal or provision, including an explanation of special terms or phrases, technical language, or other words that are not in common usage, as well as how the proposal or provision is intended to work;
(2) Specific citation to any law, rule, regulation, section of a collective bargaining agreement, or other authority that you rely on in your argument or that you reference in the proposal or provision, and a copy of any such material that the Authority cannot easily access (which you may upload as attachments if you file the petition electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system);
(i) An explanation of how the cited law, rule, regulation, section of a collective bargaining agreement, or other authority relates to your argument, proposal, or provision;
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) A statement as to whether the proposal or provision is also involved in an unfair labor practice charge under part 2423 of this subchapter, a grievance pursuant to the parties' negotiated grievance procedure, or an impasse procedure under part 2470 of this subchapter, and whether any other petition for review has been filed concerning a proposal or provision arising from the same bargaining or the same agency head review;
(i) Documents relevant to the statement, including a copy of any related unfair labor practice charge, grievance, request for impasse assistance, or other petition for review; and
(ii) [Reserved]
(4) Any request for a hearing before the Authority and the reasons supporting such request, with the understanding that the Authority rarely grants such requests.
(d)
Service.
The petition for review, including all attachments, must be served in accord with § 2424.2(g).
[88 FR 62456, Sept. 12, 2023; 88 FR 69873, Oct. 10, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 77883, Nov. 14, 2023]
§ 2424.23
Post-petition conferences; conduct and record.
(a)
Scheduling a post-petition conference.
The FLRA will, in its discretion, schedule a post-petition conference to be conducted by an FLRA representative by telephone, in person, or through other means. Unless the Authority or an FLRA representative directs otherwise, parties must observe all time limits in this part, regardless of whether a post-petition conference is conducted or may be conducted.
(b)
Conduct of conference.
The post-petition conference will be conducted with representatives of the exclusive representative and the agency, who must be prepared and authorized to discuss, clarify, and resolve matters including the following:
(1) The meaning of the proposal or provision in dispute;
(2) Any disputed factual issue(s);
(3) Negotiability dispute objections and bargaining obligation claims regarding the proposal or provision; and
(4) Status of any proceedings—including an unfair labor practice charge under part 2423 of this subchapter, a grievance under the parties' negotiated grievance procedure, or an impasse procedure under part 2470 of this subchapter—that are directly related to the negotiability petition.
(c)
Discretionary extension of time limits.
The FLRA representative may, on determining that it will effectuate the purposes of the Federal Service Labor-
Management Relations Statute, 5 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.,
and this part, extend the time limits for filing the agency's statement of position and any subsequent filings.
(d)
Record of the conference.
After the post-petition conference has been completed, the FLRA representative will prepare, and the FLRA will serve on the parties, a written record that includes whether the parties agree on the meaning of the disputed proposal or provision, the resolution of any disputed factual issues, and any other appropriate matter.
(e)
Hearings.
Instead of, or in addition to, conducting a post-petition conference, the Authority may exercise its discretion under § 2424.31 to hold a hearing or take other appropriate action to aid in decision making.
[88 FR 62457, Sept. 12, 2023; 88 FR 69873, Oct. 10, 2023]
§ 2424.24
Agency's statement of position; purpose; time limits; content; service.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of the agency's statement of position is to inform the Authority and the exclusive representative why a proposal or provision is outside the duty to bargain or contrary to law, respectively, and whether the agency disagrees with any facts or arguments made by the exclusive representative in the petition.
(b)
Time limit for filing.
Unless the time limit for filing has been extended pursuant to § 2424.23 or part 2429 of this subchapter, the agency must file its statement of position within thirty (30) days after the date the head of the agency receives a copy of the petition for review.
(c)
Content.
You must file your statement of position on a form that the Authority has provided for that purpose, or in a substantially similar format. You meet this requirement if you file your statement electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov.
That website also provides copies of statement forms. You must date your statement, unless you file it electronically through use of the eFiling system. And, regardless of how you file your statement, your statement must:
(1) Withdraw either:
(i) The allegation that the duty to bargain in good faith does not extend to the exclusive representative's proposal, or
(ii) The disapproval of the provision under 5 U.S.C. 7114(c); or
(2) Set forth in full your position on any matters relevant to the petition that you want the Authority to consider in reaching its decision, including: A statement of the arguments and authorities supporting any bargaining obligation or negotiability claims; any disagreement with claims that the exclusive representative made in the petition for review; specific citation to, and explanation of the relevance of, any law, rule, regulation, section of a collective bargaining agreement, or other authority on which you rely; and a copy of any such material that the Authority may not easily access (which you may upload as attachments if you file your statement of position electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system). Your statement of position must also include the following:
(i) If different from the exclusive representative's position, an explanation of the meaning the agency attributes to the proposal or provision and the reasons for disagreeing with the exclusive representative's explanation of meaning;
(ii) If different from the exclusive representative's position, an explanation of how the proposal or provision would work, and the reasons for disagreeing with the exclusive representative's explanation;
(3) Status of any proceedings—including an unfair labor practice charge under part 2423 of this subchapter, a grievance under the parties' negotiated grievance procedure, or an impasse procedure under part 2470 of this subchapter—that are directly related to the negotiability petition, and whether any other petition for review has been filed concerning a proposal or provision arising from the same bargaining or the same agency head review;
(i) If they have not already been provided with the petition, documents relevant to the status updates, including
a copy of any related unfair labor practice charge, grievance, request for impasse assistance, or other petition for review; and
(ii) [Reserved]
(4) Any request for a hearing before the Authority and the reasons supporting such request, with the understanding that the Authority rarely grants such requests.
(d)
Service.
A copy of the agency's statement of position, including all attachments, must be served in accord with § 2424.2(g).
[88 FR 62457, Sept. 12, 2023; 88 FR 69873, Oct. 10, 2023]
§ 2424.25
Response of the exclusive representative; purpose; time limits; content; severance; service.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of the exclusive representative's response is to inform the Authority and the agency why, despite the agency's arguments in its statement of position, the proposal or provision is within the duty to bargain or not contrary to law, respectively, and whether the exclusive representative disagrees with any facts or arguments in the agency's statement of position.
(b)
Time limit for filing.
Unless the time limit for filing has been extended pursuant to § 2424.23 or part 2429 of this subchapter, within fifteen (15) days after the date the exclusive representative receives a copy of an agency's statement of position, the exclusive representative must file a response.
(c)
Content.
You must file your response on a form that the Authority has provided for that purpose, or in a substantially similar format. You meet this requirement if you file your response electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov.
That website also provides copies of response forms. With the exception of severance under paragraph (d) of this section, you must limit your response to the matters that the agency raised in its statement of position. You must date your response, unless you file it electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system. And, regardless of how you file your response, you must ensure that it identifies any disagreement with the agency's bargaining obligation or negotiability claims. You must: State the arguments and authorities supporting your opposition to any agency argument; include specific citation to, and explanation of the relevance of, any law, rule, regulation, section of a collective bargaining agreement, or other authority on which you rely; and provide a copy of any such material that the Authority may not easily access (which you may upload as attachments if you file your response electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system). You are not required to repeat arguments that you made in your petition for review. If not included in the petition for review, then you must state the arguments and authorities supporting your position on all of the relevant bargaining obligation and negotiability matters identified in § 2424.2(a) and (c), respectively.
(d)
Severance.
The exclusive representative may, of its own accord, accomplish the severance of a previously submitted proposal or provision. To accomplish severance, the exclusive representative must identify the proposal or provision that the exclusive representative is severing and set forth the exact wording of the newly severed portion(s). Further, as part of the exclusive representative's explanation and argument about why the newly severed portion(s) are within the duty to bargain or not contrary to law, the exclusive representative must explain how the severed portion(s) stand alone with independent meaning, and how the severed portion(s) would operate. The explanation and argument in support of the severed portion(s) must meet the same requirements for specific information set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, and must satisfy the exclusive representative's burdens under § 2424.32.
(e)
Service.
A copy of the response of the exclusive representative, including all attachments, must be served in accord with § 2424.2(g).
[63 FR 66413, Dec. 2, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 51745, Oct. 8, 2009; 77 FR 26434, May 4, 2012; 88 FR 62458, Sept. 12, 2023; 88 FR 69873, Oct. 10, 2023; 88 FR 70579, Oct. 12, 2023; 88 FR 71731, Oct. 18, 2023]
§ 2424.26
Agency's reply; purpose; time limits; content; service.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of the agency's reply is to inform the Authority and the exclusive representative whether and why it disagrees with any facts or arguments made for the first time in the exclusive representative's response.
(b)
Time limit for filing.
Unless the time limit for filing has been extended pursuant to § 2424.23 or part 2429 of this subchapter, within fifteen (15) days after the date the agency receives a copy of the exclusive representative's response to the agency's statement of position, the agency may file a reply.
(c)
Content.
You must file your reply on a form that the Authority has provided for that purpose, or in a substantially similar format. You meet this requirement if you file your reply electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov.
That website also provides copies of reply forms. You must limit your reply to matters that the exclusive representative raised for the first time in its response. You must date your reply, unless you file it electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system. And, regardless of how you file your reply, you must ensure that it identifies any disagreement with the exclusive representative's assertions in its response, including your disagreements with assertions about the bargaining obligation and negotiability matters identified in § 2424.2(a) and (c), respectively. You must: State the arguments and authorities supporting your position; include specific citation to, and explanation of the relevance of, any law, rule, regulation, section of a collective bargaining agreement, or other authority on which you rely; and provide a copy of any such material that the Authority may not easily access (which you may upload as attachments if you file your reply electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system). You are not required to repeat arguments that you made in your statement of position.
(d)
Service.
A copy of the agency's reply, including all attachments, must be served in accord with § 2424.2(g).
[88 FR 62458, Sept. 12, 2023]
§ 2424.27
Additional submissions to the Authority.
The Authority will not consider any submission filed by any party other than those authorized under this part, provided however that the Authority may, in its discretion, grant permission to file an additional submission based on a written request showing extraordinary circumstances by any party. The additional submission must be filed with the written request. All documents filed under this section must be served in accord with § 2424.2(g).
[88 FR 62458, Sept. 12, 2023]
§§ 2424.28-2424.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Processing a Petition for Review
§ 2424.30
Procedure through which the petition for review will be resolved.
(a)
Exclusive representative has filed related unfair labor practice charge or grievance alleging an unfair labor practice.
Except for proposals or provisions that are the subject of an agency's compelling need claim under 5 U.S.C. 7117(a)(2), the Authority will dismiss a petition for review when an exclusive representative files an unfair labor practice charge pursuant to part 2423 of this subchapter or a grievance alleging an unfair labor practice under the parties' negotiated grievance procedure, and the charge or grievance concerns issues directly related to the petition for review filed pursuant to this part. The dismissal will be without prejudice to the right of the exclusive representative to refile the petition for review after the unfair labor practice charge or grievance has been resolved administratively, including resolution pursuant to an arbitration award that has become final and binding. No later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the unfair labor practice charge or grievance is resolved administratively, the exclusive representative may refile the petition for review, and the Authority will determine whether resolution of the petition is still required. For purposes of this subsection, a grievance is resolved administratively when:
(1) The exclusive representative withdraws the grievance;
(2) The parties mutually resolve the grievance;
(3) An arbitrator has issued an award resolving the grievance, and the 30-day period under 5 U.S.C. 7122(b) has passed without an exception being filed; or
(4) An arbitrator has issued an award resolving the grievance, a party has filed an exception to that award, and the Authority has issued a decision resolving that exception.
(b)
Exclusive representative has not filed related unfair labor practice charge or grievance alleging an unfair labor practice.
The petition will be processed as follows:
(1)
No bargaining obligation dispute exists.
The Authority will resolve the petition for review under the procedures of this part.
(2)
A bargaining obligation dispute exists.
The exclusive representative may have an opportunity to file an unfair labor practice charge pursuant to part 2423 of this subchapter or a grievance under the parties' negotiated grievance procedure concerning the bargaining obligation dispute, and, where the exclusive representative pursues either of these courses, the Authority will proceed in accord with paragraph (a) of this section. If the exclusive representative does not file an unfair labor practice charge or grievance concerning the bargaining obligation dispute, then the Authority will proceed to resolve all disputes necessary for disposition of the petition unless, in its discretion, the Authority determines that resolving all disputes is not appropriate because, for example, resolution of the bargaining obligation dispute under this part would unduly delay resolution of the negotiability dispute, or the procedures in another, available administrative forum are better suited to resolve the bargaining obligation dispute.
[88 FR 62458, Sept. 12, 2023]
§ 2424.31
Hearings and other appropriate action.
When necessary to resolve disputed issues of material fact in a negotiability or bargaining obligation dispute, or when it would otherwise aid in decision making, the Authority, or its designated representative, may, in its discretion:
(a) Direct the parties to provide specific documentary evidence;
(b) Direct the parties to provide answers to specific factual questions;
(c) Refer the matter to a hearing pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7117(b)(3) or (c)(5); or
(d) Take any other appropriate action.
[63 FR 66413, Dec. 2, 1998, as amended at 88 FR 62459, Sept. 12, 2023; 88 FR 69873, Oct. 10, 2023]
§ 2424.32
Parties' responsibilities; failure to raise, support, or respond to arguments; failure to participate in conferences or respond to Authority orders.
(a)
Responsibilities of the exclusive representative.
The exclusive representative has the burden of explaining the meaning, operation, and effects of the proposal or provision; and raising and supporting arguments that the proposal or provision is within the duty to bargain, within the duty to bargain at the agency's election, or not contrary to law, respectively.
(b)
Responsibilities of the agency.
The agency has the burden of explaining the agency's understanding of the meaning, operation, and effects of the proposal or provision, if the agency disagrees with the exclusive representative's explanations; and raising and supporting arguments that the proposal or provision is outside the duty to bargain or contrary to law, respectively.
(c)
Responsibilities to sufficiently explain.
Each party has the burden to give sufficiently detailed explanations to enable the Authority to understand the party's position regarding the meaning, operation, and effects of a proposal or provision. A party's failure to provide such explanations may affect the Authority's decision in a manner that is adverse to the party.
(d)
Failure to raise, support, or respond to arguments.
(1) Failure to raise and support an argument may, in the Authority's discretion, be deemed a waiver of such argument. Absent good cause:
(i) Arguments that could have been but were not raised by an exclusive
representative in the petition for review, or made in its response to the agency's statement of position, may not be made in this or any other proceeding; and
(ii) Arguments that could have been but were not raised by an agency in the statement of position, or made in its reply to the exclusive representative's response, may not be raised in this or any other proceeding.
(2) Failure to respond to an argument or assertion raised by the other party may, in the Authority's discretion, be treated as conceding such argument or assertion.
(e)
Failure to participate in conferences; failure to respond to Authority orders.
Where a party fails to participate in a post-petition conference pursuant to § 2424.23, a direction or proceeding under § 2424.31, or otherwise fails to provide timely or responsive information pursuant to an Authority order, including an Authority procedural order directing the correction of technical deficiencies in filing, the Authority may, in addition to those actions set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, take any other action that, in the Authority's discretion, it deems appropriate, including dismissal of the petition for review (with or without prejudice to the exclusive representative's refiling of the petition for review), and granting the petition for review and directing bargaining or rescission of an agency head disapproval under 5 U.S.C. 7114(c) (with or without conditions).
[88 FR 62459, Sept. 12, 2023; 88 FR 69873, Oct. 10, 2023]
§§ 2424.33-2424.39
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Decision and Order
§ 2424.40
Authority decision and order.
(a)
Issuance.
Subject to the requirements of this part, the Authority will expedite proceedings under this part to the extent practicable and will issue to the exclusive representative and to the agency a written decision, explaining the specific reasons for the decision, at the earliest practicable date. The decision will include an order, as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, but, with the exception of an order to bargain, such order will not include remedies that could be obtained in an unfair labor practice proceeding under 5 U.S.C. 7118(a)(7).
(b)
Cases involving proposals.
If the Authority finds that the duty to bargain extends to the proposal, then the Authority will order the agency to bargain concerning the proposal. If the Authority finds that the duty to bargain does not extend to the proposal, then the Authority will dismiss the petition for review as to that proposal. If the Authority finds that the proposal is bargainable only at the election of the agency, then the Authority will so state. If the Authority resolves a negotiability dispute by finding that a proposal is within the duty to bargain, but there are unresolved bargaining obligation dispute claims, then the Authority will order the agency to bargain in the event its bargaining obligation claims are resolved in a manner that requires bargaining.
(c)
Cases involving provisions.
If the Authority finds that a provision is not contrary to law, rule, or regulation, or is bargainable at the election of the agency, then the Authority will direct the agency to rescind its disapproval of such provision in whole or in part as appropriate. If the Authority finds that a provision is contrary to law, rule, or regulation, then the Authority will dismiss the petition for review as to that provision.
[63 FR 66413, Dec. 2, 1998, as amended at 88 FR 62459, Sept. 12, 2023; 88 FR 69873, Oct. 10, 2023]
§ 2424.41
Compliance.
The exclusive representative may report to the appropriate Regional Director an agency's failure to comply with an order issued in accordance with § 2424.40. The exclusive representative must report such failure within a reasonable period of time following expiration of the 60-day period under 5 U.S.C. 7123(a), which begins on the date of issuance of the Authority order. If, on referral from the Regional Director, the Authority finds such a failure to comply with its order, the Authority will take whatever action it deems necessary to secure compliance with its
order, including enforcement under 5 U.S.C. 7123(b).
[88 FR 62460, Sept. 12, 2023]
§§ 2424.42-2424.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Criteria for Determining Compelling Need for Agency Rules and Regulations
§ 2424.50
Illustrative criteria.
A compelling need exists for an agency rule or regulation concerning any condition of employment when the rule or regulation was issued by the agency or any primary national subdivision of the agency, and the agency demonstrates that the rule or regulation satisfies one of the following illustrative criteria:
(a) The rule or regulation is essential, as distinguished from helpful or desirable, to the accomplishment of the mission or the execution of functions of the agency or primary national subdivision in a manner that is consistent with the requirements of an effective and efficient government.
(b) The rule or regulation is necessary to ensure the maintenance of basic merit principles.
(c) The rule or regulation implements a mandate to the agency or primary national subdivision under law or other outside authority, which implementation is essentially nondiscretionary in nature.
[63 FR 66413, Dec. 2, 1998, as amended at 88 FR 62460, Sept. 12, 2023]
§§ 2424.51-2424.59
[Reserved]
Pt. 2425

# PART 2425—REVIEW OF ARBITRATION AWARDS
Sec.
2425.1
Applicability of this part.
2425.2
Exceptions—who may file; time limits for filing, including determining date of service of arbitration award for the purpose of calculating time limits; procedural and other requirements for filing.
2425.3
Oppositions—who may file; time limits for filing; procedural and other requirements for filing.
2425.4
Content and format of exceptions.
2425.5
Content and format of opposition.
2425.6
Grounds for review; potential dismissal or denial for failure to raise or support grounds.
2425.7
Requests for expedited, abbreviated decisions in certain arbitration matters that do not involve unfair labor practices.
2425.8
Collaboration and Alternative Dispute Resolution Program.
2425.9
Means of clarifying records or disputes.
2425.10
Authority decision.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7134.

# Source:
75 FR 42290, July 21, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2425.1
Applicability of this part.
This part applies to all arbitration cases in which exceptions are filed with the Authority, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7122, on or after June 4, 2012.
[77 FR 26434, May 4, 2012]
§ 2425.2
Exceptions—who may file; time limits for filing, including determining date of service of arbitration award for the purpose of calculating time limits; procedural and other requirements for filing.
(a)
Who may file.
Either party to arbitration under the provisions of chapter 71 of title 5 of the United States Code may file an exception to an arbitrator's award rendered pursuant to the arbitration.
(b)
Timeliness requirements—general.
The time limit for filing an exception to an arbitration award is thirty (30) days after the date of service of the award. This thirty (30)-day time limit may not be extended or waived. In computing the thirty (30)-day period, the first day counted is the day after, not the day of, service of the arbitration award. Example: If an award is served on May 1, then May 2 is counted as day 1, and May 31 is day 30; an exception filed on May 31 would be timely, and an exception filed on June 1 would be untimely. In order to determine the date of service of the award,
see
the rules set forth in subsection (c) of this section, and for additional rules regarding computing the filing date,
see
5 CFR 2429.21 and 2429.22.
(c)
Methods of service of arbitration award; determining date of service of arbitration award for purposes of calculating time limits for exceptions.
If the parties have reached an agreement as to what
is an appropriate method(s) of service of the arbitration award, then that agreement—whether expressed in a collective bargaining agreement or otherwise—is controlling for purposes of calculating the time limit for filing exceptions. If the parties have not reached such an agreement, then the arbitrator may use any commonly used method—including, but not limited to, electronic mail (hereinafter “e-mail”), facsimile transmission (hereinafter “fax”), regular mail, commercial delivery, or personal delivery—and the arbitrator's selected method is controlling for purposes of calculating the time limit for filing exceptions. The following rules apply to determine the date of service for purposes of calculating the time limits for filing exceptions, and assume that the method(s) of service discussed are either consistent with the parties' agreement or chosen by the arbitrator absent such an agreement:
(1) If the award is served by regular mail, then the date of service is the postmark date or, if there is no legible postmark, then the date of the award; for awards served by regular mail, the excepting party will receive an additional five days for filing the exceptions under 5 CFR 2429.22.
(2) If the award is served by commercial delivery, then the date of service is the date on which the award was deposited with the commercial delivery service or, if that date is not indicated, then the date of the award; for awards served by commercial delivery, the excepting party will receive an additional five days for filing the exceptions under 5 CFR 2429.22.
(3) If the award is served by e-mail or fax, then the date of service is the date of transmission, and the excepting party will not receive an additional five days for filing the exceptions.
(4) If the award is served by personal delivery, then the date of personal delivery is the date of service, and the excepting party will not receive an additional five days for filing the exceptions.
(5) If the award is served by more than one method, then the first method of service is controlling when determining the date of service for purposes of calculating the time limits for filing exceptions. However, if the award is served by e-mail, fax, or personal delivery on one day, and by mail or commercial delivery on the same day, the excepting party will not receive an additional five days for filing the exceptions, even if the award was postmarked or deposited with the commercial delivery service before the e-mail or fax was transmitted.
(d)
Procedural and other requirements for filing.
Exceptions must comply with the requirements set forth in 5 CFR 2429.24 (Place and method of filing; acknowledgment), 2429.25 (Number of copies and paper size), 2429.27 (Service; statement of service), and 2429.29 (Content of filings).
§ 2425.3
Oppositions—who may file; time limits for filing; procedural and other requirements for filing.
(a)
Who may file.
A party to arbitration under the provisions of chapter 71 of title 5 of the United States Code may file an opposition to an exception that has been filed under § 2425.2 of this part.
(b)
Timeliness requirements.
Any opposition must be filed within thirty (30) days after the date the exception is served on the opposing party. For additional rules regarding computing the filing date,
see
5 CFR 2425.8, 2429.21 and 2429.22.
(c)
Procedural requirements.
Oppositions must comply with the requirements set forth in 5 CFR 2429.24 (Place and method of filing; acknowledgment), 2429.25 (Number of copies and paper size), 2429.27 (Service; statement of service), and 2429.29 (Content of filings).
§ 2425.4
Content and format of exceptions.
(a)
What is required.
You must date your exception, unless you file it electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at
www.flra.gov.
Regardless of how you file your exception, you must ensure that it is self-contained and that it sets forth, in full, the following:
(1) A statement of the grounds on which review is requested, as discussed in § 2425.6 of this part;
(2) Arguments in support of the stated grounds, including specific references to the record, citations of authorities, and any other relevant documentation;
(3) Legible copies of any documents (which you may upload as attachments if you file electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system) that you reference in the arguments discussed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and that the Authority cannot easily access (such as internal agency regulations or provisions of collective bargaining agreements);
(4) Arguments in support of any request for an expedited, abbreviated decision within the meaning of § 2425.7 of this part;
(5) A legible copy of the award of the arbitrator; and
(6) The arbitrator's name, mailing address, and, if available and authorized for use by the arbitrator, the arbitrator's e-mail address or facsimile number.
(b)
What is not required.
Exceptions are not required to include copies of documents that are readily accessible to the Authority, such as Authority decisions, decisions of Federal courts, current provisions of the United States Code, and current provisions of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(c)
What is prohibited.
Consistent with 5 CFR 2429.5, an exception may not rely on any evidence, factual assertions, arguments (including affirmative defenses), requested remedies, or challenges to an awarded remedy that could have been, but were not, presented to the arbitrator.
(d)
Format.
You may file your exception on an optional form that is available on the FLRA's Web site at
www.flra.gov,
or in any other format that is consistent with paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section. You meet this requirement if you file your exception electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system on that Web site. Your failure to use, or properly fill out, an Authority-provided form will not, by itself, provide a basis for dismissing your exception.
[75 FR 42290, July 21, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 26434, May 4, 2012]
§ 2425.5
Content and format of opposition.
If you choose to file an opposition, then you may file your opposition on an optional form that is available on the FLRA's Web site at
www.flra.gov
, or in any other format that is consistent with this section. You meet this requirement if you file your opposition electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system on that Web site. Your failure to use, or properly fill out, an Authority-provided form will not, by itself, provide a basis for dismissing your opposition. If you choose to file an opposition, and you dispute any assertions that have been made in the exceptions, then you should address those assertions—including any assertions that any evidence, factual assertions, arguments (including affirmative defenses), requested remedies, or challenges to an awarded remedy were raised before the arbitrator. If the excepting party has requested an expedited, abbreviated decision under § 2425.7 of this part, then you should state whether you support or oppose such a decision and provide supporting arguments. You must provide copies of any documents upon which you rely (which you may upload as attachments if you file your opposition electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system), unless the Authority can easily access those documents (as discussed in § 2425.4(b) of this part) or the excepting party provided them with its exceptions.
[77 FR 26435, May 4, 2012]
§ 2425.6
Grounds for review; potential dismissal or denial for failure to raise or support grounds.
(a) The Authority will review an arbitrator's award to which an exception has been filed to determine whether the award is deficient—
(1) Because it is contrary to any law, rule or regulation; or
(2) On other grounds similar to those applied by Federal courts in private sector labor-management relations.
(b) If a party argues that an award is deficient on private-sector grounds under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, then the excepting party must explain how, under standards set forth in the
decisional law of the Authority or Federal courts:
(1) The arbitrator:
(i) Exceeded his or her authority; or
(ii) Was biased; or
(iii) Denied the excepting party a fair hearing; or
(2) The award:
(i) Fails to draw its essence from the parties' collective bargaining agreement; or
(ii) Is based on a nonfact; or
(iii) Is incomplete, ambiguous, or contradictory as to make implementation of the award impossible; or
(iv) Is contrary to public policy; or
(v) Is deficient on the basis of a private-sector ground not listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(2)(iv) of this section.
(c) If a party argues that the award is deficient on a private-sector ground raised under paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section, the party must provide sufficient citation to legal authority that establishes the grounds upon which the party filed its exceptions.
(d) The Authority does not have jurisdiction over an award relating to:
(1) An action based on unacceptable performance covered under 5 U.S.C. 4303;
(2) A removal, suspension for more than fourteen (14) days, reduction in grade, reduction in pay, or furlough of thirty (30) days or less covered under 5 U.S.C. 7512; or
(3) Matters similar to those covered under 5 U.S.C. 4303 and 5 U.S.C. 7512 which arise under other personnel systems.
(e) An exception may be subject to dismissal or denial if:
(1) The excepting party fails to raise and support a ground as required in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, or otherwise fails to demonstrate a legally recognized basis for setting aside the award; or
(2) The exception concerns an award described in paragraph (d) of this section.
§ 2425.7
Requests for expedited, abbreviated decisions in certain arbitration matters that do not involve unfair labor practices.
Where an arbitration matter before the Authority does not involve allegations of unfair labor practices under 5 U.S.C. 7116, and the excepting party wishes to receive an expedited Authority decision, the excepting party may request that the Authority issue a decision that resolves the parties' arguments without a full explanation of the background, arbitration award, parties' arguments, and analysis of those arguments. In determining whether such an abbreviated decision is appropriate, the Authority will consider all of the circumstances of the case, including, but not limited to: whether any opposition filed under § 2425.3 of this part objects to issuance of such a decision and, if so, the reasons for such an objection; and the case's complexity, potential for precedential value, and similarity to other, fully detailed decisions involving the same or similar issues. Even absent a request, the Authority may issue expedited, abbreviated decisions in appropriate cases.
§ 2425.8
Collaboration and Alternative Dispute Resolution Program.
The parties may request assistance from the Collaboration and Alternative Dispute Resolution Program (CADR) to attempt to resolve the dispute before or after an opposition is filed. Upon request, and as agreed to by the parties, CADR representatives will attempt to assist the parties to resolve these disputes. If the parties have agreed to CADR assistance, and the time for filing an opposition has not expired, then the Authority will toll the time limit for filing an opposition until the CADR process is completed. Parties seeking information or assistance under this part may call or write the CADR Office at 1400 K Street, NW., Washington, DC 20424. A brief summary of CADR activities is available on the Internet at
http://www.flra.gov.
§ 2425.9
Means of clarifying records or disputes.
When required to clarify a record or when it would otherwise aid in disposition of the matter, the Authority, or its designated representative, may, as appropriate:
(a) Direct the parties to provide specific documentary evidence, including the arbitration record as discussed in 5 CFR 2429.3;
(b) Direct the parties to respond to requests for further information;
(c) Meet with parties, either in person or via telephone or other electronic communications systems, to attempt to clarify the dispute or matters in the record;
(d) Direct the parties to provide oral argument; or
(e) Take any other appropriate action.
§ 2425.10
Authority decision.
The Authority shall issue its decision and order taking such action and making such recommendations concerning the award as it considers necessary, consistent with applicable laws, rules, or regulations.
Pt. 2426

# PART 2426—NATIONAL CONSULTATION RIGHTS AND CONSULTATION RIGHTS ON GOVERNMENT-WIDE RULES OR REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—National Consultation Rights
Sec.
2426.1
Requesting; granting; criteria.
2426.2
Requests; petition and procedures for determination of eligibility for national consultation rights.
2426.3
Obligation to consult.

# Subpart B—Consultation Rights on Government-wide Rules or Regulations
2426.11
Requesting; granting; criteria.
2426.12
Requests; petition and procedures for determination of eligibility for consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations.
2426.13
Obligation to consult.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7134.

# Source:
45 FR 3513, Jan. 17, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—National Consultation Rights
§ 2426.1
Requesting; granting; criteria.
(a) An agency shall accord national consultation rights to a labor organization that:
(1) Requests national consultation rights at the agency level; and
(2) Holds exclusive recognition for either:
(i) Ten percent (10%) or more of the total number of civilian personnel employed by the agency and the non-appropriated fund Federal instrumentalities under its jurisdiction, excluding foreign nationals; or
(ii) 3,500 or more employees of the agency.
(b) An agency's primary national subdivision which has authority to formulate conditions of employment shall accord national consultation rights to a labor organization that:
(1) Requests national consultation rights at the primary national subdivision level; and
(2) Holds exclusive recognition for either:
(i) Ten percent (10%) or more of the total number of civilian personnel employed by the primary national subdivision and the non-appropriated fund Federal instrumentalities under its jurisdiction, excluding foreign nationals; or
(ii) 3,500 or more employees of the primary national subdivision.
(c) In determining whether a labor organization meets the requirements as prescribed in paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(2) of this section, the following will not be counted:
(1) At the agency level, employees represented by the labor organization under national exclusive recognition granted at the agency level.
(2) At the primary national subdivision level, employees represented by the labor organization under national exclusive recognition granted at the agency level or at that primary national subdivision level.
(d) An agency or a primary national subdivision of an agency shall not grant national consultation rights to any labor organization that does not meet the criteria prescribed in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section.
§ 2426.2
Requests; petition and procedures for determination of eligibility for national consultation rights.
(a) Requests by labor organizations for national consultation rights shall be submitted in writing to the headquarters of the agency or the agency's primary national subdivision, as appropriate, which headquarters shall have fifteen (15) days from the date of service of such request to respond thereto in writing.
(b) Issues relating to a labor organization's eligibility for, or continuation of, national consultation rights shall be referred to the Authority for determination as follows:
(1) A petition for determination of the eligibility of a labor organization for national consultation rights under criteria set forth in § 2426.1 may be filed by a labor organization.
(2) A petition for determination of eligibility for national consultation rights shall be submitted on a form prescribed by the Authority and shall set forth the following information:
(i) Name and affiliation, if any, of the petitioner and its address and telephone number;
(ii) A statement that the petitioner has submitted to the agency or the primary national subdivision and to the Assistant Secretary a roster of its officers and representatives, a copy of its constitution and bylaws, and a statement of its objectives;
(iii) A declaration by the person signing the petition, under the penalties of the Criminal Code (18 U.S.C. 1001), that its contents are true and correct to the best of such person's knowledge and belief;
(iv) The signature of the petitioner's representative, including such person's title and telephone number;
(v) The name, address, and telephone number of the agency or primary national subdivision in which the petitioner seeks to obtain or retain national consultation rights, and the persons to contact and their titles, if known;
(vi) A showing that petitioner holds adequate exclusive recognition as required by § 2426.1; and
(vii) A statement as appropriate: (A) That such showing has been made to and rejected by the agency or primary national subdivision, together with a statement of the reasons for rejection, if any, offered by that agency or primary national subdivision;
(B) That the agency or primary national subdivision has served notice of its intent to terminate existing national consultation rights, together with a statement of the reasons for termination; or
(C) That the agency or primary national subdivision has failed to respond in writing to a request for national consultation rights made under § 2426.2(a) within fifteen (15) days after the date the request is served on the agency or primary national subdivision.
(3) The following regulations govern petitions filed under this section:
(i) A petition for determination of eligibility for national consultation rights shall be filed with the Regional Director for the region wherein the headquarters of the agency or the agency's primary national subdivision is located.
(ii) An original and four (4) copies of a petition shall be filed, together with a statement of any other relevant facts and of all correspondence.
(iii) Copies of the petition together with the attachments referred to in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section shall be served by the petitioner on all known interested parties, and a written statement of such service shall be filed with the Regional Director.
(iv) A petition shall be filed within thirty (30) days after the service of written notice by the agency or primary national subdivision of its refusal to accord national consultation rights pursuant to a request under § 2426.2(a) or its intention to terminate existing national consultation rights. If an agency or a primary national subdivision fails to respond in writing to a request for national consultation rights made under § 2426.2(a) within fifteen (15) days after the date the request is served on the agency or primary national subdivision, a petition shall be filed within thirty (30) days after the expiration of such fifteen (15) day period.
(v) If an agency or primary national subdivision wishes to terminate national consultation rights, notice of its intention to do so shall include a statement of its reasons and shall be served not less than thirty (30) days prior to the intended termination date. A labor organization, after receiving such notice, may file a petition within the time period prescribed herein, and thereby cause to be stayed further action by the agency or primary national subdivision pending disposition of the petition. If no petition has been filed within the provided time period, an
agency or primary national subdivision may terminate national consultation rights.
(vi) Within fifteen (15) days after the receipt of a copy of the petition, the agency or primary national subdivision shall file a response thereto with the Regional Director raising any matter which is relevant to the petition.
(vii) The Regional Director shall make such investigations as the Regional Director deems necessary and thereafter shall issue and serve on the parties a Decision and Order with respect to the eligibility for national consultation rights which shall be final:
Provided, however,
That an application for review of the Regional Director's Decision and Order may be filed with the Authority in accordance with the procedure set forth in § 2422.17 of this subchapter. A determination by the Regional Director to issue a notice of hearing shall not be subject to the filing of an application for review. The Regional Director, if appropriate, may cause a notice of hearing to be issued to all interested parties where substantial factual issues exist warranting a hearing. Hearings shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer in accordance with §§ 2422.9 through 2422.15 of this subchapter and after the close of the hearing a Decision and Order shall be issued by the Regional Director in accordnce with § 2422.16 of this subchapter.
[45 FR 3513, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 40193, Sept. 6, 1983]
§ 2426.3
Obligation to consult.
(a) When a labor organization has been accorded national consultation rights, the agency or the primary national subdivision which has granted those rights shall, through appropriate officials, furnish designated representatives of the labor organization:
(1) Reasonable notice of any proposed substantive change in conditions of employment; and
(2) Reasonable time to present its views and recommendations regarding the change.
(b) If a labor organization presents any views or recommendations regarding any proposed substantive change in conditions of employment to an agency or a primary national subdivision, that agency or primary national subdivision shall:
(1) Consider the views or recommendations before taking final action on any matter with respect to which the views or recommendations are presented; and
(2) Provide the labor organization a written statement of the reasons for taking the final action.
(c) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to limit the right of any agency or exclusive representative to engage in collective bargaining.

# Subpart B—Consultation Rights on Government-wide Rules or Regulations
§ 2426.11
Requesting; granting; criteria.
(a) An agency shall accord consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations to a labor organization that:
(1) Requests consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations from an agency; and
(2) Holds exclusive recognition for 3,500 or more employees.
(b) An agency shall not grant consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations to any labor organization that does not meet the criteria prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 2426.12
Requests; petition and procedures for determination of eligibility for consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations.
(a) Requests by labor organizations for consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations shall be submitted in writing to the headquarters of the agency, which headquarters shall have fifteen (15) days from the date of service of such request to respond thereto in writing.
(b) Issues relating to a labor organization's eligibility for, or continuation of, consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations shall be referred to the Authority for determination as follows:
(1) A petition for determination of the eligibility of a labor organization for consultation rights under criteria
set forth in § 2426.11 may be filed by a labor organization.
(2) A petition for determination of eligibility for consultation rights shall be submitted on a form prescribed by the Authority and shall set forth the following information:
(i) Name and affiliation, if any, of the petitioner and its address and telephone number;
(ii) A statement that the petitioner has submitted to the agency and to the Assistant Secretary a roster of its officers and representatives, a copy of its constitution and bylaws, and a statement of its objectives;
(iii) A declaration by the person signing the petition, under the penalties of the Criminal Code (18 U.S.C. 1001), that its contents are true and correct to the best of such person's knowledge and belief;
(iv) The signature of the petitioner's representative, including such person's title and telephone number;
(v) The name, address, and telephone number of the agency in which the petitioner seeks to obtain or retain consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations, and the persons to contact and their titles, if known;
(vi) A showing that petitioner meets the criteria as required by § 2426.11; and
(vii) A statement, as appropriate:
(A) That such showing has been made to and rejected by the agency, together with a statement of the reasons for rejection, if any, offered by that agency;
(B) That the agency has served notice of its intent to terminate existing consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations, together with a statement of the reasons for termination; or
(C) That the agency has failed to respond in writing to a request for consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations made under § 2426.12(a) within fifteen (15) days after the date the request is served on the agency.
(3) The following regulations govern petitions filed under this section:
(i) A petition for determination of eligibility for consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations shall be filed with the Regional Director for the region wherein the headquarters of the agency is located.
(ii) An original and four (4) copies of a petition shall be filed, together with a statement of any other relevant facts and of all correspondence.
(iii) Copies of the petition together with the attachments referred to in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section shall be served by the petitioner on the agency, and a written statement of such service shall be filed with the Regional Director.
(iv) A petition shall be filed within thirty (30) days after the service of written notice by the agency of its refusal to accord consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations pursuant to a request under § 2426.12(a) or its intention to terminate such existing consultation rights. If an agency fails to respond in writing to a request for consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations made under § 2426.12(a) within fifteen (15) days after the date the request is served on the agency, a petition shall be filed within thirty (30) days after the expiration of such fifteen (15) day period.
(v) If an agency wishes to terminate consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations, notice of its intention to do so shall be served not less than thirty (30) days prior to the intended termination date. A labor organization, after receiving such notice, may file a petition within the time period prescribed herein, and thereby cause to be stayed further action by the agency pending disposition of the petition. If no petition has been filed within the provided time period, an agency may terminate such consultation rights.
(vi) Within fifteen (15) days after the receipt of a copy of the petition, the agency shall file a response thereto with the Regional Director raising any matter which is relevant to the petition.
(vii) The Regional Director shall make such investigation as the Regional Director deems necessary and thereafter shall issue and serve on the parties a Decision and Order with respect to the eligibility for consultation rights which shall be final:
Provided, however,
That an application for review of the Regional Director's Decision and Order may be filed with the Authority in accordance with the procedure set
forth in § 2422.17 of this subchapter. A determination by the Regional Director to issue a notice of hearing shall not be subject to the filing of an application for review. The Regional Director, if appropriate, may cause a notice of hearing to be issued where substantial factual issues exist warranting a hearing. Hearings shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer in accordance with §§ 2422.9 through 2422.15 of this chapter and after the close of the hearing a Decision and Order shall be issued by the Regional Director in accordance with § 2422.16 of this subchapter.
[45 FR 3513, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 40193, Sept. 6, 1983]
§ 2426.13
Obligation to consult.
(a) When a labor organization has been accorded consultation rights on Government-wide rules or regulations, the agency which has granted those rights shall, through appropriate officials, furnish designated representatives of the labor organization:
(1) Reasonable notice of any proposed Government-wide rule or regulation issued by the agency affecting any substantive change in any condition of employment; and
(2) Reasonable time to present its views and recommendations regarding the change.
(b) If a labor organization presents any views or recommendations regarding any proposed substantive change in any condition of employment to an agency, that agency shall:
(1) Consider the views or recommendations before taking final action on any matter with respect to which the views or recommendations are presented; and
(2) Provide the labor organization a written statement of the reasons for taking the final action.
Pt. 2427

# PART 2427—GENERAL STATEMENTS OF POLICY OR GUIDANCE
Sec.
2427.1
Scope.
2427.2
Requests for general statements of policy or guidance.
2427.3
Content of request.
2427.4
Submissions from interested parties.
2427.5
Standards governing issuance of general statements of policy or guidance.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7134.

# Source:
45 FR 3516, Jan. 17, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2427.1
Scope.
This part sets forth procedures under which requests may be submitted to the Authority seeking the issuance of general statements of policy or guidance under 5 U.S.C. 7105(a)(1).
§ 2427.2
Requests for general statements of policy or guidance.
(a) The head of an agency (or designee), the national president of a labor organization (or designee), or the president of a labor organization not affiliated with a national organization (or designee) may separately or jointly ask the Authority for a general statement of policy or guidance. The head of any lawful association not qualified as a labor organization may also ask the Authority for such a statement provided the request is not in conflict with the provisions of chapter 71 of title 5 of the United States Code or other law.
(b) The Authority ordinarily will not consider a request related to any matter pending before the Authority, General Counsel, Panel or Assistant Secretary.
§ 2427.3
Content of request.
(a) A request for a general statement of policy or guidance shall be in writing and must contain:
(1) A concise statement of the question with respect to which a general statement of policy or guidance is requested together with background information necessary to an understanding of the question;
(2) A statement of the standards under § 2427.5 upon which the request is based;
(3) A full and detailed statement of the position or positions of the requesting party or parties;
(4) Identification of any cases or other proceedings known to bear on the question which are pending under chapter 71 of title 5 of the United States Code; and
(5) Identification of other known interested parties.
(b) A copy of each document also shall be served on all known interested parties, including the General Counsel,
the Panel, the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and the Assistant Secretary, where appropriate.
§ 2427.4
Submissions from interested parties.
Prior to issuance of a general statement of policy or guidance the Authority, as it deems appropriate, will afford an opportunity to interested parties to express their views orally or in writing.
§ 2427.5
Standards governing issuance of general statements of policy or guidance.
In deciding whether to issue a general statement of policy or guidance, the Authority shall consider:
(a) Whether the question presented can more appropriately be resolved by other means;
(b) Where other means are available, whether an Authority statement would prevent the proliferation of cases involving the same or similar question;
(c) Whether the resolution of the question presented would have general applicability under the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute;
(d) Whether the question currently confronts parties in the context of a labor-management relationship;
(e) Whether the question is presented jointly by the parties involved; and
(f) Whether the issuance by the Authority of a general statement of policy or guidance on the question would promote constructive and cooperative labor-management relationships in the Federal service and would otherwise promote the purposes of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
Pt. 2428

# PART 2428—ENFORCEMENT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY STANDARDS OF CONDUCT DECISIONS AND ORDERS
Sec.
2428.1
Scope.
2428.2
Petitions for enforcement.
2428.3
Authority decision.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7134.

# Source:
45 FR 3516, Jan. 17, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2428.1
Scope.
This part sets forth procedures under which the Authority, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7105(a)(2)(I), will enforce decisions and orders of the Assistant Secretary in standards of conduct matters arising under 5 U.S.C. 7120.
§ 2428.2
Petitions for enforcement.
(a) The Assistant Secretary may petition the Authority to enforce any Assistant Secretary decision and order in a standards of conduct case arising under 5 U.S.C. 7120. The Assistant Secretary shall transfer to the Authority the record in the case, including a copy of the transcript if any, exhibits, briefs, and other documents filed with the Assistant Secretary. A copy of the petition for enforcement shall be served on the labor organization against which such order applies.
(b) An opposition to Authority enforcement of any such Assistant Secretary decision and order may be filed by the labor organization against which such order applies twenty (20) days from the date of service of the petition, unless the Authority, upon good cause shown by the Assistant Secretary, sets a shorter time for filing such opposition. A copy of the opposition to enforcement shall be served on the Assistant Secretary.
§ 2428.3
Authority decision.
(a) A decision and order of the Assistant Secretary shall be enforced unless it is arbitrary and capricious or based upon manifest disregard of the law.
(b) The Authority shall issue its decision on the case enforcing, enforcing as modified, refusing to enforce, or remanding the decision and order of the Assistant Secretary.
Pt. 2429

# PART 2429—MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

# Subpart A—Miscellaneous
Sec.
2429.1
[Reserved]
2429.2
Transfer and consolidation of cases.
2429.3
Transfer of record.
2429.4
Referral of policy questions to the Authority.
2429.5
Matters not previously presented; official notice.
2429.6
Oral argument.
2429.7
Subpoenas.
2429.8
[Reserved]
2429.9
Amicus curiae.
2429.10
Advisory opinions.
2429.11
Interlocutory appeals.
2429.12
Service of process and papers by the Authority.
2429.13
Official time for witnesses.
2429.14
Witness fees.
2429.15
Authority requests for advisory opinions.
2429.16
General remedial authority.
2429.17
Reconsideration.
2429.18
Service of petitions for review of final authority orders.
2429.19
Revocation of assignments.

# Subpart B—General Requirements
2429.21
How to compute the due date for filing documents with the FLRA; how the FLRA determines the date on which documents have been filed.
2429.22
Additional time for filing with the FLRA if you are filing in response to a document that has been served on you by first-class mail or commercial delivery.
2429.23
Extension; waiver.
2429.24
Place and method of filing; acknowledgement.
2429.25
Number of copies and paper size.
2429.26
Other documents.
2429.27
Service; statement of service.
2429.28
Petitions for amendment of regulations.
2429.29
Content of filings.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7134; § 2429.18 also issued under 28 U.S.C. 2112(a).

# Source:
45 FR 3516, Jan. 17, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Miscellaneous
§ 2429.1
[Reserved]
§ 2429.2
Transfer and consolidation of cases.
In any matter arising pursuant to parts 2422 and 2423 of this subchapter, whenever it appears necessary in order to effectuate the purposes of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute or to avoid unnecessary costs or delay, Regional Directors may consolidate cases within their own region or may transfer such cases to any other region, for the purpose of investigation or consolidation with any proceedings which may have been instituted in, or transferred to, such region.
§ 2429.3
Transfer of record.
In any case under part 2425 of this subchapter, upon request by the Authority, the parties jointly shall transfer the record in the case, including a copy of the transcript, if any, exhibits, briefs and other documents filed with the arbitrator, to the Authority.
§ 2429.4
Referral of policy questions to the Authority.
Notwithstanding the procedures set forth in this subchapter, the General Counsel, the Assistant Secretary, or the Panel may refer for review and decision or general ruling by the Authority any case involving a major policy issue that arises in a proceeding before any of them. Any such referral shall be in writing and a copy of such referral shall be served on all parties to the proceeding. Before decision or general ruling, the Authority shall obtain the views of the parties and other interested persons, orally or in writing, as it deems necessary and appropriate.
§ 2429.5
Matters not previously presented; official notice.
The Authority will not consider any evidence, factual assertions, arguments (including affirmative defenses), requested remedies, or challenges to an awarded remedy that could have been, but were not, presented in the proceedings before the Regional Director, Hearing Officer, Administrative Law Judge, or arbitrator. The Authority may, however, take official notice of such matters as would be proper.
[75 FR 42292, July 21, 2010]
§ 2429.6
Oral argument.
The Authority or the General Counsel, in their discretion, may request or permit oral argument in any matter arising under this subchapter under such circumstances and conditions as they deem appropriate.
§ 2429.7
Subpoenas.
(a) Any member of the Authority, the General Counsel, any Administrative Law Judge appointed by the Authority under 5 U.S.C. 3105, and any Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or other employee of the Authority designated by
the Authority may issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary or other evidence. However, no subpoena shall be issued under this section which requires the disclosure of intramanagement guidance, advice, counsel, or training within an agency or between an agency and the Office of Personnel Management.
(b) Where the parties are in agreement that the appearance of witnesses or the production of documents is necessary, and such witnesses agree to appear, no such subpoena need be sought.
(c) A request for a subpoena by any person, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a)(1), shall be in writing and filed with the Regional Director, in proceedings arising under part 2422 of this subchapter, or with the Authority, in proceedings arising under parts 2424 and 2425 of this subchapter, not less than 10 days prior to the hearing, or with the appropriate presiding official(s) during the hearing. Requests for subpoenas made less than 10 days prior to the opening of the hearing shall be granted on sufficient explanation of why the request was not timely filed.
(d) The Authority, General Counsel, Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or any other employee of the Authority designated by the Authority, as appropriate, shall furnish the requester the subpoenas sought, provided the request is timely made. Requests for subpoenas may be made ex parte. Completion of the specific information in the subpoena and the service of the subpoena are the responsibility of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued. A subpoena may be served by any person who is at least 18 years old and who is not a party to the proceeding. The person who served the subpoena must certify that he or she did so:
(1) By delivering it to the witness in person,
(2) By registered or certified mail, or
(3) By delivering the subpoena to a responsible person (named in the document certifying the delivery) at the residence or place of business (as appropriate) of the person for whom the subpoena was intended. The subpoena shall show on its face the name and address of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued.
(e)(1) Any person served with a subpoena who does not intend to comply, shall, within 5 days after the date of service of the subpoena upon such person, petition in writing to revoke the subpoena. A copy of any petition to revoke a subpoena shall be served on the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued. Such petition to revoke, if made prior to the hearing, and a written statement of service, shall be filed with the Regional Director in proceedings arising under part 2422 of this subchapter, and with the Authority, in proceedings arising under parts 2424 and 2425 of this subchapter for ruling. A petition to revoke a subpoena filed during the hearing, and a written statement of service, shall be filed with the appropriate presiding official(s).
(2) The Authority, General Counsel, Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or any other employee of the Authority designated by the Authority, as appropriate, shall revoke the subpoena if the person or evidence, the production of which is required, is not material and relevant to the matters under investigation or in question in the proceedings, or the subpoena does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence the production of which is required, or if for any other reason sufficient in law the subpoena is invalid. The Authority, General Counsel, Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or any other employee of the Authority designated by the Authority, as appropriate, shall state the procedural or other ground for the ruling on the petition to revoke. The petition to revoke, any answer thereto, and any ruling thereon shall not become part of the official record except upon the request of the party aggrieved by the ruling.
(f) Upon the failure of any person to comply with a subpoena issued and upon the request of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued, the Solicitor of the Authority shall institute proceedings on behalf of such party in the appropriate district court for the enforcement thereof, unless to do so would be inconsistent with law and the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
[45 FR 3516, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 40922, July 31, 1997]
§ 2429.8
[Reserved]
§ 2429.9
Amicus curiae.
Upon petition of an interested person, a copy of which petition shall be served on the parties, and as the Authority deems appropriate, the Authority may grant permission for the presentation of written and/or oral argument at any stage of the proceedings by an amicus curiae and the parties shall be notified of such action by the Authority.
§ 2429.10
Advisory opinions.
The Authority and the General Counsel will not issue advisory opinions.
§ 2429.11
Interlocutory appeals.
Except as set forth in part 2423, the Authority and the General Counsel ordinarily will not consider interlocutory appeals.
[62 FR 40923, July 31, 1997]
§ 2429.12
Service of process and papers by the Authority.
(a)
Methods of service.
Notices of hearings, decisions and orders of Regional Directors, decisions and recommended orders of Administrative Law Judges, decisions of the Authority, complaints, amended complaints, withdrawals of complaints, written rulings on motions, and all other papers required by this subchapter to be issued by the Authority, the General Counsel, Regional Directors, Hearing Officers, Administrative Law Judges, and Regional Directors when not acting as a party under part 2423 of this subchapter, shall be served personally, by first-class mail, by facsimile transmission, by certified mail, or, as described below with respect to documents issued by the Authority, by electronic mail (hereinafter, “email”). Where facsimile equipment is available, rulings on motions; information pertaining to prehearing disclosure, conferences, orders, or hearing dates, and locations; information pertaining to subpoenas; and other similar or time sensitive matters may be served by facsimile transmission. Where a party using the FLRA's eFiling system has consented to electronic service of documents issued by the Authority in a particular case, the Authority shall serve documents on that party exclusively by email to the email address provided by the party.
(b)
Upon whom served.
All papers required to be served under paragraph (a) of this section shall be served upon all counsel of record or other designated representative(s) of parties, and upon parties not so represented. Service upon such counsel or representative shall constitute service upon the party, but a copy also shall be transmitted to the party.
(c)
Proof of service.
Proof of service shall be verified by certificate of the individual serving the papers describing the manner of such service. When service is by mail, the date of service shall be the day when the matter served is deposited in the United States mail. When service is by facsimile, the date of service shall be the date the facsimile transmission is transmitted and, when necessary, verified by a dated facsimile record of transmission. When parties are served documents by the Authority by email, the date of service shall be the date the email is sent.
[45 FR 3516, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 40194, Sept. 6, 1983; 62 FR 40923, July 31, 1997; 88 FR 43426, July 10, 2023]
§ 2429.13
Official time for witnesses.
If the participation of any employee in any phase of any proceeding before the Authority, including the investigation of unfair labor practice charges and representation petitions and the participation in hearings and representation elections, is deemed necessary by the Authority, the General Counsel, any Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or other agent of the Authority designated by the Authority, the employee shall be granted official time for such participation, including necessary travel time, as occurs during the employee's regular work hours and when the employee would otherwise be in a work or paid leave status.
[62 FR 40923, July 31, 1997]
§ 2429.14
Witness fees.
(a) Witnesses, whether appearing voluntarily or pursuant to a subpoena,
shall be paid the fee and mileage allowances which are paid subpoenaed witnesses in the courts of the United States. However, any witness who is employed by the Federal Government shall not be entitled to receive witness fees.
(b) Witness fees, as appropriate, as well as transportation and per diem expenses for a witness shall be paid by the party that calls the witness to testify.
[62 FR 40923, July 31, 1997]
§ 2429.15
Authority requests for advisory opinions.
(a) Whenever the Authority, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7105(i) requests an advisory opinion from the Director of the Office of Personnel Management concerning the proper interpretation of rules, regulations, or policy directives issued by that Office in connection with any matter before the Authority, a copy of such request, and any response thereto, shall be served upon the parties in the matter.
(b) The parties shall have fifteen (15) days from the date of service of a copy of the response of the Office of Personnel Management to file with the Authority comments on that response which the parties wish the Authority to consider before reaching a decision in the matter. Such comments shall be in writing and copies shall be served upon the other parties in the matter and upon the Office of Personnel Management.
§ 2429.16
General remedial authority.
The Authority shall take any actions which are necessary and appropriate to administer effectively the provisions of chapter 71 of title 5 of the United States Code.
§ 2429.17
Reconsideration.
After a final decision or order of the Authority has been issued, a party to the proceeding before the Authority who can establish in its moving papers extraordinary circumstances for so doing, may move for reconsideration of such final decision or order. The motion shall be filed within ten (10) days after service of the Authority's decision or order. A motion for reconsideration shall state with particularity the extraordinary circumstances claimed and shall be supported by appropriate citations. The filing and pendency of a motion under this provision shall not operate to stay the effectiveness of the action of the Authority, unless so ordered by the Authority. A motion for reconsideration need not be filed in order to exhaust administrative remedies.
[46 FR 40675, Aug. 11, 1981]
§ 2429.18
Service of petitions for review of final authority orders.
Any aggrieved person filing pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7123(a) a petition for review of a final Authority order in an appropriate Federal circuit court of appeals within 10 days of issuance of the Authority's final order must ensure that a court-stamped copy of the petition for review is received by the Solicitor of the Authority within that 10-day period in order to qualify for participation in the random selection process established in Public Law No. 100-236 for determining the appropriate court of appeals to review an agency final order when petitions for review of that order are filed in more than one court of appeals.
[55 FR 2509, Jan. 25, 1990]
§ 2429.19
Revocation of assignments.
Consistent with the exceptions in 5 U.S.C. 7115(b), after the expiration of the one-year period during which an assignment may not be revoked under 5 U.S.C. 7115(a), an employee may initiate the revocation of a previously authorized assignment at any time that the employee chooses. After the expiration of the one-year period of irrevocability under 5 U.S.C. 7115(a), upon receiving an employee's request to revoke a previously authorized dues assignment, an agency must process the revocation request as soon as administratively feasible.
[85 FR 41172, July 9, 2020]

# Subpart B—General Requirements
§ 2429.21
How to compute the due date for filing documents with the FLRA; how the FLRA determines the date on which documents have been filed.
(a)
How to compute the due date for filing documents with the FLRA.
In computing the due date for filing any document with the FLRA under this subchapter, follow these rules:
(1)
General rules.
Except in the situations discussed in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, follow these steps in order to determine the date on which you must file any document with the FLRA.
(i)
Step 1:
Determine the act, event, or default (“the triggering event”) that you are filing in response to. The act, event, or default constitutes the triggering event even if it falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday.
(ii)
Step 2:
Determine the number of days that you have to file (“the filing period”).
(iii)
Step 3:
Determine the first day of the filing period. This is the day after, not the day of, the triggering event, and constitutes the first day of the filing period even if it is a Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday.
(iv)
Step 4:
Starting with the first day of the filing period, count calendar days—including Saturdays, Sundays, and federal legal holidays—until you reach the last day of the filing period (“the last day”).
(v)
Step 5:
Ask: Does the last day fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday? If no, then your filing is due on that day (unless you are entitled to an additional 5 days under § 2429.22). If yes, then find the next day on the calendar that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday. Your filing is due on that day (unless you are entitled to an additional 5 days under § 2429.22), even if you are filing electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at
www.flra.gov
(although, as discussed in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section, you are permitted to file electronically on Saturdays, Sundays, or federal legal holidays).
See
§ 2429.22 for rules regarding how to calculate your due date if you are entitled to an additional 5 days.
(2)
Agreement-bar exception.
If you are filing a petition in an agreement-bar situation under 5 CFR 2422.12(c), (d), (e), and (f), then, as discussed further in those regulations, you must file a petition no later than 60 days before the expiration date of the existing collective-bargaining agreement (“the 60-day date”). The first day (“day one”) of the period is the day before, not the day on which, the collective-bargaining agreement expires. Start with day one, and count back on the calendar from that day, including Saturdays, Sundays, and federal legal holidays. If the 60th day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday, then you must file your petition by the close of business on the last official workday that comes before, not after, that Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday.
(3)
Exception for filing periods that are 7 days or less.
If your filing period is 7 days or less, then determine the act, event, or default that you are filing in response to (“the triggering event”). Find the first day after the triggering event that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday. Start counting the 7-day period on (and including) that day, but exclude any Saturdays, Sundays, or federal legal holidays. The 7th day is the due date for filing.
(b)
How the FLRA determines the date on which documents have been filed.
The FLRA applies the following rules in determining the date on which a party has filed documents.
(1)
General rules.
Except in the situations discussed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the FLRA looks to the method by which documents have been filed in order to determine the date on which those documents have been filed. Specifically:
(i)
Documents filed with the FLRA by first-class mail.
If the mailing contains a legible postmark date, then that date is the date of filing. If the mailing does not contain a legible postmark date, then the FLRA presumes that it was filed 5 days prior to the date on which the appropriate FLRA component, officer, or agent receives it.
(ii)
Documents filed with the FLRA by facsimile (“fax”).
If the date of transmission on a fax is clear, then that
date is the filing date. If the date of transmission on a fax is not clear, then the date of filing is the date on which the appropriate FLRA component, officer, or agent receives the fax.
(iii)
Documents filed with the FLRA by personal delivery.
The date of filing is the date on which the appropriate FLRA component, officer, or agent receives the filing.
(iv)
Documents filed with the FLRA by deposit with a commercial-delivery service that provides a record showing the date of deposit.
The date of filing is the date of deposit with the commercial-delivery service.
(v)
Documents filed electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at www.flra.gov.
The date of filing is the calendar day (including Saturdays, Sundays, and federal legal holidays) on which the document is transmitted in the eFiling system. Although documents that are filed electronically may be filed on Saturdays, Sundays, and federal legal holidays, they are not required to be filed on such days, as discussed in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section.
(2)
Exceptions.
The rules in paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not apply to filing an unfair labor practice charge under 5 CFR part 2423, a representation petition under 5 CFR part 2422, and a request for an extension of time under § 2429.23(a). See those provisions for more information.
(c)
Compliance with § 2429.24.
All documents filed or required to be filed with the Authority must be filed in accordance with the rules set out in § 2429.24.
[77 FR 26435, May 4, 2012]
§ 2429.22
Additional time for filing with the FLRA if you are filing in response to a document that has been served on you by first-class mail or commercial delivery.
(a)
General rules.
Except as discussed in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section, apply the following rules if and only if you are filing a document with the FLRA in response to a document that has been served on you by first-class mail or commercial delivery. First, look to § 2429.21(a)(1) and apply steps 1 through 5 of that section in order to determine what normally would be your due date. Second, starting with the next calendar day, which will be day one, count forward on the calendar, including Saturdays, Sundays, and federal legal holidays, until you reach day five. If day five is not a Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday, then your filing is due with the FLRA on that day. If day five is a Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday, then find the next calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday; your filing is due with the FLRA on that day.
(b)
Rules that apply when you have been served by more than one method.
If someone has served you with a document using more than one method of service, then, as a general rule, the first method of service is controlling for purposes of determining your due date for filing with the FLRA. For example, if someone serves you with a document by first-class mail or commercial delivery on one day, and then serves you by some other method (such as electronic mail) the next day, then you may add 5 days to your due date, as described in paragraph (a) of this section. But if someone serves you with a document one day by any method
other than
first-class mail or commercial delivery, and
later
serves you with the document by first-class mail or commercial delivery, then you may not add 5 days to your due date; rather, you must look to § 2429.21(a)(1) and apply steps 1 through 5 of that section in order to determine your due date. Also, if someone serves you by first-class mail or commercial delivery on one day, and by any other method on the same day, then you may not add 5 days—even if the first-class mail was postmarked or the time of deposit with the commercial-delivery service was earlier in the day than the time at which the other method of service was effected.
(c)
Exception for applications for review filed under 5 CFR 2422.31.
You do not get an additional 5 days to file an application for review of a Regional Director's Decision and Order under 5 CFR 2422.31, regardless of the method of service of that Decision and Order.
(d)
Exception where extension of time has been granted.
You do not get an additional 5 days in any instance where
an extension of time already has been granted.
(e)
Rules that apply to exceptions to arbitration awards.
For specific rules that apply to filing exceptions to arbitration awards,
see
5 CFR 2425.2(c).
[77 FR 26436, May 4, 2012]
§ 2429.23
Extension; waiver.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, and notwithstanding § 2429.21(b) of this subchapter, the Authority or General Counsel, or their designated representatives, as appropriate, may extend any time limit provided in this subchapter for good cause shown, and shall notify the parties of any such extension. Requests for extensions of time shall be in writing and received by the appropriate official not later than five (5) days before the established time limit for filing, shall state the position of the other parties on the request for extension, and shall be served on the other parties.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Authority or General Counsel, or their designated representatives, as appropriate, may waive any expired time limit in this subchapter in extraordinary circumstances. Request for a waiver of time limits shall state the position of the other parties and shall be served on the other parties.
(c) The time limits established in this subchapter may not be extended or waived in any manner other than that described in this subchapter.
(d) Time limits established in 5 U.S.C. 7105(f), 7117(c)(2) and 7122(b) may not be extended or waived under this section.
[45 FR 3516, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 40194, Sept. 6, 1983; 51 FR 45752, Dec. 22, 1986]
§ 2429.24
Place and method of filing; acknowledgement.
(a) Except for documents that are filed electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov,
anyone who files a document with the Authority (as distinguished from the General Counsel, a Regional Director, or an Administrative Law Judge) must file that document with the Chief, Case Intake and Publication, Federal Labor Relations Authority, Docket Room, Suite 300, 1400 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20424-0001 (telephone: (771) 444-5805). To file documents by personal delivery, you must schedule an appointment at least one business day in advance by calling the telephone number in the previous sentence. Personal delivery is accepted by appointment Monday through Friday (except federal holidays). If you file documents electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system, then you may file those documents on any calendar day—including Saturdays, Sundays, and federal legal holidays—and the Authority will consider those documents filed on a particular day if you file them no later than 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on that day. Note, however, that although you may eFile documents on Saturdays, Sundays, and federal legal holidays, you are not required to do so. Also note that you may not file documents with the Authority by electronic mail (“email”).
(b) A document submitted to the General Counsel pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the General Counsel at the address set forth in the appendix.
(c) A document submitted to a Regional Director pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the appropriate regional office, as set forth in the appendix.
(d) Unless electronically filed pursuant to paragraph (f)(15) of this section, a document filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges pursuant to this subchapter shall be submitted to the address for the Chief Administrative Law Judge, as set forth in the appendix.
(e) Except as discussed in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, if you are filing documents with the FLRA, then you must file them in person, by commercial delivery, by first-class mail, or by certified mail.
(f) As an alternative to the filing methods discussed in paragraph (e) of this section, you may file the following documents, and only the following documents, electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at
www.flra.gov:
(1) Applications for review under 5 CFR 2422.31(a) through (c);
(2) Oppositions to applications for review under 5 CFR 2422.31(d);
(3) Exceptions to Administrative Law Judges' decisions under 5 CFR 2423.40(a);
(4) Oppositions to exceptions to Administrative Law Judges' decisions under 5 CFR 2423.40(b);
(5) Cross-exceptions under 5 CFR 2423.40(b);
(6) Exclusive representatives' petitions for review under 5 CFR 2424.22;
(7) Agency statements of position under 5 CFR 2424.24;
(8) Exclusive representatives' responses under 5 CFR 2424.25;
(9) Agency replies under 5 CFR 2424.26;
(10) Exceptions to arbitration awards under 5 CFR part 2425; and
(11) Oppositions to exceptions to arbitration awards under 5 CFR part 2425.
(12) Petitions under 5 CFR part 2422.
(13) Cross-petitions under 5 CFR part 2422.
(14) Charges under 5 CFR part 2423.
(15) Documents submitted to the Office of Administrative Law Judges under 5 CFR part 2423, including answers to complaints, motions, briefs, pre-hearing disclosures, stipulations, and any other documents as permitted by the eFiling system for the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
(g) As another alternative to the methods of filing described in paragraph (e) of this section, you may file the following documents by facsimile (“fax”), so long as fax equipment is available and your entire, individual filing does not exceed 10 pages in total length, with normal margins and font sizes. You may file only the following documents by fax under this paragraph (g):
(1) Motions;
(2) Information pertaining to prehearing disclosure, conferences, orders, or hearing dates, times, and locations;
(3) Information pertaining to subpoenas;
(4) Appeals of a dismissal of an unfair labor practice charge; and
(5) Other matters that are similar to those in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.
(h) You must legibly print, type, or otherwise duplicate any documents that you file under this section. For purposes of documents that are filed electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system under paragraph (f) of this section, “legibly * * * duplicated” means that documents that you upload as attachments into the eFiling system must be legible.
(i) Documents, including correspondence, in any proceedings under this subchapter must show the title of the proceeding and the case number, if any.
(j) Except for documents that are filed electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system, the original of each document required to be filed under this subchapter must be signed by either the filing party or that party's attorney, other representative of record, or officer, and also must contain the address and telephone number of the person who signs the document. Documents that are filed electronically using the FLRA's eFiling system must contain the mailing address, email address, and telephone number of the individual who files the document, but not that individual's signature.
(k) A return postal receipt may serve as acknowledgement that the Authority, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, or Hearing Officer has received a filed document. Otherwise, the FLRA will acknowledge receipt of filed documents only if the filing party:
(1) Asks the receiving FLRA officer to do so;
(2) Includes an extra copy of the document or the letter to which the document is attached, which the receiving FLRA office will date-stamp and return to the filing party; and
(3) For returns that are to be sent by mail, includes a self-addressed, stamped envelope.
[45 FR 3516, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 45752, Dec. 22, 1986; 58 FR 53105, Oct. 14, 1993; 62 FR 40924, July 31, 1997; 68 FR 10953, Mar. 7, 2003; 68 FR 23885, May 6, 2003; 73 FR 27459, May 13, 2008; 77 FR 26436, May 4, 2012; 77 FR 37762, June 25, 2012; 80 FR 9190, Feb. 20, 2015; 88 FR 80092, Nov. 17, 2023; 89 FR 11702, Feb. 15, 2024]
§ 2429.25
Number of copies and paper size.
(a)
General rule.
Except as discussed in paragraph (b) of this section, and unless you use an FLRA-prescribed form, any document that you file with the Authority, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, or Hearing Officer, including any attachments, must be on 8
1/2
by 11-inch size paper, using normal margins and font sizes. You must file one original document, but you may substitute for the original document a clean copy of that document, so long as the copy is capable of being used as an original for purposes such as further reproduction.
(b)
Exceptions.
You are not required to comply with paragraph (a) of this section if and only if:
(1) You file documents electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system;
(2) The Authority or the General Counsel, or their designated representatives, allow you not to comply; or
(3) Another provision of this subchapter allows you not to comply.
[77 FR 26437, May 4, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 11702, Feb. 15, 2024]
§ 2429.26
Other documents.
(a) The Authority or the General Counsel, or their designated representatives, as appropriate, may in their discretion grant leave to file other documents as they deem appropriate.
(b) A copy of such other documents shall be served on the other parties.
§ 2429.27
Service; statement of service.
(a) Except as provided in § 2423.10(c) and (d), any party filing a document as provided in this subchapter is responsible for serving a copy upon all counsel of record or other designated representative(s) of parties, upon parties not so represented, and upon any interested person who has been granted permission by the Authority pursuant to § 2429.9 to present written and/or oral argument as amicus curiae. Service upon such counsel or representative shall constitute service upon the party, but a copy also shall be transmitted to the party.
(b) If you are serving a document under paragraph (a) of this section, then you must use one of the following methods of service:
(1) Certified mail;
(2) First-class mail;
(3) Commercial delivery;
(4) In-person delivery;
(5) Facsimile (“fax”) service, but only for the types of documents listed in § 2429.24(g) and only where fax equipment is available; or
(6) Electronic mail (“email”), but only when the receiving party has agreed to be served by email.
(c) If you serve a document under this section, then you must file, with the appropriate FLRA office, a statement indicating that the party has served that document (a “statement of service”). If you are filing documents electronically using the FLRA's eFiling system, then you must certify, in the FLRA's eFiling system and at the time of filing, that you have served copies of the filing and any supporting documents on the appropriate individual(s) specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Regardless of how you file a statement of service with the FLRA, you must ensure that your statement of service includes the names of the parties and persons that you served, their addresses, the date on which you served them, the nature of the document(s) that you served, and the manner in which you served the parties or persons that you served. You must also sign and date the statement of service, unless you are using the FLRA's eFiling system.
(d)
Date of service.
For any documents that you serve under this section, the date of service depends on the manner in which you serve the documents. Specifically, the date of service shall be the date on which you have: deposited the served documents in the U.S. mail; delivered them in person; deposited them with a commercial-delivery service that will provide a record showing the date on which the document was tendered to the delivery service; transmitted them by fax (where allowed under paragraph (b)(5) of this section); or transmitted them by email (where allowed under paragraph (b)(6) of this section).
[45 FR 3516, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 40924, July 31, 1997; 74 FR 51745, Oct. 8, 2009; 77 FR 26437, May 4, 2012]
§ 2429.28
Petitions for amendment of regulations.
Any interested person may petition the Authority or General Counsel in writing for amendments to any portion of these regulations. Such petition shall identify the portion of the regulations involved and provide the specific language of the proposed amendment together with a statement of grounds in support of such petition.
§ 2429.29
Content of filings.
With one exception, if you file any document with the Authority or the Office of Administrative Law Judges in a proceeding covered by this subchapter—including any briefs that you upload into the FLRA's eFiling system as attachments—and that document exceeds 10 double-spaced pages in length, then you must ensure that the document includes a table of contents. The one exception is that, if you use the fillable forms in the FLRA's eFiling system, then you are not required to submit a table of contents to accompany the fillable forms.
[77 FR 26437, May 4, 2012]
Pt. 2430

# PART 2430—AWARDS OF ATTORNEY FEES AND OTHER EXPENSES
Sec.
2430.1
Purpose.
2430.2
Proceedings affected; eligibility for award.
2430.3
Standards for awards.
2430.4
Allowable fees and expenses.
2430.5
Rulemaking on maximum rates for attorney fees.
2430.6
Contents of application; net worth exhibit; documentation of fees and expenses.
2430.7
When an application may be filed; referral to Administrative Law Judge; stay of proceeding.
2430.8
Filing and service of documents.
2430.9
Answer to application; reply to answer; comments by other parties; extensions of time to file documents.
2430.10
Settlement.
2430.11
Further proceedings.
2430.12
Administrative Law Judge's decision; contents; service; transfer of case to the Authority; contents of record in case.
2430.13
Exceptions to Administrative Law Judge's decision; briefs; action of Authority.
2430.14
Payment of award.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 504.

# Source:
46 FR 48623, Oct. 2, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2430.1
Purpose.
The Equal Assess to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504, provides for the award of attorney, agent, or witness fees and other expenses to eligible individuals and entities who are parties to Authority adversary adjudications. An eligible party may receive an award when it prevails over the General Counsel, unless the General Counsel's position in the proceeding was substantially justified, or special circumstances make an award unjust. The rules in this part describe the parties eligible for awards, and the Authority proceeding that is covered. They also set forth the procedures for applying for such awards, and the procedures by which the Authority will rule on such applications.
[51 FR 33837, Sept. 23, 1986]
§ 2430.2
Proceedings affected; eligibility for award.
(a) The provisions of this part apply to unfair labor practice proceedings pending on complaint against a labor organization at any time since October 1, 1981.
(b) A respondent in an unfair labor proceeding which has prevailed in the proceeding, or in a significant and discrete portion of the proceeding, and who otherwise meets the eligibility requirements of this section, is eligible to apply for an award of attorneys fees and other expenses allowable under the provisions of § 2430.4 of these rules.
(1) Applicants eligible to receive an award in proceedings conducted by the Authority are any partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization with a net worth of not more than $5 million ($7 million in cases involving adversary adjudications pending on or commenced on or after August 5, 1985) and not more than 500 employees.
(2) For the purpose of eligibility, the net worth and number of employees of an applicant shall be determined as of the date the complaint was issued.
(3) The employees of an applicant include all persons who regularly perform services for remuneration for the
applicant, under the applicant's direction and control. Part-time employees shall be included on a proportional basis.
(4) An applicant that participates in a proceeding primarily on behalf of one or more other persons or entities that would be ineligible is not itself eligible for an award.
[46 FR 48623, Oct. 2, 1981, as amended at 51 FR 33837, Sept. 23, 1986]
§ 2430.3
Standards for awards.
(a) An eligible applicant may receive an award for fees and expenses incurred in connection with a proceeding, or in a significant and discrete portion of the proceeding, unless the position of the General Counsel over which the applicant has prevailed was substantially justified. The burden of proof that an award should not be made to an eligible applicant is on the General Counsel, who may avoid an award by showing that its position in initiating the proceeding was reasonable in law and fact.
(b) An award will be reduced or denied if the applicant has unduly or unreasonably protracted the proceeding or if special circumstances make the award sought unjust.
§ 2430.4
Allowable fees and expenses.
(a)(1)(i) No award for the fee of an attorney or agent under this part may exceed $125.00 per hour, or for adversary adjudications commenced prior to March 29, 1996, $75.00 per hour, indexed to reflect cost of living increases as follows:
ER28FE00.001
(ii) The cost of living index to be used is the Consumer Price Index, All Urban Consumers, U.S. City Average, All Items (CPI-U). If legal services are provided during more than one year, each year shall be calculated separately. If an annual average CPI-U for a particular year is not yet available, the prior year's annual average CPI-U shall be used.
(2) No award to compensate an expert witness may exceed the highest rate that the Authority pays expert witnesses. However, an award may also include the reasonable expenses of the attorney, agent, or witness as a separate item, if the attorney, agent, or witness ordinarily charges clients separately for such expenses.
(b) In determining the reasonableness of the fee sought for an attorney, agent or expert witness, the following matters may be considered:
(1) If the attorney, agent or witness is in practice, his or her customary fee for similar services, or, if an employee of the applicant, the fully allocated cost of the services;
(2) The prevailing rate for similar services in the community in which the attorney, agent or witness ordinarily performs services;
(3) The time actually spent in the representation of the applicant;
(4) The time reasonably spent in light of the difficulty or complexity of the issues in the proceeding; and
(5) Such other factors as may bear on the value of the services provided.
(c) The reasonable cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, project or similar matters prepared on behalf of an applicant may be awarded, to the extent that the charge for the service does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar services, and the study or other matter was necessary for preparation of the applicant's case.
[46 FR 48623, Oct. 2, 1981, as amended at 64 FR 30861, June 9, 1999; 65 FR 10374, Feb. 28, 2000]
§ 2430.5
Rulemaking on maximum rates for attorney fees.
If warranted by special factors, attorney fees may be awarded at a rate higher than that established in § 2430.4.
Any such increase in the rate for attorney fees shall be made only upon a petition submitted by the applicant, pursuant to § 2430.6. Determinations regarding fee adjustments are subject to Authority review as specified in § 2430.13.
[65 FR 10374, Feb. 28, 2000]
§ 2430.6
Contents of application; net worth exhibit; documentation of fees and expenses.
(a) An application for an award of fees and expenses under the Act shall identify the applicant and the proceeding for which an award is sought. The application shall state the particulars in which the applicant has prevailed and identify the positions of the General Counsel in the proceeding that the applicant alleges were not substantially justified. The application shall also state the number of employees of the applicant and describe briefly the type and purpose of its organization or business.
(b) The application shall include a statement that the applicant's net worth does not exceed $5 million.
(c) The application shall state the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought.
(d) The application may also include any other matters that the applicant wishes the Authority to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made.
(e) The application shall be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney of the applicant. It shall also contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application is true.
(f) Each applicant must provide with its application a detailed exhibit showing the net worth of the applicant when the proceeding was initiated. The exhibit may be in any form convenient to the applicant that provides full disclosure of the applicant's assets and liabilities and is sufficient to determine whether the applicant qualifies under the standards in this part. The Administrative Law Judge may require an applicant to file additional information to determine its eligibility for an award.
(g) The application shall be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses for which an award is sought. A separate itemized statement shall be submitted for each professional firm or individual whose services are covered by the application, showing the hours spent in connection with the proceeding by each individual, the rate at which each fee has been computed, any expenses for which reimbursement is sought, the total amount claimed, and the total amount paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided. The Administrative Law Judge may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, or other substantiation for any expenses claimed.
§ 2430.7
When an application may be filed; referral to Administrative Law Judge; stay of proceeding.
(a) An application may be filed after entry of the final order establishing that the applicant has prevailed in the proceeding, or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, but in no case later than thirty (30) days after the entry of the Authority's final order in the proceeding. The application for an award shall be filed with the Authority in Washington, DC, in an original and four copies, and served on all parties to the unfair labor practice proceeding. Service of the application shall be in the same manner as prescribed in §§ 2429.22 and 2429.27. Upon filing, the application shall be referred by the Authority to the Administrative Law Judge who heard the proceeding upon which the application is based, or, in the event the proceeding had not previously been heard by an Administrative Law Judge, it shall be referred to the Chief Administrative Law Judge for designation of an Administrative Law Judge, to consider the application. When the Administrative Law Judge to whom the application has been referred is or becomes unavailable, the provisions of § 2423.20 shall be applicable.
(b) Proceedings for the award of fees and other expenses, but not the time limit of this section for filing an application for an award, shall be stayed pending final disposition of the case, in
the event any persons seeks Authority reconsideration or court review of the Authority decision that forms the basis for the application for fees and expenses.
§ 2430.8
Filing and service of documents.
All pleadings or documents after the time the case is referred by the Authority to an Administative Law Judge, until the issuance of the Judge's decision, shall be filed in an original and four copies with the Administrative Law Judge and served on all parties to the proceeding. Service of such documents shall be in the same manner as prescribed in §§ 2429.22 and 2429.27.
§ 2430.9
Answer to application; reply to answer; comments by other parties; extensions of time to file documents.
(a) Within 30 days after service of an application, the General Counsel may file an answer to the application. The filing of a motion to dismiss the application shall stay the time for filing an answer to a date thirty (30) days after issuance of any order denying the motion.
(b) If the General Counsel and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate toward a settlement. The filing of such a statement shall extend the time for filing an answer for an additional 30 days.
(c) The answer shall explain in detail any objections to the award requested, and identify the facts relied on in support of the General Counsel's position. If the answer is based on alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, supporting affidavits shall be provided or a request made for further proceedings under § 2430.11.
(d) Within fifteen (15) days after service of an answer, the applicant may file a reply. If the reply is based on alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, supporting affidavits shall be provided or a request made for further proceedings under § 2430.11.
(e) Any party to a proceeding other than the applicant and the General Counsel may file comments on an application within 30 days after it is served, or on an answer within 15 days after it is served. A commenting party may not participate further in the proceeding on the application unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that such participation is required in order to permit full exploration of matters raised in the comments.
(f) Motions for extensions of time to file documents permitted by this section or § 2430.11 shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge not less than five (5) days before the due date of the document.
§ 2430.10
Settlement.
The applicant and the General Counsel may agree on a proposed settlement of the award before final action on the application. If an applicant and the General Counsel agree on a proposed settlement of an award before an application has been filed, the proposed settlement shall be filed with the application. All such settlements shall be subject to approval by the Authority.
§ 2430.11
Further proceedings.
(a) The determination of an award may be made on the basis of the documents in the record, or the Administrative Law Judge, upon request of either the applicant or the General Counsel, or on his or her own initiative, may order further proceedings. Such further proceedings may include, but shall not be limited to, an informal conference, oral argument, additional written submissions, or an evidentiary hearing.
(b) A request that the Administrative Law Judge order further proceedings under this section shall specifically identify the disputed issues and the evidence sought to be adduced, and shall explain why the additional proceedings are necessary to resolve the issues.
(c) An order of the Administrative Law Judge scheduling oral argument, additional written submissions, or an evidentiary hearing, shall specify the issues to be considered in such argument, submission, or hearing.
(d) Any evidentiary hearing held pursuant to this section shall be conducted not earlier than forty-five (45) days after the date on which the application is served. In all other respects,
such hearing shall be conducted in accordance with §§ 2423.14, 2423.16, 2423.17, 2423.19 through 2423.21, 2423.23, and 2423.24, insofar as these sections are consistent with the provisions of this part.
§ 2430.12
Administrative Law Judge's decision; contents; service; transfer of case to the Authority; contents of record in case.
(a) Upon conclusion of proceedings under §§ 2430.6 to 2430.11, the Administrative Law Judge shall prepare a decision. The decision shall include written findings and conclusions on the applicant's status as a prevailing party and eligibility, and an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount awarded. The decision shall also include, if at issue, findings on whether the agency's position was substantially justified, whether the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust. The Administrative Law Judge shall cause the decision to be served promptly on all parties to the proceeding. Thereafter, the Administrative Law Judge shall transmit the case to the Authority, including the judge's decision and the record. Service of the Administrative Law Judge's decision and of the order transferring the case to the Board shall be complete upon mailing.
(b) The record in a proceeding on an application for an award of fees and expenses shall consist of the application for an award of fees and expenses and any amendments or attachments thereto, the net worth exhibit, the answer and any amendments or attachments thereto, any reply to the answer, any comments by other parties, motions, rulings, orders, stipulations, written submissions, the stenographic transcript of oral argument, the stenographic transcript of the hearing, exhibits and depositions, together with the Administrative Law Judge's decision, and the exceptions and briefs as provided in § 2430.13, and the record of the unfair labor practice proceeding upon which the application is based.
§ 2430.13
Exceptions to Administrative Law Judge's decision; briefs; action of Authority.
Procedures before the Authority, including the filing of exceptions to the administrative law judge's decision rendered pursuant to § 2430.12, and action by the Authority, shall be in accordance with §§ 2423.26(c), 2423.27, and 2423.28 of these rules. The Authority's review of the matter shall be in accordance with § 2423.29(a).
§ 2430.14
Payment of award.
To obtain payment of an award made by the Authority the applicant shall submit to the Executive Director of the Authority a copy of the Authority's final decision granting the award, accompanied by a statement that the applicant will not seek court review of the decision. The amount awarded will then be paid unless judicial review of the award, or of the underlying decision, has been sought by the applicant or any other party to the proceeding.

# SUBCHAPTER D—FEDERAL SERVICE IMPASSES PANEL
Pt. 2470

# PART 2470—GENERAL

# Subpart A—Purpose
Sec.
2470.1
Purpose.

# Subpart B—Definitions
2470.2
Definitions.

# Authority:
3 U.S.C. 431; 5 U.S.C. 7119, 7134.

# Subpart A—Purpose
§ 2470.1
Purpose.
The regulations contained in this subchapter are intended to implement the provisions of section 7119 of title 5 and, where applicable, section 431 of title 3 of the United States Code. They prescribe procedures and methods which the Federal Service Impasses Panel may utilize in the resolution of negotiation impasses when voluntary arrangements, including the services of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service or any other third-party meditation, fail to resolve the disputes. It is the policy of the Panel to encourage labor and management to resolve disputes on terms that are mutually agreeable at any stage of the Panel's procedures.
[63 FR 46159, Aug. 31, 1998]

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 2470.2
Definitions.
(a) The terms
agency, labor organization,
and
conditions of employment
as used in this subchapter shall have the meaning set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a). When used in connection with 3 U.S.C. 431, the term
agency
as used in the Panel's regulations in this subchapter means an employing office as defined in 3 U.S.C. 401(a)(4).
(b) The term
Executive Director
means the Executive Director of the Panel.
(c) The terms
designated representative
or
designee
of the Panel means a Panel member, a staff member, or other individual designated by the Panel to act on its behalf.
(d) The term
hearing
means a factfinding hearing, arbitration hearing, or any other hearing procedure deemed necessary to accomplish the purposes of 5 U.S.C. 7119.
(e) The term
impasse
means that point in the negotiation of conditions of employment at which the parties are unable to reach agreement, notwithstanding their efforts to do so by direct negotiations and by the use of mediation or other voluntary arrangements for settlement.
(f) The term
Panel
means the Federal Service Impasses Panel described in 5 U.S.C. 7119(c) or a quorum thereof.
(g) The term
party
means the agency or the labor organization participating in the negotiation of conditions of employment.
(h) The term
quorum
means a majority of the members of the Panel.
(i) The term
voluntary arrangements
means any method adopted by the parties for the purpose of assisting them in their resolution of a negotiation dispute which is not inconsistent with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7119.
[45 FR 3520, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 19693, May 2, 1983; 63 FR 46159, Aug. 31, 1998]
Pt. 2471

# PART 2471—PROCEDURES OF THE PANEL
Sec.
2471.1
Request for Panel consideration; request for Panel approval of binding arbitration.
2471.2
Request form.
2471.3
Content of request.
2471.4
Where to file.
2471.5
Filing and service.
2471.6
Investigation of request; Panel procedures; approval of binding arbitration.
2471.7
Preliminary factfinding procedures.
2471.8
Conduct of factfinding and other hearings; prehearing conferences.
2471.9
Report and recommendations.
2471.10
Duties of each party following receipt of recommendations.
2471.11
Final action by the Panel.
2471.12
Inconsistent labor agreement provisions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7119, 7134.

# Source:
45 FR 3520, Jan. 17, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2471.1
Request for Panel consideration; request for Panel approval of binding arbitration.
If voluntary arrangements, including the services of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service or any other third-party mediation, fail to resolve a negotiation impasse:
(a) Either party, or the parties jointly, may request the Panel to consider the matter by filing a request as hereinafter provided; or the Panel may, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7119(c)(1), undertake consideration of the matter upon request of (i) the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, or (ii) the Executive Director; or
(b) The parties may jointly request the Panel to approve any procedure, which they have agreed to adopt, for binding arbitration of the negotiation impasse by filing a request as hereinafter provided.
§ 2471.2
Request form.
A form is available for parties to use in filing either a request for consideration of an impasse or an approval of a binding arbitration procedure. Copies are available on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov
or, with advance permission only, from the Office of the Executive Director, Federal Service Impasses Panel, Suite 300, 1400 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20424-0001. Telephone (771) 444-5762. Use of the form is not required, provided that the request includes all of the information set forth in § 2471.3.
[89 FR 20843, Mar. 26, 2024]
§ 2471.3
Content of request.
(a) A request from a party or parties to the Panel for consideration of an impasse must be in writing and include the following information:
(1) Identification of the parties and individuals authorized to act on their behalf, including their addresses, telephone numbers, and facsimile numbers;
(2) Statement of issues at impasse and the summary positions of the initiating party or parties with respect to those issues; and
(3) Number, length, and dates of negotiation and mediation sessions held, including the nature and extent of all other voluntary arrangements utilized.
(b) A request for approval of a binding arbitration procedure must be in writing, jointly filed by the parties, and include the following information about the pending impasse:
(1) Identification of the parties and individuals authorized to act on their behalf, including their addresses, telephone numbers, and facsimile numbers;
(2) Brief description of the impasse including the issues to be submitted to the arbitrator;
(3) Number, length, and dates of negotiation and mediation sessions held, including the nature and extent of all other voluntary arrangements utilized;
(4) Statement as to whether any of the proposals to be submitted to the arbitrator contain questions concerning the duty to bargain and a statement of each party's position concerning such questions; and
(5) Statement of the arbitration procedures to be used, including the type of arbitration, the method of selecting the arbitrator, and the arrangement for paying for the proceedings or, in the alternative, those provisions of the parties' labor agreement which contain this information.
[45 FR 3520, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 61 FR 41294, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 2471.4
Where to file.
Requests to the Panel provided for in this part must either be filed electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov,
or be addressed to the Executive Director, Federal Service Impasses Panel, Suite 300, 1400 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20424-0001. All inquiries or correspondence on the status of impasses or other related matters must be submitted by regular mail to the street address above, by using the telephone number (771) 444-5762, or by using the facsimile number (202) 482-6674.
[89 FR 11702, Feb. 15, 2024]
§ 2471.5
Filing and service.
(a)
Filing and service of request.
(1) Any party submitting a request for Panel consideration of an impasse or a request for approval of a binding arbitration procedure shall file an original and one copy with the Panel, unless the request is filed electronically as
discussed below. A clean copy may be submitted for the original. Requests may be submitted electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov,
or by registered mail, certified mail, regular mail, or commercial delivery. Requests also may be accepted by the Panel if transmitted to the facsimile machine of its office, the number of which is (202) 482-6674. A party submitting a request by facsimile shall also file an original for the Panel's records, but failure to do so shall not affect the validity of the filing by facsimile, if otherwise proper. While requests may also be submitted by in-person delivery to the FSIP, you must first obtain permission, by calling (771) 444-5762, and then schedule an appointment at least one business day in advance of submission. In-person delivery is accepted with permission, and by appointment only, Monday through Friday (except Federal holidays).
(2) The party submitting the request shall serve a copy of such request upon all counsel of record or other designated representative(s) of parties, upon parties not so represented, and upon any mediation service which may have been utilized. Service upon such counsel or representative shall constitute service upon the party, but a copy also shall be transmitted to the party. Service of a request may be made in person or by registered mail, certified mail, regular mail, or commercial delivery. With the permission of the person receiving the request, service may be made by electronic or facsimile transmission, or by any other agreed-upon method. When the Panel acts on a request from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service or acts on a request from the Executive Director under § 2471.1(a), it will notify the parties to the dispute, their counsel of record, if any, and any mediation service which may have been utilized.
(b)
Filing and service of other documents.
(1) Any party submitting a response to, or other document in connection with, a request for Panel consideration of an impasse or a request for approval of a binding arbitration procedure shall file an original and one copy with the Panel, with the exception of responses or documents filed simultaneously with the electronic filing of a request through use of the FLRA's eFiling system. Responses or documents may be submitted electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov,
or by registered mail, certified mail, regular mail, or commercial delivery. Responses or documents also may be accepted by the Panel if transmitted to the facsimile machine of its office, the number of which is (202) 482-6674. A party submitting a response or document by facsimile shall also file an original for the Panel's records, but failure to do so shall not affect the validity of the filing by facsimile, if otherwise proper. While responses or documents may also be submitted by in-person delivery to the FSIP, you must first obtain permission, by calling (771) 444-5762, and then schedule an appointment at least one business day in advance of submission. In-person delivery is accepted with permission, and by appointment only, Monday through Friday (except Federal holidays).
(2) The party submitting the document shall serve a copy of such request upon all counsel of record or other designated representative(s) of parties, or upon parties not so represented. Service upon such counsel or representative shall constitute service upon the party, but a copy also shall be transmitted to the party. Service of a document may be made in person or by registered mail, certified mail, regular mail, or commercial delivery. With the permission of the person receiving the document, service may be made by electronic or facsimile transmission, or by any other agreed-upon method.
(c) A signed and dated statement of service shall accompany each document submitted to the Panel, unless the document is a request under § 2471.5(a) that is filed electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system. For requests under § 2471.5(a) that are filed electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system, the filing party shall certify, in the FLRA's eFiling system and at the time of filing, that copies of the request and any supporting documents have been served as required. The statement of service, however filed, shall include the names of the parties and persons served, their
addresses, the date of service, the nature of the document served, and the manner in which service was made.
(d) The date of service or date served shall be the day when the matter served, if properly addressed, is deposited in the U.S. mail, deposited with a commercial-delivery service that will provide a record showing the date the document was tendered to the delivery service, or delivered in person after permission to do so is granted. Where service is made by electronic or facsimile transmission, the date of service shall be the date of transmission.
(e) Unless otherwise provided by the Panel or its designated representatives, any document or paper filed with the Panel under this section, together with any enclosure filed therewith, shall be typewritten on 8
1/2
× 11 inch plain white paper, shall have margins no less than 1 inch on each side, shall be in typeface no smaller than 10 characters per inch, and shall be numbered consecutively. Nonconforming papers may, at the Panel's discretion, be rejected.
[48 FR 19694, May 2, 1983, as amended at 61 FR 41294, Aug. 8, 1996; 77 FR 5988, Feb. 7, 2012; 89 FR 20844, Mar. 26, 2024]
§ 2471.6
Investigation of request; Panel procedures; approval of binding arbitration.
(a) Upon receipt of a request for consideration of an impasse, the Panel or its designee will promptly conduct an investigation, consulting when necessary with the parties and with any mediation service utilized. After due consideration, the Panel shall either:
(1) Decline to assert jurisdiction in the event that it finds that no impasse exists or that there is other good cause for not asserting jurisdiction, in whole or in part, and so advise the parties in writing, stating its reasons; or
(2) Assert jurisdiction and
(i) Recommend to the parties procedures for the resolution of the impasse; and/or
(ii) Assist the parties in resolving the impasse through whatever methods and procedures the Panel considers appropriate. The procedures utilized by the Panel may include, but are not limited to: informal conferences with a Panel designee; factfinding (by a Panel designee or a private factfinder); written submissions; show cause orders; oral presentations to the Panel; and arbitration or mediation-arbitration (by a Panel designee or a private arbitrator). Following procedures used by the Panel, it may issue a report to the parties containing recommendations for settlement prior to taking final action to resolve the impasse.
(b) Upon receipt of a request for approval of a binding arbitration procedure, the Panel or its designee will promptly conduct an investigation, consulting when necessary with the parties and with any mediation service utilized. After due consideration, the Panel shall promptly approve or disapprove the request, normally within five (5) workdays.
[45 FR 3520, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 61 FR 41294, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 2471.7
Preliminary factfinding procedures.
When the Panel determines that a factfinding hearing is necessary under § 2471.6, and it appoints one or more of its designees to conduct such hearing, it will issue and serve upon each of the parties a notice of hearing and a notice of prehearing conference, if any. The notice will state:
(a) The names of the parties to the dispute;
(b) The date, time, place, type, and purpose of the hearing;
(c) The date, time, place, and purpose of the prehearing conference, if any;
(d) The name of the designated representatives appointed by the Panel;
(e) The issues to be resolved; and
(f) The method, if any, by which the hearing shall be recorded.
[45 FR 3520, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 19694, May 2, 1983; 61 FR 41295, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 2471.8
Conduct of factfinding and other hearings; prehearing conferences.
(a) A designated representative of the Panel, when so appointed to conduct a hearing, shall have the authority on behalf of the Panel to:
(1) Administer oaths, take the testimony or deposition of any person under oath, receive other evidence, and issue subpenas;
(2) Conduct the hearing in open, or in closed session at the discretion of the designated representative for good cause shown;
(3) Rule on motions and requests for appearance of witnesses and the production of records;
(4) Designate the date on which posthearing briefs, if any, shall be submitted.
(5) Determine all procedural matters concerning the hearing, including the length of sessions, conduct of persons in attendance, recesses, continuances, and adjournments; and take any other appropriate procedural action which, in the judgment of the designated representative, will promote the purpose and objectives of the hearing.
(b) A prehearing conference may be conducted by the designated representative of the Panel in order to:
(1) Inform the parties of the purpose of the hearing and the procedures under which it will take place;
(2) Explore the possibilities of obtaining stipulations of fact;
(3) Clarify the positions of the parties with respect to the issues to be heard; and
(4) Discuss any other relevant matters which will assist the parties in the resolution of the dispute.
[45 FR 3520, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 19694, May 2, 1983]
§ 2471.9
Report and recommendations.
(a) When a report is issued after a factfinding hearing is conducted pursuant to § 2471.7 and 2471.8, it normally shall be in writing and, when authorized by the Panel, shall contain recommendations.
(b) A report of the designated representative containing recommendations shall be submitted to the parties, with two (2) copies to the Executive Director, within a period normally not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the transcript or briefs, if any.
(c) A report of the designated representative not containing recommendations shall be submitted to the Panel with a copy to each party within a period normally not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the transcript or briefs, if any. The Panel shall then take whatever action it may consider appropriate or necessary to resolve the impasse.
[45 FR 3520, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 61 FR 41295, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 2471.10
Duties of each party following receipt of recommendations.
(a) Within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of a report containing recommendations of the Panel or its designated representative, each party shall, after conferring with the other, either:
(1) Accept the recommendations and so notify the Executive Director; or
(2) Reach a settlement of all unresolved issues and submit a written settlement statement to the Executive Director; or
(3) Submit a written statement to the Executive Director setting forth the reasons for not accepting the recommendations and for not reaching a settlement of all unresolved issues.
(b) A reasonable extension of time may be authorized by the Executive Director for good cause shown when requested in writing by either party prior to the expiration of the time limits.
[45 FR 3520, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 19694, May 2, 1983]
§ 2471.11
Final action by the Panel.
(a) If the parties do not arrive at a settlement as a result of or during actions taken under §§ 2471.6(a)(2), 2471.7, 2471.8, 2471.9, and 2471.10, the Panel may take whatever action is necessary and not inconsistent with 5 U.S.C. chapter 71 to resolve the impasse, including but not limited to, methods and procedures which the Panel considers appropriate, such as directing the parties to accept a factfinder's recommendations, ordering binding arbitration conducted according to whatever procedure the Panel deems suitable, and rendering a binding decision.
(b) In preparation for taking such final action, the Panel may hold hearings, administer oaths, take the testimony or deposition of any person under oath, and issue subpenas as provided in 5 U.S.C. 7132, or it may appoint or designate one or more individuals pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7119(c)(4) to exercise such authority on its behalf.
(c) When the exercise of authority under this section requires the holding of a hearing, the procedure contained in § 2471.8 shall apply.
(d) Notice of any final action of the Panel shall be promptly served upon the parties, and the action shall be binding on such parties during the term of the agreement, unless they agree otherwise.
[45 FR 3520, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 19694, May 2, 1983]
§ 2471.12
Inconsistent labor agreement provisions.
Any provisions of the parties' labor agreements relating to impasse resolution which are inconsistent with the provisions of either 5 U.S.C. 7119 or the procedures of the Panel shall be deemed to be superseded, unless such provisions are permitted under 5 U.S.C. 7135.
Pt. 2472

# PART 2472—IMPASSES ARISING PURSUANT TO AGENCY DETERMINATIONS NOT TO ESTABLISH OR TO TERMINATE FLEXIBLE OR COMPRESSED WORK SCHEDULES

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
Sec.
2472.1
Purpose.
2472.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Procedures of the Panel
2472.3
Request for Panel Consideration.
2472.4
Content of request.
2472.5
Where to file.
2472.6
Filing and service.
2472.7
Investigation of request; Panel assistance.
2472.8
Preliminary hearing procedures.
2472.9
Conduct of hearing and prehearing conference.
2472.10
Reports.
2472.11
Final action by the Panel.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 6131.

# Source:
48 FR 19695, May 2, 1983, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
§ 2472.1
Purpose.
The regulations contained in this Part are intended to implement the provisions of section 6131 of title 5 of the United States Code. They prescribe procedures and methods which the Federal Service Impasses Panel may utilize in the resolution of negotiations impasses arising from agency determinations not to establish or to terminate flexible and compressed work schedules.
§ 2472.2
Definitions.
(a) The term
the Act
means the Federal Employees Flexible and Compressed Work Schedules Act of 1982, Pub. L. 97-221, 5 U.S.C. 6120
et seq.
(b) The term
adverse agency impact
shall have the meaning set forth in 5 U.S.C. 6131(b).
(c) The term
agency
shall have the meaning set forth in 5 U.S.C. 6121(1).
(d) The term
duly authorized delegatee
means an official who has been delegated the authority to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.
(e) The term
agency determination
means a determination: (1) Not to establish a flexible or compressed work schedule under 5 U.S.C. 6131(c)(2); or (2) to terminate such a schedule under 5 U.S.C. 6131(c)(3).
(f) The terms
collective bargaining agreement
and
exclusive representative
shall have the meanings set forth in 5 U.S.C. 6121(8).
(g) The term
Executive Director
means the Executive Director of the Panel.
(h) The terms
designated representative
or
designee
of the Panel means a Panel member, staff member, or other individual designated by the Panel to act on its behalf.
(i) The term
flexible and compressed work schedules
shall have the meaning set forth in 5 U.S.C. 6121
et seq.
(j) The term
hearing
means a factfinding hearing or any other hearing procedures deemed necessary to accomplish the purpose of 5 U.S.C. 6131.
(k) The term
impasse
means that point in the negotiation of flexible and compressed work schedules at which the parties are unable to reach agreement on whether a schedule has had or would have an adverse agency impact.
(l) The term
Panel
means the Federal Service Impasses Panel described in 5 U.S.C. 7119(c) or a quorum thereof.
(m) The term
party
means the agency or the exclusive representative participating in negotiations concerning
flexible and compressed work schedules.
(n) The term
quorum
means a majority of the members of the Panel.
(o) The term
schedule(s)
means flexible and compressed work schedules.
[48 FR 19695, May 2, 1983, as amended at 61 FR 41295, Aug. 8, 1996]

# Subpart B—Procedures of the Panel
§ 2472.3
Request for Panel Consideration.
Either party, or the parties jointly, may request the Panel to resolve an impasse resulting from an agency determination not to establish or to terminate a flexible or compressed work schedule by filing a request as hereinafter provided. A form is available for use by the parties in filing a request with the Panel. Copies are available on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov
or, with advance permission only, from the Office of the Executive Director, Federal Service Impasses Panel, Suite 300, 1400 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20424-0001. Telephone (771) 444-5762. Fax (202) 482-6674. Use of the form is not required provided that the request includes all of the information set forth in § 2472.4.
[89 FR 20844, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 2472.4
Content of request.
(a) A request from a party or parties to the Panel for consideration of an impasse arising from an agency determination not to establish or to terminate a flexible or compressed work schedule under section 6131 (c)(2) or (c)(3) of the Act must be in writing and shall include the following information:
(1) Identification of the parties and individuals authorized to act on their behalf, including their addresses, telephone numbers, and facsimile numbers;
(2) Description of the bargaining unit involved in the dispute and the date recognition was accorded to the exclusive representative;
(3) Number, length, and dates of negotiation sessions held;
(4) A copy of any collective bargaining agreement between the parties and any other agreements concerning flexible and compressed work schedules;
(5) A copy of the schedule or proposed schedule, if any, which is the subject of the agency's determination;
(6) A copy of the agency's written determination and the finding on which the determination is based, including, in a case where the finding is made by a duly authorized delegatee, evidence of a specific delegation of authority to make such a finding; and
(7) A summary of the position of the initiating party or parties with respect to the agency's determination.
[48 FR 19695, May 2, 1983, as amended at 61 FR 41295, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 2472.5
Where to file.
Requests to the Panel provided for in this part must either be filed electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov,
or be addressed to the Executive Director, Federal Service Impasses Panel, Suite 300, 1400 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20424-0001. All inquiries or correspondence on the status of impasses or other related matters must be submitted by regular mail to the street address above, by using the telephone number (771) 444-5762, or by using the facsimile number (202) 482-6674.
[89 FR 20844, Mar. 26, 2024]
§ 2472.6
Filing and service.
(a)
Filing and service of request.
(1) Any party submitting a request for Panel consideration of an impasse filed pursuant to § 2472.3 of these rules shall file an original and one copy with the Panel unless the request is filed electronically as discussed below. A clean copy may be submitted for the original. Requests may be submitted electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov,
or by registered mail, certified mail, regular mail, or commercial delivery. Requests also may be accepted by the Panel if transmitted to the facsimile machine of its office, the number of which is (202) 482-6674. A party submitting a request by facsimile shall also file an original for the Panel's records, but failure to do so
shall not affect the validity of the filing by facsimile, if otherwise proper. While requests may also be submitted by in-person delivery to the FSIP, you must first obtain permission, by calling (771) 444-5762, and then schedule an appointment at least one business day in advance of submission. In-person delivery is accepted with permission, and by appointment only, Monday through Friday (except Federal holidays).
(2) The party submitting the request shall serve a copy of such request upon all counsel of record or other designated representative(s) of parties, and upon parties not so represented. Service upon such counsel or representative shall constitute service upon the party, but a copy also shall be transmitted to the party. Service of a request may be made in person or by registered mail, certified mail, regular mail, or commercial delivery. With the permission of the person receiving the request, service may be made by facsimile or electronic transmission, or by any other agreed-upon method.
(b)
Filing and service of other documents.
(1) Any party submitting a response to, or other document in connection with, a request for Panel consideration of an impasse filed pursuant to § 2472.3 shall file an original and one copy with the Panel, with the exception of responses or documents that are filed simultaneously with the electronic filing of a request for Panel consideration. A clean copy may be submitted for the original. Responses or documents may be submitted electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's website at
www.flra.gov,
or by registered mail, certified mail, regular mail, or commercial delivery. Responses or documents also may be accepted by the Panel if transmitted to the facsimile machine of its office, the number of which is (202) 482-6674. A party submitting a response or document by facsimile shall also file an original for the Panel's records, but failure to do so shall not affect the validity of the filing by facsimile, if otherwise proper. While responses or documents may also be submitted by in-person delivery to the FSIP, you must first obtain permission, by calling (771) 444-5762, and then schedule an appointment at least one business day in advance of submission. In-person delivery is accepted with permission, and by appointment only, Monday through Friday (except Federal holidays).
(2) The party submitting the document shall serve a copy of such request upon all counsel of record or other designated representative(s) of parties, or upon parties not so represented. Service of a document may be made in person or by registered mail, certified mail, regular mail, or commercial delivery. With the permission of the person receiving the document, service may be made by electronic or facsimile transmission, or by any other agreed-upon method.
(c) A signed and dated statement of service shall accompany each document submitted to the Panel, unless the document is a request under § 2472.3 that is filed electronically. For requests under § 2472.3 that are filed electronically, the filing party shall certify, in the FLRA's eFiling system and at the time of filing, that copies of the request and any supporting documents have been served as required. The statement of service, however filed, shall include the names of the parties and persons served, their addresses, the date of service, the nature of the document served, and the manner in which service was made.
(d) The date of service or date served shall be the day when the matter served, if properly addressed, is deposited in the U.S. mail, deposited with a commercial-delivery service that will provide a record showing the date the document was tendered to the delivery service, or delivered in person after permission to do so is granted. Where service is made by electronic or facsimile transmission, the date of service shall be the date of transmission.
(e) Unless otherwise provided by the Panel or its designated representatives, any document or paper filed with the Panel under this part, together with any enclosure filed therewith, shall be typewritten on 8
1/2
× 11 inch plain white paper, shall have margins no less than 1 inch on each side, shall be in typeface no smaller than 10 characters per inch, and shall be numbered consecutively. Nonconforming papers may, at the Panel's discretion, be rejected.
(f) An impasse arising pursuant to section 6131(c) (2) or (3) of the Act will not be considered to be filed, and no Panel action will be taken, until the party initiating the request has complied with § 2472.4, 2472.5, and 2472.6 of these regulations.
[48 FR 19695, May 2, 1983. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 41295, Aug. 8, 1996; 77 FR 5989, Feb. 7, 2012; 89 FR 20844, Mar. 26, 2024]
§ 2472.7
Investigation of request; Panel assistance.
(a) Upon receipt of a request for consideration of an impasse filed in accordance with these rules, the Panel or its designee shall promptly conduct an investigation, consulting when necessary with the parties. After due consideration, the Panel shall determine the procedures by which the impasse shall be resolved and shall notify the parties of its determination.
(b) The procedures utilized by the Panel shall afford the parties an opportunity to present their positions, including supporting evidence and arguments orally and/or in writing. They include, but are not limited to: informal conferences with a Panel designee; factfinding (by a Panel designee or a private factfinder); written submissions; show cause orders; and oral presentations to the Panel.
[48 FR 19695, May 2, 1983. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 41295, 41296, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 2472.8
Preliminary hearing procedures.
When the Panel determines that a hearing shall be held, and it appoints one or more of its designees to conduct such a hearing, it will issue and serve upon each of the parties a notice of hearing and a notice of prehearing conference, if any. The notice will state:
(a) The names of the parties to the dispute;
(b) The date, time, place, type, and purpose of the hearing;
(c) The date, time, place, and purpose of the prehearing conference, if any;
(d) The name of the designated representative(s) appointed by the Panel;
(e) The issue(s) to be resolved; and
(f) The method, if any, by which the hearing shall be transcribed.
[61 FR 41296, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 2472.9
Conduct of hearing and prehearing conference.
(a) A designated representative of the Panel, when so appointed to conduct a hearing, shall have the authority on behalf of the Panel to:
(1) Administer oaths, take the testimony or deposition of any person under oath, receive other evidence, and issue subpoenas;
(2) Conduct the hearing in open or in closed session at the discretion of the designated representative for good cause shown;
(3) Rule on motions and requests for appearance of witnesses and the production of records;
(4) Designate the date on which posthearing briefs, if any, shall be submitted; and
(5) Determine all procedural matters concerning the hearing, including the length of sessions, conduct of persons in attendance, recesses, continuances, and adjournments; and take any other action which, in the judgment of the designated representative, will promote the purpose and objectives of the hearing.
(b) A prehearing conference may be conducted by the designated representative of the Panel to:
(1) Inform the parties of the purpose of the hearing and the procedures under which it will take place;
(2) Explore the possibilities of obtaining stipulations of fact;
(3) Clarify the positions of the parties with respect to the issues to be heard; and
(4) Discuss any other relevant matters which will assist the parties in the resolution of the dispute.
[48 FR 19695, May 2, 1983. Redesignated at 61 FR 41295, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 2472.10
Reports.
When a report is issued after a hearing conducted pursuant to § 2472.8 and 2472.9, it normally shall be in writing and shall be submitted to the Panel, with a copy to each party, within a period normally not to exceed 30 calendar days after the close of the hearing and receipt of briefs, if any.
[61 FR 41296, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 2472.11
Final action by the Panel.
(a) After due consideration of the parties' positions, evidence, and arguments, including any report submitted in accordance with § 2472.10, the Panel shall take final action in favor of the agency's determination if:
(1) The finding on which a determination under 5 U.S.C. 6131(c)(2) not to establish a flexible or compressed work schedule is based is supported by evidence that the schedule is likely to cause an adverse agency impact; or
(2) The finding on which a determination under 5 U.S.C. 6131(c)(3) to terminate a flexible or compressed work schedule is based is supported by evidence that the schedule has caused an adverse agency impact.
(b) If the finding on which an agency determination under 5 U.S.C. 6131(c)(2) or (c)(3) is based is not supported by evidence that the schedule is likely to cause or has caused an adverse agency impact, the Panel shall take whatever final action is appropriate.
(c) In preparation for taking such final action, the Panel may hold hearings, administer oaths, take the testimony or deposition of any person under oath, and issue subpoenas, or it may appoint one or more individuals to exercise such authority on its behalf. Such action may be taken without regard to procedures previously authorized by the Panel.
(d) Notice of any final action of the Panel shall be promptly served upon the parties.
[48 FR 19695, May 2, 1983. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 41295, 41296, Aug. 8, 1996]
Pt. 2473

# PART 2473—SUBPOENAS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7119, 7134.
§ 2473.1
Subpenas.
(a) Any member of the Panel, the Executive Director, or other person designated by the Panel, may issue subpenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary or other evidence. However, no subpena shall be issued under this section which requires the disclosure of intramanagement guidance, advice, counsel, or training within an agency or between an agency and the Office of Personnel Management.
(b) Where the parties are in agreement that the appearance of witnesses or the production of documents is necessary, and such witnesses agree to appear, no such subpena need be sought.
(c) A request for a subpena by any person, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a)(1), shall be in writing and filed with the Executive Director, not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the opening of a hearing, or with the appropriate presiding official(s) during the hearing.
(d) All requests shall name and identify the witnesses or documents sought, and state the reasons therefor. The Panel, Executive Director, or any other person designated by the Panel, as appropriate, shall grant the request upon the determination that the testimony or documents appear to be necessary to the matters under consideration and the request describes with sufficient particularity the documents sought. Service of an approved subpena is the responsibility of the party on whose behalf the subpena was issued. The subpena shall show on its face the name and address of the party on whose behalf the subpena was issued.
(e) Any person served with a subpena who does not intend to comply shall within five (5) days after the date of service of the subpena upon such person, petition in writing to revoke the subpena. A copy of any petition to revoke a subpena shall be served on the party on whose behalf the subpena was issued. Such petition to revoke, if made prior to the hearing, and a written statement of service, shall be filed with the Executive Director. A petition to revoke a subpena filed during the hearing, and a written statement of service shall be filed with the appropriate presiding official(s). The Executive Director, or the appropriate presiding official(s) will, as a matter of course, cause a copy of the petition to revoke to be served on the party on whose behalf the subpena was issued, but shall not be deemed to assume responsibility for such service. The Panel, Executive Director, or any other person designated by the Panel, as appropriate, shall revoke the subpena if the evidence the production of which is required does not relate to any matter
under consideration in the proceedings, or the subpena does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence the production of which is required, or if for any other reason sufficient in law the subpena is invalid. The Panel, Executive Director, or any other person designated by the Panel, as appropriate, shall make a simple statement of procedural or other ground for the ruling on the petition to revoke. The petition to revoke, any answer thereto, and any ruling thereon shall not become part of the official record except upon the request of the party aggrieved by the ruling.
(f) Upon the failure of any person to comply with a subpena issued, and upon the request of the party on whose behalf the subpena was issued, the Solicitor of the FLRA shall, on behalf of such party, institute proceedings in the appropriate district court for the enforcement thereof, unless to do so would be inconsistent with law and the policies of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute. The Solicitor of the FLRA shall not be deemed thereby to have assumed responsibility for the effective prosecution of the same before the court thereafter.
(g) All papers submitted to the Executive Director under this section shall be filed in duplicate, along with a statement of service showing that a copy has been served on the other party to the dispute.
(h)(1) Witnesses (whether appearing voluntarily or under a subpena) shall be paid the fee and mileage allowances which are paid subpenaed witnesses in the courts of the United States: Provided, that any witness who is employed by the Federal Government shall not be entitled to receive witness fees in addition to compensation received in conjunction with official time granted for such participation, including necessary travel time, as occurs during the employee's regular work hours and when the employee would otherwise be in a work or paid leave status.
(2) Witness fees and mileage allowances shall be paid by the party at whose instance the witnesses appear except when the witness receives compensation in conjunction with official time as described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section.
[61 FR 41296, Aug. 8, 1996]
Ch. XIV, App. A

# Appendix A to 5 CFR Chapter XIV—Current Addresses and Geographic Jurisdictions
(a) The Office address, telephone number, and fax number of the Authority are: Suite 300, 1400 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20424-0001; telephone: (771) 444-5801; fax: (202) 482-6657.
(b) The Office address, telephone number, and fax number of the General Counsel are: 1400 K Street NW, 3rd Floor, Washington, DC 20424; telephone: (771) 444-5790; fax: (202) 482-6608.
(c) The Office address, telephone number, and fax number of the Chief Administrative Law Judge are: Suite 300, 1400 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20424; telephone: (771) 444-5715; fax: (202) 482-6629.
(d) The Office addresses, telephone and fax numbers of the Regional Offices of the Authority are as follows:
(1) Washington, DC Regional Office—1400 K Street NW, 3rd Floor, Washington, DC 20424-0001; telephone: (771) 444-5780; fax: (202) 482-6724.
(2) Atlanta Regional Office—229 Peachtree Street NE, Suite 900, Atlanta, Georgia 30303; telephone: (470) 681-7630; fax: (678) 498-2697.
(3) Chicago Regional Office—224 S Michigan Avenue, Suite 445, Chicago, Illinois 60604-2505; telephone: (872) 627-0020; fax: (312) 281-6500.
(4) Denver Regional Office—1244 Speer Boulevard, Suite 446, Denver, Colorado 80204-3581; telephone: (303) 225-0340; fax: (303) 844-2774.
(5) San Francisco Regional Office—1301 Clay Street, Suite 1180N, Oakland, California 94612-5242; telephone: (510) 982-5440; fax: (415) 872-1445.
(e) The Office address, telephone number, and fax number of the Federal Service Impasses Panel are: Suite 300, 1400 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20424; telephone: (771) 444-5762; fax: (202) 482-6674.
(f) The geographic jurisdictions of the Regional Directors of the Federal Labor Relations Authority are as follows:
State or other locality
Regional office
Alabama
Atlanta.
Alaska
San Francisco.
Arizona
Denver.
Arkansas
Atlanta.
California
San Francisco.
Colorado
Denver.
Connecticut
Washington, DC.
Delaware
Washington, DC.
District of Columbia
Washington, DC.
Florida
Atlanta.
Georgia
Atlanta.
Hawaii and all land and water areas west of the continents of North and South America (except coastal islands) to long. 90 degrees East
San Francisco.
Idaho
San Francisco.
Illinois
Chicago.
Indiana
Chicago.
Iowa
Chicago.
Kansas
Denver.
Kentucky
Chicago.
Louisiana
Atlanta.
Maine
Washington, DC.
Maryland
Washington, DC.
Massachusetts
Washington, DC.
Michigan
Chicago.
Minnesota
Chicago.
Mississippi
Atlanta.
Missouri
Chicago.
Montana
Denver.
Nebraska
Denver.
Nevada
San Francisco.
New Hampshire
Washington, DC.
New Jersey
Washington, DC.
New Mexico
Denver.
New York
Washington, DC.
North Carolina
Atlanta.
North Dakota
Chicago.
Ohio
Chicago.
Oklahoma
Denver.
Oregon
San Francisco.
Pennsylvania
Washington, DC.
Puerto Rico and coastal islands
Chicago.
Rhode Island
Washington, DC.
South Carolina
Atlanta.
South Dakota
Chicago.
Tennessee
Chicago.
Texas
Denver.
Utah
Denver.
Vermont
Washington, DC.
Virginia
Washington, DC.
Washington
San Francisco.
West Virginia
Washington, DC.
Wisconsin
Chicago.
Wyoming
Denver.
Virgin Islands
Atlanta.
Panama/limited FLRA jurisdiction
Atlanta.
All land and water areas east of the continents of North and South America to long. 90 degrees East, except the Virgin Islands, Panama, Puerto Rico and coastal islands
Washington, DC.
[89 FR 11702, Feb. 15, 2024]
Ch. XIV, App. B

# Appendix B to 5 CFR Chapter XIV—Memorandum Describing the Authority and Assigned Responsibilities of the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority
The statutory authority and responsibility of the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority are stated in section 7104(f), subsections (1), (2) and (3), of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute as follows:
(1) The General Counsel of the Authority shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, for a term of 5 years. The General Counsel may be removed at any time by the President. The General Counsel shall hold no other office or position in the Government of the United States except as provided by law.
(2) The General Counsel may—
(A) investigate alleged unfair labor practices under this chapter,
(B) file and prosecute complaints under this chapter, and
(C) exercise such other powers of the Authority as the Authority may prescribe.
(3) The General Counsel shall have direct authority over, and responsibility for, all employees in the office of the General Counsel, including employees of the General Counsel in the regional offices of the Authority.
This memorandum is intended to describe the statutory authority and set forth the prescribed duties and authority of the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority, effective January 28, 1980.
I.
Case handling
—A.
Unfair labor practice cases.
The General Counsel has full and final authority and responsibility, on behalf of the Authority, to accept and investigate charges filed, to enter into and approve the informal settlement of charges, to approve withdrawal requests, to dismiss charges, to determine matters concerning the consolidation and severance of cases before the complaint issues, to issue complaints and notices of hearing, to appear before Administrative Law Judges in hearings on complaints and prosecute as provided in the Authority's and the General Counsel's rules and regulations, and to initiate and prosecute injunction proceedings as provided for in section 7123(d) of the Statute. After issuance of the Administrative Law Judge's decision, the General Counsel may file exceptions and briefs and appear before the Authority in oral argument, subject to the Authority's and the General Counsel's rules and regulations.
B.
Compliance actions (injunction proceedings).
The General Counsel is authorized and responsible, on behalf of the Authority, to seek and effect compliance with the Authority's orders and make such compliance reports to the Authority as it may from time to time require.
On behalf of the Authority, the General Counsel will, in full accordance with the directions of the Authority, initiate and prosecute injunction proceedings as provided in section 7123(d) of the Statute:
Provided however,
That the General Counsel will initiate and conduct injunction proceedings under section 7123(d) of the Statute only upon approval of the Authority.
C.
Representation cases.
The statutory authority of the Federal Labor Relations Authority to delegate to Regional Directors its authority to process and determine representation matters is set forth in section 7105 (e)(1) and (f) of the Statute as follows:
(e)(1) The Authority may delegate to any regional director its authority under this chapter—
(A) to determine whether a group of employees is an appropriate unit;
(B) to conduct investigations and to provide for hearings;
(C) to determine whether a question of representation exists and to direct an election; and
(D) to supervise or conduct secret ballot elections and certify the results thereof.
(f) If the Authority delegates any authority to any regional director . . . to take any action pursuant to subsection (e) of this section, the Authority may, upon application by any interested person filed within 60 days after the date of the action, review such action, but the review shall not, unless specifically ordered by the Authority, operate as a stay of action. The Authority may affirm, modify, or reverse any action reviewed under this subsection. If the Authority does not undertake to grant review of the action under this subsection within 60 days after the later of—
(1) the date of the action, or
(2) the date of the filing of any application under this subsection for review of the action;
the action shall become the action of the Authority at the end of such 60 day period.
In accordance with section 7105 (e)(1) and (f) of the Statute, Regional Directors, who are directed and supervised by the General Counsel as provided by section III of this memorandum, are hereby delegated the authority to determine whether a group of employees is an appropriate unit, to conduct investigations and to provide for hearings, to determine whether a question of representation exists and to direct an election, and to supervise or conduct secret ballot elections and certify the results thereof.
Regional Directors are authorized and have responsibility to receive and process, in accordance with decisions of the Authority and the rules and regulations of the Authority and the General Counsel, all petitions filed pursuant to sections 7111, 7112(d), 7113, 7115 and 7117(d) of the Statute.
The authority and responsibility of Regional Directors in cases filed involving such petitions shall extend to all phases of the investigation of such petitions through the conclusion of the hearing to be conducted by a Regional Office employee (if a hearing should be necessary to resolve disputed issues), including decisional action by the Regional Director after such investigation or hearing.
Regional Directors also are authorized and have responsibility to direct an election after a hearing pursuant to sections 7111 and 7112(d) of the Statute and to approve consent election agreements in accordance with section 7111(g) of the Statute.
In the event a Regional Director directs an election or approves a consent election agreement, the Regional Director is authorized to supervise or conduct the election pursuant to section 7111 and 7112(d) of the Statute. In such instances, Regional Directors are authorized and have responsibility to determine the validity of determinative challenges and objections to the conduct of the
election and other similar matters. This authority and responsibility extends to all phases of the investigation such determinative challenges and objections through the conclusion of a hearing to be conducted by a Regional Office employee (if a hearing should be necessary to resolve disputed issues), including decisional action by the Regional Director after such investigation or hearing.
Decisions and Orders of Regional Directors made pursuant to this delegation of authority become the action of the Authority:
(1) If no interested person files an application for review of the Regional Director's Decision and Order with the Authority within sixty (60) days after the Regional Director's Decision and Order; or
(2) If the Authority does not undertake to grant review of the Regional Director's Decision and Order within sixty (60) days after the filing of a timely application for review;
If no interested person files an application for review of the Regional Director's Decision and Order with the Authority within (60) days after the Regional Director's Decision and Order, or if the Authority does not undertake to grant review of the action of the regional Director's Decision and Order within sixty (60) days after the filing of a timely application for review, the Regional Director's Decision and Order will become final and binding, and the Regional Director will certify to the parties the results of any election held or issue any clarification of unit, amendment of recognition or certification, determination of eligibility for dues allotment, or certification on consolidation of units as required.
The Authority will undertake to grant review of a Decision and Order of a Regional Director upon the timely filing of an application for review only where compelling reasons exist therefor as set forth in the rules and regulations.
The Authority's granting of review upon the timely filing of an application for review of a Regional Director's Decision and Order will not operate as a stay of such action ordered by the Regional Director, unless specifically ordered by the Authority. If the Authority grants review, the Authority may affirm, modify or reverse action reviewed.
II.
Liaison with other governmental agencies.
The General Counsel is authorized and has responsibility, on behalf of the Authority, to maintain appropriate and adequate liaison and arrangements with the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Labor-Management Relations with reference to the financial and other reports required to be filed with the Assistant Secretary pursuant to section 7120(c) of the Statute and the availability to the Authority and the General Counsel of the contents thereof. The General Counsel is authorized and has responsibility, on behalf of the Authority, to maintain appropriate and adequate liaison with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service with respect to functions which may be performed by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
III. Personnel. Under 5 U.S.C. 7105(d), the Authority is authorized to appoint Regional Directors. In order better to ensure the effective exercise of the duties and responsibilities of the General Counsel described above, the General Counsel is delegated authority to recommend the appointment, transfer, demotion or discharge of any Regional Director. However, such actions may be taken only with the approval of the Authority. In the event of a vacant Regional Director position, the General Counsel may, without the approval of the Authority, detail personnel as acting Regional Director for a total period of up to 120 days commencing on the day the position becomes vacant. If the position remains vacant for more than 120 days, a detail must be approved by the Authority. Other details of personnel to act as Regional Director during periods when there is an incumbent in the position shall be accomplished by the General Counsel without the approval of the Authority. The General Counsel shall have authority to direct and supervise the Regional Directors. Under 5 U.S.C. 7104(f)(3), the General Counsel shall have direct authority over, and responsibility for all employees in the Office of the General Counsel and all personnel of the General Counsel in the field offices of the Authority. This includes full and final authority subject to applicable laws and rules, regulations and procedures of the Office of Personnel Management and the Authority over the selection, retention, transfer, promotion, demotion, discipline, discharge and in all other respects of such personnel except the detail in the event of a vacancy for a period in excess of 120 days, appointment, transfer, demotion or discharge of any Regional Director. Further, the establishment, transfer, or elimination of any Regional Office or non-Regional Office duty location may be accomplished only with the approval of the Authority. The Authority will provide such administrative support functions, including personnel management, financial management and procurement functions, through the Office of Administration of the Authority as are required by the General Counsel to carry out the General Counsel's statutory and prescribed functions.
IV. To the extent that the above-described duties, powers and authority rest by statute with the Authority, the foregoing statement constitutes a prescription and assignment of such duties, powers and authority, whether or not so specified.
[45 FR 3523, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 28814, June 23, 1983; 61 FR 16043, Apr. 11, 1996]
PARTS 2474-2499 [RESERVED]
5 CFR Ch. XVI (1-1-25 Edition)
Office of Government Ethics

# CHAPTER XVI—OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS

# SUBCHAPTER A—ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES
Part
Page
2600
Organization and functions of the Office of Government Ethics
529
2601
Implementation of Office of Government Ethics statutory gift acceptance authority
530
2602
Employee responsibilities and conduct, addendum [Reserved]
2604
Freedom of Information Act rules and schedule of fees for the production of public financial disclosure reports
533
2606
Privacy Act rules
546
2608
Testimony by OGE employees relating to official information and production of official records in legal proceedings
555
2610
Implementation of the Equal Access to Justice Act
560

# SUBCHAPTER B—GOVERNMENT ETHICS
2634
Executive branch financial disclosure, qualified trusts, and certificates of divestiture
568
2635
Standards of ethical conduct for employees of the executive branch
624
2636
Limitations on outside earned income, employment and affiliations for certain noncareer employees
695
2638
Executive branch ethics program
701
2640
Interpretation, exemptions and waiver guidance concerning 18 U.S.C. 208 (Acts affecting a personal financial interest)
727
2641
Post-employment conflict of interest restrictions
744
2642-2699
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES
Pt. 2600

# PART 2600—ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS
Sec.
2600.101
Mission and history.
2600.102
Contact information.
2600.103
Office of Government Ethics organization and functions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. App. (Ethics in Government Act of 1978); E.O. 12674, 54 FR 15159, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 215, as modified by E.O. 12731, 55 FR 42547, 3 CFR, 1990 Comp., p. 306.

# Source:
68 FR 41682, July 15, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2600.101
Mission and history.
(a) The U.S. Office of Government Ethics (OGE) was established by the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, Public Law 95-521, 92 Stat. 1824 (1978). OGE exercises leadership in the executive branch of the Federal Government to prevent conflicts of interest on the part of executive branch employees and resolve those conflicts of interest that do occur. In partnership with executive branch departments and agencies, OGE fosters high ethical standards for executive branch employees which, in turn, strengthens the public's confidence that the Government's business is conducted with impartiality and integrity.
(b) Originally an entity within the Office of Personnel Management, OGE became a separate executive branch agency on October 1, 1989, pursuant to section 3 of the Office of Government Ethics Reauthorization Act of 1988, Public Law 100-598, 102 Stat. 3031 (1988). OGE is the supervising ethics office for all executive branch officers and employees pursuant to the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, Public Law 101-194, 103 Stat. 1716 (1989), as amended by Public Law 101-280, 104 Stat. 149 (1990). Additionally, OGE has various responsibilities under Executive Order 12674 of April 12, 1989, “Principles of Ethical Conduct for Government Officers and Employees” (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., pp. 215-218), as modified by Executive Order 12731 of October 17, 1990 (3 CFR, 1990 Comp., pp. 306-311).
[68 FR 41682, July 15, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 57072, Sept. 22, 2015]
§ 2600.102
Contact information.
(a)
Address.
OGE is located at 1201 New York Avenue NW., Suite 500, Washington, DC 20005-3917. OGE does not have any regional offices. OGE's general email address is
contactoge@oge.gov.
(b)
Web site.
Information about OGE and its role in the executive branch ethics program as well as copies of publications that have been developed for training, educational and reference purposes are available electronically on OGE's Web site (
www.oge.gov
). OGE has posted on its Web site various Executive Orders, statutes, and regulations that together form the basis for the executive branch ethics program. The site also contains ethics advisory opinions and letters published by OGE, as well as other pertinent information.
(c)
Telephone numbers.
OGE's main telephone number is 202-482-9300. Persons who are deaf or speech impaired may contact OGE at the following TDD (Telecommunications Device for the Deaf and Speech Impaired) number: 202-482-9293. The main OGE FAX number is 202-482-9237.
[68 FR 41682, July 15, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 57072, Sept. 22, 2015]
§ 2600.103
Office of Government Ethics organization and functions.
OGE's Director is appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate for a five-year term. Additional information regarding OGE's organization and functions is available on its Web site at
www.oge.gov.
[80 FR 57072, Sept. 22, 2015]
Pt. 2601

# PART 2601—IMPLEMENTATION OF OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS STATUTORY GIFT ACCEPTANCE AUTHORITY

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
2601.101
Authority.
2601.102
Purpose.
2601.103
Policy.
2601.104
Relationship to other authorities.
2601.105
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Guidelines for Solicitation and Acceptance of Gifts
2601.201
Delegation.
2601.202
Procedure.
2601.203
Conflict of interest analysis.
2601.204
Conditions for acceptance.

# Subpart C—Accounting Requirements
2601.301
Accounting of gifts.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. App. (Ethics in Government Act of 1978).

# Source:
68 FR 60594, Oct. 22, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 2601.101
Authority.
Section 2 of the Office of Government Ethics Authorization Act of 1996, amending the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as codified at 5 U.S.C. app. 403(b), authorizes the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) to accept and utilize gifts for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of OGE.
§ 2601.102
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to establish guidelines governing the implementation of OGE's gift authority by defining its scope and application, by prescribing the policies, standards and procedures that govern the solicitation, acceptance and use of gifts, and by setting forth accounting requirements related to the use of this authority.
§ 2601.103
Policy.
(a)
Scope.
OGE may use its statutory authority to solicit, accept and utilize gifts to the agency that aid or facilitate the agency's work. The authority to solicit, accept and utilize gifts includes the authority to receive, administer, spend, invest and dispose of gifts. Gifts to the agency from individuals or organizations can be a useful adjunct to appropriated funds and may enhance the agency's ability to fulfill its mission, as well as further mutually beneficial public/private partnerships, or other useful arrangements or relationships. Such uses of this authority are appropriate provided that solicitation or acceptance of a gift does not compromise the integrity of OGE, its programs or employees.
(b)
Use of gifts.
Gifts to OGE may be used to carry out any activity that furthers the mission, programs, responsibilities, functions or activities of the agency. Gifts may be used to carry out program functions whether or not appropriated funds are available for that purpose, provided that such expenditures are not barred by law or regulation. Gifts may also be used for official travel by employees to events or activities required to carry out the agency's statutory or regulatory functions. Gifts to the agency may also be used for the travel expenses of spouses accompanying employees on official travel, if such travel could be paid for by appropriated funds.
(c)
Sources.
Generally, gifts may be solicited or accepted from any source, including a prohibited source, provided that the standards of this part are met. Gifts generally should be made directly to the agency and not through intermediaries. However, where a gift is offered by an intermediary, both the intermediary and the ultimate source of the gift should be analyzed to determine whether acceptance would be appropriate.
(d)
Endorsement.
Acceptance of a gift pursuant to this part will not in any way be deemed to be an endorsement of the donor, or the donor's products, services, activities, or policies. Letters to a donor expressing appreciation of a gift are permitted.
(e)
Type of gift.
The agency may solicit or accept any gift that is within its statutory authority. However, as a matter of policy, OGE will not solicit or accept gifts of currency pursuant to this part. Donors who offer currency should be advised that the gift may be made by check or money order payable
to the U.S. Office of Government Ethics.
[68 FR 60594, Oct. 22, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 57072, Sept. 22, 2015]
§ 2601.104
Relationship to other authorities.
(a) This part does not apply to gifts to the agency of:
(1) Travel and travel-related expenses made pursuant to the authority set forth in 31 U.S.C. 1353; or
(2) Volunteer services made pursuant to the authority set forth in 5 U.S.C. 3111.
(b) This part does not apply to gifts to an individual agency employee, including:
(1) Gifts of contributions, awards or other expenses for training made pursuant to the authority set forth in the Government Employees Training Act, 5 U.S.C. 4111;
(2) Gifts made by a foreign government or organization, or representative thereof, pursuant to the authority set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7342;
(3) Gifts made by a political organization that may be accepted by an agency employee who, in accordance with the terms of the Hatch Act Reform Amendments of 1993, at 5 U.S.C. 7323, may take an active part in political management or in political campaigns; or
(4) Gifts made directly or indirectly that an employee may accept in a personal capacity pursuant to the authority set forth in 5 CFR part 2635, subpart B or subpart C.
§ 2601.105
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Agency
means the U.S. Office of Government Ethics (OGE).
Authorized agency official
means the Director of OGE or the Director's delegee.
Director
means the Director of OGE.
Employee
means an employee of OGE.
Gift
means any gift, donation, bequest or devise of money, use of facilities, personal property, or services and may include travel reimbursements or payments for attendance at or participation in meetings or events.
Money
means currency, checks, money orders or other forms of negotiable instruments.
Personal property
means all property, tangible or intangible, not defined as real property, and includes stocks and bonds.
Prohibited source
means any source described in 5 CFR 2635.203(d).
Services
means all forms of voluntary and uncompensated personal services.
Use of facilities
means use of space, equipment and all other facilities.
[68 FR 60594, Oct. 22, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 57072, Sept. 22, 2015]

# Subpart B—Guidelines for Solicitation and Acceptance of Gifts
§ 2601.201
Delegation.
(a) The authority to solicit, accept, and utilize gifts in accordance with this part resides with the Director.
(b) The Director may delegate this authority.
(c) Authorities delegated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section may be redelegated only through a written delegation authorizing an agency employee to solicit or accept specific types of gifts, or a gift for a specific purpose, function, or event.
§ 2601.202
Procedure.
(a) The authorized agency official will have the authority to solicit, accept, refuse, return, or negotiate the terms of acceptance of a gift.
(b) An employee, other than an authorized agency official, will immediately forward all offers of gifts covered by this part regardless of value to an authorized agency official for consideration and will provide a description of the gift offered. An employee will also inform an authorized agency official of all discussions of the possibility of a gift. An employee will not provide a donor with any commitment, privilege, concession or other present or future benefit (other than an appropriate acknowledgment) in return for a gift.
(c) Only an authorized agency official may solicit, accept or decline a gift after making the determination required under the conflict of interest standard in § 2601.203. An authorized
agency official may find that, while acceptance of an offered gift is permissible, it is in the interest of the agency to qualify acceptance by, for example, limiting the gift in some way. Approval of acceptance of a gift in-kind after receipt of the gift may be granted as deemed appropriate by the authorized agency official.
(d) Gifts may be acknowledged in writing in the form of a letter of acceptance to the donor. The amount of a monetary gift will be specified. In the case of nonmonetary gifts, the letter will not make reference to the value of the gift. Valuation of nonmonetary gifts is the responsibility of the donor. Letters of acceptance will not include any statement regarding the tax implications of a gift, which remain the responsibility of the donor. No statement of endorsement should appear in a letter of acceptance to the donor.
(e) A gift may be declined by an authorized official orally or in writing. A donor may be advised of the reason why the gift has been declined. A gift may be declined solely as a matter of agency discretion, even though acceptance would not be precluded under the conflict of interest standard in § 2601.203.
(f) A gift of money or the proceeds of a gift will be deposited in an appropriately documented agency fund. A check or money order should be made payable to the “U.S. Office of Government Ethics.”
[68 FR 60594, Oct. 22, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015]
§ 2601.203
Conflict of interest analysis.
(a) A gift will not be solicited or accepted if the authorized agency official determines that such solicitation or acceptance of the gift would reflect unfavorably upon the ability of the agency, or any employee of the agency, to carry out OGE responsibilities or official duties in a fair and objective manner, or would compromise the integrity or the appearance of the integrity of its programs or any official involved in those programs.
(b) In making the determination required under paragraph (a) of this section, an authorized agency official may be guided by all relevant considerations, including, but not limited to the following:
(1) The identity of the donor;
(2) The monetary or estimated market value or the cost to the donor;
(3) The purpose of the gift as described in any written statement or oral proposal by the donor;
(4) The identity of any other expected recipients of the gift on the same occasion, if any;
(5) The timing of the gift;
(6) The nature and sensitivity of any matter pending at the agency affecting the interests of the donor;
(7) The significance of an individual employee's role in any matter affecting the donor, if benefits of the gift will accrue to the employee;
(8) The nature of the gift offered;
(9) The frequency of other gifts received from the same donor; and
(10) The agency activity, purpose or need that the gift will aid or facilitate.
(c) An authorized agency official may ask the donor to provide in writing any additional information needed to assist in making the determination under this section. Such information may include a description of the donor's business or organizational affiliation and any matters that are pending or are expected to be pending before the agency.
[68 FR 60594, Oct. 22, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015]
§ 2601.204
Conditions for acceptance.
(a) No gift may be accepted that:
(1) Attaches conditions inconsistent with applicable laws or regulations;
(2) Is conditioned upon or will require the expenditure of appropriated funds that are not available to the agency;
(3) Requires the agency to provide the donor with some privilege, concession or other present or future benefit in return for the gift;
(4) Requires the agency to adhere to particular requirements as to deposit, investment, or management of funds donated;
(5) Requires the agency to undertake or engage in activities that are not related to the agency's mission, programs or statutory authorities; or
(6) Would reflect unfavorably upon the ability of the agency, or any of its
employees, to carry out its responsibilities or official duties in a fair and objective manner, or would compromise or appear to compromise the integrity or the appearance of the integrity of its programs or any official involved in those programs.
(b) [Reserved]

# Note to § 2601.204:
Nothing in this part will prohibit the agency from offering or providing the donor an appropriate acknowledgment of its gift in a publication, speech or other medium.
[68 FR 60594, Oct. 22, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015]

# Subpart C—Accounting Requirements
§ 2601.301
Accounting of gifts.
(a) OGE's Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO) will ensure that gifts are properly accounted for by following appropriate internal controls and accounting procedures.
(b) The DAEO will maintain an inventory of donated personal property valued at over $500. The inventory will be updated each time an item is sold, excessed, destroyed or otherwise disposed of or discarded.
(c) The DAEO will maintain a log of all gifts valued at over $500 accepted pursuant to this part. The log will include, to the extent known:
(1) The name and address of the donor;
(2) A description of the gift; and
(3) The date the gift is accepted.
[68 FR 60594, Oct. 22, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015]
PART 2602—EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT, ADDENDUM [RESERVED]
Pt. 2604

# PART 2604—FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT RULES AND SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR THE PRODUCTION OF PUBLIC FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORTS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
2604.101
Purpose.
2604.102
Applicability.
2604.103
Definitions.
2604.104
Preservation of records.
2604.105
Other rights and services.

# Subpart B—FOIA Public Reading Room Facility and Web Site; Index Identifying Information for the Public
2604.201
Public reading room facility and Web site.
2604.202
Index identifying information for the public.

# Subpart C—Production and Disclosure of Records Under FOIA
2604.301
Requests for records.
2604.302
Response to requests.
2604.303
Form and content of responses.
2604.304
Appeal of denials.
2604.305
Time limits.

# Subpart D—Exemptions Under FOIA
2604.401
Policy.
2604.402
Business information.

# Subpart E—Schedule of Fees
2604.501
Fees to be charged—general.
2604.502
Fees to be charged—categories of requesters.
2604.503
Limitations on charging fees.
2604.504
Miscellaneous fee provisions.

# Subpart F—Annual OGE FOIA Report
2604.601
Electronic posting and submission of annual OGE FOIA report.

# Subpart G—Fees for the Reproduction and Mailing of Public Financial Disclosure Reports
2604.701
Policy
2604.702
Charges.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552; 5 U.S.C. App. 101-505; E.O. 12600, 52 FR 23781, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 235; E.O. 13392, 70 FR 75373, 3 CFR, 2005 Comp., p. 216.

# Source:
80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 2604.101
Purpose.
This part contains the regulations of the U.S. Office of Government Ethics (OGE) implementing the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), as amended. It describes how any person may obtain records from OGE under the FOIA. It also implements section 105(b)(1) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (Ethics Act), as amended, which authorizes an agency to charge reasonable fees to
cover the cost of reproduction and mailing of public financial disclosure reports requested by any person.
§ 2604.102
Applicability.
(a)
General.
The FOIA and this rule apply to all OGE records. However, if another law sets forth procedures for the disclosure of specific types of records, such as section 105 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 5 U.S.C. appendix, OGE will process a request for those records in accordance with the procedures that apply to those specific records. See 5 CFR 2634.603 and subpart G of this part. If there is any record which is not required to be released under those provisions, OGE will consider the request under the FOIA and this rule, provided that the special Ethics Act access procedures cited must be complied with as to any record within the scope thereof.
(b)
The relationship between the FOIA and the Privacy Act of 1974.
The Freedom of Information Act applies to third-party requests for documents concerning the general activities of the government and of OGE in particular. The Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, applies to records that are about individuals, but only if the records are in a system of records as defined in the Privacy Act. When an individual requests access to his or her own records that are contained in an OGE system of records, the individual is making a Privacy Act request, not a FOIA request. Although OGE determines whether a request is a FOIA or Privacy Act request, OGE processes requests in accordance with both laws and will not deny access by a first party to a record under the FOIA or the Privacy Act if the record is available to that individual under both statutes. This provides the greatest degree of lawful access while safeguarding individuals' personal privacy.
(c)
Records available through routine distribution procedures.
When the record requested includes material published and offered for sale (e.g., by the Government Publishing Office) or which is available to the public through an established distribution system (such as that of the National Technical Information Service of the Department of Commerce), OGE will explain how the record may be obtained through those channels. If the requester, after having been advised of such alternative access, asks for regular FOIA processing instead, OGE will provide the record in accordance with its usual FOIA procedures under this part.
§ 2604.103
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Agency
has the meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 551(1) and 5 U.S.C. 552(f).
Business information
means trade secrets or other commercial or financial information, provided to OGE by a submitter, which arguably is protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the Freedom of Information Act.
Business submitter
means any person who provides business information, directly or indirectly, to OGE and who has a proprietary interest in the information.
Chief FOIA Officer
means the OGE official designated in 5 U.S.C. 552(j)(1) to provide oversight of all of OGE's FOIA program operations.
Commercial use
means, when referring to a request, that the request is from, or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or of a person on whose behalf the request is made. Whether a request is for a commercial use depends on the purpose of the request and the use to which the records will be put. When a request is from a representative of the news media, a purpose or use supporting the requester's news dissemination function is not a commercial use.
Direct costs
means those expenditures actually incurred in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial use requesters, reviewing) records to respond to a FOIA request. Direct costs include the salary of the employee performing the work and the cost of operating duplicating machinery. Not included in direct costs are overhead expenses such as costs of space and heating or lighting of the facility in which the records are stored.
Duplication
means the process of making a copy of a record. Such copies include photocopies, flash drives, and optical discs.
Educational institution
means a preschool, elementary or secondary school, institution of undergraduate or graduate higher education, or institute of professional or vocational education, which operates a program of scholarly research.
Fee waiver
means waiving or reducing processing fees if a requester can demonstrate that certain statutory standards are satisfied, including that the information is in the public interest and is not requested for a commercial interest.
FOIA Officer
means the OGE employee designated to handle various initial FOIA matters, including requests and related matters such as fees.
FOIA Public Liaison
means the OGE official designated in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii) and 552(l) to review upon request any concerns of FOIA requesters about the service received from OGE's FOIA Requester Service Center and to address any other FOIA-related inquiries.
FOIA Requester Service Center
means the OGE unit designated under E.O. 13392 and referenced in 5 U.S.C. 552(l) to answer any questions requesters have about the status of OGE's processing of their FOIA requests.
Freedom of Information Act
or
FOIA
means 5 U.S.C. 552.
Noncommercial scientific institution
means an institution that is not operated solely for purposes of furthering its own or someone else's business, trade, or profit interests, and that is operated for purposes of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
Office or OGE
means the United States Office of Government Ethics.
Person
has the meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 551(2), including “an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization other than an agency.”
Records
means any handwritten, typed, or printed documents (such as memoranda, books, brochures, studies, writings, drafts, letters, transcripts, and minutes) and documentary material in other forms (such as electronic documents, electronic mail, magnetic tapes, cards or discs, paper tapes, audio or video recordings, maps, photographs, slides, microfilm and motion pictures) that are either created or obtained by OGE and are under its control. It does not include objects or articles such as exhibits, models, equipment, and duplication machines or audiovisual processing materials.
Representative of the news media
means a person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. In this clause, the term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large and publishers of periodicals (but only if such entities qualify as disseminators of “news”) who distribute their products to the general public or who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public, and entities that may disseminate news through other media, such as electronic dissemination of text. Freelance journalists will be considered as representatives of a news media entity if they can show a solid basis for expecting publication through such an entity. A publication contract is such a basis, and the requester's past publication record may show such a basis.
Request
means any request for records made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3).
Requester
means any person who makes a request for records to OGE.
Requester category
means one of three classifications that OGE assigns to requesters to determine whether OGE will charge fees for search, review and duplication. These categories are: Commercial requesters; noncommercial scientific or educational institutions or representatives of the news media; and all other requesters.
Review
means the process of initially, or upon appeal (see § 2604.501(b)(3)), examining documents located in a response to a request to determine whether any portion of any document is permitted to be withheld. It also includes processing documents for disclosure, such as redacting portions which
may be withheld. Review does not include time spent resolving general legal and policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
Search
means the time spent looking for material manually or by automated means that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents.
Working days
means calendar days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays.
[80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 94216, Dec. 23, 2016]
§ 2604.104
Preservation of records.
OGE will preserve all correspondence pertaining to the requests that it receives under this part, as well as copies of all responsive records, until disposition or destruction is authorized by title 44 of the United States Code or the National Archives and Records Administration's General Records Schedule. Records will not be disposed of while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, or lawsuit.
§ 2604.105
Other rights and services.
Nothing in this part will be construed to entitle any person, as of right, to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which such person is not entitled under the FOIA.

# Subpart B—FOIA Public Reading Room Facility and Web Site; Index Identifying Information for the Public
§ 2604.201
Public reading room facility and Web site.
(a)(1)
Location of public reading room facility.
OGE maintains a public reading room facility at its offices located at 1201 New York Avenue NW., Suite 500, Washington, DC 20005-3917. Persons desiring to utilize the reading room facility should contact OGE, in writing or by telephone: 202-482-9300, TDD: 202-482-9293, or FAX: 202-482-9237, to arrange a time to inspect the materials available there.
(2)
Web site.
The records listed in paragraph (b) of this section that were created on or after November 1, 1996, or which OGE is otherwise able to make electronically available, along with the OGE FOIA and Public Records Guide and OGE's annual FOIA reports, are also available via OGE's Web site (
www.oge.gov
). OGE will proactively identify additional records of interest to the public and will post such records on its Web site when practicable.
(b)
Records available.
The OGE Web site contains OGE records which are required by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) to be made available for public inspection in an electronic format, including:
(1) Any final opinions, as well as orders, made in the adjudication of cases;
(2) Any statements of policy and interpretation which have been adopted by OGE and are not published in the
Federal Register
;
(3) Any administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public, and which are not exempt from disclosure under section (b) of the FOIA;
(4) Copies of records created by OGE that have been released to any person under subpart C of this part and that, because of the nature of their subject matter, OGE determines have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records or that have been requested three or more times; and
(5) A general index of the records referred to under § 2604.201(b)(4).
(c) OGE may delete from the copies of materials made available under this section any identifying details necessary to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. Any such deletions will be explained in writing and the extent of such deletions will be indicated on the portion of the records that are made available or published, unless the indication would harm an interest protected by the FOIA exemption pursuant to which the deletions are made. If technically feasible, the extent of any such deletions will be indicated at the place in the records where they are made.
[80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 94216, Dec. 23, 2016]
§ 2604.202
Index identifying information for the public.
(a) OGE will maintain and make available for public inspection in an electronic format a current index of
the materials available on its Web site that are required to be indexed under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2).
(b) The Director of the Office of Government Ethics has determined that it is unnecessary and impracticable to publish quarterly or more frequently and distribute (by sale or otherwise) copies of each index and supplements thereto, as provided in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2). The Office will provide copies of such indexes upon request, at a cost not to exceed the direct cost of duplication and mailing, if sending records by other than ordinary mail.
[80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 94216, Dec. 23, 2016]

# Subpart C—Production and Disclosure of Records Under FOIA
§ 2604.301
Requests for records.
(a)
Addressing requests.
Requests for copies of records may be made by mail or email. Requests sent by mail should be addressed to the FOIA Officer, U.S. Office of Government Ethics, 1201 New York Avenue NW., Suite 500, Washington, DC 20005-3917. The envelope containing the request and the letter itself should both clearly indicate that the subject is a Freedom of Information Act request. Email requests should be sent to
usoge@oge.gov
and should indicate in the subject line that the message contains a Freedom of Information Act request.
(b)
Description of records.
Each request must reasonably describe the desired records in sufficient detail to enable OGE personnel to locate the records with a reasonable amount of effort. A request for a specific category of records will be regarded as fulfilling this requirement if it enables responsive records to be identified by a technique or process that is not unreasonably burdensome or disruptive of OGE operations.
(1) Wherever possible, a request should include specific information about each record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the record.
(2) If the FOIA Officer determines that a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the FOIA Officer will either advise the requester what additional information is needed to locate the record, or otherwise state why the request is insufficient. The FOIA Officer will also extend to the requester an opportunity to confer with OGE personnel with the objective of reformulating the request in a manner which will meet the requirements of this section.
(c)
Agreement to pay fees.
The filing of a request under this subpart will be deemed to constitute an agreement by the requester to pay all applicable fees charged under subpart E of this part, up to $25.00, unless a waiver of fees is sought. The request may also specify a limit on the amount the requester is willing to spend, or may indicate a willingness to pay an amount greater than $25.00, if applicable. In cases where a requester has been notified that actual or estimated fees may amount to more than $25.00, the request will be deemed not to have been received until the requester has agreed to pay the anticipated total fee. If, in the course of negotiating fees, the requester does not respond to correspondence from OGE, OGE will administratively close the FOIA request after 30 calendar days have passed from the date of its last correspondence to the requester.
(d)
Requests for records relating to corrective actions.
No record developed pursuant to the authority of 5 U.S.C. app. 402(f)(2) concerning the investigation of an employee for a possible violation of any provision relating to a conflict of interest will be made available pursuant to this part unless the request for such information identifies the employee to whom the records relate and the subject matter of any alleged violation to which the records relate. Nothing in this subsection will affect the application of subpart D of this part to any record so identified.
(e)
Seeking expedited processing.
(1) A requester may seek expedited processing of a FOIA request if a compelling need for the requested records can be shown.
(2) “Compelling need” means:
(i) Circumstances in which failure to obtain copies of the requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat
to the life or physical safety of an individual; or
(ii) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity, if the request is made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information.
(3) A requester seeking expedited processing should so indicate in the initial request, and should state all the facts supporting the need to obtain the requested records quickly. The requester must also certify in writing that these facts are true and correct to the best of the requester's knowledge and belief.
§ 2604.302
Response to requests.
(a)
Acknowledgement of requests.
If the FOIA Officer determines that a request will take longer than 10 working days to process, OGE will send a written acknowledgment that includes the request's individualized tracking number.
(b)
Response to initial request.
The FOIA Officer is authorized to grant or deny any request for a record and to determine appropriate fees.
(c)
Referral to, or consultation with, another agency.
When a requester seeks access to records that originated in another Government agency subject to the FOIA, OGE will normally refer the request to the other agency for response; alternatively, OGE may consult with the other agency in the course of deciding itself whether to grant or deny a request for access to such records. If OGE refers the request to another agency, it will notify the requester of the referral and provide a point of contact within the receiving agency. If release of certain records may adversely affect United States relations with foreign governments, OGE will usually consult with the Department of State. A request for any records classified by some other agency will be referred to that agency for response.
(d)
Honoring form or format requests.
In making any record available to a requester, OGE will provide the record in the form or format requested, if the record already exists or is readily reproducible by OGE in that form or format. If a form or format request cannot be honored, OGE will so inform the requester and provide a copy of a nonexempt record in its existing form or format or another convenient form or format which is readily reproducible. OGE will not, however, generally develop a completely new record (as opposed to providing a copy of an existing record in a readily reproducible new form or format, as requested) of information in order to satisfy a request.
(e)
Record cannot be located.
If a requested record cannot be located from the information supplied, the FOIA Officer will so notify the requester in writing.
§ 2604.303
Form and content of responses.
(a)
Form of notice granting a request.
After the FOIA Officer has made a determination to grant a request in whole or in part, the requester will be notified in writing. The notice will describe the manner in which the record will be disclosed, whether by providing a copy of the record with the response or at a later date, or by making a copy of the record available to the requester for inspection at a reasonable time and place. The procedure for such an inspection may not unreasonably disrupt OGE operations. The response letter will inform the requester of the right of the requester to seek assistance from the FOIA Public Liaison. The response letter will also inform the requester in the response of any fees to be charged in accordance with the provisions of subpart E of this part.
(b)
Form of notice denying a request.
When the FOIA Officer denies a request in whole or in part, the FOIA Officer will so notify the requester in writing. The response will be signed by the FOIA Officer and will include:
(1) The name and title or position of the person making the denial;
(2) A brief statement of the reason or reasons for the denial, including the FOIA exemption or exemptions which the FOIA Officer has relied upon in denying the request;
(3) When only a portion of a document is being withheld, the amount of information deleted and the FOIA exemption(s) justifying the deletion will generally be indicated on the copy of the released portion of the document. If technically feasible, such indications
will appear at the place in the copy of the document where any deletion is made. If a document is withheld in its entirety, an estimate of the volume of the withheld material will generally be given. However, neither an indication of the amount of information deleted nor an estimation of the volume of material withheld will be included in a response if doing so would harm an interest protected by any of the FOIA exemptions pursuant to which the deletion or withholding is made; and
(4) A statement that the denial may be appealed under § 2604.304, and a description of the requirements of that section; and
(5) A statement of the right of the requester to seek dispute resolution services from the FOIA Public Liaison or the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS).
[80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 94216, Dec. 23, 2016]
§ 2604.304
Appeal of denials.
(a)
Right of appeal.
If a request has been denied in whole or in part, the requester may appeal the denial by mail or email to the Program Counsel of the U.S. Office of Government Ethics. Requests sent by mail should be addressed to 1201 New York Avenue NW., Suite 500, Washington, DC 20005-3917. The envelope containing the request and the letter itself should both clearly indicate that the subject is a Freedom of Information Act appeal. Email requests should be sent to
usoge@oge.gov
and should indicate in the subject line that the message contains a Freedom of Information Act appeal.
(b)
Letter of appeal.
The appeal must be in writing and must be sent within 90 calendar days of receipt of the denial letter. An appeal should include a copy of the initial request, a copy of the letter denying the request in whole or in part, and a statement of the circumstances, reasons or arguments advanced in support of disclosure of the record.
(c)
Action on appeal.
The disposition of an appeal will be in writing and will constitute the final action of OGE on a request. A decision affirming in whole or in part the denial of a request will include a brief statement of the reason or reasons for affirmance, including each FOIA exemption relied on. If the denial of a request is reversed in whole or in part on appeal, the request will be processed promptly in accordance with the decision on appeal.
(d)
Judicial review.
If the denial of the request for records is upheld in whole or in part, OGE will notify the person making the request of the right to seek judicial review under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4).
(e)
Dispute Resolution Services.
If the denial of the request for records is upheld in whole or in part, OGE will notify the requester about the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) and provide contact information for that office.
[80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 94216, Dec. 23, 2016]
§ 2604.305
Time limits.
(a)(1)
Initial request.
Following receipt of a request for records, the FOIA Officer will determine whether to comply with the request and will notify the requester in writing of the determination within 20 working days.
(2)
Tolling.
OGE may toll the 20-working day period once while awaiting a response to information reasonably requested from the requester. OGE may also toll the 20-working day period while awaiting a response to a request for clarification regarding fees. There is no limit on the number of times OGE may toll the statutory time period to request clarification regarding fees. In either case, the tolling period ends upon receipt of the requester's response to the request for information or clarification. If OGE does not receive a response to a request for clarification regarding fees within 30 calendar days, it will consider the request “closed.”
(3)
Request for expedited processing.
When a request for expedited processing under § 2604.301(e) is received, the FOIA Officer will respond within 10 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request, stating whether or not the request for expedited processing has been granted. If the request for expedited processing is denied, any appeal of that decision will be acted upon expeditiously.
(b)
Appeal.
A written determination on an appeal submitted in accordance with § 2604.304 will be issued within 20
working days after receipt of the appeal.
(c)
Extension of time limits.
When additional time is required for one of the reasons stated in paragraph (d) of this section, OGE will, within the statutory 20-working day period, issue written notice to the requester setting forth the reasons for the extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be made. If more than 10 additional working days are needed, the requester will be notified and provided an opportunity to limit the scope of the request or to arrange for an alternative time frame for processing the request or a modified request. To aid the requester, OGE will make available its FOIA Public Liaison to assist in the resolution of any disputes. Additionally, OGE will notify the requester of the right of the requester to seek dispute resolution services from OGIS.
(d) For the purposes of paragraph (c) of this section,
unusual circumstances
means that there is a need to:
(1) Search for and collect records from archives;
(2) Search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or
(3) Consult with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request, or consult with various OGE components that have substantial subject matter interest in the records requested.
[80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 94216, Dec. 23, 2016]

# Subpart D—Exemptions Under FOIA
§ 2604.401
Policy.
(a)
Foreseeable harm standard.
A requested record will not be withheld from inspection or copying unless it comes within one of the classes of records exempted by 5 U.S.C. 552 and OGE reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption described in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) or is prohibited by law. Nothing in this paragraph requires disclosure of information that is otherwise prohibited from disclosure by law, or otherwise exempted from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3).
(b)
Pledge of confidentiality.
Information obtained from any individual or organization, furnished in reliance on a provision for confidentiality authorized by applicable statute, Executive Order or regulation, will not be disclosed to the extent it can be withheld under one of the exemptions. However, this paragraph (b) does not itself authorize the giving of any pledge of confidentiality by any officer or employee of OGE.
(c)
Exception for law enforcement information.
OGE may treat records compiled for law enforcement purposes as not subject to the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act when:
(1) The investigation or proceeding involves a possible violation of criminal law;
(2) There is reason to believe that the subject of the investigation or proceeding is unaware of its pendency; and
(3) The disclosure of the existence of the records could reasonably be expected to interfere with the enforcement proceedings.
(d)
Partial application of exemptions.
Any reasonably segregable portion of a record will be provided to any person requesting the record after deletion of the portions which are exempt under this subpart.
[80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 94216, Dec. 23, 2016]
§ 2604.402
Business information.
(a)
In general.
Business information provided to OGE by a submitter will not be disclosed pursuant to a Freedom of Information Act request except in accordance with this section.
(b)
Designation of business information.
Submitters of business information should use good-faith efforts to designate, by appropriate markings, either at the time of submission or at a reasonable time thereafter, those portions of their submissions which they deem to be protected under Exemption 4 of the FOIA (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4)). Any such designation will expire 10 years after the records were submitted to the Government, unless the submitter requests, and provides reasonable justification for, a designation period of longer duration.
(c)
Predisclosure notification.
The FOIA Officer will provide a submitter with prompt written notice of a FOIA request regarding its business information if:
(1) The information has been designated by the submitter as information deemed protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA; or
(2) The FOIA Officer has reason to believe that the information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA. Such written notice will either describe the exact nature of the business information requested or provide copies of the records containing the business information. The requester also will be notified that notice and an opportunity to object are being provided to a submitter.
(d)
Opportunity to object to disclosure.
OGE will give a submitter a reasonable time, up to 10 working days, from receipt of the predisclosure notification to provide a written statement of any objection to disclosure. Such statement will specify all the grounds for withholding any of the information under any exemption of the FOIA and, in the case of Exemption 4, will demonstrate why the information is deemed to be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. Information provided by a submitter pursuant to this paragraph (d) may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(e)
Notice of intent to disclose.
The FOIA Officer will consider all objections raised by a submitter and specific grounds for nondisclosure prior to determining whether to disclose business information. Whenever the FOIA Officer decides to disclose business information over the objection of a submitter, the FOIA Officer will send the submitter a written notice at least 10 working days before the date of disclosure containing:
(1) A statement of the reasons why the submitter's objections were not sustained;
(2) A copy of the records which will be disclosed or a written description of the records; and
(3) A specified disclosure date. The requester will also be notified of the FOIA Officer's determination to disclose records over a submitter's objections.
(f)
Notice of FOIA lawsuit.
Whenever a requester brings suit seeking to compel disclosure of business information, the FOIA Officer will promptly notify the submitter.
(g)
Exceptions to predisclosure notification.
The notice requirements in paragraph (c) of this section do not apply if:
(1) The FOIA Officer determines that the information should not be disclosed;
(2) The information has been published previously or has been officially made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by law (other than 5 U.S.C. 552); or
(4) The designation made by the submitter in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section appears obviously frivolous; except that, in such a case, the FOIA Officer will provide the submitter with written notice of any final decision to disclose business information within a reasonable number of days prior to a specified disclosure date.

# Subpart E—Schedule of Fees
§ 2604.501
Fees to be charged—general.
(a)
Policy.
Fees will be assessed according to the schedule contained in paragraph (b) of this section and the category of requesters described in § 2604.502 for services rendered in responding to and processing requests for records under subpart C of this part. All fees will be charged to the requester, except where the charging of fees is limited under § 2604.503(a) and (b) or where a waiver or reduction of fees is granted under § 2604.503(c). Requesters will pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States.
(b)
Types of charges.
The types of charges that may be assessed in connection with the production of records in response to a FOIA request are as follows:
(1)
Searches
—(i)
Manual searches for records.
Whenever feasible, OGE will charge at the salary rate (
i.e.,
basic pay plus 16%) of the employee making the search. However, where a homogeneous
class of personnel is used exclusively in a search (e.g., all clerical time or all professional time) OGE will charge $16.00 per hour for clerical time and $28.00 per hour for professional time. Charges for search time will be billed by 15minute segments.
(ii)
Computer searches for records.
Requesters will be charged the actual direct cost of conducting a search using existing programming. These direct costs will include the cost of operating a central processing unit for that portion of operating time that is directly attributable to searching for records responsive to a request, as well as the cost of operator/programmer salary apportionable to the search. OGE will not alter or develop programming to conduct a search.
(iii)
Unproductive searches.
OGE will charge search fees even if no records are found which are responsive to the request, or if the records found are exempt from disclosure.
(2)
Duplication.
The standard copying charge for documents in paper copy is $0.15 per page. When responsive information is provided in a format other than paper copy, such as in the form of computer tapes, flash drives, and discs, the requester may be charged the direct costs of the medium used to produce the information, as well as any related reproduction costs.
(3)
Review.
Costs associated with the review of documents, as defined in § 2604.103, will be charged at the salary rate (
i.e.,
basic pay plus 16%) of the employee conducting the review. Except as noted below, charges may be assessed only for review at the initial level,
i.e.,
the review undertaken the first time the documents are analyzed to determine the applicability of specific exemptions to a particular record or portion of the records. A requester will not be charged for review at the administrative appeal level concerning the applicability of an exemption already applied at the initial level. However, when a record has been withheld pursuant to an exemption which is subsequently determined not to apply and the record is reviewed again at the appeal level to determine the potential applicability of other exemptions, the costs of such additional review may be assessed.
(4)
Other services and materials.
Where OGE elects, as a matter of administrative discretion, to comply with a request for a special service or materials, such as certifying that records are true copies or sending records by special methods, the actual direct costs of providing the service or materials will be charged.
§ 2604.502
Fees to be charged—categories of requesters.
(a)
Fees for various requester categories.
The paragraphs below state, for each category of requester, the type of fees generally charged by OGE. However, for each of these categories, the fees may be limited, waived or reduced in accordance with the provisions set forth in § 2604.503. In determining whether a requester belongs in any of the following categories, OGE will determine the use to which the requester will put the documents requested. If OGE has reasonable cause to doubt the use to which the requester will put the records sought, or where the use is not clear from the request itself, OGE will seek clarification before assigning the request to a specific category.
(b)
Commercial use requester.
OGE will charge the full costs of search, review, and duplication. Commercial use requesters are not entitled to two hours of free search time or 100 free pages of reproduction as described in § 2604.503(a); however, the minimum fees provision of § 2604.503(b) does apply to such requesters.
(c)
Educational and noncommercial scientific institutions and news media.
If the request is from an educational institution or a noncommercial scientific institution, operated for scholarly or scientific research, or a representative of the news media, and the request is not for a commercial use, OGE will charge only for duplication of documents, excluding charges for the first 100 pages.
(d)
All other requesters.
If the request is not one described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, OGE will charge the full and direct costs of searching for and reproducing records that are responsive to the request, excluding the first 100 pages of duplication and the first two hours of search time.
§ 2604.503
Limitations on charging fees.
(a)
In general.
Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use as described in § 2604.502(b), OGE will provide, without charge, the first 100 pages of duplication and the first two hours of search time, or their cost equivalent.
(b)
Minimum fees.
OGE will not assess fees for individual requests if the total charge would be $10.00 or less.
(c)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
Records responsive to a request under 5 U.S.C. 552 will be furnished without charge or at a reduced charge if a requester can demonstrate that certain statutory standards are satisfied, including that the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
(1) In determining whether disclosure is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government, OGE will consider the following factors:
(i)
The subject of the request: Whether the subject of the requested records concerns the operations or activities of the Government.
The subject matter of the requested records, in the context of the request, must specifically and directly concern identifiable operations or activities of the Federal Government. Furthermore, the records must be sought for their informative value with respect to those Government operations or activities;
(ii)
The informative value of the information to be disclosed: Whether the information is likely to contribute to an understanding of Government operations or activities.
The disclosable portions of the requested records must be meaningfully informative on specific Government operations or activities in order to hold potential for contributing to increased public understanding of those operations and activities. The disclosure of information which is already in the public domain, in either a duplicative or substantially identical form, would not be likely to contribute to such understanding, as nothing new would be added to the public record;
(iii)
The contribution to an understanding of the subject by the public likely to result from disclosure: Whether disclosure of the requested information will contribute to public understanding.
The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of the public at large, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester or a narrow segment of interested persons. A requester's identity and qualifications—e.g., expertise in the subject area and ability and intention to convey information to the general public—will be considered; and
(iv)
The significance of the contribution to public understanding: Whether the disclosure is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of Government operations or activities.
The public's understanding of the subject matter in question, as compared to the level of public understanding existing prior to the disclosure, must be likely to be significantly enhanced by the disclosure.
(2) In determining whether disclosure of the requested information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, OGE will consider the following factors:
(i)
The existence and magnitude of a commercial interest: Whether the requester has a commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure.
OGE will consider all commercial interests of the requester, or any person on whose behalf the requester may be acting, which would be furthered by the requested disclosure. In assessing the magnitude of identified commercial interests, consideration will be given to the effect that the information disclosed would have on those commercial interests; and
(ii)
The primary interest in disclosure: Whether the magnitude of the identified commercial interest of the requester is sufficiently large, in comparison with the public interest in disclosure, that disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
A fee waiver or reduction is warranted only where the public interest can fairly be regarded as greater in magnitude than the requester's commercial interest in disclosure. OGE will ordinarily presume
that, where a news media requester has satisfied the public interest standard, the public interest will be served primarily by disclosure to that requester. Disclosure to data brokers and others who compile and market Government information for direct economic return will not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.
(3) Where only a portion of the requested record satisfies the requirements for a waiver or reduction of fees under this paragraph (c), a waiver or reduction will be granted only as to that portion.
(4) A request for a waiver or reduction of fees must accompany the request for disclosure of records, and should include:
(i) A clear statement of the requester's interest in the documents;
(ii) The proposed use of the documents and whether the requester will derive income or other benefit from such use;
(iii) A statement of how the public will benefit from release of the requested documents; and
(iv) If specialized use of the documents is contemplated, a statement of the requester's qualifications that are relevant to the specialized use.
(5) A requester may appeal the denial of a request for a waiver or reduction of fees in accordance with the provisions of § 2604.304.
(d) If OGE does not comply with one of the time limits under § 2604.305, it will not assess search fees (or in the case of a requester described under § 2604.502(c), duplication fees), except as provided in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section.
(1) If OGE has determined that unusual circumstances apply, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), and OGE provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), a failure to comply with the time limit is excused for an additional 10 days.
(2) If OGE has determined that unusual circumstances apply, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, OGE may charge search fees (or in the case of requesters described under § 2604.502(c), duplication fees) if OGE has provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B) and OGE has discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5. U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii).
(3) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
[80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 94216, Dec. 23, 2016]
§ 2604.504
Miscellaneous fee provisions.
(a)
Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.
Where OGE determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed under this section may amount to more than $25.00, it will notify the requester as soon as practicable of the actual or estimated amount of fees, unless the requester has indicated in advance the willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. Where a requester has been notified that the actual or estimated fees may exceed $25.00, the request will be deemed not to have been received until the requester has agreed to pay the anticipated total fee. A notice to the requester pursuant to this paragraph (a) will include the opportunity to confer with OGE personnel in order to reformulate the request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
(b)
Aggregating requests.
A requester may not file multiple requests, each seeking portions of a document or documents in order to avoid the payment of fees. Where there is reason to believe that a requester, or group of requesters acting in concert, is attempting to divide a request into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, OGE may aggregate the requests and charge accordingly. OGE will presume that multiple requests of this type made within a 30-calendar day period have been made in order to evade fees. Multiple requests regarding unrelated matters will not be aggregated.
(c)
Advance payments.
An advance payment before work is commenced or continued will not be required unless:
(1) OGE estimates or determines that the total fee to be assessed under this section is likely to exceed $250.00. When a determination is made that the allowable charges are likely to exceed $250.00, the requester will be notified of the likely cost and will be required to provide satisfactory assurance of full payment where the requester has a history of prompt payment of FOIA fees, or will be required to submit an advance payment of an amount up to the full estimated charges in the case of requesters with no history of payment; or
(2) A requester has previously failed to pay a fee charged in a timely fashion (
i.e.,
within 30 calendar days of the date of the billing). In such cases the requester may be required to pay the full amount owed plus any applicable interest as provided by paragraph (e) of this section, and to make an advance payment of the full amount of the estimated fee before OGE begins to process a new request.
(3) When OGE requests an advance payment of fees, the administrative time limits described in subsection (a)(6) of the FOIA will begin to run only after OGE has received the advance payment.
(d)
Billing and payment.
Normally OGE will require a requester to pay all fees before furnishing the requested records. However, OGE may send a bill along with, or following the furnishing of records, in cases where the requester has a history of prompt payment.
(e)
Interest charges.
Interest charges on an unpaid bill may be assessed starting on the 31st calendar day following the day on which the billing was sent. Interest will be at the rate prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the date of billing. To collect unpaid bills, OGE will follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended (96 Stat. 1749
et seq.
) including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.

# Subpart F—Annual OGE FOIA Report
§ 2604.601
Electronic posting and submission of annual OGE FOIA report.
On or before February 1 of each year, OGE will submit to the Office of Information Policy at the United States Department of Justice and to the Director of OGIS an Annual FOIA Report. The report will include the information required by 5 U.S.C. 552(e). OGE will electronically post on its Web site the report and the raw statistical data used in each report, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(e)(3).
[80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 94216, Dec. 23, 2016]

# Subpart G—Fees for the Reproduction and Mailing of Public Financial Disclosure Reports
§ 2604.701
Policy.
Fees for the reproduction and mailing of public financial disclosure reports requested pursuant to section 105 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as amended, and § 2634.603 of this chapter will be assessed according to the schedule contained in § 2604.702. Requesters will pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States. Except as provided in § 2604.702(d), nothing concerning fees in subpart E of this part supersedes the charges set forth in this subpart for records covered in this subpart.
§ 2604.702
Charges.
(a)
Duplication.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, copies of public financial disclosure reports requested pursuant to section 105 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as amended, and § 2634.603 of this chapter will be provided upon payment of $0.15 per page furnished.
(b)
Mailing.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the actual direct cost of mailing public financial disclosure reports will be charged for all forms requested. Where OGE elects
to comply, as a matter of administrative discretion, with a request for special mailing services, the actual direct cost of such service will be charged.
(c)
Minimum fees.
OGE will not assess fees for individual requests if the total charge would be $10.00 or less.
(d)
Miscellaneous fee provisions.
The miscellaneous fee provisions set forth in § 2604.504 apply to requests for public financial disclosure reports pursuant to § 2634.603 of this chapter.
Pt. 2606

# PART 2606—PRIVACY ACT RULES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
2606.101
Purpose.
2606.102
Definitions.
2606.103
Systems of records.
2606.104
OGE and agency responsibilities.
2606.105
Rules for individuals seeking to ascertain if they are the subject of a record.
2606.106
OGE employee Privacy Act rules of conduct and responsibilities.

# Subpart B—Access to Records and Accounting of Disclosures
2606.201
Requests for access.
2606.202
OGE or other agency action on requests.
2606.203
Granting access.
2606.204
Request for review of an initial denial of access.
2606.205
Response to a request for review of an initial denial of access.
2606.206
Fees.
2606.207
Accounting of disclosures.

# Subpart C—Amendment of Records
2606.301
Requests to amend records.
2606.302
OGE or other agency action on requests.
2606.303
Request for review of an initial refusal to amend a record.
2606.304
Response to a request for review of an initial refusal to amend; disagreement statements.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a, 5 U.S.C. App. (Ethics in Government Act of 1978).

# Source:
68 FR 27891, May 22, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 2606.101
Purpose.
This part sets forth the regulations of the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) implementing the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a). It governs access, maintenance, disclosure, and amendment of records contained in OGE's executive branch Governmentwide and internal systems of records, and establishes rules of conduct for OGE employees who have responsibilities under the Act.
§ 2606.102
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part, the terms listed below are defined as follows:
Access
means providing a copy of a record to, or allowing review of the original record by, the data subject or the requester's authorized representative, parent or legal guardian;
Act
means the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a;
Amendment
means the correction, addition, deletion, or destruction of a record or specific portions of a record;
Data subject
means the individual to whom the information pertains and by whose name or other individual identifier the information is maintained or retrieved;
He, his,
and
him
include she, hers and her.
Office
or
OGE
means the U.S. Office of Government Ethics;
System manager
means the Office or other agency official who has the authority to decide Privacy Act matters relative to a system of records;
System of records
means a group of any records containing personal information controlled and managed by OGE from which information is retrieved by the name of an individual or by some personal identifier assigned to that individual;
Working day
as used in calculating the date when a response is due means calendar days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays.
§ 2606.103
Systems of records.
(a)
Governmentwide systems of records.
The Office of Government Ethics maintains two executive branch Governmentwide systems of records: the OGE/GOVT-1 system of records, comprised of Executive Branch Personnel Public Financial Disclosure Reports and Other Name-Retrieved Ethics Program Records; and the OGE/GOVT-2 system of records, comprised of Executive
Branch Confidential Financial Disclosure Reports. These Governmentwide systems of records are maintained by OGE, and through Office delegations of authority, by Federal executive branch departments and agencies with regard to their own employees, applicants for employment, individuals nominated to a position requiring Senate confirmation, candidates for a position, and former employees.
(b)
OGE Internal systems of records.
The Office of Government Ethics internal systems of records are under OGE's physical custody and control and are established and maintained by the Office on current and former OGE employees regarding matters relating to the internal management of the Office. These systems of records consist of the OGE/INTERNAL-1 system, comprised of Pay, Leave and Travel Records; the OGE/INTERNAL-2 system, comprised of Telephone Call Detail Records; the OGE/INTERNAL-3 system, comprised of Grievance Records; the OGE/INTERNAL-4 system, comprised of Computer Systems Activity and Access Records; and the OGE/INTERNAL-5 system, comprised of Employee Locator and Emergency Notification Records.
§ 2606.104
OGE and agency responsibilities.
(a) The procedures in this part apply to:
(1) All initial Privacy Act access and amendment requests regarding records contained in an OGE system of records.
(2) Administrative appeals from an Office or agency denial of an initial request for access to, or to amend, records contained in an OGE system of records.
(b) For records contained in an OGE Governmentwide system of records, each agency is responsible (unless specifically excepted by the Office) for responding to initial requests for access or amendment of records in its custody and administrative appeals of denials thereof.
(c) For records and material of another agency that are in the custody of OGE, but not under its control or ownership, OGE may refer a request for the records to that other agency, consult with the other agency prior to responding, or notify the requester that the other agency is the proper agency to contact.
§ 2606.105
Rules for individuals seeking to ascertain if they are the subject of a record.
An individual seeking to ascertain if any OGE system of records contains a record pertaining to him must follow the access procedures set forth at § 2606.201(a) and (b).
§ 2606.106
OGE employee Privacy Act rules of conduct and responsibilities.
Each OGE employee involved in the design, development, operation, or maintenance of any system of records, or in maintaining any record covered by the Privacy Act, shall comply with the pertinent provisions of the Act relating to the treatment of such information. Particular attention is directed to the following provisions of the Privacy Act:
(a)
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(7).
The requirement to maintain in a system of records no record describing how any individual exercises rights guaranteed by the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States unless expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the record is maintained or unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity.
(b)
5 U.S.C. 552a(b).
The requirement that no agency shall disclose any record which is contained in a system of records by any means of communication to any person or to another agency, except pursuant to a written request by, or with the prior written consent of, the individual to whom the record pertains, except under certain limited conditions specified in subsections (b)(1) through (b)(12) of the Privacy Act.
(c)
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1).
The requirement for an agency to maintain in its systems of records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required to be accomplished by statute or by Executive order.
(d)
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(2).
The requirement to collect information to the greatest extent practicable directly
from the subject individual when the information may result in adverse determinations about an individual's rights, benefits, and privileges under Federal programs.
(e)
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3).
The requirement to inform each individual asked to supply information to be maintained in a system of records the authority which authorizes the solicitation of the information and whether disclosure of such information is mandatory or voluntary; the principal purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used; the routine uses which may be made of the information; and the effects on the individual, if any, of not providing all or any part of the requested information.
(f)
5 U.S.C. 552a(b) and (e)(10).
The requirement to comply with established safeguards and procedures to ensure the security and confidentiality of records and to protect personal data from any anticipated threats or hazards to their security or integrity which could result in substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to an individual on whom information is maintained in a system of records.
(g)
5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(3).
The requirement to maintain an accounting of specified disclosures of personal information from systems of records in accordance with established Office procedures.
(h)
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(5) and (e)(6).
The requirements to maintain all records in a system of records which are used by the agency in making any determination about an individual with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in the determination; and to make reasonable efforts to assure that such records are accurate, complete, timely, and relevant for agency purposes, prior to disseminating any record about an individual to any person other than an agency (unless the dissemination is required by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552).
(i)
5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), (d)(2) and (d)(3).
The requirement to permit individuals to have access to records pertaining to themselves in accordance with established Office procedures and to have an opportunity to request that such records be amended.
(j)
5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(4) and (d)(4).
The requirement to inform any person or other agency about any correction or notation of dispute made by the agency in accordance with subsection (d) of the Act of any record that has been disclosed to the person or agency if an accounting of the disclosure was made; and, in any disclosure of information about which an individual has filed a statement of disagreement, to note clearly any portion of the record which is disputed and to provide copies of the statement (and if the agency deems it appropriate, copies of a concise statement of the reasons of the agency for not making the amendments requested) to persons or other agencies to whom the disputed record has been disclosed.
(k)
5 U.S.C. 552a(n).
The requirement for an agency not to sell or rent an individual's name or address, unless such action is specifically authorized by law.
(l)
5 U.S.C. 552a(i).
The criminal penalties to which an employee may be subject for failing to comply with certain provisions of the Privacy Act.

# Subpart B—Access to Records and Accounting of Disclosures
§ 2606.201
Requests for access.
(a)
Records in an OGE Governmentwide system of records.
An individual requesting access to records pertaining to him in an OGE Governmentwide system of records should submit a written request, which includes the words “Privacy Act Request” on both the envelope and at the top of the request letter, to the appropriate system manager as follows:
(1)
Records filed directly with OGE by non-OGE employees:
The Deputy Director, Office of Agency Programs, Office of Government Ethics, Suite 500, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005-3917;
(2)
Records filed with a Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO) or the head of a department or agency:
The DAEO at the department or agency concerned; or
(3)
Records filed with the Federal Election Commission by candidates for President or Vice President:
The General Counsel, Office of General Counsel, Federal Election Commission, 999 E Street, NW., Washington, DC 20463.
(b)
Records in an OGE Internal System of Records.
An individual requesting access to records pertaining to him in an OGE internal system of records should submit a written request, which includes the words “Privacy Act Request” on both the envelope and at the top of the request letter, to the Deputy Director, Office of Administration and Information Management, Office of Government Ethics, Suite 500, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005-3917.
(c)
Content of request.
(1) A request should contain a specific reference to the OGE system of records from which access to the records is sought. Notices of OGE systems of records subject to the Privacy Act are published in the
Federal Register,
and copies of the notices are available on OGE's Web site at
http://www.usoge.gov,
or upon request from OGE's Office of General Counsel and Legal Policy. A biennial compilation of such notices also is made available online and published by the Office of Federal Register at the GPO Access Web site (
http://www.access.gpo.gov/su_docs/aces/PrivacyAct.shtml
) in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(f) of the Act.
(2) If the written inquiry does not refer to a specific system of records, it should include other information that will assist in the identification of the records for which access is being requested. Such information may include, for example, the individual's full name (including her maiden name, if pertinent), dates of employment, social security number (if any records in the system include this identifier), current or last place and date of Federal employment. If the request for access follows a prior request to determine if an individual is the subject of a record, the same identifying information need not be included in the request for access if a reference is made to that prior correspondence, or a copy of the response to that request is attached.
(3) The request should state whether the requester wants a copy of the record, or wants to examine the record in person.
§ 2606.202
OGE or other agency action on requests.
A response to a request for access should include the following:
(a) A statement that there is a record or records as requested or a statement that there is not a record in the system of records;
(b) The method of access (if a copy of all the records requested is not provided with the response);
(c) The amount of any fees to be charged for copies of records under § 2606.206 of this part or other agencies' Privacy Act regulations as referenced in that section;
(d) The name, title, and telephone number of the official having operational control over the record; and
(e) If the request is denied in whole or in part, or no record is found in the system, a statement of the reasons for the denial, or a statement that no record has been found, and notice of the procedures for appealing the denial or no record finding.
§ 2606.203
Granting access.
(a) The methods for allowing access to records, when such access has been granted by OGE or the other agency concerned are:
(1) Examination in person in a designated office during the hours specified by OGE or the other agency;
(2) Providing photocopies of the records; or
(3) Transfer of records at the option of OGE or the other agency to another more convenient Federal facility.
(b) When a requester has not indicated whether he wants a copy of the record, or wants to examine the record in person, the appropriate system manager may choose the means of granting access. However, the means chosen should not unduly impede the data subject's right of access. A data subject may elect to receive a copy of the records after having examined them.
(c) Generally, OGE or the other agency concerned will not furnish certified copies of records. When copies are to be furnished, they may be provided as determined by OGE or the other agency concerned.
(d) When the data subject seeks to obtain original documentation, the Office and the other agencies concerned reserve the right to limit the request to copies of the original records. Original records should be made available for review only in the presence of the appropriate system manager or his designee.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ) of § 2606.203:
Section 2071(a) of title 18 of the United States Code makes it a crime to conceal, remove, mutilate, obliterate, or destroy any record filed in a public office, or to attempt to do so.
(e)
Identification requirements
—(1)
Access granted in person
—(i)
Current or former employees.
Current or former employees requesting access to records pertaining to them in a system of records may, in addition to the other requirements of this section, and at the sole discretion of the official having operational control over the record, have their identity verified by visual observation. If the current or former employee cannot be so identified by the official having operational control over the records, adequate identification documentation will be required, e.g., an employee identification card, driver's license, passport, or other officially issued document with a picture of the person requesting access.
(ii)
Other than current or former employees.
Individuals other than current or former employees requesting access to records pertaining to them in a system of records must produce adequate identification documentation prior to being granted access. The extent of the identification documentation required will depend on the type of records to be accessed. In most cases, identification verification will be accomplished by the presentation of two forms of identification with a picture of the person requesting access (such as a driver's license and passport). Any additional requirements are specified in the system notices published pursuant to subsection (e)(4) of the Act.
(2)
Access granted by mail.
For records to be accessed by mail, the appropriate system manager shall, to the extent possible, establish identity by a comparison of signatures in situations where the data in the record is not so sensitive that unauthorized access could cause harm or embarrassment to the individual to whom they pertain. No identification documentation will be required for the disclosure to the data subject of information required to be made available to the public by 5 U.S.C. 552, the Freedom of Information Act. When, in the opinion of the system manager, the granting of access through the mail could reasonably be expected to result in harm or embarrassment if disclosed to a person other than the individual to whom the record pertains, a notarized statement of identity or some similar assurance of identity may be required.
(3)
Unavailability of identification documentation.
If an individual is unable to produce adequate identification documentation, the individual will be required to sign a statement asserting identity and acknowledging that knowingly or willfully seeking or obtaining access to records about another person under false pretenses may result in a criminal fine of up to $5,000 under subsection (i)(3) of the Act. In addition, depending upon the sensitivity of the records sought to be accessed, the appropriate system manager or official having operational control over the records may require such further reasonable assurances as may be considered appropriate, e.g., statements of other individuals who can attest to the identity of the data subject. No verification of identity will be required of data subjects seeking access to records which are otherwise available to any person under 5 U.S.C. 552.
(4)
Inadequate identification.
If the official having operational control over the records in a system of records determines that an individual seeking access has not provided sufficient identification documentation to permit access, the official shall consult with the appropriate system manager prior to denying the individual access. Whenever the system manager determines, in accordance with the procedures herein, that access will not be granted, the response will also include a statement of the procedures to obtain a review of the decision to deny access in accordance with § 2606.205.
(f)
Access by the parent of a minor, or legal guardian.
A parent of a minor,
upon presenting suitable personal identification as otherwise provided under this section, may access on behalf of the minor any record pertaining to the minor in a system of records. A legal guardian, upon presentation of documentation establishing guardianship and suitable personal identification as otherwise provided under this section, may similarly act on behalf of a data subject declared to be incompetent due to physical or mental incapacity or age by a court of competent jurisdiction. Minors are not precluded from exercising on their own behalf rights given to them by the Privacy Act.
(g)
Accompanying individual.
A data subject requesting access to his records in a system of records may be accompanied by another individual of the data subject's choice during the course of the examination of the record. The official having operational control of the record may require the data subject making the request to submit a signed statement authorizing the accompanying individual's access to the record.
(h)
Access to medical records.
When a request for access involves medical or psychological records that the appropriate system manager believes requires special handling, the data subject should be advised that the material will be provided only to a physician designated by the data subject. Upon receipt of the designation and upon verification of the physician's identity as otherwise provided under this section, the records will be made available to the physician, who will disclose those records to the data subject.
(i)
Exclusion.
Nothing in these regulations permits a data subject's access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding (
see
subsection (d)(5) of the Act).
(j)
Maximum access.
This regulation is not intended to preclude access by a data subject to records that are available to that individual under other processes, such as the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) or the rules of civil or criminal procedure, provided that the appropriate procedures for requesting access thereunder are followed.
§ 2606.204
Request for review of an initial denial of access.
(a)(1) A data subject may submit a written appeal of the decision by OGE or the other agency to deny an initial request for access to records or a no record response.
(i) For records filed directly with OGE, the appeal must be submitted to the Director, Office of Government Ethics, Suite 500, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005-3917.
(ii) For records in OGE's executive branch Governmentwide systems of records that are filed directly with an agency (including the Federal Election Commission) other than OGE, the appeal must be submitted to the Privacy Act access appeals official as specified in the agency's own Privacy Act regulations or the respective head of the agency concerned if it does not have any Privacy Act regulations.
(2) The words “Privacy Act Appeal” should be included on the envelope and at the top of the letter of appeal.
(b) The appeal should contain a brief description of the records involved or copies of the correspondence from OGE or the agency in which the initial request for access was denied. The appeal should attempt to refute the reasons given by OGE or the other agency concerned in its decision to deny the initial request for access or the no record finding.
§ 2606.205
Response to a request for review of an initial denial of access.
(a) If the OGE Director or agency reviewing official determines that access to the records should be granted, the response will state how access will be provided if the records are not included with the response.
(b) Any decision that either partially or fully affirms the initial decision to deny access shall inform the requester of the right to seek judicial review of the decision in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(g) of the Privacy Act.
§ 2606.206
Fees.
(a)
Fees for records filed with OGE
—(1)
Services for which fees will not be charged:
(i) The search and review time expended by OGE to produce a record;
(ii) The first copy of the records provided; or
(iii) The Office of Government Ethics making the records available to be personally reviewed by the data subject.
(2)
Additional copies of records.
When additional copies of records are requested, an individual may be charged $.15 per page.
(i)
Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.
If the charge for these additional copies amounts to more than $25.00, the requester will be notified and payment of fees may be required before the additional copies are provided, unless the requester has indicated in advance his willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated.
(ii)
Advance payments.
An advance payment before additional copies of the records are made will be required if:
(A) The Office estimates or determines that the total fee to be assessed under this section is likely to exceed $250.00. When a determination is made that the allowable charges are likely to exceed $250.00, the requester will be notified of the likely cost and will be required to provide satisfactory assurance of full payment where the requester has a history of prompt payment of Privacy Act fees, or will be required to submit an advance payment of an amount up to the full estimated charges in the case of requesters with no history of payment; or
(B) The requester has previously failed to pay a Privacy Act fee charged in a timely fashion (
i.e.,
within 30 days of the date of the billing). In such cases, the requester may be required to pay the full amount owed plus any applicable interest as provided by paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, and to make an advance payment of the full amount of the estimated fee before the Office begins to process a new request.
(iii)
Interest charges.
Interest charges on an unpaid bill may be assessed starting on the 31st day following the day on which the billing was sent. Interest shall be at the rate prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and shall accrue from the date of billing. To collect unpaid bills, the Office will follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended (96 Stat. 1749
et seq.
) and the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (110 Stat. 1321-358
et seq.
), including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
(iv)
Remittance.
Remittance should be made by either a personal check, bank draft or a money order that is payable to the Department of the Treasury of the United States.
(b)
Fees for records filed with agencies other than OGE.
An agency shall apply its own Privacy Act fee schedule for records in OGE's executive branch Governmentwide systems that are filed directly with the agency. An agency that does not have a Privacy Act fee schedule may apply the fee schedule in this section.
§ 2606.207
Accounting of disclosures.
(a) The Office of Government Ethics or the other agency concerned will maintain an accounting of disclosures in cases where records about the data subject are disclosed from OGE's system of records except—
(1) When the disclosure is made pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552); or
(2) When the disclosure is made to those officers and employees of OGE or the other agency which maintains the records who have a need for the records in the performance of their duties.
(b) This accounting of disclosures will be retained for at least five years or for the life of the record, whichever is longer, and will contain the following information:
(1) A brief description of the record disclosed;
(2) The date, nature, and purpose for the disclosure; and
(3) The name and address of the individual, agency, or other entity to whom the disclosure is made.
(c) Under sections 102 and 105 of the Ethics in Government Act, 18 U.S.C. 208(d) and 5 CFR parts 2634 and 2640 of OGE's executive branch regulations, a requester other than the data subject must submit a signed, written application on the OGE Form 201 or agency equivalent form to inspect or receive copies of certain records, such as SF 278 Public Financial Disclosure Reports, Certificates of Divestiture, 18 U.S.C. 208(b)(1) and (b)(3) waivers, and
OGE certified qualified blind and diversified trust instruments and other publicly available qualified trust materials. The written application requests the name, occupation and address of the requester as well as lists the prohibitions on obtaining or using the records. These applications are used as the accounting of disclosures for these records.
(d) Except for the accounting of a disclosure made under subsection (b)(7) of the Privacy Act for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity that is authorized by law, the accounting of disclosures will be made available to the data subject upon request in accordance with the access procedures of this part.

# Subpart C—Amendment of Records
§ 2606.301
Requests to amend records.
(a)
Amendment request.
A data subject seeking to amend a record or records that pertain to him in a system of records must submit his request in writing in accordance with the following procedures, unless this requirement is waived by the appropriate system manager. Records not subject to the Privacy Act will not be amended in accordance with these provisions.
(b)
Addresses
—(1)
Records in an OGE Governmentwide system of records.
A request to amend a record in an OGE Governmentwide system of records should be sent to the appropriate system manager as follows:
(i)
Records filed directly with OGE by non-OGE employees:
The Deputy Director, Office of Agency Programs, Office of Government Ethics, Suite 500, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005-3917;
(ii)
Records filed with a Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO) or the head of a department or agency:
The DAEO at the department or agency concerned; or
(iii)
Records filed with the Federal Election Commission by candidates for President or Vice President:
The General Counsel, Office of General Counsel, Federal Election Commission, 999 E Street, NW., Washington, DC 20463.
(2)
Records in an OGE internal system of records.
A request to amend a record in an OGE internal system of records should include the words “Privacy Act Amendment Request” on both the envelope and at the top of the request letter, and should be sent to the Deputy Director, Office of Administration and Information Management, Office of Government Ethics, Suite 500, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005-3917.
(c)
Contents of request.
(1) A request to amend a record in an OGE Governmentwide system of records or an OGE internal system of records should include the words “Privacy Act Amendment Request” on both the envelope and at the top of the request letter.
(2) The name of the system of records and a brief description of the record(s) proposed for amendment must be included in any request for amendment. In the event the request to amend the record(s) is the result of the data subject's having gained access to the record(s) in accordance with the provisions concerning access to records as set in subpart B of this part, copies of previous correspondence between the requester and OGE or the agency will serve in lieu of a separate description of the record.
(3) The exact portion of the record(s) the data subject seeks to have amended should be indicated clearly. If possible, proposed alternative language should be set forth, or, at a minimum, the reasons why the data subject believes his record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete should be set forth with enough particularity to permit OGE or the other agency concerned not only to understand the data subject's basis for the request, but also to make an appropriate amendment to the record.
(d)
Burden of proof.
The data subject has the burden of proof when seeking the amendment of a record. The data subject must furnish sufficient facts to persuade the appropriate system manager of the inaccuracy, irrelevance, untimeliness, or incompleteness of the record.
(e)
Identification requirement.
When the data subject's identity has been previously verified pursuant to § 2606.203, further verification of identity is not required as long as the communication does not suggest a need for
verification. If the data subject's identity has not been previously verified, the appropriate system manager may require identification validation as described in § 2606.203.
§ 2606.302
OGE or other agency action on requests.
(a)
Time limit for acknowledging a request for amendment.
To the extent possible, OGE or the other agency concerned will acknowledge receipt of a request to amend a record or records within 10 working days.
(b)
Initial determination on an amendment request.
The decision of OGE or the other agency in response to a request for amendment of a record in a system of records may grant in whole, or deny any part of the request to amend the record(s).
(1) If OGE or the other agency concerned grants the request, the appropriate system manager will amend the record(s) and provide a copy of the amended record(s) to the data subject. Where an accounting of disclosure has been maintained, the system manager shall advise all previous recipients of the record that an amendment has been made and give the substance of the amendment. Where practicable, the system manager shall send a copy of the amended record to previous recipients.
(2) If OGE or the other agency concerned denies the request in whole or in part, the reasons for the denial will be stated in the response letter. In addition, the response letter will state:
(i) The name and address of the official with whom an appeal of the denial may be lodged; and
(ii) A description of any other procedures which may be required of the data subject in order to process the appeal.
§ 2606.303
Request for review of an initial refusal to amend a record.
(a)(1) A data subject may submit a written appeal of the initial decision by OGE or an agency denying a request to amend a record in an OGE system of records.
(i) For records which are filed directly with OGE, the appeal must be submitted to the Director, Office of Government Ethics, Suite 500, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005-3917.
(ii) For records which are filed directly with an agency (including the Federal Election Commission) other than OGE, the appeal must be submitted to the Privacy Act amendments appeals official as specified in the agency's own Privacy Act regulations, or to the respective head of the agency concerned if it does not have Privacy Act regulations.
(2) The words “Privacy Act Appeal” should be included on the envelope and at the top of the letter of the appeal.
(b) The request for review should contain a brief description of the record(s) involved or copies of the correspondence from OGE or the agency in which the request to amend was denied, and the reasons why the data subject believes that the disputed information should be amended.
§ 2606.304
Response to a request for review of an initial refusal to amend; disagreement statements.
(a) The OGE Director or agency reviewing official should make a final determination in writing not later than 30 days from the date the appeal was received. The 30-day period may be extended for good cause. Notice of the extension and the reasons therefor will be sent to the data subject within the 30-day period.
(b) If the OGE Director or agency reviewing official determines that the record(s) should be amended in accordance with the data subject's request, the OGE Director or agency reviewing official will take the necessary steps to advise the data subject, and to direct the appropriate system manager:
(1) To amend the record(s), and
(2) To notify previous recipients of the record(s) for which there is an accounting of disclosure that the record(s) have been amended.
(c) If the appeal decision does not grant in full the request for amendment, the decision letter will notify the data subject that he may:
(1) Obtain judicial review of the decision in accordance with the terms of the Privacy Act at 5 U.S.C. 552a(g); and
(2) File a statement setting forth his reasons for disagreeing with the decision.
(d)(1) A data subject's disagreement statement must be concise. The appropriate system manager has the authority to determine the “conciseness” of the statement, taking into account the scope of the disagreement and the complexity of the issues.
(2) In any disclosure of information about which an individual has filed a statement of disagreement, the appropriate system manager will clearly note any disputed portion(s) of the record(s) and will provide a copy of the statement to persons or other agencies to whom the disputed record or records has been disclosed and for whom an accounting of disclosure has been maintained. A concise statement of the reasons for not making the amendments requested may also be provided.
Pt. 2608

# PART 2608—TESTIMONY BY OGE EMPLOYEES RELATING TO OFFICIAL INFORMATION AND PRODUCTION OF OFFICIAL RECORDS IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
2608.101
Scope and purpose.
2608.102
Applicability.
2608.103
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Requests for Testimony and Production of Documents
2608.201
General prohibition.
2608.202
Factors OGE will consider.
2608.203
Filing requirements for demands or requests for documents or testimony.
2608.204
Service of subpoenas or requests.
2608.205
Processing demands or requests.
2608.206
Final determination.
2608.207
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
2608.208
Restrictions that apply to released records.
2608.209
Procedure when a decision is not made prior to the time a response is required.
2608.210
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.

# Subpart C—Schedule of Fees
2608.301
Fees.

# Subpart D—Penalties
2608.401
Penalties.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. App. (Sec. 401, Ethics in Government Act of 1978); 31 U.S.C. 9701; 44 U.S.C. 3101-3107, 3301-3303a, 3308-3314.

# Source:
67 FR 35710, May 21, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 2608.101
Scope and purpose.
(a) This part sets forth policies and procedures you must follow when you submit a demand or request to an employee of the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) to produce official records and information, or provide testimony relating to official information, in connection with a legal proceeding. You must comply with these requirements when you request the release or disclosure of official records and information.
(b) The Office of Government Ethics intends these provisions to:
(1) Promote economy and efficiency in its programs and operations;
(2) Minimize the possibility of involving OGE in controversial issues not related to our functions;
(3) Maintain OGE's impartiality among private litigants where OGE is not a named party; and
(4) Protect sensitive, confidential information and the deliberative processes of OGE.
(c) In providing for these requirements, OGE does not waive the sovereign immunity of the United States.
(d) This part provides guidance for the internal operations of OGE. It does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, that a party may rely upon in any legal proceeding against the United States.
§ 2608.102
Applicability.
This part applies to demands and requests to employees for factual or expert testimony relating to official information, or for production of official records or information, in legal proceedings in which OGE is not a named party. However, it does not apply to:
(a) Demands upon or requests for an OGE employee to testify as to facts or events that are unrelated to his or her official duties or that are unrelated to the functions of OGE;
(b) Demands upon or requests for a former OGE employee to testify as to
matters in which the former employee was not directly or materially involved while at the OGE;
(c) Requests for the release of records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, or the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a; and
(d) Congressional demands and requests for testimony or records.
§ 2608.103
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part:
Demand
means a subpoena, or an order or other command of a court or other competent authority, for the production, disclosure, or release of records or for the appearance and testimony of an OGE employee that is issued in a legal proceeding.
General Counsel
means the General Counsel of OGE or a person to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority under this part.
Legal proceeding
means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation.
OGE
means the U.S. Office of Government Ethics.
OGE employee or employee
means:
(1)(i) Any current or former officer or employee of OGE;
(ii) Any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or on behalf of OGE or who has performed or is performing services under such an agreement for OGE; and
(iii) Any individual who served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to OGE, whether formal or informal.
(2) Provided, that this definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by OGE and who are retained or hired as expert witnesses or who agree to testify about general matters, matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with OGE.
Records or official records and information
mean:
(1) All documents and materials which are OGE agency records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552;
(2) All other documents and materials contained in OGE files; and
(3) All other information or materials acquired by an OGE employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status.
Request
means any informal request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony which has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority.
Testimony
means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.

# Subpart B—Requests for Testimony and Production of Documents
§ 2608.201
General prohibition.
No employee may produce official records and information or provide any testimony relating to official information in response to a demand or request without the prior, written approval of the General Counsel.
§ 2608.202
Factors OGE will consider.
The General Counsel, in his or her sole discretion, may grant an employee permission to testify on matters relating to official information, or produce official records and information, in response to a demand or request. Among the relevant factors that the General Counsel may consider in making this decision are whether:
(a) The purposes of this part are met;
(b) Allowing such testimony or production of records would be necessary to prevent a miscarriage of justice;
(c) OGE has an interest in the decision that may be rendered in the legal proceeding;
(d) Allowing such testimony or production of records would assist or hinder OGE in performing its statutory duties or use OGE resources where responding to the demand or request will interfere with the ability of OGE employees to do their work;
(e) Allowing such testimony or production of records would be in the best interest of OGE or the United States;
(f) The records or testimony can be obtained from other sources;
(g) The demand or request is unduly burdensome or otherwise inappropriate under the applicable rules of discovery or the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand or request arose;
(h) Disclosure would violate a statute, Executive order or regulation;
