(b) Written notice of the Director's action in accepting or rejecting bids shall be transmitted promptly to those bidders whose deposits have been held. If a bid is accepted, such notice shall transmit three copies of the lease form to the successful bidder. As provided in § 581.26 of this part, the bidder shall, not later than the 10th business day after receipt of the lease, execute the lease, pay the first year's rental, and unless payment of a portion of the bid is deferred, pay the balance of the bonus bid. When payment of a portion of the bid is deferred, the successful bidder shall also file a bond to guarantee payment of the deferred portion as required in § 581.33. Deposits shall be refunded on high bids subsequently rejected. When three copies of the lease have been executed by the successful bidder and returned to the Director, the lease shall be executed on behalf of the United States; and one fully executed copy shall be transmitted to the successful bidder.
(c) If the successful bidder fails to execute the lease within the prescribed time or to otherwise comply with the applicable regulations, the successful bidder's deposit shall be forfeited and disposed of in the same manner as other receipts under the Act.
(d) If, before the lease is executed on behalf of the United States, the land which would be subject to the lease is withdrawn or restricted from leasing, the deposit shall be refunded.
(e) If the awarded lease is executed by an agent acting on behalf of the bidder, the bidder shall submit with the executed lease, evidence that the agent is authorized to act on behalf of the bidder.
§ 581.22
Lease form.
The OCS mineral leases shall be issued on the lease form prescribed by the Secretary in the leasing notice.
§ 581.23
Effective date of leases.
Leases issued under the regulations in this part shall be dated and become effective as of the first day of the month following the date leases are signed on behalf of the lessor except that, upon written request, a lease may be dated and become effective as of the first day of the month within which it is signed on behalf of the lessor.

# Subpart C—Financial Considerations
§ 581.26
Payments.
(a) For sealed bids, a bonus bid deposit of a specified percentage of the total amount bid is required to be submitted with the bid. The percentage of bonus bid required to be deposited will be specified in the leasing notice. The remittance may be made in cash or by Federal Reserve check, commercial check, bank draft, money order, certified check, or cashier's check made payable to “Department of the Interior—BOEM.” Payment of this portion of the bonus bid may not be made by Electronic Funds Transfer.
(b) For oral bids, a bonus bid deposit of a specified percentage of the total amount bid must be submitted to the official designated in the leasing notice following the completion of the oral bidding. The percentage of bonus bid required to be deposited will be specified in the leasing notice. Payment of this portion of the bonus bid must be made by Electronic Fund Transfer within the timeframe specified in the leasing notice.
(c) The deposit received from high bidders will be placed in a Treasury account pending acceptance or rejection of the bid. Other bids submitted under
paragraph (a) of this section will be returned to the bidders. If the high bid is subsequently rejected, an amount equal to that deposited with the high bid will be returned according to applicable regulations.
(d) The balance of the winning bonus bid and all rentals and royalties must be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of this part, the Leasing Notice, and subchapter A of this chapter.
(e) For each lease issued pursuant to this subpart, there shall be one person identified who shall be solely responsible for all payments due and payable under the provisions of the lease. The single responsible person shall be designated as the payor for the lease and shall be so identified on the Solid Minerals Production and Royalty Report (P
R) (Form ONRR-4430) in accordance with 30 CFR 1210.201 of this title. The designated person shall be responsible for all bonus, rental, and royalty payments.
(f) Royalty shall be computed at the rate specified in the leasing notice, and paid in value unless the Secretary elects to have the royalty delivered in kind.
(g) For leases which provide for minimum royalty payments, each lessee shall pay the minimum royalty specified in the lease at the end of each lease year beginning with the lease year in which production royalty is paid (whether the full amount specified in the lease or
1/2
the amount specified in the lease pursuant to § 581.28(b) on this part) of OCS minerals produced (sold, transferred, used, or otherwise disposed of) from the leasehold.
(h)(1) Unless stated otherwise in the lease, product valuation will be in accordance with the regulations in part 1206 of chapter XII. The value used in the computation of royalty shall be determined by the Director of the Office of Natural Resources Revenue. The value, for royalty purposes, shall be the gross proceeds received by the lessee for produced substances at the point the product is produced and placed in its first marketable condition, consistent with prevailing practices in the industry. In establishing the value, the Director shall consider, in this order:
(i) The price received by the lessee;
(ii) Commodity and spot market transactions;
(iii) Any other valuation method proposed by the lessee and approved by the Director; and
(iv) Value or cost netback.
(2) For non-arm's length transactions, the first benchmark will only be accepted if it is not less than the second benchmark.
(i) All payors must submit payments and payment forms and maintain auditable records in accordance with 30 CFR chapter XII, Subchapter A—Natural Resources Revenue.
§ 581.27
Annual rental.
(a) The annual lease rental shall be due and payable in accordance with the provisions of this section. No rental shall be due or payable under a lease commencing with the first lease anniversary date following the commencement of royalty payments on leasehold production computed on the basis of the royalty rate specified in the lease except that annual rental shall be due for any year in which production from the leasehold is not subject to royalty pursuant to § 581.28.
(b) Unless otherwise specified in the leasing notice and subsequently issued lease, no annual rental payment shall be due during the first 5 years in the life of a lease.
(c) The leasee shall pay an annual rental in the amount specified in the leasing notice and subsequently issued lease not later than the last day prior to the commencement of the rental year.
(d) A rental adjustment schedule and amount may be specified in a leasing notice and subsequently issued lease when a variance is warranted by geologic, geographic, technical, or economic conditions.
§ 581.28
Royalty.
(a) The royalty due the lessor on OCS minerals produced (
i.e.,
sold, transferred, used, or otherwise disposed of) from a lease shall be set out in a separate schedule attached to and made a part of each lease and shall be as specified in the leasing notice. The royalty due on production shall be based on a percentage of the value or amount of
the OCS mineral(s) produced, a sum assessed per unit of product, or other such method as the Secretary may prescribe in the leasing notice. When the royalty specified is a sum assessed per unit of product, the amount of the royalty shall be subject to an annual adjustment based on changes in the appropriate price index, when specified in the leasing notice. When the royalty is specified as a percentage of the value or amount of the OCS minerals produced, the Secretary will notify the lessee when and where royalty is to be delivered in kind. Unless stated otherwise in the lease, product valuation will be in accordance with the regulations in part 1206 of chapter XII. The value used in the computation of royalty shall be determined by the Director of the Office of Natural Resources Revenue.
(b) When prescribed in the leasing notice and subsequently issued lease, royalty due on OCS minerals produced from a leasehold will be reduced for up to any 5 consecutive years, as specified by the lessee prior to the commencement of production, during the 1st through 15th year in the life of the lease. No royalty shall be due in any year of the specified 5-year period that occurs during the 1st through 10th years in the life of the lease, and a royalty of one-half the amount specified in the lease shall be due in any year of the specified 5-year period that occurs in the 11th through 15th year in the life of the lease. The lessee shall pay the amount specified in the lease rental for any royalty free year. The minimum royalty specified in the lease shall apply during any year of reduced royalty.
§ 581.29
Royalty valuation.
Unless stated otherwise in the leasing notice and subsequently issued lease, product valuation will be in accordance with the regulations in part 1206 of chapter XII. The value used in the computation of royalty shall be determined by the Director of the Office of Natural Resources Revenue.
§ 581.30
Minimum royalty.
Unless otherwise specified in the leasing notice, each lease issued pursuant to the regulations in this part shall require the payment of a specified minimum annual royalty beginning with the year in which OCS minerals are produced (sold, transferred, used, or otherwise disposed of) from the leasehold except that the annual rentals shall apply during any year that royalty free production is in effect pursuant to § 581.28(b). Minimum royalty payments shall be offset by royalty paid on production during the lease year. Minimum royalty payments are due at the beginning of the lease year and payable by the end of the month following the end of the lease year for which they are due.
§ 581.31
Overriding royalties.
(a) Subject to the approval of the Secretary, an overriding royalty interest may be created by an assignment pursuant to section 8(e) of the Act. The Secretary may deny approval of an assignment which creates an overriding royalty on a lease whenever that denial is determined to be in the interest of conservation, necessary to prevent premature abandonment of a producing mine, or to make possible the mining of economically marginal or low-grade ore deposits. In any case, the total of applicable overriding royalties may not exceed 2.5 percent or one-half the base royalty due the Federal Government, whichever is less.
(b) No transfer or agreement may be made which creates an overriding royalty interest unless the owner of that interest files an agreement in writing that such interest is subject to the limitations provided in § 581.30 of this part, paragraph (a) of this section, and § 581.32 of this part.
§ 581.32
Waiver, suspension, or reduction of rental, minimum royalty, or production royalty.
(a) The Secretary may waive, suspend, or reduce the rental, minimum royalty, and/or production royalty prescribed in a lease for a specified time period when the Secretary determines that it is in the National interest, it will result in the conservation of natural resources of the OCS, it will promote development, or the mine cannot be successfully operated under existing conditions.
(b) An application for waiver, suspension, or reduction of rental, minimum royalty, or production royalty under paragraph (a) of this section shall be filed in duplicate with the Director. The application shall contain the serial number(s) of the lease(s), the name of the lessee(s) of record, and the operator(s) if applicable. The application shall either:
(1)(i) Show the location and extent of all mining operations and a tabulated statement of the minerals mined and subject to royalty for each of the last 12 months immediately prior to filing the application:
(ii) Contain a detailed statement of expenses and costs of operating the lease, the income from the sale of any lease products, and the amount of all overriding royalties and payments out of production paid to others than the United States; and
(iii) All facts showing whether or not the mine(s) can be successfully operated under the royalty fixed in the lease; or
(2) If no production has occurred from the lease, show that the lease cannot be successfully operated under the rental, royalty, and other conditions specified in the lease.
(c) The applicant for a waiver, suspension, or reduction under this section shall file documentation that the lessee and the royalty holders agree to a reduction of all other royalties from the lease so that the aggregate of all other royalties does not exceed one-half the amount of the reduced royalties that would be paid to the United States.
§ 581.33
Bonds and bonding requirements.
(a) When the leasing notice specifies that payment of a portion of the bonus bid can be deferred, the lessee shall be required to submit a surety or personal bond to guarantee payment of a deferred portion of the bid. Upon the payment of the full amount of the cash bonus bid, the lessee's bond will be released.
(b) All bonds to guarantee payment of the deferred portion of the high cash bonus bid furnished by the lessee must be in a form or on a form approved by the Deputy Director. A single copy of the required form is to be executed by the principal or, in the case of surety bonds, by both the principal and an acceptable surety.
(1) Only those surety bonds issued by qualified surety companies approved by the Department of the Treasury shall be accepted (see Department of the Treasury Circular No. 570 and any supplemental or replacement circulars).
(2) Personal bonds shall be accompanied by a cashier's check, certified check, or negotiable U.S. Treasury bonds of an equal value to the amount specified in the bond. Negotiable Treasury bonds shall be accompanied by a proper conveyance of full authority to the Director to sell such securities in case of default in the performance of the terms and conditions of the lease.
(c) Prior to the commencement of any activity on a lease(s), the lessee shall submit a surety or personal bond as described in § 582.40 of this title. Prior to the approval of a Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan, the bond amount shall be adjusted, if appropriate, to cover the operations and activities described in the proposed plan.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57098, Sept. 22, 2015]

# Subpart D—Assignments and Lease Extensions
§ 581.40
Assignment of leases or interests therein.
(a) Subject to the approval of the Secretary, a lease may be assigned, in whole or in part, pursuant to section 8(e) of the Act to anyone qualified to hold a lease.
(b) Any approved assignment shall be deemed to be effective on the first day of the lease month following the date that it is submitted to the Director for approval unless by written request the parties request that the effective date be the first of the month in which the Director approves the assignment.
(c) The assignor shall be liable for all obligations under the lease occurring prior to the effective date of an assignment.
(d) The assignee shall be liable for all obligations under the lease occurring on or after the effective date of an assignment and shall comply with all terms and conditions of the lease and
applicable regulations issued under the Act.
§ 581.41
Requirements for filing for transfers.
(a)(1) All instruments of transfer of a lease or of an interest therein including subleases and assignments of record interest shall be filed in triplicate for approval within 90 days from the date of final execution. They shall include a statement over the transferee's own signature with respect to citizenship and qualifications similar to that required of a lessee and shall contain all of the terms and conditions agreed upon by the parties thereto.
(2) An application for approval of any instrument required to be filed will not be accepted unless a nonrefundable fee of $50 is paid electronically through
Pay.gov
at:
https://www.pay.gov/paygov/
and a copy of the
Pay.gov
confirmation receipt page is included with your application. For any document you are not required to file by these regulations but which you submit for record purposes, you must also pay electronically through
Pay.gov
a nonrefundable fee of $50 per lease affected, and you must include a copy of the
Pay.gov
confirmation receipt page with your document. Such documents may be rejected at the discretion of the authorized officer.
(b) An attorney in fact signing on behalf of the holder of a lease or sublease, shall furnish evidence of authority to execute the assignment or application for approval and the statement required by § 581.20 of this part.
(c) Where an assignment creates separate leases, a bond shall be furnished for each of the resulting leases in the amount prescribed in § 582.40 of this title. Where an assignment does not create separate leases, the assignee, if the assignment so provides and the surety consents, may become a joint principal on the bond with the assignor.
(d) An heir or devisee of a deceased holder of a lease or any interest therein shall be recognized as the lawful successor to such lease or interest if evidence of status as an heir or devisee is furnished in the form of:
(1) A certified copy of an appropriate order or decree of the court having jurisdiction over the distribution of the estate, or
(2) If no court action is necessary, the statement of two disinterested persons having knowledge of the fact or a certified copy of the will.
(e) The heirs or devisee shall file statements that they are the persons named as successors to the estate with evidence of their qualifications to hold such lease or interest therein.
(f) In the event an heir or devisee is unable to qualify to hold the lease or interest, the heir or devisee shall be recognized as the lawful successor of the deceased and be entitled to hold the lease for a period not to exceed 2 years from the date of death of the predecessor in interest.
(g) Each obligation under any lease and under the regulations in this part shall inure to the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, or assignees of the lease.
§ 581.42
Effect of assignment on particular lease.
(a) When an assignment is made of all the record title to a portion of the acreage in a lease, the assigned and retained portions of the lease area become segregated into separate and distinct leases. In such a case, the assignee becomes a lessee of the Government as to the segregated tract that is the subject of the assignment and is bound by the terms of the lease as though the lease had been obtained from the United States in the assignee's own name, and the assignment, after its approval, shall be the basis of a new record. Royalty, minimum royalty, and annual rental provisions of the lease shall apply separately to each segregated portion.
(b) Each lease of an OCS mineral created by the segregation of a lease under paragraph (a) of this section shall continue in full force and effect for the remainder of the primary term of the original lease and so long thereafter as minerals are produced from the portion of the lease created by segregation in accordance with operations approved by the Director or the lessee is otherwise in compliance with provisions of the lease or regulations for earning the continuation of the lease in effect.
§ 581.43
Effect of suspensions on lease term.
(a) If the BSEE Director orders the suspension of either operations or production, or both, with respect to any lease in its primary term, the primary term of the lease shall be extended by a period of time equivalent to the period of the directed suspension.
(b) If the BSEE Director orders or approves the suspension of either operations or production, or both, with respect to any lease that is in force beyond its primary term, the term of the lease shall not be deemed to expire so long as the suspension remains in effect.

# Subpart E—Termination of Leases
§ 581.46
Relinquishment of leases or parts of leases.
(a) A lease or any part thereof may be surrendered by the record title holder by filing a written relinquishment with the Director. A relinquishment shall take effect on the date it is filed subject to the continued obligation of the lessee and the surety to:
(1) Make all payments due, including any accrued rentals and royalties; and
(2) Abandon all operations, remove all facilities, and clear the land to be relinquished to the satisfaction of the Director.
(b) Upon relinquishment of a lease, the data and information submitted under the lease will no longer be held confidential and will be available to the public.
§ 581.47
Cancellation of leases.
(a) Whenever the owner of a nonproducing lease fails to comply with any of the provisions of the Act, the lease, or the regulations issued under the Act, and the default continues for a period of 30 days after mailing of notice by registered or certified letter to the lease owner at the owner's record post office address, the Secretary may cancel the lease pursuant to section 5(c) of the Act, and the lessee shall not be entitled to compensation. Any such cancellation is subject to judicial review as provided by section 23(b) of the Act.
(b) Whenever the owner of any producing lease fails to comply with any of the provisions of the Act, the lease, or the regulations issued under the Act, the Secretary may cancel the lease only after judicial proceedings pursuant to section 5(d) of the Act, and the lessee shall not be entitled to compensation.
(c) Any lease issued under the Act, whether producing or not, may be canceled by the Secretary upon proof that it was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation and after notice and opportunity to be heard has been afforded to the lessee.
(d) The Secretary may cancel a lease in accordance with the following:
(1) Cancellation may occur at any time if the Secretary determines after a hearing that:
(i) Continued activity pursuant to such lease would probably cause serious harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), to property, to any mineral (in areas leased or not leased), to the National security or defense, or to the marine, coastal, or human environment;
(ii) The threat of harm or damage will not disappear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a reasonable period of time; and
(iii) The advantages of cancellation outweigh the advantages of continuing such lease in force;
(2) Cancellation shall not occur unless and until operations under such lease shall have been under suspension or temporary prohibition by the Secretary, with due extension of any lease term continuously for a period of 5 years, or for a lesser period upon request of the lessee; and
(3) Cancellation shall entitle the lessee to receive such compensation as is shown to the Secretary as being equal to the lesser of:
(i) The fair value of the canceled rights as of the date of cancellation, taking into account both anticipated revenues from the lease and anticipated costs, including costs of compliance with all applicable regulations and operating orders, liability for cleanup costs or damages, or both, and all other costs reasonably anticipated on the lease, or
(ii) The excess, if any, over the lessee's revenues from the lease (plus interest thereon from the date of receipt
to date of reimbursement) of all consideration paid for the lease and all direct expenditures made by the lessee after the date of issuance of such lease and in connection with exploration or development, or both, pursuant to the lease (plus interest on such consideration and such expenditures from date of payment to date of reimbursement), except that in the case of joint leases which are canceled due to the failure of one or more partners to exercise due diligence, the innocent parties shall have the right to seek damages for such loss from the responsible party or parties and the right to acquire the interests of the negligent party or parties and be issued the lease in question.
(iii) The lessee shall not be entitled to compensation where one of the following circumstances exists when a lease is canceled:
(A) A producing lease is forfeited or is canceled pursuant to section (5)(d) of the Act;
(B) A Testing Plan or Mining Plan is disapproved because of the lessee's failure to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of applicable Federal Law; or
(C) The lessee(s) of a nonproducing lease fails to comply with a provision of the Act, the lease, or regulations issued under the Act, and the noncompliance continues for a period of 30 days or more after the mailing of a notice of noncompliance by registered or certified letter to the lessee(s).
Pt. 582

# PART 582—OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF FOR MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
582.0
Authority for information collection.
582.1
Purpose and authority.
582.2
Scope.
582.3
Definitions.
582.4
Opportunities for review and comment.
582.5
Disclosure of data and information to the public.
582.6
Disclosure of data and information to an adjacent State.
582.7
Jurisdictional controversies.

# Subpart B—Jurisdiction and Responsibilities of Director
582.10
Jurisdiction and responsibilities of Director.
582.11
Director's authority.
582.12
Director's responsibilities.
582.13
[Reserved]
582.14
Noncompliance, remedies, and penalties.
582.15
Cancellation of leases.

# Subpart C—Obligations and Responsibilities of Lessees
582.20
Obligations and responsibilities of lessees.
582.21
Plans, general.
582.22
Delineation Plan.
582.23
Testing Plan.
582.24
Mining Plan.
582.25
Plan modification.
582.26
Contingency Plan.
582.27
Conduct of operations.
582.28
Environmental protection measures.
582.29
Reports and records.
582.30
Right of use and easement.
582.31
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Payments
582.40
Bonds.
582.41
Method of royalty calculation.
582.42
Payments.

# Subpart E—Appeals
582.50
Appeals.

# Authority:
Section 104, Public Law 97-451, 96 Stat. 2451 (30 U.S.C. 1714), Public Law 109-432, Div C, Title I, 120 Stat. 3000; 30 U.S.C. 1751; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 43 U.S.C. 1334; 33 U.S.C. 2704, 2716; E.O. 12777, as amended; 43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.,
43 U.S.C. 1337.

# Source:
76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 582.0
Authority for information collection.
The information collection requirements in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507 and assigned clearance number 1010-0081. The information is being collected to inform the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) of general mining operations in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). The information will be used to ensure that operations are conducted in a safe and environmentally responsible manner in compliance with governing laws
and regulations. The requirement to respond is mandatory.
§ 582.1
Purpose and authority.
(a) The Act authorizes the Secretary to prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1334). The Secretary is authorized to prescribe and amend regulations that the Secretary determines to be necessary and proper in order to provide for the prevention of waste, conservation of the natural resources of the OCS, and the protection of correlative rights therein. In the enforcement of safety, environmental, and conservation laws and regulations, the Secretary is authorized to cooperate with adjacent States and other Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government.
(b) Subject to the supervisory authority of the Secretary, and unless otherwise specified, the regulations in this part shall be administered by the Director of BOEM.
§ 582.2
Scope.
The rules and regulations in this part apply as of their effective date to all operations conducted under a mineral lease for OCS minerals other than oil, gas, or sulphur issued under the provisions of section 8(k) of the Act.
§ 582.3
Definitions.
When used in this part, the following terms shall have the meaning given below:
Act
means the OCS Lands Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
).
Adjacent State
means with respect to any activity proposed, conducted, or approved under this part, any coastal State:
(1) That is, or is proposed to be, receiving for processing, refining, or transshipment OCS mineral resources commercially recovered from the seabed;
(2) That is used, or is scheduled to be used, as a support base for prospecting, exploration, testing, or mining activities; or
(3) In which there is a reasonable probability of significant effect on land or water uses from such activity.
Contingency Plan
means a plan for action to be taken in emergency situations.
Data
means geological and geophysical (G
G) facts and statistics or samples which have not been analyzed, processed, or interpreted.
Development
means those activities which take place following the discovery of minerals in paying quantities including geophysical activities, drilling, construction of offshore facilities, and operation of all onshore support facilities, which are for the purpose of ultimately producing the minerals discovered.
Director
means the Director of BOEM of the U.S. Department of the Interior or an official authorized to act on the Director's behalf.
Exploration
means the process of searching for minerals on a lease including:
(1) Geophysical surveys where magnetic, gravity, seismic, or other systems are used to detect or imply the presence of minerals;
(2) Any drilling including the drilling of a borehole in which the discovery of a mineral other than oil, gas, or sulphur is made and the drilling of any additional boreholes needed to delineate any mineral deposits; and
(3) The taking of sample portions of a mineral deposit to enable the lessee to determine whether to proceed with development and production.
Geological sample
means a collected portion of the seabed, the subseabed, or the overlying waters (when obtained for geochemical analysis) acquired while conducting postlease mining activities.
Governor
means the Governor of a State or the person or entity designated by, or pursuant to, State law to exercise the power granted to a Governor.
Information
means G
G data that have been analyzed, processed, or interpreted.
Lease
means one of the following, whichever is required by the context: Any form of authorization which is issued under section 8 or maintained under section 6 of the Acts and which authorizes exploration for, and development and production of, specific
minerals; or the area covered by that authorization.
Lessee
means the person authorized by a lease, or an approved assignment thereof, to explore for and develop and produce the leased deposits in accordance with the regulations in this chapter. The term includes all parties holding that authority by or through the lessee.
Major Federal action
means any action or proposal by the Secretary which is subject to the provisions of section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (
i.e.,
an action which will have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment requiring preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) pursuant to section 102(2)(C) of NEPA).
Marine environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors which interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the marine ecosystem, including the waters of the high seas, the contiguous zone, transitional and intertidal areas, salt marshes, and wetlands within the coastal zone and on the OCS.
Minerals
include oil, gas, sulphur, geopressured-geothermal and associated resources, and all other minerals which are authorized by an Act of Congress to be produced from “public lands” as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976.
OCS mineral
means any mineral deposit or accretion found on or below the surface of the seabed but does not include oil, gas, or sulphur; salt or sand and gravel intended for use in association with the development of oil, gas, or sulphur; or source materials essential to production of fissionable materials which are reserved to the United States pursuant to section 12(e) of the Act.
Operator
means the individual, partnership, firm, or corporation having control or management of operations on the lease or a portion thereof. The operator may be a lessee, designated agent of the lessee, or holder of rights under an approved operating agreement.
Outer Continental Shelf
means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2 of Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301) and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Person
means a citizen or national of the United States; an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residency in the United States as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20); a private, public, or municipal corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any State or territory thereof; an association of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens or private, public, or municipal corporations, States, or political subdivisions of States; or anyone operating in a manner provided for by treaty or other applicable international agreements. The term does not include Federal Agencies.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an official authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.
Testing
means removing bulk samples for processing tests and feasibility studies and/or the testing of mining equipment to obtain information needed to develop a detailed Mining Plan.
§ 582.4
Opportunities for review and comment.
(a) In carrying out BOEM's responsibilities under the Act and regulations in this part, the Director shall provide opportunities for Governors of adjacent States, State/Federal task forces, lessees and operators, other Federal Agencies, and other interested parties to review proposed activities described in a Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan together with an analysis of potential impacts on the environment and to provide comments and recommendations for the disposition of the proposed plan.
(b)(1) For Delineation Plans, the adjacent State Governor(s) shall be notified by the Director within 15 days following the submission of a request for approval of a Delineation Plan. Notification shall include a copy of the proposed Delineation Plan and the accompanying environmental information. The adjacent State Governor(s) who
wishes to comment on a proposed Delineation Plan may do so within 30 days of the receipt of the proposed plan and the accompanying information.
(2) In cases where an Environmental Assessment is to be prepared, the Director's invitation to provide comments may allow the adjacent State Governor(s) more than 30 days following receipt of the proposed plan to provide comments.
(3) The Director shall notify Federal Agencies, as appropriate, with a copy of the proposed Delineation Plan and the accompanying environmental information within 15 days following the submission of the request. Agencies that wish to comment on a proposed Delineation Plan shall do so within 30 days following receipt of the plan and the accompanying information.
(c)(1) For Testing Plans, the adjacent State Governor(s) shall be notified by the Director within 20 days following submission of a request for approval of a proposed Testing Plan. Notification shall include a copy of the proposed Testing Plan and the accompanying environmental information. The adjacent State Governor(s) who wishes to comment on a proposed Testing Plan may do so within 60 days of the receipt of a plan and the accompanying information.
(2) In cases where an EIS is to be prepared, the Director's invitation to provide comments may allow the adjacent State Governor(s) more than 60 days following receipt of the proposed plan to provide comments.
(3) The Director shall notify Federal Agencies, as appropriate, with a copy of the proposed Testing Plan and the accompanying environmental information within 20 days following the submission of the request. Agencies that wish to comment on a proposed Testing Plan shall do so within 60 days following receipt of the plan and the accompanying information.
(d)(1) For Mining Plans, the adjacent State Governor(s) shall be notified by the Director within 20 days following the submission of a request for approval of a proposed Mining Plan. Notification shall include a copy of the proposed Mining Plan and the accompanying environmental information. The adjacent State Governor(s) who wishes to comment on a proposed Mining Plan may do so within 60 days of the receipt of a plan and the accompanying information.
(2) In cases where an EIS is to be prepared, the Director's invitation to provide comments may allow the adjacent State Governor(s) more than 60 days following receipt of the proposed plan to provide comments.
(3) The Director shall notify Federal Agencies, as appropriate, with a copy of the proposed Mining Plan and the accompanying environmental information within 20 days following the submission of the request. Agencies that wish to comment on a proposed Mining Plan shall do so within 60 days following receipt of the plan and the accompanying information.
(e) When an adjacent State Governor(s) has provided comments pursuant to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the Governor(s) shall be given, in writing, a list of recommendations which are adopted and the reasons for rejecting any of the recommendations of the Governor(s) or for implementing any alternative means identified during consultations with the Governor(s).
§ 582.5
Disclosure of data and information to the public.
(a) The Director shall make data, information, and samples available in accordance with the requirements and subject to the limitations of the Act, the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), and the implementing regulations (43 CFR part 2).
(b) Geophysical data, processed G
G information, interpreted G
G information, and other data and information submitted pursuant to the requirements of this part shall not be available for public inspection without the consent of the lessee so long as the lease remains in effect, unless the Director determines that earlier limited release of such information is necessary for the unitization of operations on two or more leases, to ensure proper Mining Plans for a common orebody, or to promote operational safety. When the Director determines that early limited release of data and information is necessary, the data and information shall be shown only to persons with a
direct interest in the affected lease(s), unitization agreement, or joint Mining Plan.
(c) Geophysical data, processed geophysical information, and interpreted geophysical information collected on a lease with high resolution systems (including, but not limited to, bathymetry, side-scan sonar, subbottom profiler, and magnetometer) in compliance with stipulations or orders concerning protection of environmental aspects of the lease may be made available to the public 60 days after submittal to the Director, unless the lessee can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that release of the information or data would unduly damage the lessee's competitive position.
§ 582.6
Disclosure of data and information to an adjacent State.
(a) Proprietary data, information, and samples submitted to BOEM pursuant to the requirements of this part shall be made available for inspection by representatives of adjacent State(s) upon request by the Governor(s) in accordance with paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(b) Disclosure shall occur only after the Governor has entered into an agreement with the Secretary providing that:
(1) The confidentiality of the information shall be maintained;
(2) In any action commenced against the Federal Government or the State for failure to protect the confidentiality of proprietary information, the Federal Government or the State, as the case may be, may not raise as a defense any claim of sovereign immunity or any claim that the employee who revealed the proprietary information, which is the basis of the suit, was acting outside the scope of the person's employment in revealing the information;
(3) The State agrees to hold the United States harmless for any violation by the State or its employees or contractors of the agreement to protect the confidentiality of proprietary data, information, and samples; and
(c) The data, information, and samples available for inspection by representatives of adjacent State(s) pursuant to an agreement shall be related to leased lands.
§ 582.7
Jurisdictional controversies.
In the event of a controversy between the United States and a State as to whether certain lands are subject to Federal or State jurisdiction, either the Governor of the State or the Secretary may initiate negotiations in an attempt to settle the jurisdictional controversy. With the concurrence of the Attorney General, the Secretary may enter into an agreement with a State with respect to OCS mineral activities and to payment and impounding of rents, royalties, and other sums and with respect to the issuance or nonissuance of new leases pending settlement of the controversy.

# Subpart B—Jurisdiction and Responsibilities of Director
§ 582.10
Jurisdiction and responsibilities of Director.
Subject to the authority of the Secretary, the following activities are subject to the regulations in this part and are under the jurisdiction of the Director: Exploration, testing, and mining operations together with the associated environmental protection measures needed to permit those activities to be conducted in an environmentally responsible manner; handling, measurement, and transportation of OCS minerals; and other operations and activities conducted pursuant to a lease issued under 30 CFR part 581, or pursuant to a right of use and easement granted under this part, by or on behalf of a lessee or the holder of a right of use and easement.
§ 582.11
Director's authority.
(a) In the exercise of jurisdiction under § 582.10, the Director is authorized and directed to act upon the requests, applications, and notices submitted under the regulations in this part; to issue either written or oral orders to govern lease operations; and to require compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and lease terms so that all operations conform to sound conservation practices and are conducted in a manner which is consistent with the following:
(1) Make such OCS minerals available to meet the nation's needs in a timely manner;
(2) Balance OCS mineral resource development with protection of the human, marine, and coastal environments;
(3) Ensure the public a fair and equitable return on OCS minerals leased on the OCS; and
(4) Foster and encourage private enterprise.
(b)(1) The Director is to be provided ready access to all OCS mineral resource data and all environmental data acquired by the lessee or holder of a right of use and easement in the course of operations on a lease or right of use and easement and may require a lessee or holder to obtain additional environmental data when deemed necessary to assure adequate protection of the human, marine, and coastal environments.
(2) The Director is to be provided an opportunity to inspect, cut, and remove representative portions of all samples acquired by a lessee in the course of operations on the lease.
(c) In addition to the rights and privileges granted to a lessee under any lease issued or maintained under the Act, on request, the Director may grant a lessee, subject to such conditions as the Director may prescribe, a right of use and easement to construct and maintain platforms, artificial islands, and/or other installations and devices which are permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed and which are needed for the conduct of leasehold exploration, testing, development, production, and processing activities or other leasehold related operations whether on or off the lease.
(d)(1) The Director may approve the consolidation of two or more OCS mineral leases or portions of two or more OCS mineral leases into a single mining unit requested by lessees, or the Director may require such consolidation when the operation of those leases or portions of leases as a single mining unit is in the interest of conservation of the natural resources of the OCS or the prevention of waste. A mining unit may also include all or portions of one or more OCS mineral leases with all or portions of one or more adjacent State leases for minerals in a common orebody. A single unit operator shall be responsible for submission of required Delineation, Testing, and Mining Plans covering OCS mineral operations for an approved mining unit.
(2) Operations such as exploration, testing, and mining activities conducted in accordance with an approved plan on any lease or portion of a lease which is subject to an approved mining unit shall be considered operations on each of the leases that is made subject to the approved mining unit.
(3) Minimum royalty paid pursuant to a Federal lease, which is subject to an approved mining unit, is creditable against the production royalties allocated to that Federal lease during the lease year for which the minimum royalty is paid.
(4) Any OCS minerals produced from State and Federal leases which are subject to an approved mining unit shall be accounted for separately unless a method of allocating production between State and Federal leases has been approved by the Director and the appropriate State official.
§ 582.12
Director's responsibilities.
(a) The Director is responsible for the regulation of activities to assure that all operations conducted under a lease or right of use and easement are conducted in a manner that protects the environment and promotes orderly development of OCS mineral resources. Those activities are to be designed to prevent serious harm or damage to, or waste of, any natural resource (including OCS mineral deposits and oil, gas, and sulphur resources in areas leased or not leased), any life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment.
(b)(1) In the evaluation of a Delineation Plan, the Director shall consider whether the plan is consistent with:
(i) The provisions of the lease;
(ii) The provisions of the Act;
(iii) The provisions of the regulations prescribed under the Act;
(iv) Other applicable Federal law; and
(v) Requirements for the protection of the environment, health, and safety.
(2) Within 30 days following the completion of an environmental assessment or other NEPA document prepared pursuant to the regulations implementing NEPA or within 30 days following the comment period provided in § 582.4(b) of this part, the Director shall:
(i) Approve any Delineation Plan which is consistent with the criteria in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(ii) Require the lessee to modify any Delineation Plan that is inconsistent with the criteria in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or
(iii) Disapprove a Delineation Plan when it is determined that an activity proposed in the plan would probably cause serious harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life); to property; to natural resources of the OCS including mineral deposits (in areas leased or not leased); or to the marine, coastal, or human environment, and the proposed activity cannot be modified to avoid the conditions.
(3) The Director shall notify the lessee in writing of the reasons for disapproving a Delineation Plan or for requiring modification of a plan and the conditions that must be met for plan approval.
(c)(1) In the evaluation of a Testing Plan, the Director shall consider whether the plan is consistent with:
(i) The provisions of the lease;
(ii) The provisions of the Act;
(iii) The provisions of the regulations prescribed under the Act;
(iv) Other applicable Federal law;
(v) Environmental, safety, and health requirements; and
(vi) The statutory requirement to protect property, natural resources of the OCS, including mineral deposits (in areas leased or not leased), and the National security or defense.
(2) Within 60 days following the release of a final EIS prepared pursuant to NEPA or within 60 days following the comment period provided in § 582.4(c) of this part, the Director shall:
(i) Approve any Testing Plan which is consistent with the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section;
(ii) Require the lessee to modify any Testing Plan which is inconsistent with the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; or
(iii) Disapprove any Testing Plan when the Director determines the existence of exceptional geological conditions in the lease area, exceptional resource values in the marine or coastal environment, or other exceptional circumstances and that (A) implementation of the activities described in the plan would probably cause serious harm and damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), to property, to any mineral deposit (in areas leased or not leased), to the National security or defense, or to the marine, coastal, or human environments; (B) that the threat of harm or damage will not disappear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a reasonable period of time; and (C) the advantages of disapproving the Testing Plan outweigh the advantages of development and production of the OCS mineral resources.
(3) The Director shall notify the lessee in writing of the reason(s) for disapproving a Testing Plan or for requiring modification of a Testing Plan and the conditions that must be met for approval of the plan.
(d)(1) In the evaluation of a Mining Plan, the Director shall consider whether the plan is consistent with:
(i) The provisions of the lease;
(ii) The provisions of the Act;
(iii) The provisions of the regulations prescribed under the Act;
(iv) Other applicable Federal law;
(v) Environmental, safety, and health requirements; and
(vi) The statutory requirements to protect property, natural resources of the OCS, including mineral deposits (in areas leased or not leased), and the National security or defense.
(2) Within 60 days following the release of a final EIS prepared pursuant to NEPA or within 60 days following the comment period provided in § 582.4(d) of this part, the Director shall:
(i) Approve any Mining Plan which is consistent with the criteria in paragraph (d)(1) of this section;
(ii) Require the lessee to modify any Mining Plan which is inconsistent with the criteria in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; or
(iii) Disapprove any Mining Plan when the Director determines the existence of exceptional geological conditions in the lease area, exceptional resource values in the marine or coastal environment, or other exceptional circumstances, and that:
(A) Implementation of the activities described in the plan would probably cause serious harm and damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), to property, to any mineral deposit (in areas leased or not leased), to the National security or defense, or to the marine, coastal, or human environments;
(B) That the threat of harm or damage will not disappear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a reasonable period of time; and
(C) The advantages of disapproving the Mining Plan outweigh the advantages of development and production of the OCS mineral resources.
(3) The Director shall notify the lessee in writing of the reason(s) for disapproving a Mining Plan or for requiring modification of a Mining Plan and the conditions that must be met for approval of the plan.
(e)-(f) [Reserved]
(g) The Director shall establish practices and procedures to govern the collection of all rents, royalties, and other payments due the Federal Government in accordance with terms of the leasing notice, the lease, and the applicable Royalty Management regulations listed in § 581.26(i) of this chapter.
(h) [Reserved]
§ 582.13
[Reserved]
§ 582.14
Noncompliance, remedies, and penalties.
(a)(1) If the Director determines that a lessee has failed to comply with applicable provisions of law; the regulations in this part; other applicable regulations; the lease; the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan; or the Director's orders or instructions, and the Director determines that such noncompliance poses a threat of immediate, serious, or irreparable damage to the environment, the mine or the deposit being mined, or other valuable mineral deposits or other resources, the Director shall order the lessee to take immediate and appropriate remedial action to alleviate the threat. Any oral orders shall be followed up by service of a notice of noncompliance upon the lessee by delivery in person to the lessee or agent, or by certified or registered mail addressed to the lessee at the last known address.
(2) If the Director determines that the lessee has failed to comply with applicable provisions of law; the regulations in this part; other applicable regulations; the lease; the requirements of an approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan; or the Director's orders or instructions, and such noncompliance does not pose a threat of immediate, serious, or irreparable damage to the environment, the mine or the deposit being mined, or other valuable mineral deposits or other resources, the Director shall serve a notice of noncompliance upon the lessee by delivery in person to the lessee or agent or by certified or registered mail addressed to the lessee at the last known address.
(b) A notice of noncompliance shall specify in what respect(s) the lessee has failed to comply with the provisions of applicable law; regulations; the lease; the requirements of an approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan; or the Director's orders or instructions, and shall specify the action(s) which must be taken to correct the noncompliance and the time limits within which such action must be taken.
(c) Failure of a lessee to take the actions specified in the notice of noncompliance within the time limit specified shall be grounds for a suspension of operations and other appropriate actions, including but not limited to the assessment of a civil penalty of up to $10,000 per day for each violation that is not corrected within the time period specified (43 U.S.C. 1350(b)).
(d) Whenever the Director determines that a violation of or failure to comply with any provision of the Act; or any provision of a lease, license, or permit issued pursuant to the Act; or any provision of any regulation promulgated under the Act probably occurred and that such apparent violation continued beyond notice of the violation and the
expiration of the reasonable time period allowed for corrective action, the Director shall follow the procedures concerning remedies and penalties in subpart N, Remedies and Penalties, of 30 CFR part 550 to determine and assess an appropriate penalty.
(e) The remedies and penalties prescribed in this section shall be concurrent and cumulative, and the exercise of one shall not preclude the exercise of the other. Further, the remedies and penalties prescribed in this section shall be in addition to any other remedies and penalties afforded by any other law or regulation (43 U.S.C. 1350(e)).
§ 582.15
Cancellation of leases.
(a) Whenever the owner of a nonproducing lease fails to comply with any of the provisions of the Act, the lease, or the regulations issued under the Act, and the default continues for a period of 30 days after mailing of notice by registered or certified letter to the lease owner at the owner's record post office address, the Secretary may cancel the lease pursuant to section 5(c) of the Act, and the lessee shall not be entitled to compensation. Any such cancellation is subject to judicial review as provided by section 23(b) of the Act.
(b) Whenever the owner of any producing lease fails to comply with any of the provisions of the Act, the lease, or the regulations issued under the Act, the Secretary may cancel the lease only after judicial proceedings pursuant to section 5(d) of the Act, and the lessee shall not be entitled to compensation.
(c) Any lease issued under the Act, whether producing or not, may be canceled by the Secretary upon proof that it was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation and after notice and opportunity to be heard has been afforded to the lessee.
(d) The Secretary may cancel a lease in accordance with the following:
(1) Cancellation may occur at any time if the Secretary determines after a hearing that:
(i) Continued activity pursuant to such lease would probably cause serious harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), to property, to any mineral (in areas leased or not leased), to the National security or defense, or to the marine, coastal, or human environment;
(ii) The threat of harm or damage will not disappear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a reasonable period of time; and
(iii) The advantages of cancellation outweigh the advantages of continuing such lease in force.
(2) Cancellation shall not occur unless and until operations under such lease shall have been under suspension or temporary prohibition by the Secretary, with due extension of any lease term continuously for a period of 5 years or for a lesser period upon request of the lessee;
(3) Cancellation shall entitle the lessee to receive such compensation as is shown to the Secretary as being equal to the lesser of:
(i) The fair value of the canceled rights as of the date of cancellation, taking account of both anticipated revenues from the lease and anticipated costs, including costs of compliance with all applicable regulations and operating orders, liability for cleanup costs or damages, or both, and all other costs reasonably anticipated on the lease, or
(ii) The excess, if any, over the lessee's revenue from the lease (plus interest thereon from the date of receipt to date of reimbursement) of all consideration paid for the lease and all direct expenditures made by the lessee after the date of issuance of such lease and in connection with exploration or development, or both, pursuant to the lease (plus interest on such consideration and such expenditures from date of payment to date of reimbursement), except that in the case of joint leases which are canceled due to the failure of one or more partners to exercise due diligence, the innocent parties shall have the right to seek damages for such loss from the responsible party or parties and the right to acquire the interests of the negligent party or parties and be issued the lease in question.
(iii) The lessee shall not be entitled to compensation where one of the following circumstances exists when a lease is canceled:
(A) A producing lease is forfeited or is canceled pursuant to section (5)(d) of the Act;
(B) A Testing Plan or Mining Plan is disapproved because the lessee's failure to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of applicable Federal law; or
(C) The lessee of a nonproducing lease fails to comply with a provision of the Act, the lease, or regulations issued under the Act, and the noncompliance continues for a period of 30 days or more after the mailing of a notice of noncompliance by registered or certified letter to the lessee.

# Subpart C—Obligations and Responsibilities of Lessees
§ 582.20
Obligations and responsibilities of lessees.
(a) The lessee shall comply with the provisions of applicable laws; regulations; the lease; the requirements of the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plans; and other written or oral orders or instructions issued by the Director when performing exploration, testing, development, and production activities pursuant to a lease issued under 30 CFR part 581. The lessee shall take all necessary precautions to prevent waste and damage to oil, gas, sulphur, and other OCS mineral-bearing formations and shall conduct operations in such manner that does not cause or threaten to cause harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life); to property; to the National security or defense; or to the marine, coastal, or human environment (including onshore air quality). The lessee shall make all mineral resource data and information and all environmental data and information acquired by the lessee in the course of exploration, testing, development, and production operations on the lease available to the Director for examination and copying at the lease site or an onshore location convenient to the Director.
(b) In all cases where there is more than one lease owner of record, one person shall be designated payor for the lease. The payor shall be responsible for making all rental, minimum royalty, and royalty payments.
(c) In all cases where lease operations are not conducted by the sole lessee, a “designation of operator” shall be submitted to and accepted by the Director prior to the commencement of leasehold operations. This designation when accepted will be recognized as authority for the designee to act on behalf of the lessees and to fulfill the lessees' obligations under the Act, the lease, and the regulations of this part. All changes of address and any termination of a designation of operator shall be reported immediately, in writing, to the Director. In the case of a termination of a designation of operator or in the event of a controversy between the lessee and the designated operator, both the lessee and the designated operator will be responsible for the protection of the interests of the lessor.
(d) When required by the Director or at the option of the lessee, the lessee shall submit to the Director the designation of a local representative empowered to receive notices, provide access to OCS mineral and environmental data and information, and comply with orders issued pursuant to the regulations of this part. If there is a change in the designated representative, the Director shall be notified immediately.
(e) Before beginning operations, the lessee shall inform the Director in writing of any designation of a local representative under paragraph (d) of this section and the address of the mine office responsible for the exploration, testing, development, or production activities; the lessee's temporary and permanent addresses; or the name and address of the designated operator who will be responsible for the operations, and who will act as the local representative of the lessee. The Director shall also be informed of each change thereafter in the address of the mine office or in the name or address of the local representative.
(f) The holder of a right-of-use and easement shall exercise its rights under the right of use and easement in accordance with the regulations of this part.
(g) A lessee shall submit reports and maintain records in accordance with § 582.29 of this part.
(h) When an oral approval is given by BOEM in response to an oral request under these regulations, the oral request shall be confirmed in writing by the lessee or holder of a right of use and easement within 72 hours.
(i) The lessee is responsible for obtaining all permits and approvals from BOEM, BSEE or other Agencies needed to carry out exploration, testing, development, and production activities under a lease issued under 30 CFR part 581 of this title.
§ 582.21
Plans, general.
(a) No exploration, testing, development, or production activities, except preliminary activities, shall be commenced or conducted on any lease except in accordance with a plan submitted by the lessee and approved by the Director. Plans will not be approved before completion of comprehensive technical and environmental evaluations to assure that the activities described will be carried out in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. Prior to the approval of a plan, the Director will assure that the lessee is prepared to take adequate measures to prevent waste; conserve natural resources of the OCS; and protect the environment, human life, and correlative rights. The lessee shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that the lease is in good standing, the lessee is authorized and capable of conducting the activities described in the plan, and that an acceptable bond has been provided.
(b) Plans shall be submitted to the Director for approval. The lessee shall submit the number of copies prescribed by the Director. Such plans shall describe in detail the activities that are to be conducted and shall demonstrate that the proposed exploration, testing, development, and production activities will be conducted in an operationally safe and environmentally responsible manner that is consistent with the provisions of the lease, applicable laws, and regulations. The Governor of an affected State and other Federal Agencies shall be provided an opportunity to review and provide comments on proposed Delineation, Testing, and Mining Plans and any proposal for a significant modification to an approved plan. Following review, including the technical and environmental evaluations, the Director shall either approve, disapprove, or require the lessee to modify its proposed plan.
(c) Lessees are not required to submit a Delineation or Testing Plan prior to submittal of a proposed Testing or Mining Plan if the lessee has sufficient data and information on which to base a Testing or Mining Plan without carrying out postlease exploration and/or testing activities. A Mining Plan may include proposed exploration or testing activities where those activities are needed to obtain additional data and information on which to base plans for future mining activities. A Testing Plan may include exploration activities when those activities are needed to obtain additional data or information on which to base plans for future testing or mining activities.
(d) Preliminary activities are bathymetric, geological, geophysical, mapping, and other surveys necessary to develop a comprehensive Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan. Such activities are those which have no significant adverse impact on the natural resources of the OCS. The lessee shall give notice to the Director at least 30 days prior to initiating the proposed preliminary activities on the lease. The notice shall describe in detail those activities that are to be conducted and the time schedule for conducting those activities.
(e) Leasehold activities shall be carried out with due regard to conservation of resources, paying particular attention to the wise management of OCS mineral resources, minimizing waste of the leased resource(s) in mining and processing, and preventing damage to unmined parts of the mineral deposit and other resources of the OCS.
§ 582.22
Delineation Plan.
All exploration activities shall be conducted in accordance with a Delineation Plan submitted by the lessee and approved by the Director. The Delineation Plan shall describe the proposed activities necessary to locate leased OCS minerals, characterize the quantity and quality of the minerals, and generate other information needed
for the development of a comprehensive Testing or Mining Plan. A Delineation Plan at a minimum shall include the following:
(a) The OCS mineral(s) or primary interest.
(b) A brief narrative description of the activities to be conducted and how the activities will lead to the discovery and evaluation of a commercially minable deposit on the lease.
(c) The name, registration, and type of equipment to be used, including vessel types as well as their navigation and mobile communication systems, and transportation corridors to be used between the lease and shore.
(d) Information showing that the equipment to be used (including the vessel) is capable of performing the intended operation in the environment which will be encountered.
(e) Maps showing the proposed locations of test drill holes, the anticipated depth of penetration of test drill holes, the locations where surficial samples were taken, and the location of proposed geophysical survey lines for each surveying method being employed.
(f) A description of measures to be taken to avoid, minimize, or otherwise mitigate air, land, and water pollution and damage to aquatic and wildlife species and their habitats; any unique or special features in the lease area; aquifers; other natural resources of the OCS; and hazards to public health, safety, and navigation.
(g) A schedule indicating the starting and completion dates for each proposed exploration activity.
(h) A list of any known archaeological resources on the lease and measures to assure that the proposed exploration activities do not damage those resources.
(i) A description of any potential conflicts with other uses and users of the area.
(j) A description of measures to be taken to monitor the effects of the proposed exploration activities on the environment in accordance with § 582.28(c) of this part.
(k) A detailed description of practices and procedures to effect the abandonment of exploration activities, e.g., plugging of test drill holes. The proposed procedures shall indicate the steps to be taken to assure that test drill holes and other testing procedures which penetrate the seafloor to a significant depth are properly sealed and that the seafloor is left free of obstructions or structures that may present a hazard to other uses or users of the OCS such as navigation or commercial fishing.
(l) A detailed description of the cycle of all materials, the method for discharge and disposal of waste and refuse, and the chemical and physical characteristics of waste and refuse.
(m) A description of the potential environmental impacts of the proposed exploration activities including the following:
(1) The location of associated port, transport, processing, and waste disposal facilities and affected environment (e.g., maps, land use, and layout);
(2) A description of the nature and degree of environmental impacts and the domestic socioeconomic effects of construction and operation of the associated facilities, including waste characteristics and toxicity;
(3) Any proposed mitigation measures to avoid or minimize adverse impacts on the environment;
(4) A certificate of consistency with the federally approved State coastal zone management program, where applicable; and
(5) Alternative sites and technologies considered by the lessee and the reasons why they were not chosen.
(n) Any other information needed for technical evaluation of the planned activity, such as sample analyses to be conducted at sea, and the evaluation of potential environmental impacts.
§ 582.23
Testing Plan.
All testing activities shall be conducted in accordance with a Testing Plan submitted by the lessee and approved by the Director. Where a lessee needs more information to develop a detailed Mining Plan than is obtainable under an approved Delineation Plan, to prepare feasibility studies, to carry out a pilot program to evaluate processing techniques or technology or mining equipment, or to determine environmental effects by a pilot test mining operation, the lessee shall submit a
comprehensive Testing Plan for the Director's approval. Any OCS minerals acquired during activities conducted under an approved Testing Plan will be subject to the payment of royalty pursuant to the governing lease terms. A Testing Plan at a minimum shall include the following:
(a) The nature and purpose of the proposed testing program.
(b) A comprehensive description of the activities to be performed including descriptions of the proposed methods for analysis of samples taken.
(c) A narrative description and maps showing water depths and the locations of the proposed pilot mining or other testing activities.
(d) A comprehensive description of the method and manner in which testing activities will be conducted and the results the lessee expects to obtain as a result of those activities.
(e) The name, registration, and type of equipment to be used, including vessel types together with their navigation and mobile communication systems, and transportation corridors to be used between the lease and shore.
(f) Information showing that the equipment to be used (including the vessel) is capable of performing the intended operation in the environment which will be encountered.
(g) A schedule specifying the starting and completion dates for each of the testing activities.
(h) A list of known archaeological resources on the lease and measures to be used to assure that the proposed testing activities do not damage those resources.
(i) A description of any potential conflicts with other uses and users of the area.
(j) A description of measures to be taken to avoid, minimize, or otherwise mitigate air, land, and water pollution and damage to aquatic and wildlife species and their habitat; any unique or special features in the lease area, other natural resources of the OCS; and hazards to public health, safety, and navigation.
(k) A description of the measures to be taken to monitor the impacts of the proposed testing activities in accordance with § 582.28(c) of this part.
(l) A detailed description of the cycle of all materials including samples and wastes, the method for discharge and disposal of waste and refuse, and the chemical and physical characteristics of such waste and refuse.
(m) A detailed description of practices and procedures to effect the abandonment of testing activities, e.g., abandonment of a pilot mining facility. The proposed procedures shall indicate the steps to be taken to assure that mined areas do not pose a threat to the environment and that the seafloor is left free of obstructions and structures that may present a hazard to other uses or users of the OCS such as navigation or commercial fishing.
(n) A description of potential environmental impacts of testing activities including the following:
(1) The location of associated port, transport, processing, and waste disposal facilities and affected environment (e.g., maps, land use, and layout);
(2) A description of the nature and degree of potential environmental impacts of the proposed testing activities and the domestic socioeconomic effects of construction and operation of the proposed testing facilities, including waste characteristics and toxicity;
(3) Any proposed mitigation measures to avoid or minimize adverse impacts on the environment;
(4) A certificate of consistency with the federally approved State coastal zone management program, where applicable; and
(5) Alternate sites and technologies considered by the lessee and the reasons why they were not selected.
(o) Any other information needed for technical evaluation of the planned activities and for evaluation of the impact of those activities on the human, marine, and coastal environments.
§ 582.24
Mining Plan.
All OCS mineral development and production activities shall be conducted in accordance with a Mining Plan submitted by the lessee and approved by the Director. A Mining Plan shall include comprehensive detailed descriptions, illustrations, and explanations of the proposed OCS mineral development, production, and processing activities and accurately
present the lessee's proposed plan of operation. A Mining Plan at a minimum shall include the following:
(a) A narrative description of the mining activities including:
(1) The OCS mineral(s) or material(s) to be recovered;
(2) Estimates of the number of tons and grade(s) of ore to be recovered;
(3) Anticipated annual production;
(4) Volume of ocean bottom expected to be disturbed (area and depth of disruption) each year; and
(5) All activities of the mining cycle from extraction through processing and waste disposal.
(b) Maps of the lease showing water depths, the outline of the mineral deposit(s) to be mined with cross sections showing thickness, and the area(s) anticipated to be mined each year.
(c) The name, registration, and type of equipment to be used, including vessel types as well as their navigation and mobile communication systems, and transportation corridors to be used between the lease and shore.
(d) Information showing that the equipment to be used (including the vessel) is capable of performing the intended operation in the environment which will be encountered.
(e) A description of equipment to be used in mining, processing, and transporting of the ore.
(f) A schedule indicating the anticipated starting and completion dates for each activity described in the plan.
(g) For onshore processing, a description of how OCS minerals are to be processed and how the produced OCS minerals will be weighed, assayed, and royalty determinations made.
(h) For at-sea processing, additional information including type and size of installation or structures and the method of tailings disposal.
(i) A list of known archaeological resources on the lease and the measures to be taken to assure that the proposed mining activities do not damage those resources.
(j) Description of any potential conflicts with other uses and users of the area.
(k) A detailed description of the nature and occurrence of the OCS mineral deposit(s) in the leased area with adequate maps and sections.
(l) A detailed description of development and mining methods to be used, the proposed sequence of mining or development, the expected production rate, the method and location of the proposed processing operation, and the method of measuring production.
(m) A detailed description of the method of transporting the produced OCS minerals from the lease to shore and adequate maps showing the locations of pipelines, conveyors, and other transportation facilities and corridors.
(n) A detailed description of the cycle of all materials including samples and wastes, the method of discharge and disposal of waste and refuse, and the chemical and physical characteristics of the waste and refuse.
(o) A description of measures to be taken to avoid, minimize, or otherwise mitigate air, land, and water pollution and damage to aquatic and wildlife species and their habitats; any unique or special features in the lease area, aquifers, or other natural resources of the OCS; and hazards to public health, safety, and navigation.
(p) A detailed description of measures to be taken to monitor the impacts of the proposed mining and processing activities on the environment in accordance with § 582.28(c) of this part.
(q) A detailed description of practices and procedures to effect the abandonment of mining and processing activities. The proposed procedures shall indicate the steps to be taken to assure that mined areas on tailing deposits do not pose a threat to the environment and that the seafloor is left free of obstructions and structures that present a hazard to other users or uses of the OCS such as navigation or commercial fishing.
(r) A description of potential environmental impacts of mining activities including the following:
(1) The location of associated port, transport, processing, and waste disposal facilities and the affected environment (e.g., maps, land use, and layout);
(2) A description of the nature and degree of potential environmental impacts of the proposed mining activities and the domestic socioeconomic effects
of construction and operation of the associated facilities, including waste characteristics and toxicity;
(3) Any proposed mitigation measures to avoid or minimize adverse impacts on the environment;
(4) A certificate of consistency with the federally approved State coastal zone management program, where applicable; and
(5) Alternative sites and technologies considered by the lessee and the reasons why they were not chosen.
(s) Any other information needed for technical evaluation of the proposed activities and for the evaluation of potential impacts on the environment.
§ 582.25
Plan modification.
Approved Delineation, Testing, and Mining Plans may be modified upon the Director's approval of the changes proposed. When circumstances warrant, the Director may direct the lessee to modify an approved plan to adjust to changed conditions. If the lessee requests the change, the lessee shall submit a detailed, written statement of the proposed modifications, potential impacts, and the justification for the proposed changes. Revision of an approved plan whether initiated by the lessee or ordered by the Director shall be submitted to the Director for approval. When the Director determines that a proposed revision could result in significant change in the impacts previously identified and evaluated or requires additional permits, the proposed plan revision shall be subject to the applicable review and approval procedures of §§ 582.21, 582.22, 582.23, and 582.24 of this part.
§ 582.26
Contingency Plan.
(a) When required by the Director, a lessee shall include a Contingency Plan as part of its request for approval of a Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan. The Contingency Plan shall comply with the requirements of § 582.28(e) of this part.
(b) The Director may order or the lessee may request the Director's approval of a modification of the Contingency Plan when such a change is necessary to reflect any new information concerning the nature, magnitude, and significance of potential equipment or procedural failures or the effectiveness of the corrective actions described in the Contingency Plan.
§ 582.27
Conduct of operations.
(a)-(h) [Reserved]
(i) Any bulk sampling or testing that is necessary to be conducted prior to submission of a Mining Plan shall be in accordance with an approved Testing Plan. The sale of any OCS minerals acquired under an approved Testing Plan shall be subject to the payment of the royalty specified in the lease to the United States.
(j)-(m) [Reserved]
§ 582.28
Environmental protection measures.
(a) Exploration, testing, development, production, and processing activities proposed to be conducted under a lease will only be approved by the Director upon the determination that the adverse impacts of the proposed activities can be avoided, minimized, or otherwise mitigated. The Director shall take into account the information contained in the sale-specific environmental evaluation prepared in association with the lease offering as well as the site- and operational-specific environmental evaluations prepared in association with the review and evaluation of the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan. The Director's review of the air quality consequences of proposed OCS activities will follow the practices and procedures specified in 30 CFR 250.194, §§ 550.194, 550.218, 550.249, and 550.303.
(b) If the baseline data available are judged by the Director to be inadequate to support an environmental evaluation of a proposed Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan, the Director may require the lessee to collect additional environmental baseline data prior to the approval of the activities proposed.
(c)(1) [Reserved]
(2) Monitoring of environmental effects shall include determination of the spatial and temporal environmental changes induced by the exploration, testing, development, production, and processing activities on the flora and fauna of the sea surface, the water column, and/or the seafloor.
(3)-(4) [Reserved]
(5) When prototype test mining is proposed, the lessee shall include a monitoring strategy for assessing the impacts of the testing activities and for developing a strategy for monitoring commercial-scale recovery and mitigating the impacts of commercial-scale recovery more effectively. At a minimum, the proposed monitoring activities shall address specific concerns expressed in the lease-sale environmental analysis.
(6) When required, the monitoring plan shall specify:
(i) The sampling techniques and procedures to be used to acquire the needed data and information;
(ii) The format to be used in analysis and presentation of the data and information;
(iii) The equipment, techniques, and procedures to be used in carrying out the monitoring program; and
(iv) The name and qualifications of person(s) designated to be responsible for carrying out the environmental monitoring.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) In the event that equipment or procedural failure might result in significant additional damage to the environment, the lessee shall submit a Contingency Plan which specifies the procedures to be followed to institute corrective actions in response to such a failure and to minimize adverse impacts on the environment. Such procedures shall be designed for the site and mining activities described in the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan.
§ 582.29
Reports and records.
(a) A report of the amount and value of each OCS mineral produced from each lease shall be made by the payor for the lease for each calendar month, beginning with the month in which approved testing, development, or production activities are initiated and shall be filed in duplicate with the Director on or before the 20th day of the succeeding month, unless an extension of time for the filing of such report is granted by the Director. The report shall disclose accurately and in detail all operations conducted during each month and present a general summary of the status of leasehold activities. The report shall be submitted each month until the lease is terminated or relinquished unless the Director authorizes omission of the report during an approved suspension of production. The report shall show for each calendar month the location of each mining and processing activity; the number of days operations were conducted; the identity, quantity, quality, and value of each OCS mineral produced, sold, transferred, used or otherwise disposed of; identity, quantity, and quality of an inventory maintained prior to the point of royalty determination; and other information as may be required by the Director.
(b) The lessee shall submit a status report on exploration and/or testing activities under an approved Delineation or Testing Plan to the Director within 30 days of the close of each calendar quarter which shall include:
(1) A summary of activities conducted;
(2) A listing of all geophysical and geochemical data acquired and developed such as acoustic or seismic profiling records;
(3) A map showing location of holes drilled and where bottom samples were taken; and
(4) Identification of samples analyzed.
(c) Each lessee shall submit to the Director a report of exploration and/or testing activities within 3 months after the completion of operations. The final report of exploration and/or testing activities conducted on the lease shall include:
(1) A description of work performed;
(2) Charts, maps, or plats depicting the area and leases in which activities were conducted specifically identifying the lines of geophysical traverses and/or the locations where geological activity was conducted and/or the locations of other exploration and testing activities;
(3) The dates on which the actual operations were performed;
(4) A narrative summary of any mineral occurrences; environmental hazards; and effects of the activities on the environment, aquatic life, archaeological resources, or other uses and
users of the area in which the activities were conducted;
(5) Such other descriptions of the activities conducted as may be specified by the Director; and
(6) Records of all samples from core drilling or other tests made on the lease. The records shall be in such form that the location and direction of the samples can be accurately located on a map. The records shall include logs of all strata penetrated and conditions encountered, such as minerals, water, gas, or unusual conditions, and copies of analyses of all samples analyzed.
(d) The lessee shall report the results of environmental monitoring activities required in § 582.28 of this part and shall submit such other environmental data as the Director may require to conform with the requirements of these regulations.
(e)(1) All maps shall be appropriately marked with reference to official lease boundaries and elevations marked with reference to sea level. When required by the Director, vertical projections and cross sections shall accompany plan views. The maps shall be kept current and submitted to the Director annually, or more often when required by the Director. The accuracy of maps furnished shall be certified by a professional engineer or land surveyor.
(2) The lessee shall prepare such maps of the leased lands as are necessary to show the geological conditions as determined from G
G surveys, bottom sampling, drill holes, trenching, dredging, or mining. All excavations shall be shown in such manner that the volume of OCS minerals produced during a royalty period can be accurately ascertained.
(f) Any lessee who acquires rock, mineral, and core samples under a lease shall keep a representative split of each geological sample and a quarter longitudinal segment of each core for 5 years during which time the samples shall be available for inspection at the convenience of the Director who may take cuts of such cores, cuttings, and samples.
(g)(1) The lessee shall keep all original data and information available for inspection or duplication, by the Director at the expense of the lessor, as long as the lease continues in force. Should the lessee choose to dispose of original data and information once the lease has expired, said data and information shall be offered to the lessor free of costs and shall, if accepted, become the property of the lessor.
(2) Navigation tapes showing the location(s) where samples were taken and test drilling conducted shall be retained for as long as the lease continues in force.
(h) Lessees shall maintain records in which will be kept an accurate account of all ore and rock mined; all ore put through a mill; all mineral products produced; all ore and mineral products sold, transferred, used, or otherwise disposed of and to whom sold or transferred, and the inventory weight, assay value, moisture content, base sales price, dates, penalties, and price received. The percentage of each of the mineral products recovered and the percentages lost shall be shown. The records associated with activities on a lease shall be available to the Director for auditing.
(i) When special forms or reports other than those referred to in the regulations in this part may be necessary, instructions for the filing of such forms or reports will be given by the Director.
§ 582.30
Right of use and easement.
(a) A right of use and easement that includes any area subject to a lease issued or maintained under the Act shall be granted only after the lessee has been notified by the requestor and afforded the opportunity to comment on the request. A holder of a right under a right of use and easement shall exercise that right in accordance with the requirements of the regulations in this part. A right of use and easement shall be exercised only in a manner which does not interfere unreasonably with operations of any lessee on its lease.
(b) Once a right of use and easement has been exercised, the right shall continue, beyond the termination of any lease on which it may be situated, as long as it is demonstrated to the Director that the right of use and easement is being exercised by the holder of the right and that the right of use and
easement continues to serve the purpose specified in the grant. If the right of use and easement extends beyond the termination of any lease on which the right may be situated or if it is situated on an unleased portion of the OCS, the rights of all subsequent lessees shall be subject to such right. Upon termination of a right of use and easement, the holder of the right shall abandon the premises in the same manner that a lessee abandons activities on a lease to the satisfaction of the Director.
§ 582.31
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Payments
§ 582.40
Bonds.
(a) Pursuant to the requirements for a bond in § 581.33 of this title, prior to the commencement of any activity on a lease, the lessee shall submit a surety or personal bond to cover the lessee's royalty and other obligations under the lease as specified in this section.
(b) All bonds furnished by a lessee or operator must be in a form approved by the Deputy Director. A single copy of the required form is to be executed by the principal or, in the case of surety bonds, by both the principal and an acceptable surety.
(c) Only those surety bonds issued by qualified surety companies approved by the Department of the Treasury shall be accepted (see Department of Treasury Circular No. 570 and any supplemental or replacement circulars).
(d) Personal bonds shall be accompanied by a cashier's check, certified check, or negotiable U.S. Treasury bonds of an equal value to the amount specified in the bond. Negotiable Treasury bonds shall be accompanied by a proper conveyance of full authority to the Director to sell such securities in case of default in the performance of the terms and conditions of the lease.
(e) A bond in the minimum amount of $50,000 to cover the lessee's obligations under the lease shall be submitted prior to the commencement of any activity on a leasehold. A $50,000 bond shall not be required on a lease if the lessee already maintains or furnishes a $300,000 bond conditioned on compliance with the terms of leases for OCS minerals other than oil, gas, and sulphur held by the lessee on the OCS for the area in which the lease is located. A bond submitted pursuant to § 556.58(a) of this chapter may be amended to include the aforementioned condition for compliance. Prior to approval of a Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan, the bond amount shall be adjusted, if appropriate, to cover the operations and activities described in the proposed plan.
(f) For the purposes of this section there are three areas:
(1) The Gulf of America and the area offshore the Atlantic Ocean;
(2) The area offshore the Pacific Coast States of California, Oregon, Washington, and Hawaii; and
(3) The area offshore the coast of Alaska.
(g) A separate bond shall be required for each area. An operator's bond may be submitted for a specific lease(s) in the same amount as the lessee's bond(s) applicable to the lease(s) involved.
(h) Where, upon a default, the surety makes a payment to the United States of an obligation incurred under a lease, the face amount of the surety bond and the surety's liability thereunder shall be reduced by the amount of such payment.
(i) After default, the principal shall, within 6 months after notice or within such shorter period as may be fixed by the Director, either post a new bond or increase the existing bond to the amount previously held. In lieu thereof, the principal may, within that time, file separate or substitute bonds for each lease. Failure to meet these requirements may result in a suspension of operations including production on leases covered by such bonds.
(j) The Director shall not consent to termination of the period of liability of any bond unless an acceptable alternative bond has been filed or until all the terms and conditions of the lease covered by the bond have been met.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 57098, Sept. 22, 2015; 90 FR 24072, June 6, 2025]
§ 582.41
Method of royalty calculation.
In the event that the provisions of royalty management regulations in
part 1206 of chapter XII do not apply to the specific commodities produced under regulations in this part, the lessee shall comply with procedures specified in the leasing notice.
§ 582.42
Payments.
Rentals, royalties, and other payments due the Federal Government on leases for OCS minerals shall be paid and reports submitted by the payor for a lease in accordance with § 581.26.

# Subpart E—Appeals
§ 582.50
Appeals.
See 30 CFR part 590 for instructions on how to appeal any order or decision that we issue under this part.
Pt. 583

# PART 583—NEGOTIATED NONCOMPETITIVE AGREEMENTS FOR THE USE OF OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF SAND, GRAVEL, AND/OR SHELL RESOURCES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
583.100
What is BOEM's authority for information collection (IC)?
583.105
What is the purpose of this part and to whom does it apply?
583.110
What is BOEM's authority for this part?
583.115
What definitions do I need to know?
583.120
Who is qualified for a project?
583.125
What are my rights to seek reconsideration of an unfavorable decision by BOEM?
583.130
What are the minimum contents of an agreement to use OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources?
Subpart B—[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Outer Continental Shelf Sand, Gravel, and/or Shell Resources Negotiated Agreements
583.300
How do I submit a request for an agreement?
583.305
How will BOEM determine if a project qualifies?
583.310
What process does BOEM use to technically and environmentally evaluate a qualified project?
583.315
What is the process for negotiating and executing an agreement?
583.320
What kinds of information must be included in an agreement?
583.325
What is the effective date of an agreement?
583.330
How will BOEM enforce the agreement?
583.335
What is the term of the agreement?
583.340
What debarment or suspension obligations apply to transactions and contracts related to a project?
583.345
What is the process for extending or modifying an agreement?
583.350
When can an agreement be terminated?

# Authority:
43 U.S.C. 1334.

# Source:
82 FR 45973, Oct. 3, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 583.100
What is BOEM's authority for information collection (IC)?
The IC requirements contained in part 583 have been approved by OMB under 44 U.S.C. 3501 and assigned control number 1010-0191. The information is being collected to determine if the applicant for a negotiated noncompetitive agreement (agreement) for the use of sand, gravel, and/or shell resources on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) is qualified to enter into such an agreement and to determine if the requested action is warranted. Applicants and parties to an agreement are required to respond to requests related to IC activities.
§ 583.105
What is the purpose of this part and to whom does it apply?
The regulations in this part provide procedures for entering into negotiated noncompetitive agreements for the use of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources. The rules of this part apply exclusively to negotiated noncompetitive use of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources and do not apply to competitive leasing of minerals, including oil, gas, sulphur, geopressured-geothermal and associated resources, and all other minerals that are authorized by an Act of Congress to be produced from “public lands” as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
).
§ 583.110
What is BOEM's authority for this part?
(a) Pursuant to authority granted by section 8(k) of the Outer Continental
Shelf Lands Act (OSCLA), as amended (43 U.S.C. 1337(k)), the Secretary has authority to negotiate a noncompetitive agreement for the use of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources:
(1) In a program of, or project for, shore protection, beach restoration, or coastal wetlands restoration undertaken by a Federal, State, or local government agency; or
(2) In a construction project, other than a project described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, that is funded in whole or in part by or authorized by the Federal Government.
(b) The Secretary has delegated authority to BOEM to administer the negotiated noncompetitive agreement provisions of OCSLA and prescribe the rules and regulations necessary to carry out those provisions.
§ 583.115
What definitions do I need to know?
The definitions at 30 CFR 550.105 apply to this part. In addition, when used in this part, the following terms will have the meaning given below:
Agreement
means a negotiated noncompetitive agreement that authorizes a person to use OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources in a program of, or project for, shore protection, beach restoration or coastal wetlands restoration undertaken by one or more Federal, state or local government agencies, or in a construction project authorized by, or funded in whole or in part by, the Federal government. The form of the agreement will be a Memorandum of Agreement (if one or more of the parties to the agreement, other than BOEM, is a Federal agency) or a lease (if all of the parties to the agreement other than BOEM are non-Federal agencies or persons).
Amendment
means a modification to the agreement between BOEM and the parties to the agreement that extends or modifies the terms of the agreement.
Applicant
means any person proposing to use OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources for a shore protection, beach restoration or coastal wetlands restoration project undertaken by a Federal, state or local government agency, or a construction project authorized by, or funded in whole or in part by, the Federal Government. If multiple persons or Federal, state, or local governments, other than BOEM, partner on a project they will be considered joint applicants.
BOEM
means the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management of the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI).
Borrow area
means the offshore geographic area(s) or region(s) where OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources have been identified for potential use in a specific project.
Federal agency
means any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States.
Local government
means the governing authority at the county or city level with jurisdiction to administer a particular project(s).
Modification
means the process whereby parties to an agreement and BOEM mutually agree to change, alter or amend an existing agreement.
Placement area
means the geographic area in which OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources, used by agreement, will be placed pursuant to that agreement.
Program
means a group of related projects that may be the subject of a negotiated noncompetitive agreement for the use of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources.
Project
means an undertaking that may be the subject of a negotiated noncompetitive agreement for the use of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
§ 583.120
Who is qualified for a project?
(a) BOEM may enter into an agreement with any person proposing to use OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources for a program of, or project for, shore protection, beach restoration, or coastal wetlands restoration undertaken by a Federal, state, or local government agency or in a construction project that is funded in whole or in part by or authorized by the Federal Government.
(b) To request an agreement under this part, the applicant must be:
(1) A Federal, state, or local government agency;
(2) A citizen or national of the United States;
(3) An alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States, as defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20));
(4) A private or public corporation organized under the laws of the United States, or of any State or territory thereof; or
(5) An association of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens, or private or public corporations.
(c) When entering into an agreement under this part, all applicants are subject to the requirements of 2 CFR part 180 and 2 CFR part 1400.
§ 583.125
What are my rights to seek reconsideration of an unfavorable decision by BOEM?
(a) After being notified of disqualification or disapproval of an agreement or modification, an unsuccessful applicant, or adversely affected party to an agreement, may apply for reconsideration by the Director.
(1) All applications for reconsideration must be submitted to the Director within 15 days of being notified of disqualification or disapproval of an agreement or modification, and must be accompanied by a statement of reasons for the requested reconsideration, with one copy also submitted to the program office whose decision is the subject of the request for reconsideration.
(2) The Director will respond in writing within 30 days.
(b) No appeal rights are available under 30 CFR part 590 and 43 CFR part 4, subpart E.
§ 583.130
What are the minimum contents of an agreement to use OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources?
Any use of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources in an agreement will be negotiated on a case-by-case basis. The agreement will specify, at a minimum, who may use the OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources; the nature of the rights granted, including any terms and conditions and environmental stipulations; and the location, type, and volume of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources. An authorization to use OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources identified in an agreement is not exclusive; BOEM may allow other entities to use OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources from the same borrow area if these uses are determined by BOEM to be non-conflicting and do not exceed the availability of the OCS resource.
Subpart B—[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Outer Continental Shelf Sand, Gravel, and/or Shell Resources Negotiated Agreements
§ 583.300
How do I submit a request for an agreement?
Any person may submit a written request to BOEM to obtain an agreement for the use of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources for use in a program of, or project for, shore protection, beach restoration, or coastal wetlands restoration undertaken by a Federal, state, or local government agency, or in a construction project that is funded in whole or in part by or authorized by the Federal Government.
(a) The written request must include:
(1) A detailed description of the proposed project for which the OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources will be used and how it qualifies as a program or project eligible under OCSLA to use OCS sand, gravel, or shell resources;
(2) A description of the proposed borrow area(s) and placement area(s), along with maps with geographic coordinates depicting the location of the desired borrow area(s), the OCS block number(s), OCS Planning Area(s), OCS Protraction Diagram Designation(s), and the placement area(s). These should include:
(i) A detailed set of digital (e.g., portable document format or pdf) maps with coordinates and navigation features of the desired OCS project area (including borrow area and other project features); and
(ii) Digital geo-referenced spatial and tabular data depicting the borrow area with features, such as geological sampling locations and any hard or live-bottom benthic habitat present;
(3) Any available geological and geophysical data used to select, design, and delineate the borrow area(s) and potential borrow areas considered but not selected for final design in digital format, geo-referenced where relevant. These may include:
(i) Sediment sampling (sediment cores and grab samples) data such as physical description sheets, photographs, core locations, and grain size analysis; and
(ii) Geophysical data such as subbottom profiler, marine magnetometer, and side-scan sonar data, and bathymetry including geo-referenced navigation survey tracklines, shotpoints, and/or timestamps;
(4) Any other uses of the OCS or infrastructure in the borrow area that are known to the applicant at the time of application submittal;
(5) A description of the environmental evaluations and corresponding documents that have been completed or are being prepared that cover all offshore and onshore components of the project, as applicable;
(6) A target date or date range when the OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources will be needed;
(7) A description of the person or government entities undertaking the project;
(8) A list of any permits, licenses or authorizations required for the project and their current status;
(9) A description of any potential inconsistencies with state coastal zone management plans and/or any other applicable state and local statutes, regulations or ordinances;
(10) The name, title, telephone number, mailing address and email address of any points of contact for any Federal agencies, state, or local governments, and contractor(s) with whom the applicant has contracted or intends to contract;
(11) A statement explaining who authorized the project and how the project is to be funded, indicating whether the project is federally funded, in whole or in part, and whether the project is authorized by the Federal Government; and
(12) For any other Federal, state, or local government agency identified in the application, the name, title, mailing address, telephone number, and email address of both a primary and a secondary point of contact for the agency.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 583.305
How will BOEM determine if a project qualifies?
BOEM will make a determination as to whether the project, as described in § 583.300, qualifies for a negotiated noncompetitive agreement for the use of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources. Within 15 business days of receipt of the application, BOEM will determine if the application is complete or will request additional information. After it has determined the application is complete, BOEM will review the application and notify the applicant in writing whether the project qualifies for an agreement. In determining whether a project qualifies for an agreement, BOEM will consider, among other criteria, the following:
(a) The project purpose;
(b) Other uses of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources from the same borrow area that are currently or were previously authorized by BOEM for other projects or programs, including the location, type and volume of such resources;
(c) The project funding source(s) and amounts;
(d) The proposed design and feasibility of the project;
(e) Any potential environmental and safety risks associated with the project;
(f) Other federal interests located near or within the specified borrow area;
(g) Comments received from potentially affected state or local governments, if any;
(h) The applicant's background and experience working on similar projects or activities;
(i) Whether the project operations can be conducted in a manner that protects the environment and promotes orderly development of OCS mineral resources;
(j) Whether activities can be conducted in a manner that does not pose a threat of serious harm or damage to, or waste of, any natural resource, any life (including fish and other aquatic
life), property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment; and
(k) Whether the project is consistent with the requirements of applicable statutes and their implementing regulations, which may include, but are not limited to, the Endangered Species Act (ESA) (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
), the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) (16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.
), the Marine Debris Research, Prevention, and Reduction Act (MDRPRA) (33 U.S.C. 1951
et seq.
), the Marine Plastic Pollution Research and Control Act (MPPRCA) (33 U.S.C. 1901
et seq.
), the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA) (33 U.S.C. 1381
et seq.
), and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL), MARPOL-Annex V Treaty.
§ 583.310
What process does BOEM use to technically and environmentally evaluate a qualified project?
(a) Once BOEM has determined a project qualifies for an agreement, BOEM will begin the project evaluation process to decide whether to enter into a negotiated noncompetitive agreement.
(b) BOEM will coordinate with relevant Federal agencies, State, and local governments and any potentially affected federally recognized Indian tribes or Alaska Native Corporations in the project evaluation.
(c) BOEM will evaluate the project and additional information provided pursuant to §§ 583.300 and 583.305, to determine if the information is sufficient to conduct necessary technical and environmental reviews to comply with the requirements of applicable statutes and regulations, which may include, but are not limited to: OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1331
et seq.
), the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
), the ESA (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
), the MMPA (16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.
), the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (MSFCMA) (16 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.
), the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA) (54 U.S.C. 300101
et seq.
), and the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) (16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
).
(d) BOEM will not enter into a negotiated noncompetitive agreement with the applicant until the information requested for the evaluation has been provided and BOEM has evaluated it.
§ 583.315
What is the process for negotiating and executing an agreement?
(a) Upon completion of the technical, environmental and other evaluations established in §§ 583.305 and 583.310, BOEM will decide whether to enter into a negotiated noncompetitive agreement with the applicant for use of OCS sand, gravel, or shell resources for its proposed project.
(b) If BOEM decides not to enter into such an agreement, BOEM will inform the applicant of its reasons for not doing so. An applicant may ask the BOEM Director for reconsideration of this decision, in accordance with § 583.125(a).
(c) If BOEM has decided to enter into a negotiated noncompetitive agreement with the applicant, BOEM will negotiate the terms and conditions of the agreement with the applicant and prepare a draft agreement for the applicant's review.
(d) After considering comments and suggestions from the applicant, BOEM, at its discretion, may finalize the agreement and distribute it to the applicant for signature.
(e) Upon receipt of the agreement with the applicant's signature, BOEM will execute the agreement. A copy of the executed agreement will be mailed to the parties.
§ 583.320
What kinds of information must be included in an agreement?
Every agreement is negotiated on a case-by-case basis, but at a minimum, must include:
(a) An agreement number, as assigned by BOEM;
(b) The purpose of, and authorities for, the agreement;
(c) Designated and delineated borrow area(s);
(d) A project description, including the timeframe within which the project is to be started and completed;
(e) The terms and conditions of the agreement, including any reporting requirements, environmental mitigations, and operating parameters;
(f) All obligations of the parties; and
(g) The signatures of appropriate individuals authorized to bind the applicant and BOEM.
§ 583.325
What is the effective date of an agreement?
The agreement will become effective on the date when all parties to the agreement have signed it.
§ 583.330
How will BOEM enforce the agreement?
(a) Failure to comply with any applicable law or any provision, term, or condition of the agreement may result in the termination of the agreement, a referral to an appropriate Federal or State agency for enforcement, or both. Termination of the agreement for noncompliance will be in the sole discretion of the Director.
(b) The failure to comply in a timely and satisfactory manner with any provision, term or condition of the agreement may delay or prevent BOEM's approval of future requests for use of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources on the part of the parties to the agreement.
§ 583.335
What is the term of the agreement?
(a) An agreement will terminate upon one of the following, whichever occurs first:
(1) The agreement expires by its own terms, unless the term is extended prior to expiration under § 583.345;
(2) The project is terminated, as set forth in § 583.350; or
(3) A party to the agreement notifies BOEM, in writing, that sufficient OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources, up to the amount authorized in the agreement, have been obtained to complete the project.
(b) Absent extraordinary circumstances, no agreement will be for a term longer than five years from its effective date.
§ 583.340
What debarment or suspension obligations apply to transactions and contracts related to a project?
The parties to an agreement must ensure that all contracts and transactions related to an agreement issued under this part comply with the suspension and debarment regulations in 2 CFR part 180 and 2 CFR part 1400.
§ 583.345
What is the process for extending or modifying an agreement?
(a) Unless otherwise provided for in the agreement, the parties to the agreement may submit to BOEM a written request to extend or modify an agreement. BOEM is under no obligation to extend or modify an agreement and cannot be held liable for the consequences of the expiration of an agreement. With the exception of paragraph (b) of this section, any such requests must be made at least 180 days before the term of the agreement expires. BOEM will respond to the request for modification within 30 days of receipt and request any necessary information and evaluations to comply with § 583.305. BOEM may approve the request, disapprove it, or approve it with modifications subject to the requirements of § 583.305.
(1) If BOEM approves a request to extend or modify an agreement, BOEM will draft an agreement modification for review by the parties to the agreement in the form of an amendment to the original agreement. The amendment will include:
(i) The agreement number, as assigned by BOEM;
(ii) The modification(s) agreed to;
(iii) Any additional mitigation required; and
(iv) The signatures of the parties to the agreement and BOEM.
(2) If BOEM disapproves a request to extend or modify an agreement, BOEM will inform the parties to the agreement of the reasons in writing. Parties to the agreement may ask the BOEM Director for reconsideration in accordance with § 583.125.
(b) By written request, for strictly minor modifications that do not change the substance of the project or the analyzed environmental effects of the project, including but not limited to, the change of a business address, the substitution of a different Federal, State or local government agency contact, or an extension of less than 30 days, parties to the agreement may memorialize the minor modification in
a letter from BOEM to the parties indicating the request has been granted.
§ 583.350
When can an agreement be terminated?
(a) The Director will terminate any agreement issued under this part upon proof that it was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation, after notice and an opportunity to be heard has been afforded to the parties of the agreement.
(b) The Director may immediately suspend and subsequently terminate any agreement issued under this part when:
(1) There is noncompliance with the agreement, pursuant to § 583.330 (a); or
(2) It is necessary for reasons of national security or defense; or
(3) The Director determines that:
(i) Continued activity under the agreement would cause serious harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance;
(ii) The threat of harm or damage will not disappear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a reasonable period of time; and
(iii) The advantages of termination outweigh the advantages of continuing the agreement.
(c) The Director will immediately notify the parties to the agreement of the suspension or termination. The Director will also mail a letter to the parties to the agreement at their record post office address with notice of any suspension or termination and the cause for such action.
(d) In the event that BOEM terminates an agreement under this section, none of the parties to the agreement will be entitled to compensation as a result of expenses or lost revenues that may result from the termination.
Pt. 585

# PART 585—RENEWABLE ENERGY ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
585.100
Authority.
585.101
What is the purpose of this part?
585.102
What are BOEM's responsibilities under this part?
585.103
When may BOEM prescribe or approve departures from the regulations in this part?
585.104
Do I need a BOEM lease or other authorization to produce or support the production of electricity or other energy product from a renewable energy resource on the OCS?
585.105
What are my responsibilities under this part?
585.106
What happens if I fail to comply with this part?
585.107
Who can acquire or hold a lease or grant under this part?
585.108
How do I show that I am qualified to be a lessee or grant holder?
585.109
When must I notify BOEM if an action has been filed alleging that I am insolvent or bankrupt?
585.110
When must I notify BOEM of mergers, name changes, or changes of business form?
585.111
How do I submit plans, applications, reports, or notices required by this part?
585.112
When and how does BOEM charge me processing fees on a case-by-case basis?
585.113
Definitions.
585.114
How will data and information obtained by BOEM under this part be disclosed to the public?
585.115
Paperwork Reduction Act statements—information collection.
585.116
Requests for information.
585.117
Severability.
585.118
What are my appeal rights?
585.119-585.149
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—The Renewable Energy Leasing Schedule
585.150
What is the Renewable Energy Leasing Schedule?
585.151-585.199
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Issuance of OCS Renewable Energy Leases

# General Lease Information
585.200
What rights are granted with a lease issued under this part?
585.201
How will BOEM issue leases?
585.202
What types of leases will BOEM issue?
585.203
With whom will BOEM consult before issuance of leases?
585.204
What areas are available for leasing consideration?
585.205
How will leases be mapped?
585.206
What is the lease size?
585.207-585.209
[Reserved]

# Competitive Lease Award Process—Pre-Auction Provisions
585.210
What are the steps in BOEM's competitive lease award process?
585.211
What is the Call?
585.212
What is area identification?
585.213
What information is included in the PSN?
585.214
What information is included in the FSN?
585.215
What may BOEM do to assess whether competitive interest for a lease area still exists before the auction?
585.216
How are bidding credits awarded and used?
585.217-585.219
[Reserved]

# Competitive Lease Award Process—Auction Provisions
585.220
How will BOEM award leases competitively?
585.221
What general provisions apply to all auctions?
585.222
What other auction rules must bidders follow?
585.223
What supplemental information will BOEM provide in a PSN and FSN?

# Competitive Lease Award Process—Post-Auction Provisions
585.224
What will BOEM do after the auction?
585.225
What happens if BOEM accepts a bid?
585.226
What happens if the provisional winner fails to meet its obligations?
585.227-585.229
[Reserved]

# Noncompetitive Lease Award Process
585.230
May I request a lease if there is no Call?
585.231
Will BOEM issue leases noncompetitively?
585.232
May I acquire a lease noncompetitively after responding to a request for information or a Call for Information and Nominations?
585.233-585.234
[Reserved]

# Commercial and Limited Lease Periods
585.235
What are the lease periods for a commercial lease?
585.236
If I have a limited lease, how long will my lease remain in effect?
585.237
What is the effective date of a lease?
585.238
May I develop my commercial lease in phases?
585.239
Are there any other renewable energy research activities that will be allowed on the OCS?
585.240-585.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Right-of-Way (ROW) Grants and Right-of-Use and Easement (RUE) Grants for Renewable Energy Activities

# ROW Grants and RUE Grants
585.300
What types of activities are authorized by ROW grants and RUE grants issued under this part?
585.301
What do ROW grants and RUE grants include?
585.302
What are the general requirements for ROW grant and RUE grant holders?
585.303
How long will my ROW grant or RUE grant remain in effect?
585.304
[Reserved]

# Obtaining ROW Grants and RUE Grants
585.305
How do I request a ROW grant or a RUE grant?
585.306
What action will BOEM take on my request?
585.307
How will BOEM determine whether competitive interest exists for ROW grants and RUE grants?
585.308
How will BOEM conduct an auction for ROW grants and RUE grants?
585.309
What is the effective date of a ROW grant or a RUE grant?
585.310-585.314
[Reserved]

# Financial Requirements for ROW Grants and RUE Grants
585.315
What deposits are required for a competitive ROW grant or RUE grant?
585.316
What payments are required for ROW grants or RUE grants?
585.317-585.399
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Lease and Grant Administration
585.400-585.404
[Reserved]

# Designation of Operator
585.405
How do I designate an operator?
585.406
Who is responsible for fulfilling lease and grant obligations?
585.407
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Assignment, Segregation, and Consolidation
585.408
May I assign my lease or grant interest?
585.409
How do I request approval of a lease or grant assignment?
585.410
When will my assignment result in a segregated lease?
585.411
How does an assignment affect the assignor's liability?
585.412
How does an assignment affect the assignee's liability?
585.413
How do I consolidate leases or grants?
585.414
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Suspension
585.415
What is a lease or grant suspension?
585.416
How do I request a lease or grant suspension?
585.417
When may BOEM order a suspension?
585.418
How will BOEM issue a suspension?
585.419
What are my immediate responsibilities if I receive a suspension order?
585.420
What effect does a suspension order have on my payments?
585.421
How long will a lease or grant suspension be in effect?

# Lease or Grant Cancellation
585.422
When can my lease or grant be canceled?
585.423-585.424
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Renewal
585.425
May I obtain a renewal of my lease or grant before it terminates?
585.426
When must I submit my request for renewal?
585.427
How long is a renewal?
585.428
What effect does applying for a renewal have on my activities and payments?
585.429
What criteria will BOEM consider in deciding whether to renew a lease or grant?
585.430-585.431
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Termination
585.432
When does my lease or grant terminate?
585.433
What must I do after my lease or grant terminates?
585.434
When may BOEM authorize facilities to remain in place following termination of a lease or grant?

# Lease or Grant Relinquishment, Contraction, or Cancellation
585.435
How can I relinquish a lease or a grant or parts of a lease or grant?
585.436
Can BOEM require lease or grant contraction?
585.437
[Reserved]
585.438
What happens to leases or grants (or portions thereof) that have been relinquished, contracted, or cancelled?
585.439-585.499
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Payments and Financial Assurance Requirements

# Payments
585.500
How do I make payments under this part?
585.501
What deposits must I submit for a competitively issued lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant?
585.502
What initial payment requirements must I meet to obtain a noncompetitive lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant?
585.503
What are the rent and operating fee requirements for a commercial lease?
585.504
How are my payments affected if I develop my commercial lease in phases?
585.505
What are the rent and operating fee requirements for a limited lease?
585.506
What operating fees must I pay on a commercial lease?
585.507
What rent payments must I pay on a project easement?
585.508
What rent payments must I pay on ROW grants or RUE grants associated with renewable energy projects?
585.509
Who is responsible for submitting lease or grant payments to ONRR?
585.510
May BOEM defer, reduce, or waive my lease or grant payments?
585.511-585.515
[Reserved]

# Financial Assurance Requirements for Commercial Leases
585.516
What are the financial assurance requirements for each stage of my commercial lease?
585.517
How will BOEM determine the supplemental financial assurance associated with commercial leases?
585.518-585.519
[Reserved]

# Financial Assurance for Limited Leases, ROW Grants, and RUE Grants
585.520
What financial assurance must I provide when I obtain my limited lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant?
585.521
Do my financial assurance requirements change as activities progress on my limited lease or grant?
585.522-585.524
[Reserved]

# Requirements for Financial Assurance Instruments
585.525
What general requirements must a financial assurance instrument meet?
585.526
What instruments other than a surety bond may I use to meet the financial assurance requirement?
585.527
May I demonstrate financial strength and reliability to meet the financial assurance requirement for lease or grant activities?
585.528
May I use a third-party guaranty to meet the financial assurance requirement for lease or grant activities?
585.529
Can I use a lease- or grant-specific decommissioning account to meet the financial assurance requirements related to decommissioning?

# Changes in Financial Assurance
585.530
What must I do if my financial assurance lapses?
585.531
What happens if the value of my financial assurance is reduced?
585.532
What happens if my surety wants to terminate the period of liability of my financial assurance?
585.533
How does my surety obtain cancellation of my financial assurance?
585.534
When may BOEM cancel my financial assurance?
585.535
Why might BOEM call for forfeiture of my financial assurance?
585.536
How will I be notified of a call for forfeiture?
585.537
How will BOEM proceed once my bond or other security is forfeited?
585.538-585.539
[Reserved]

# Revenue Sharing With States
585.540
How will BOEM equitably distribute revenues to States?
585.541
What is a qualified project for revenue sharing purposes?
585.542
What makes a State eligible for payment of revenues?
585.543
Example of how the inverse distance formula works.
585.544-585.599
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Plans and Information Requirements
585.600
What plans must I submit to BOEM before I conduct activities on my lease or grant?
585.601
When must I submit my plans to BOEM?
585.602-585.604
[Reserved]

# Site Assessment Plan and Information Requirements for Commercial Leases
585.605
What is a Site Assessment Plan (SAP)?
585.606
What must I demonstrate in my SAP?
585.607
How do I submit my SAP?
585.608-585.609
[Reserved]

# Contents of the Site Assessment Plan
585.610
What must I include in my SAP?
585.611
What information and certifications must I submit with my SAP to assist BOEM in complying with NEPA and other applicable laws?
585.612
How will my SAP be processed for Federal consistency under the Coastal Zone Management Act?
585.613
How will BOEM process my SAP?

# Activities Under an Approved SAP
585.614
When may I begin conducting activities under my approved SAP?
585.615
What other reports or notices must I submit to BOEM under my approved SAP?
585.616
[Reserved]
585.617
What activities require a revision to my SAP, and when will BOEM approve the revision?
585.618
What must I do upon completion of approved site assessment activities?
585.619
[Reserved]

# Construction and Operations Plan for Commercial Leases
585.620
What is a Construction and Operations Plan (COP)?
585.621
What must I demonstrate in my COP?
585.622
How do I submit my COP?
585.623-585.625
[Reserved]

# Contents of the Construction and Operations Plan
585.626
What must I include in my COP?
585.627
What information and certifications must I submit with my COP to assist BOEM in complying with NEPA and other applicable laws?
585.628
How will BOEM process my COP?
585.629-585.630
[Reserved]

# Activities Under an Approved COP
585.631
When must I initiate activities under an approved COP?
585.632
What documents must I submit before I may construct and install facilities under my approved COP?
585.633
[Reserved]
585.634
What activities require a revision to my COP, and when will BOEM approve the revision?
585.635
What must I do if I cease activities approved in my COP before the end of my commercial lease?
585.636-585.639
[Reserved]

# General Activities Plan Requirements for Limited Leases, ROW Grants, and RUE Grants
585.640
What is a General Activities Plan (GAP)?
585.641
What must I demonstrate in my GAP?
585.642
How do I submit my GAP?
585.643-585.644
[Reserved]

# Contents of the General Activities Plan
585.645
What must I include in my GAP?
585.646
What information and certifications must I submit with my GAP to assist BOEM in complying with NEPA and other applicable laws?
585.647
How will my GAP be processed for Federal consistency under the Coastal Zone Management Act?
585.648
How will BOEM process my GAP?
585.649
[Reserved]

# Activities Under an Approved GAP
585.650
When may I begin conducting activities under my GAP?
585.651
When may I construct complex or significant OCS facilities on my limited
lease or any facilities on my project easement proposed under my GAP?
585.652
How long do I have to conduct activities under an approved GAP?
585.653
What other reports or notices must I submit to BOEM under my approved GAP?
585.654
[Reserved]
585.655
What activities require a revision to my GAP, and when will BOEM approve the revision?
585.656
What must I do if I cease activities approved in my GAP before the end of my term?
585.657
What must I do upon completion of approved activities under my GAP?

# Cable and Pipeline Deviations
585.658
Can my cable or pipeline construction deviate from my approved COP or GAP?
585.659-585.699
[Reserved]

# Environmental Protection Requirements Under Approved Plans
585.700
What requirements must I include in my SAP, COP, or GAP regarding air quality?
585.701
How must I conduct my approved activities to protect marine mammals, threatened and endangered species, and designated critical habitat?
585.702
What must I do if I discover a potential archaeological resource while conducting my approved activities?
585.703
How must I conduct my approved activities to protect essential fish habitats identified and described under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act?

# Authority:
43 U.S.C. 1337.

# Source:
88 FR 6430, Jan. 31, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Source:
89 FR 42721, May 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 585.100
Authority.
The authority for this part derives from section 8 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCS Lands Act) (43 U.S.C. 1337). The Secretary of the Interior delegated to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) the authority to manage the development of energy on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) from sources other than oil and gas, including renewable energy, through the issuance of leases, easements, and right-of-way for activities that produce or support the production, transportation, or transmission of energy.
§ 585.101
What is the purpose of this part?
The purpose of this part is to:
(a) Establish procedures for issuance and administration of leases, right-of-way (ROW) grants, and right-of-use and easement (RUE) grants for renewable energy production on the OCS;
(b) Inform you and third parties of your obligations when you undertake activities authorized in this part; and
(c) Ensure that renewable energy activities on the OCS are conducted in a safe and environmentally sound manner, in conformance with the requirements of subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act, other applicable laws and regulations, and the terms of your lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant.
(d) This part will not convey access rights for oil, gas, or other minerals.
§ 585.102
What are BOEM's responsibilities under this part?
(a) BOEM will ensure that any activities authorized in this part are carried out in a manner that provides for and reaches a rational balance among the following goals to the extent they conflict or are otherwise in tension, none of which inherently outweighs or supplants any other:
(1) Safety;
(2) Protection of the environment;
(3) Prevention of waste, including economic waste and physical waste of energy resources from sources other than oil and gas;
(4) Conservation of the natural resources of the OCS;
(5) Coordination with relevant Federal agencies (including, in particular, those agencies involved in planning activities that are undertaken to avoid conflicts among users and to maximize the economic and ecological benefits of the OCS, including multifaceted spatial planning efforts);
(6) Protection of national security interests of the United States;
(7) Protection of the rights of other authorized users of the OCS;
(8) A fair return to the United States;
(9) Prevention of interference with reasonable uses of the exclusive economic zone, the high seas, and the territorial seas (as determined by the Secretary);
(10) Consideration of the location of and any schedule relating to a lease or grant under this part for an area of the OCS, and any other use of the sea or seabed;
(11) Public notice and comment on any proposal submitted for a lease or grant under this part; and
(12) Oversight, research, monitoring, and enforcement of activities authorized by a lease or grant under this part.
(b) BOEM will require compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, other requirements, and the terms of your lease or grant and approved plans under this part. BOEM will approve, disapprove, or approve with conditions any plans, applications, or other documents submitted to BOEM for approval under the provisions of this part.
(c) Unless otherwise provided in this part, BOEM may give oral directives or decisions whenever prior BOEM approval is required under this part. BOEM will document in writing any such oral directives within 10 business days.
(d) BOEM will establish practices and procedures to govern the collection of all payments due to the Federal Government required under the regulations of this part, including any cost recovery fees, rents, operating fees, and other fees or payments. BOEM will do this in accordance with the terms of this part, the leasing notice, the lease or grant under this part, and applicable Office of Natural Resources Revenue (ONRR) regulations or guidance.
(e) BOEM will provide for coordination and consultation with the Governor of any State, the executive of any local government, and the executive of any Indian Tribe that may be affected by a lease, easement, or ROW under this section. BOEM may invite any affected State Governor, representative of an affected Indian Tribe, and affected local government executive to join in establishing a task force or other joint planning or coordination agreement in carrying out our responsibilities under this part.
§ 585.103
When may BOEM prescribe or approve departures from the regulations in this part?
(a) BOEM may prescribe or approve departures from the provisions of this part when BOEM deems the departure necessary because the applicable provisions as applied to a specific circumstance:
(1) Are impractical or unduly burdensome and the departure is necessary to achieve the intended objectives of the renewable energy program;
(2) Fail to conserve the natural resources of the OCS;
(3) Fail to protect life (including human and wildlife), property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment; or
(4) Fail to protect sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance.
(b) Any departure approved under this section and its rationale must:
(1) Be consistent with subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act;
(2) Protect the environment and the public health and safety to the same degree as if there was no approved departure from this part;
(3) Not impair the rights of third parties; and
(4) Be documented in writing.
§ 585.104
Do I need a BOEM lease or other authorization to produce or support the production of electricity or other energy product from a renewable energy resource on the OCS?
Except as otherwise authorized by law, it is unlawful for any person to construct, operate, or maintain any facility to produce, transport, or support generation of electricity or other energy product derived from a renewable energy resource on any part of the OCS, except in accordance with the terms of a lease, easement, or ROW issued under the OCS Lands Act.
§ 585.105
What are my responsibilities under this part?
As a lessee, applicant, operator, or holder of a ROW or RUE grant, you must:
(a) Design your projects and conduct all activities in a manner that ensures safety and will not cause undue harm
or damage to natural resources, including their physical, atmospheric, and biological components to the extent practicable; and take measures to prevent unauthorized discharge of pollutants including marine trash and debris into the offshore environment;
(b) Submit requests, applications, plans, notices, modifications, and supplemental information to BOEM as required by this part;
(c) Follow up, in writing, any oral request or notification you made, within 3 business days;
(d) Comply with all applicable laws and regulations, the terms of your lease or grant under this part, reports, notices, and approved plans prepared under this part, and any conditions imposed by BOEM through its review of any of these reports, notices, and approved plans, as provided in this part;
(e) Make all applicable payments on time;
(f) Comply with the DOI's nonprocurement debarment regulations at 2 CFR part 1400;
(g) Include the requirement to comply with 2 CFR part 1400 in all contracts and transactions related to a lease or grant under this part;
(h) Conduct all activities authorized by the lease or grant in a manner consistent with the provisions of subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act;
(i) Compile, retain, and make available to BOEM representatives, within the time specified by BOEM, any data and information related to the site assessment, design, and operations of your project; and
(j) Respond to requests from the Director in a timely manner.
§ 585.106
What happens if I fail to comply with this part?
(a) BOEM may take appropriate corrective action under this part if you fail to comply with applicable provisions of Federal law, the regulations in this part, other applicable regulations, any order of the Director, the provisions of a lease or grant issued under this part, or the requirements of an approved plan or other approval under this part.
(b) BOEM may issue to you a notice of noncompliance if we determine that there has been a violation of the regulations in this part, any order of the Director, or any provision of your lease, grant, or other approval issued under this part. When issuing a notice of noncompliance, BOEM will serve you at your last known address.
(c) A notice of noncompliance will tell you how you failed to comply with this part, any order of the Director and/or the provisions of your lease, grant or other approval, and will specify what you must do to correct the noncompliance and the time limits within which you must act.
(d) Failure of a lessee, operator, or grant holder to take the actions specified in a notice of noncompliance issued under this part within the time limit specified provides the basis for issuance of a cessation order by BSEE, as provided in 30 CFR 285.401 and/or cancellation of the lease or grant by the Secretary as provided in § 585.422.
(e) BOEM may assess civil penalties, as authorized by section 24 of the OCS Lands Act and as determined under the procedures set forth in 30 CFR part 550, subpart N, if you fail to comply with any provision of this part or any term of a lease, grant, or order issued under the authority of this part:
(1) After notice of such failure and expiration of any reasonable period allowed for corrective action; or
(2) BOEM determines that the failure constitutes, or constituted, a threat of serious, irreparable, or immediate harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment.
§ 585.107
Who can acquire or hold a lease or grant under this part?
(a) You may acquire or hold a lease or grant under this part if you can demonstrate that you have the technical and financial capabilities to conduct the activities authorized by the lease or grant and you are a(n):
(1) Citizen or national of the United States;
(2) Alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20);
(3) Private, public, or municipal corporations organized under the laws of any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any territory
or insular possession subject to U.S. jurisdiction;
(4) Association of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens, or corporations;
(5) Executive agency of the United States as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105;
(6) State of the United States; or
(7) Political subdivision of a State of the United States.
(b) You may not acquire or hold a lease or grant under this part or acquire an interest in a lease or grant under this part if:
(1) You or your principals are excluded or disqualified from participating in transactions covered by the Federal nonprocurement debarment and suspension system (2 CFR part 1400), unless BOEM explicitly has approved an exception for this transaction;
(2) BOEM determines or has previously determined after notice and opportunity for a hearing that you or your principals have failed to meet or exercise due diligence under any OCS lease or grant; or
(3) After written notice and your opportunity to be heard, BOEM determines that:
(i) You no longer meet the qualification requirements for acquiring or holding a lease or grant in paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii) You have:
(A) Violated an applicable law, regulation, order, lease or grant provision, approved plan, or the prohibitions prescribed in a final sale notice; or otherwise engaged in illegal activity, anti-competitive or collusive behavior, fraud, or misrepresentation; and
(B) Failed to take timely remedial action as specified in the written notice provided by BOEM of the basis for the disqualification.
(c) As long as a party is excluded or disqualified from acquiring or holding a lease or grant under this part, it is also ineligible to participate in BOEM's competitive and noncompetitive lease or grant issuance processes, including auctions, conducted under this part, even as an agent for another entity. A party can restore its eligibility by completing the remedial action specified in the notice of the proposed disqualification.
(d) You may share ownership interests in a lease with one or more other persons, provided that all interest holders in the lease are eligible to hold a lease pursuant to this section and § 585.108.
§ 585.108
How do I show that I am qualified to be a lessee or grant holder?
(a) You must demonstrate your technical and financial capability to construct, operate, maintain, and terminate/decommission projects for which you are requesting authorization. Documentation can include:
(1) Descriptions of international or domestic experience with renewable energy projects or other types of electric-energy-related projects; and
(2) Information establishing access to sufficient capital to carry out development.
(b) An individual must submit a written statement of citizenship status attesting to U.S. citizenship. It does not need to be notarized nor give the age of individual. A resident alien may submit a photocopy of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services form issued by the appropriate Federal immigration authority evidencing legal status as a resident alien.
(c) A corporation or association must submit evidence, as specified in the table in paragraph (d) of this section, acceptable to BOEM that:
(1) It is qualified to hold leases or grants under this part;
(2) It is authorized to conduct business under the laws of its State;
(3) It is authorized to hold leases or grants on the OCS under the operating rules of its business; and
(4) The persons holding the titles listed are authorized to bind the corporation or association when conducting business with BOEM.
(d) Acceptable evidence under paragraph (c) of this section includes, but is not limited to the following:
Requirements to qualify to hold leases or grants on the OCS:
Corp.
Ltd.
prtnsp.
Gen.
prtnsp.
LLC
Trust
(1) Original certificate or certified copy from the State of incorporation stating the name of the corporation exactly as it must appear on all legal documents
XX
(2) Certified statement by Secretary/Assistant Secretary over corporate seal, certifying that the corporation is authorized to hold OCS leases
XX
(3) Evidence of authority of titled positions to bind corporation, certified by Secretary/Assistant Secretary over corporate seal, including the following:
XX
(i) Certified copy of resolution of the board of directors with titles of officers authorized to bind corporation
(ii) Certified copy of resolutions granting corporate officer authority to issue a power of attorney
(iii) Certified copy of power of attorney or certified copy of resolution granting power of attorney
(4) Original certificate or certified copy of partnership or organization paperwork registering with the appropriate State official
XX
XX
XX
(5) Copy of articles of partnership or organization evidencing filing with appropriate Secretary of State, certified by Secretary/Assistant Secretary of partnership or member or manager of LLC
XX
XX
XX
(6) Original certificate or certified copy evidencing State where partnership or LLC is registered. Statement of authority to hold OCS leases, certified by Secretary/Assistant Secretary,
OR
original paperwork registering with the appropriate State official
XX
XX
XX
(7) Statements from each partner or LLC member indicating the following:
XX
XX
XX
(i) If a corporation or partnership, statement of State of organization and authorization to hold OCS leases, certified by Secretary/Assistant Secretary over corporate seal, if a corporation
(ii) If an individual, a statement of citizenship
(8) Statement from general partner, certified by Secretary/Assistant Secretary that:
XX
(i) Each individual limited partner is a U.S. citizen and;
(ii) Each corporate limited partner or other entity is incorporated or formed and organized under the laws of a U.S. State or territory
(9) Evidence of authority to bind partnership or LLC, if not specified in partnership agreement, articles of organization, or LLC regulations,
i.e.,
certificates of authority from Secretary/Assistant Secretary reflecting authority of officers
XX
XX
XX
(10) Listing of members of LLC certified by Secretary/Assistant Secretary or any member or manager of LLC
XX
(11) Copy of trust agreement or document establishing the trust and all amendments, properly certified by the trustee with reference to where the original documents are filed
XX
(12) Statement indicating the law under which the trust is established and that the trust is authorized to hold OCS leases or grants
XX
(e) A local, State, or Federal executive entity must submit a written statement that:
(1) It is qualified to hold leases or grants under this part; and
(2) The person(s) acting on behalf of the entity is authorized to bind the entity when conducting business with us.
(f) BOEM may require you to submit additional information at any time considering your bid or request for a noncompetitive lease.
§ 585.109
When must I notify BOEM if an action has been filed alleging that I am insolvent or bankrupt?
You must notify BOEM within 3 business days after you learn of any action filed alleging that you are insolvent or bankrupt.
§ 585.110
When must I notify BOEM of mergers, name changes, or changes of business form?
You must notify BOEM in writing of any merger, name change, or change of business form. You must notify BOEM as soon as practicable following the merger, name change, or change in business form, but no later than 120 days after the earliest of either the effective date, or the date of filing the change or action with the Secretary of the State or other authorized official in the State of original registry.
§ 585.111
How do I submit plans, applications, reports, or notices required by this part?
Unless otherwise stated, you must submit one electronic copy of all plans, applications, reports, or notices required by this part to BOEM. BOEM will inform you if it requires paper copies of specific documents. Unless stated otherwise, documents should be submitted to the relevant contacts listed on the BOEM website.
§ 585.112
When and how does BOEM charge me processing fees on a case-by-case basis?
(a) BOEM will charge a processing fee on a case-by-case basis under the procedures in this section with regard to any application or request under this part if we decide at any time that the preparation of a particular document or study is necessary for the application or request and it will have a unique processing cost, such as the preparation of an Environmental Assessment (EA) or Environmental Impact Statement (EIS).
(1) Processing costs will include contract oversight and efforts to review and approve documents prepared by contractors, whether the contractor is paid directly by the applicant or through BOEM.
(2) We may apply a standard overhead rate to direct processing costs.
(b) We will assess the ongoing processing fee for each individual application or request according to the following procedures:
(1) Before we process your application or request, we will give you a written estimate of the proposed fee based on reasonable processing costs.
(2) You may comment on the proposed fee.
(3) You may:
(i) Ask for our approval to perform, or to directly pay a contractor to perform, all or part of any document, study, or other activity according to standards we specify, thereby reducing our costs for processing your application or request; or
(ii) Ask to pay us to perform, or contract for, all or part of any document, study, or other activity.
(4) We will then give you the final estimate of the processing fee amount with payment terms and instructions after considering your comments and any BOEM-approved work you will do.
(i) If we encounter higher or lower processing costs than anticipated, we will re-estimate our reasonable processing costs following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, but we will not stop ongoing processing unless you do not pay in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(ii) Once processing is complete, we will refund to you the amount of money that we did not spend on processing costs.
(5) Consistent with the payment and billing terms provided in the final estimate, we will periodically estimate what our reasonable processing costs will be for a specific period and will bill you for that period. Payment is due to us 30 days after you receive your bill. We will stop processing your document if you do not pay the bill by the date payment is due. If a periodic payment turns out to be more or less than our reasonable processing costs for the period, we will adjust the next billing accordingly or make a refund. Do not deduct any amount from a payment without our prior written approval.
(6) You must pay the entire fee before we will issue the final document or take final action on your application or request.
(7) You may appeal our estimated processing costs in accordance with the regulations in § 585.118 and 43 CFR part 4. We will not process the document further until the appeal is resolved, unless you pay the fee under protest while the appeal is pending. If the appeal results in a decision changing the
proposed fee, we will adjust the fee in accordance with this section. If we adjust the fee downward, we will not pay interest.
§ 585.113
Definitions.
Terms used in this part have the meanings as defined in this section:
Affected local government
means with respect to any activities proposed, conducted, or approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285, any locality:
(1) That is, or is proposed to be, the site of gathering, transmitting, or distributing electricity or other energy product, or is otherwise receiving, processing, refining, or transshipping product, or services derived from activities approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285;
(2) That is used, or is proposed to be used, as a support base for activities approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285; or
(3) In which there is a reasonable probability of significant effect on land or water uses from activities approved under this part, or 30 CFR part 285.
Affected State
means with respect to any activities proposed, conducted, or approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285, any coastal State—
(1) That is, or is proposed to be, the site of gathering, transmitting, or distributing energy or is otherwise receiving, processing, refining, or transshipping products, or services derived from activities approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285;
(2) That is used, or is scheduled to be used, as a support base for activities approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285; or
(3) In which there is a reasonable probability of significant effect on land or water uses from activities approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285.
Archaeological resource
means any material remains of human life or activities that are at least 50 years of age and that are of archaeological interest (
i.e.,
which are capable of providing scientific or humanistic understanding of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques, such as controlled observation, contextual measurement, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation, and explanation).
Best available and safest technology
means the best available and safest technologies that BOEM determines to be economically feasible wherever failure of equipment would have a significant effect on safety, health, or the environment.
Best management practices
mean practices recognized within their respective industry, or by government, as one of the best for achieving the desired output while reducing undesirable outcomes.
Bidding credits
means the value assigned by BOEM, expressed in monetary terms, to the factors or actions demonstrated, or committed to, by a bidder at a BOEM lease auction during the competitive lease award process. The type(s) and value(s) of any bidding credit(s) awarded to any given bidder will be set forth in the Final Sale Notice.
BOEM
means Bureau of Ocean Energy Management of the Department of the Interior.
BSEE
means Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement of the Department of the Interior.
Certified Verification Agent (CVA)
means an individual or organization, experienced in the design, fabrication, and installation of offshore marine facilities or structures, who will conduct specified third-party reviews, inspections, and verifications in accordance with 30 CFR part 285.
Coastal environment
means the physical atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors which interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the terrestrial ecosystem from the shoreline inward to the boundaries of the coastal zone.
Coastline
means the same as the term “coast line” in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301(c)).
Commercial activities
means, under renewable energy leases and grants, all activities associated with the generation, storage, or transmission of electricity or other energy product from a renewable energy project on the OCS, and for which such electricity or other
energy product is intended for distribution, sale, or other commercial use, except for electricity or other energy product distributed or sold pursuant to technology-testing activities on a limited lease. This term also includes activities associated with all stages of development, including initial site characterization and assessment, facility construction, and project decommissioning.
Commercial lease
means a lease issued under this part that specifies the terms and conditions under which a person can conduct commercial activities.
Commercial operations
means the generation of electricity or other energy product for commercial use, sale, transmission, or distribution from a commercial lease.
Critical Safety Systems and Equipment
means safety systems and equipment designed to prevent or ameliorate fire, spillages, or other major accidents that could result in harm to health, safety, or the environment in the area of your facilities.
Decommissioning
means removing BOEM and BSEE approved facilities and returning the site of the lease or grant to a condition that meets the requirements under subpart I of 30 CFR part 285.
Director
means the Director of BOEM, or an official authorized to act on the Director's behalf.
Distance
means the minimum great circle distance.
Eligible State
means a coastal State having a coastline (measured from the nearest point) no more than 15 miles from the geographic center of a qualified project area.
Fabrication
means the cutting, fitting, welding, or other assembly of project elements.
Facility
means an installation that is permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed of the OCS. Facilities include any structures; devices; appurtenances; gathering, transmission, and distribution cables; pipelines; and permanently moored vessels. Any group of OCS installations interconnected with walkways, or any group of installations that includes a central or primary installation with one or more satellite or secondary installations, is a single facility. BOEM and BSEE may decide that the complexity of the installations justifies their classification as separate facilities.
Geographic center of a project
means the centroid (geometric center point) of a qualified project area. The centroid represents the point that is the weighted average of coordinates of the same dimension, with the weights determined by a density function. For example, in the case of a project area shaped as a rectangle or other parallelogram, the geographic center would be that point where lines between opposing corners intersect. The geographic center of a project could be outside the project area itself if that area is irregularly shaped.
Governor
means the Governor of a State or the person or entity lawfully designated by or under State law to exercise the powers granted to a Governor.
Grant
means a right-of-way or a right-of-use and easement issued under the provisions of this part.
Human environment
means the physical, social, and economic components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the state, condition, and quality of living conditions, employment, and health of those affected, directly or indirectly, by activities occurring on the OCS.
Lease
means an agreement authorizing the use of a designated portion of the OCS for activities allowed under this part. The term also means the area covered by that agreement, when the context requires.
Lease area
means an area on the OCS that BOEM has identified for leasing for potential development of renewable energy resources.
Lessee
means the holder of a lease, a BOEM-approved assignee, and, when describing the conduct required of parties engaged in activities on the lease, it also refers to the operator and all persons authorized by the holder of the lease or operator to conduct activities on the lease.
Limited lease
means a lease issued under this part that specifies the terms and conditions under which a person may conduct activities on the OCS that support the production of energy, but do not result in the production of electricity or other energy product for
sale, distribution, or other commercial use exceeding a limit specified in the lease.
Marine environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the marine ecosystem. These include the waters of the high seas, the contiguous zone, transitional and intertidal areas, salt marshes, and wetlands within the coastal zone and on the OCS.
Miles
means nautical miles, as opposed to statute miles.
Multiple factor auction
means an auction that involves the use of bidding credits to incentivize goals or actions that support public policy objectives or maximize public benefits through the competitive leasing auction process. For any multiple factor auction, the monetary value of the bidding credits, if any, would be added to the value of the cash bid to determine the highest bidder.
Natural resources
include, without limiting the generality thereof, renewable energy, oil, gas, and all other minerals (as defined in section 2(q) of the OCS Lands Act), and marine animal and marine plant life.
Operator
means the individual, corporation, or association having control or management of activities on the lease or grant under this part. The operator may be a lessee, grant holder, or a contractor designated by the lessee or holder of a grant issued under this part.
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)
means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters, as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301), whose subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control or within the exclusive economic zone of the United States and adjacent to any territory of the United States and does not include any area conveyed by Congress to a territorial government for administration.
Person
means, in addition to a natural person, an association (including partnerships and joint ventures); a Federal agency; a State; a political subdivision of a State; a Native American Tribal government; or a private, public, or municipal corporation.
Project,
for the purposes of defining the source of revenues to be shared, means a lease, ROW, RUE, or Alternate Use RUE on which the activities authorized under this part and/or 30 CFR part 285 or 586 are conducted on the OCS. The term “project” may be used elsewhere in this part to refer to these same authorized activities, the facilities used to conduct these activities, or to the geographic area of the project,
i.e.,
the project area.
Project area
means the geographic surface leased, or granted, for the purpose of a specific project. If OCS acreage is granted for a project under some form of agreement other than a lease (
i.e.,
a ROW or RUE), the Federal acreage granted would be considered the project area. To avoid distortions in the calculation of the geometric center of the project area, project easements issued under this part are not considered part of the qualified project's area.
Project Design Envelope (PDE)
means a reasonable range of design parameters proposed in a lessee's plan for components of the project, such as type, dimensions, and number of wind turbine generators; foundation type; location of the export cable route; location of an onshore substation; location of the grid connection point; and construction methods and timing.
Project easement
means an easement to which, upon approval of your Construction and Operations Plan (COP) or General Activities Plan (GAP), you are entitled as part of the lease for the purpose of installing, maintaining, repairing and replacing: gathering, transmission, and distribution, and inter-array cables; power and pumping stations; facility anchors; pipelines; and associated facilities and other appurtenances on the OCS as necessary for the full enjoyment of the lease.
Provisional winner
means a bidder that BOEM determines at the conclusion of the auction to have submitted the winning bid. The provisional winner becomes the winning bidder after the favorable completion of BOEM's bid review, Department of Justice antitrust review, bidder obligations under
§ 585.225(b), and any appeals process under § 585.118(c).
Receipt,
as used in this part to describe the time when a document is received by any party in the absence of documentation to the contrary, is deemed to have taken place:
(1)(i) Five (5) business days after the date the document was given to the U.S. Postal Service (or deposited in one of its mailboxes), properly addressed and with proper postage affixed, or was given to a delivery service (or deposited in one of its receptacles), properly addressed and with the delivery cost prepaid; or
(ii) On the date on which the document was properly addressed and sent electronically.
(2) This definition also applies to variants of the words “receipt” and “receive” where those terms are used in this part to describe the receipt of a document when the timing of receipt triggers a regulatory time period or consequence.
Renewable Energy
means energy resources other than oil and gas and minerals as defined in 30 CFR part 580. Such resources include, but are not limited to, wind, solar, and ocean waves, tides, and current.
Revenues
mean bonuses, rents, operating fees, and similar payments made in connection with a project or project area. It does not include administrative fees such as those assessed for cost recovery, civil penalties, and forfeiture of financial assurance.
Right-of-use and easement (RUE) grant
means an easement issued by BOEM under this part that authorizes use of a designated portion of the OCS to support activities on a lease or other use authorization for renewable energy activities. The term also means the area covered by the authorization.
Right-of-way (ROW) grant
means an authorization issued by BOEM under this part to use a portion of the OCS for the construction and use of a cable or pipeline for the purpose of gathering, transmitting, distributing, or otherwise transporting electricity or other energy product generated or produced from renewable energy, but does not constitute a project easement under this part. The term also means the area covered by the authorization.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an official authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.
Significant archaeological resource
means an archaeological resource that meets the criteria of significance for eligibility for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, as defined in 36 CFR 60.4.
Site assessment activities
mean those initial activities conducted to assess an area on the OCS, such as resource assessment surveys (
e.g.,
meteorological and oceanographic) or technology testing, involving the installation of bottom-founded facilities.
We, us,
and
our
refer to BOEM, or its possessive, depending on the context.
You
and
your
means an applicant, lessee, the operator, or designated operator, ROW grant holder or RUE grant holder under this part, or the designated agent of any of these, or the possessive of each, depending on the context. The terms
you
and
your
also include contractors and subcontractors of the entities specified in the preceding sentence.
§ 585.114
How will data and information obtained by BOEM under this part be disclosed to the public?
(a) BOEM will make data and information available in accordance with the requirements and subject to the limitations of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552) and the regulations contained in 43 CFR part 2.
(b) BOEM will not release such data and information that we have determined is exempt from disclosure under exemption 4 of FOIA. We will review such data and information and objections of the submitter by the following schedule to determine whether release at that time will result in substantial competitive harm or disclosure of trade secrets.
If you have a . . .
Then BOEM will review data and information for possible
release:
(1) Commercial lease
At the earlier of:
(i) 3 years after the commencement of commercial operations; or
(ii) 3 years after the lease terminates.
(2) Limited lease
At 3 years after the lease terminates.
(3) ROW or RUE grant
At the earliest of:
(i) 10 years after the approval of the grant;
(ii) Grant termination; or
(iii) 3 years after the completion of construction activities.
(c) After considering any objections from the submitter, if we determine that release of such data and information will result in:
(1) No substantial competitive harm or disclosure of trade secrets, then the data and information will be released.
(2) Substantial competitive harm or disclosure of trade secrets, then the data and information will not be released at that time but will be subject to further review every 3 years thereafter.
§ 585.115
Paperwork Reduction Act statements—information collection.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection requirements in this part under 44 U.S.C. 3501,
et seq.,
and assigned OMB Control Number 1010-0176. The table in paragraph (e) of this section lists the subparts in the rule requiring the information and its title, summarizes the reasons for collecting the information, and summarizes how BOEM uses the information.
(b) Respondents are primarily renewable energy applicants, lessees, ROW grant holders, RUE grant holders, Alternate Use RUE grant holders, and operators. The requirement to respond to the information collection in this part is mandated under subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act. Some responses are also required to obtain or retain a benefit or may be voluntary.
(c) The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
) requires us to inform the public that an agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
(d) Comments regarding any aspect of the collections of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, should be sent to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
(e) BOEM is collecting this information for the reasons given in the following table:
30 CFR 585 subpart and title
Reasons for collecting information and how used
(1) Subpart A—General Provisions
To inform BOEM of actions taken to comply with general operational requirements on the OCS. To ensure that operations on the OCS meet statutory and regulatory requirements, are safe and protect the environment, and result in diligent development on OCS leases.
(2) Subpart B—The Renewable Energy Leasing Schedule
To enable BOEM to publish a proposed five-year leasing schedule for the OCS renewable energy program.
(3) Subpart C—Issuance of OCS Renewable Energy Leases
To provide BOEM with information needed to determine when to use a competitive process for issuing a renewable energy lease, to identify auction formats and bidding systems and variables that we may use when that determination is affirmative, and to determine the terms under which we will issue renewable energy leases.
(4) Subpart D—ROW Grants and RUE Grants for Renewable Energy Activities
To issue ROW grants and RUE grants for OCS renewable energy activities that are not associated with a BOEM-issued renewable energy lease.
(5) Subpart E—Lease and Grant Administration
To ensure compliance with regulations pertaining to a lease or grant, including designation of operator, assignment, segregation, consolidation, suspension, renewal, termination, relinquishment, and cancellation.
(6) Subpart F—Payments and Financial Assurance Requirements
To ensure that payments and financial assurance payments for renewable energy leases comply with subpart E.
(7) Subpart G—Plans and Information Requirements
To enable BOEM to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
), the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) (16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
), and other Federal laws and to ensure the safety of the environment on the OCS.
§ 585.116
Requests for information.
BOEM may publish a request for information (RFI) in the
Federal Register
for the following reasons:
(a) To solicit information from industry, federally recognized Tribes, State and local agencies, and other interested entities for evaluating the offshore renewable energy industry, including the identification of potential challenges or obstacles to its continued development. An RFI may relate to the identification of environmental, technical, regulatory, or economic matters that promote or detract from continued development of renewable energy technologies on the OCS. BOEM may use the information received to refine its renewable energy program, including to facilitate OCS renewable energy development in a safe and environmentally responsible manner and to ensure a fair return to the United States for use of the OCS.
(b) To assess interest in leasing all or part of the OCS for activities authorized in this part.
(c) To determine whether there is competitive interest in a specific OCS renewable energy proposal received by BOEM, such as an unsolicited request for a lease under § 585.231(b) or a RUE or ROW grant under § 585.307(a).
(d) To seek other information that BOEM needs for this program.
§ 585.117
Severability.
If a court holds any provisions of this part or their applicability to any persons or circumstances invalid, the remainder of the provisions and their applicability to any persons or circumstances will not be affected.
§ 585.118
What are my appeal rights?
(a) Except as stated in paragraph (c) of this section, any party adversely affected by a final decision issued by BOEM under this part may appeal that decision to the Interior Board of Land Appeals (IBLA), under 30 CFR part 590 and 43 CFR part 4, subpart E.
(b) Any final decision will remain in full force and effect during the pendency of an appeal unless a stay is granted under 43 CFR part 4.
(c) A bidder adversely affected by BOEM's determination of a provisional winner made under this part may appeal to the BOEM Director, but decisions determining a provisional winner may not be appealed to the IBLA.
(1) A bidder that elects to appeal a provisional winner selection decision must file a written appeal with the Director within 15 business days after receipt of the decision.
(2) Such appeal must be accompanied by a statement of reasons. Before reversing a provisional winner selection decision, the Director will provide the provisional winner a reasonable opportunity to respond in writing to the appellant's statement of reasons. The Director will issue a written determination either affirming or reversing the decision. The Director's decision is not appealable to the IBLA under this section.
(3) BOEM will not execute a lease or grant until the 15-business-day appeal period closes and all timely filed appeals are resolved.
(4) The review authority of the Office of Hearings and Appeals does not apply to either the provisional winner selection decisions made under this part or the Director's final determination affirming or reversing a provisional winner selection decision.
§§ 585.119-585.149
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—The Renewable Energy Leasing Schedule

# Source:
89 FR 42728, May 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 585.150
What is the Renewable Energy Leasing Schedule?
At least once every 2 years, the Secretary will publish a schedule with a list of locations under consideration for leasing, along with a projection of when lease sales are anticipated to occur for the 5-year period following the schedule's publication. This schedule will include a general description of the area covered by each proposed lease sale, the calendar year in which each lease sale is projected to occur, and the reasons for any changes made to the previous schedule. Any proposed lease sale covered by the schedule will be subject to all applicable regulations,
including area identification, coordination with relevant parties, and applicable environmental reviews.
§§ 585.151-585.199
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Issuance of OCS Renewable Energy Leases

# Source:
89 FR 42729, May 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# General Lease Information
§ 585.200
What rights are granted with a lease issued under this part?
(a) A lease issued under this part grants the lessee the right, subject to obtaining the necessary approvals, including but not limited to those required under the FERC hydrokinetic licensing process, and complying with all provisions of this part, to occupy, and install and operate facilities on, a designated portion of the OCS for the purpose of conducting:
(1) Commercial activities; or
(2) Other limited activities that support, result from, or relate to the production of energy from a renewable energy source.
(b) A lease issued under this part confers on the lessee the right to one or more project easements without further competition for the purpose of installing gathering, transmission, and distribution cables; pipelines; and appurtenances on the OCS as necessary for the full enjoyment of the lease.
(1) You must apply for the project easement as part of your COP or GAP, as provided under subpart G of this part; and
(2) BOEM will incorporate your approved project easement in your lease as an addendum.
(c) A commercial lease issued under this part may be developed in phases, with BOEM approval as provided in § 585.238.
§ 585.201
How will BOEM issue leases?
BOEM will issue leases on a competitive basis, as provided under §§ 585.210 through 585.226. However, if we determine after public notice of a proposed lease that there is no competitive interest, we will issue leases noncompetitively, as provided under §§ 585.230 through 585.232. We will issue leases on forms approved by BOEM and will include terms, conditions, and stipulations identified and developed as appropriate.
§ 585.202
What types of leases will BOEM issue?
BOEM may issue commercial or limited leases for OCS activities under § 585.104. BOEM may issue a lease for OCS renewable energy research activities under § 585.239.
§ 585.203
With whom will BOEM consult before issuance of leases?
For leases issued under this part, through either the competitive or noncompetitive process, BOEM, prior to issuing the lease, will coordinate and consult with relevant Federal agencies (including, in particular, those agencies involved in planning activities that are undertaken to avoid or minimize conflicts among users and maximize the economic and ecological benefits of the OCS, including multifaceted spatial planning efforts), any affected federally recognized Indian Tribes, the Native Hawaiian Community or Alaska Native Corporations, as appropriate, the Governor of any affected State, and the executive of any affected local government, as directed by subsections 8(p)(4) and (7) of the OCS Lands Act or other relevant Federal laws. Federal statutes that require BOEM to consult with interested parties or Federal agencies or to respond to findings of those agencies include the Endangered Species Act (ESA) and the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act. BOEM also engages in consultation with Tribal and State historic preservation officers pursuant to the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA).
§ 585.204
What areas are available for leasing consideration?
BOEM may offer any appropriately platted area of the OCS, as provided in § 585.205, for a renewable energy lease, except any area within the exterior boundaries of any unit of the National Park System, National Wildlife Refuge System, National Marine Sanctuary System, or any National Monument.
§ 585.205
How will leases be mapped?
BOEM will prepare leasing maps and official protraction diagrams of areas of the OCS. The areas included in each lease will be in accordance with the appropriate leasing map or official protraction diagram.
§ 585.206
What is the lease size?
(a) BOEM will determine the size for each lease based on the area required to accommodate the anticipated activities. The processes leading to both competitive and noncompetitive issuance of leases will provide public notice of the lease size adopted. We will delineate leases by using mapped OCS blocks or portions, or aggregations of blocks.
(b) The lease size includes the minimum area that will allow the lessee sufficient space to develop the project and manage activities in a manner that is consistent with the provisions of this part and 30 CFR part 285. The lease may include whole lease blocks or portions of a lease block.
§§ 585.207-585.209
[Reserved]

# Competitive Lease Award Process—Pre-Auction Provisions
§ 585.210
What are the steps in BOEM's competitive lease award process?
(a) BOEM may publish an RFI under § 585.116.
(b) BOEM will award leases through a competitive lease award process unless competitive interest does not exist. BOEM will publish details for each auction and lease through appropriate notices in the
Federal Register.
Each competitive lease award process will include the following steps:
(1)
Call for information and nominations (Call).
BOEM will publish a Call in the
Federal Register
requesting information to determine qualifications of prospective bidders and interest in preliminarily identified OCS lease areas.
(2)
Area identification.
BOEM will identify OCS areas for leasing consideration and related analysis in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies, State and local governments, federally recognized Tribes, Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) corporations, and other interested parties.
(3)
Proposed Sale Notice (PSN).
BOEM will publish a PSN, or a notice of its availability, in the
Federal Register,
announcing BOEM's intention to conduct an auction for prospective lease areas. The PSN will set forth provisions and information concerning the proposed auction and lease and will invite stakeholder comments.
(4)
Final Sale Notice (FSN).
BOEM will publish an FSN, or a notice of its availability, in the
Federal Register
setting forth final information concerning the auction and lease.
(5)
Auction.
BOEM will hold an auction under the regulations in this part and the FSN.
(6)
Lease award.
BOEM will award leases subsequent to the completion of the aforementioned steps under the regulations in this part and the FSN.
§ 585.211
What is the Call?
(a) The Call is a notice that BOEM will publish in the
Federal Register
requesting responses from stakeholders interested in bidding on designated OCS areas and comments from interested and potentially affected parties. The responses may inform the area identification process and will enable BOEM to determine whether there exists competitive interest in the proposed lease area. BOEM may request additional information from stakeholders related to environmental, economic, and other issues.
(b) The Call may include the following:
(1) The areas that BOEM has preliminarily identified for leasing consideration;
(2) A request for comments concerning geological conditions; archaeological sites on the seabed or nearshore; multiple uses of the proposed leasing area (including, for example, navigation, recreation, military, and fisheries); and other socioeconomic, biological, and environmental information;
(3) Request for comments regarding feasibility for development, including the energy resource and opportunity for grid connection;
(4) Possible lease terms and conditions;
(5) A request to potential bidders to nominate one or more areas for a commercial renewable energy lease within the preliminarily identified leasing areas. Such nominations must include:
(i) The specific OCS blocks that the respondent is interested in leasing;
(ii) A general description of the respondent's objectives and how respondent proposes to achieve those objectives;
(iii) A preliminary schedule of the respondent's proposed activities, including those potentially leading to commercial operations, to the extent known;
(iv) Information regarding respondent's coordination, or intent to coordinate, with any other entity for the purposes of acquiring a lease from BOEM, if applicable;
(v) Documentation demonstrating the respondent's qualification to acquire a lease or grant as specified in §§ 585.107 and 585.108;
(vi) Available and pertinent information concerning renewable energy and environmental conditions in the nominated areas, including energy and resource data and information used to evaluate the areas; and
(vii) Any additional information requested by BOEM in the Call;
(c) Respondents have 45 calendar days from the date the Call is published in the
Federal Register
to reply, unless BOEM specifies another time period of not less than 30 calendar days in the Call.
(d) BOEM may use the information received in response to a Call to:
(1) Identify lease areas;
(2) Develop options for its lease provisions (
e.g.,
stipulations, payments, terms, and conditions);
(3) Inform its environmental analysis conducted under applicable Federal requirements, including, but not limited to, NEPA, the Endangered Species Act (ESA) (16 U.S.C. 1531-1544), and the CZMA; and
(4) Determine whether competitive interest exists in all or a portion of any potential lease area. If BOEM determines no competitive interest exists, BOEM may follow the noncompetitive leasing process set forth in § 585.231(d) through (j).
§ 585.212
What is area identification?
(a) Area identification is the process by which BOEM delineates one or more OCS areas for leasing consideration and environmental analysis if the areas appear appropriate for renewable energy development. This process is based on an area's relevant attributes, such as other uses of the area, environmental factors or characteristics, stakeholder comments, industry nominations, feasibility for development, and other relevant information. BOEM consults with interested parties during this process as specified in § 585.210(b)(2).
(b) BOEM may consider areas nominated by respondents to a Call and other areas determined appropriate for leasing.
(c) For the identified areas, BOEM will evaluate:
(1) The potential effects of leasing the identified areas on the human, marine, and coastal environments;
(2) The feasibility of development; and
(3) Potential measures, including lease stipulations, to mitigate potential adverse impacts. Such measures are identified and refined through the area identification process, as well as through environmental review and consultations and published for comment in the Proposed Sale Notice.
(d) BOEM may hold public hearings on the environmental analyses associated with leasing the identified areas, after appropriate notice.
(e) At the end of the area identification, BOEM may offer selected areas for leasing.
§ 585.213
What information is included in the PSN?
(a) The PSN is a notice that BOEM will publish in the
Federal Register
for each prospective auction. The PSN will request public comment on the items listed in this section. Public comments will inform BOEM's decisions regarding auction format and lease terms and conditions. At a minimum, the PSN will include or describe the availability of information pertaining to:
(1) The proposed leases to be offered, including:
(i) The proposed lease areas, including size and location;
(ii) The proposed lease terms and conditions, including the proposed rental rate and operating fee rate;
(iii) Other proposed payment requirements, as applicable; and
(iv) Proposed requirements for performance under the lease, such as site-specific lease stipulations and environmental mitigation measures;
(2) Steps a bidder must take to obtain and maintain eligibility to participate in the auction (e.g., financial forms, bid deposits);
(3) The proposed availability and potential value of bidding credit(s), if any are offered, and the actions or commitments required to obtain them;
(4) A detailed description of the proposed auction format and procedures as further described in § 585.223;
(5) The maximum number or specific sets of lease areas that any given bidder may be allowed to bid on or to acquire in an auction, if applicable;
(6) Lease award procedures, including how and when a lease will be awarded and executed, and how BOEM will address unsuccessful bids and applications;
(7) A copy of, or a reference to, the official BOEM lease form; and
(8) Other relevant matters, as determined by BOEM.
(b) The PSN may be used to gauge competitive interest by requiring prospective bidders to reaffirm their intent to participate in the auction as a prerequisite for continued eligibility.
(c) A prospective bidder is encouraged to identify in its comments any specific proposed terms and conditions in the PSN that may preclude its participation in the auction.
(d) The PSN's public comment period is 60 calendar days from the date of its publication in the
Federal Register,
unless BOEM specifies another time period of not less than 30 calendar days in the PSN.
(e) BOEM will notify any potentially affected federally recognized Indian Tribes, States, local governments, and ANCSA corporations of the PSN's publication, and will provide copies of the PSN to these entities upon written request.
§ 585.214
What information is included in the FSN?
(a) The FSN is a notice that BOEM will publish in the
Federal Register
at least 30 calendar days before each prospective auction. The FSN will describe the final auction details and will include or describe the availability of information pertaining to:
(1) The leases to be offered, including:
(i) The lease areas, including size and location;
(ii) Lease terms and conditions, including the rental rate and the operating fee rate;
(iii) Other payment requirements, as applicable; and
(iv) Requirements for performance under the lease, including site-specific lease stipulations and environmental mitigation measures;
(2) Steps a bidder must take to ensure eligibility to participate in the auction (e.g. financial forms, bid deposits);
(3) The availability and potential value of bidding credit(s), if any are offered, and the actions or commitments required to obtain them.
(4) A detailed description of the auction format and procedures as further described in § 585.223;
(5) The maximum number or specific sets of lease areas that any given bidder may be allowed to bid on or to acquire in an auction, if applicable;
(6) Lease award procedures, including how and when a lease will be awarded and executed, and how BOEM will handle unsuccessful bids and applications;
(7) A copy of, or a reference to, the official BOEM lease form; and
(8) Other relevant matters as determined by BOEM.
(b) The terms of the FSN may differ from the proposed terms of the PSN.
§ 585.215
What may BOEM do to assess whether competitive interest for a lease area still exists before the auction?
(a) At any time BOEM has reason to believe that competitive interest in any lease area no longer exists before the area's auction, BOEM may issue a notice in the
Federal Register,
as described in § 585.116, requesting information regarding competitive interest in
that area. BOEM will consider respondents' comments to determine whether competitive interest in that area remains. BOEM may decide to end the competitive process for any area if it determines that competitive interest no longer exists.
(b) If BOEM determines after considering respondents' comments to such a notice that competitive interest remains, BOEM will continue with the competitive process set forth in §§ 585.210 through 585.226.
(c) If BOEM determines at any time before the auction that only a single party remains interested in a lease area, BOEM may proceed either with the auction or with the noncompetitive process set forth in § 585.231(d) through (j) following payment by that party of the acquisition fee specified in § 585.502(a).
§ 585.216
How are bidding credits awarded and used?
(a) BOEM will determine the highest bid, taking into account the combined value of the monetary (cash) component and the non-monetary component(s), represented by bidding credits. The PSN and FSN will explain the following details, if bidding credit(s) are available for that auction:
(1) Eligibility and application requirements;
(2) The value of each available bidding credit, which will be either a sum certain or a percentage of the bid; and
(3) Procedures for applying each available bidding credit to bids submitted during the auction.
(b) Eligibility for bidding credits must be established in advance of any lease auction, in accordance with the specifications of the FSN. Such eligibility may be based on actions that the bidder has already undertaken or actions that it has committed to undertake in the future, provided that BOEM has agreed to the terms by which such a commitment will be made. BOEM may offer bidding credits for any of the following:
(1) Power purchase agreements;
(2) Eligibility for, or applicability of, renewable energy credits or subsidies;
(3) Development agreements by a potential lessee that facilitate shared transmission solutions and grid interconnection;
(4) Technical merit, timeliness, or financing and economic considerations;
(5) Environmental considerations, public benefits, or compatibility with State and local needs;
(6) Agreements or commitments by the developer that would facilitate OCS renewable energy development or other OCSLA goals; or
(7) Any other factor or criteria to further development of offshore renewable energy, as identified by BOEM in the PSN and FSN.
(c) Before the auction, bidders seeking to use bidding credits must establish that they meet the eligibility criteria for each bidding credit according to the FSN provisions.
(d) Before the auction, BOEM will determine each bidder's eligibility for bidding credits, and the value of those bidding credits, and will inform each eligible bidder of the value of the bidding credits to which it may be entitled.
(e) A provisional winner who is awarded bidding credits must pay an amount equal to the cash component of its winning bid less any bid deposit retained by BOEM under § 585.501.
§§ 585.217-585.219
[Reserved]

# Competitive Lease Award Process—Auction Provisions
§ 585.220
How will BOEM award leases competitively?
(a) BOEM will award leases competitively using an objective, fair, reasonable, and competitive auction process that provides a fair return to the United States. As described in the FSN, leases will be awarded to the highest bidder.
(b) BOEM may use any analog or digital method to conduct the auction. The specific process and procedural details for each auction will be noticed in the PSN and finalized in the FSN.
§ 585.221
What general provisions apply to all auctions?
(a) If BOEM determines competitive interest exists to develop a renewable energy resource in any OCS area and decides to issue a lease for that area,
BOEM will conduct an auction to award the lease.
(b) The auction's format, procedures, and other details will be specified in the FSN, as outlined in § 585.214. Possible auction formats include, but are not limited to, sealed bidding and ascending bidding.
(c) The FSN will specify the potential use of alternatives if the primary auction method, system, or mechanism malfunctions. Alternatively, BOEM may take action consistent with paragraph (d) of this section until the malfunction is resolved.
(d) Any time before a provisional winner is determined, BOEM may delay, suspend, or cancel an auction due to a natural or man-made disaster, technical malfunction, security breach, unlawful bidding activity, administrative necessity, or any other reason that BOEM determines may adversely affect the fair and efficient conduct of the auction. In its discretion, BOEM may restart the auction at whatever point it deems appropriate, reasonable, fair, and efficient for all participants; or, alternatively, BOEM may cancel the auction in its entirety.
(e) BOEM will determine the provisional winner for each lease area under the auction rules and bidding procedures prescribed in the FSN.
§ 585.222
What other auction rules must bidders follow?
(a) Bidders must submit a deposit to participate in an auction under § 585.501(a), unless otherwise specified in the FSN. A provisional winner's bid deposit will be credited toward the balance due on its bid.
(b) Only bidders qualified by BOEM under §§ 585.107 and 585.108 are permitted to bid during an auction.
(c) Only an authorized agent may act on a bidder's behalf during an auction. Bidders must submit the names of their authorized agents to BOEM before the auction, as prescribed in the FSN.
(d) Each bidder must follow the auction process specified in the FSN and may not take any action to disrupt or alter the process beyond its intended function.
(e) A bidder is responsible for immediately contacting BOEM if it is unable to submit its bid for any reason during an auction. If a bidder fails to timely notify BOEM of its inability to bid, it may not dispute the auction or lease award on that basis. If a bidder timely notifies BOEM of its inability to submit a bid, BOEM, in its discretion, may suspend the auction, continue the auction using an alternative method, or continue the auction without the participation of the affected bidder.
§ 585.223
What supplemental information will BOEM provide in a PSN and FSN?
(a) In addition to the information described in §§ 585.213 and 585.214, BOEM may provide the following auction information, as appropriate, in the PSN and FSN:
(1)
Bidding instructions, procedures, and systems, including the bid variables.
How the auction will be conducted and what systems and procedures will be utilized.
(2)
Bid deposit.
The amount a bidder must pay under § 585.501(a) to be eligible to bid. The FSN will prescribe the process and deadline for submitting a bid deposit.
(3)
Mock auction.
Notice of a practice auction before the actual auction. Only bidders eligible for the actual auction will be permitted to participate in the mock (
i.e.,
practice) auction.
(4)
Auction date, starting time and location.
The starting time will include the relevant time zone, and the location will indicate where the auction will take place.
(5)
Minimum bid.
The price at which the bidding will start.
(6)
Information BOEM will release to bidders between rounds.
This information may include prior round results and other updates.
(7)
Tie-breaking provision.
This provision describes the method that BOEM will use to break a tie between two or more identical high bids offered for the same lease area, or package of lease areas.
(8)
Next highest bidder.
The method that BOEM will use to determine the next highest bidder of a completed auction in the event the provisional winner fails to meet its obligations or is unable to acquire a lease for any reason, or if a competitively issued lease
or any portion thereof is relinquished or cancelled within six months of the auction.
(b) The list in paragraph (a) of this section is not exhaustive. BOEM may include in the FSN any other information relevant to that auction.

# Competitive Lease Award Process—Post-Auction Provisions
§ 585.224
What will BOEM do after the auction?
(a) At the conclusion of the auction, BOEM will:
(1) Declare the bidding closed.
(2) Assess whether the bids meet the requirements of BOEM's regulations and the FSN. BOEM may disqualify bids based on this review.
(3) Under 43 U.S.C. 1337(c), provide the Department of Justice, in consultation with the Federal Trade Commission, the opportunity to conduct an antitrust review of the lease sale results. BOEM may disqualify bids based on the results of this review.
(4) BOEM will declare the provisional winner of each lease area.
(b) BOEM may reject any and all bids received, regardless of the amount offered.
(c) BOEM will accept or reject bids within 90 calendar days of auction closure; BOEM may extend that time by notice to bidders within 15 calendar days before the 90 calendar day period ends.
(d) BOEM will deem rejected any bid not accepted within the 90 calendar-day period, or any extension. BOEM will provide each rejected bidder a written explanation for the rejection and will refund, without interest, any monies deposited by the rejected bidder.
(e) BOEM may withdraw all or part of a lease area from the lease sale between auction closure and lease execution. In the event that a portion of the lease area is withdrawn, the provisional winner has the option to refuse the lease without penalty, to propose new lease terms for BOEM's concurrence, or to accept the lease with the reduced area.
(f) BOEM may re-auction any lease area or portions thereof that remain unsold at the conclusion of an auction. BOEM may restart the competitive leasing process at any point in the process set forth in § 585.210 that it deems reasonable and appropriate (
e.g.,
Call, area identification, PSN, or FSN).
§ 585.225
What happens if BOEM accepts a bid?
(a) BOEM will identify and notify the lease area's provisional winner of the amount due on each winning bid, which equals the cash component of the provisional winner's bid less its bid deposit retained by BOEM under § 585.501. BOEM will provide an unsigned copy of the lease to the provisional winner.
(b) Within 10 business days after receipt of the unsigned copy, or as otherwise specified by BOEM under paragraph (d) of this section, the provisional winner must:
(1) Execute the lease and return it to BOEM;
(2) File financial assurance as required by §§ 585.516 through 585.529; and
(3) Pay the amount due.
(c) When the bid deposit exceeds the amount due, BOEM will refund the overage without interest.
(d) A provisional winner may request in writing an extension of the 10-day time limit in paragraph (b) of this section. BOEM, in its discretion, may grant such a request.
(e) BOEM will execute the lease by signing the lease on behalf of the United States only after the provisional winner completes the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section and any appeals timely filed under § 585.118(c)(1) have been resolved. After BOEM executes the lease, the provisional winner becomes the winning bidder, and BOEM will send the winning bidder an electronic version of the fully executed copy of the lease. The lease takes effect as set forth in § 585.237.
(f) The winning bidder must pay the first 12 months' rent under § 585.503(a) within 45 calendar days after receiving a copy of the executed lease from BOEM.
(g) In the event that a lessee does not meet the commitments it made to obtain any bidding credits, the lessee will be required to repay the value of the bidding credits that it received adjusted for inflation.
§ 585.226
What happens if the provisional winner fails to meet its obligations?
(a) If BOEM determines that a provisional winner has failed to timely complete the steps outlined in § 585.225(b) or § 585.316, or has otherwise failed to comply with applicable laws, regulations, or FSN provisions, BOEM may take one or more of the following actions:
(1) Decline to execute the applicable lease.
(2) Decline to execute the lease for any other lease areas that the provisional winner won during the auction.
(3) Require forfeiture of the bid deposit. In the event the bid deposit exceeds the amount of the winning bid, BOEM would limit the required forfeiture to the lesser amount.
(4) Refer the matter to the Department of the Interior's Administrative Remedies Division for suspension or debarment review pursuant to 2 CFR part 180 as implemented at 2 CFR part 1400.
(5) Pursue any other remedy available.
(b) If BOEM declines to execute a lease with the provisional winner under paragraph (a) of this section, BOEM may decide to select a new provisional winner by either repeating the auction under § 585.224(f), or pursuant to the procedures in § 585.223(a)(8), by selecting the next highest bid submitted during the auction, or by using other procedures specified in the FSN.
(c) BOEM's decisions under this section are appealable under § 585.118.
§§ 585.227-585.229
[Reserved]

# Noncompetitive Lease Award Process
§ 585.230
May I request a lease if there is no Call?
You may submit an unsolicited request for a commercial lease or a limited lease under this part. Your unsolicited request must contain the following information:
(a) The area you are requesting for lease.
(b) A general description of your objectives and the facilities that you would use to achieve those objectives.
(c) A general schedule of proposed activities including those leading to commercial operations.
(d) Available and pertinent data and information concerning renewable energy and environmental conditions in the area of interest, including energy and resource data and information used to evaluate the area of interest. BOEM will withhold trade secrets and commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential from public disclosure under exemption 4 of the FOIA and as provided in § 585.114.
(e) If available from the appropriate State or local government authority, a statement that the proposed activity conforms with State and local energy planning requirements, initiatives, or guidance.
(f) Documentation showing that you meet the qualifications to become a lessee, as specified in §§ 585.107 and 585.108.
(g) An acquisition fee, as specified in § 585.502(a).
§ 585.231
Will BOEM issue leases noncompetitively?
(a) BOEM will consider unsolicited requests for a lease on a case-by-case basis and may issue a lease noncompetitively in accordance with this part. BOEM will issue a lease noncompetitively only if it has determined after public notice that no competitive interest exists. BOEM will not consider an unsolicited request for a lease under this part that is proposed in a lease area that is scheduled for a lease auction under this part.
(b) At BOEM's discretion, BOEM may issue an RFI under § 585.116 relating to your unsolicited lease request and will consider comments received to determine if competitive interest exists. If BOEM decides not to issue an RFI and, therefore, not to continue processing your unsolicited lease request, it will refund your acquisition fee.
(c) If BOEM determines that competitive interest exists in the lease area:
(1) BOEM will proceed with the competitive process set forth in §§ 585.210 through 585.226;
(2) If you submit a bid for the lease area in a competitive lease sale, your acquisition fee will be applied to the deposit for your bonus bid; and
(3) If you do not submit a bid for the lease area in a competitive lease sale,
BOEM will not refund your acquisition fee.
(d) If BOEM determines that there is no competitive interest in a lease and that further investigation of the area is in the public interest, it will:
(1) Publish in the
Federal Register
a determination of no competitive interest.
(2) Prepare and provide you with a written estimate of the proposed fee to pay for the processing costs under § 585.112, including any environmental review that BOEM may require before lease issuance.
(3) Conduct environmental reviews required by Federal law and consult with affected Federal agencies, federally recognized Indian Tribes, and State and local governments.
(e) The following deadlines apply after issuance of a determination of no competitive interest:
(1) Within 90 calendar days of receiving the written estimate of the fee, or longer (as determined at BOEM's discretion), you must pay the fee for any environmental review under § 585.112. Failure to pay the required fee may result in withdrawal of the determination of no competitive interest.
(2) A determination of no competitive interest expires two years after its publication, unless BOEM determines that it should be extended for good cause. BOEM reserves the right to withdraw a determination of no competitive interest before it expires if BOEM determines that you have failed to exercise due diligence in obtaining a lease.
(f) After BOEM publishes the determination of no competitive interest, you will be responsible for submitting any consistency certification and necessary data and information in a timely manner to the applicable State CZMA agencies and BOEM pursuant to 15 CFR part 930, subpart D.
(g) After completing its review of your lease request, BOEM may offer you a noncompetitive lease.
(h) If you accept the terms and conditions of the lease, BOEM will issue the lease. You must comply with the terms and conditions of your lease and the applicable provisions of this part. If BOEM issues you a lease, BOEM will send you an electronic copy of the lease form.
(1) Within 10 business days after you receive the lease you must:
(i) Execute and return the lease; and
(ii) File financial assurance as required under §§ 585.516 through 585.529.
(2) You must pay the first 12 months' rent no later than 45 calendar days after you receive your copy of the executed lease from BOEM under § 585.503(a)(1).
(i) BOEM will publish in the
Federal Register
a notice announcing the issuance of your lease.
(j) If you do not accept the terms and conditions in a timely manner, BOEM will not issue a lease. Additionally, if you do not comply with the requirements for financial assurance, BOEM may decide not to issue a lease. If BOEM does not issue a lease due to your noncompliance or non-acceptance, BOEM will not refund your acquisition fee, or any fees paid under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
§ 585.232
May I acquire a lease noncompetitively after responding to a request for information or a Call for Information and Nominations?
(a) If you submit an area of interest for a possible lease and BOEM receives no competing submissions in response to the RFI or Call, we may inform you that there does not appear to be competitive interest, and ask if you wish to proceed with acquiring a lease.
(b) If you wish to proceed with acquiring a lease, you must submit your acquisition fee as specified in § 585.502(a).
(c) After receiving the acquisition fee, BOEM will follow the process outlined in § 585.231(d) through (j).
§§ 585.233-585.234
[Reserved]

# Commercial and Limited Lease Periods
§ 585.235
What are the lease periods for a commercial lease?
(a) The lease periods within the term of your commercial lease are defined as follows:
(1)
Preliminary period.
Each commercial lease has a preliminary period of up to five years. During the preliminary period, the lessee must submit a
COP. The preliminary period begins on the effective date of the lease and ends either when a COP is received by BOEM for review or at the expiration of five years, whichever occurs first.
(2)
COP review period.
A commercial lease has a COP review period. The COP review period begins when BOEM receives a COP from the lessee and ends upon COP approval, disapproval, or approval with conditions pursuant to § 585.628. During the COP review period, BOEM conducts the necessary reviews and consultations associated with the COP.
(3)
Design and construction period.
The design and construction period begins at COP approval and ends when the operations period begins. During the design and construction period BSEE completes the FDR and FIR review(s), and the lessee undertakes project construction.
(4)
Operations period.
A commercial lease has an operations period of 35 years; or the duration specified in the lease; or the duration included and approved as part of your COP. The operations period begins when the requirements of 30 CFR 285.637(a) are met through the submission of final reports and records for your project. Additional time may be added to the operations period through a lease suspension under § 585.415 issued during this period; a lease extension requested pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section; or a lease renewal under § 585.425.
(b) You may request an extension of any of the lease periods outlined in paragraph (a) of this section for good cause, including if the project is designed and verified for a longer duration. In its discretion, BOEM may approve your request.
(c) If you intend to develop your lease in phases under § 585.238, you must propose lease period schedules for each phase in your COP.
(d) If you intend to segregate or consolidate your lease under §§ 585.408 through 585.413, you and your assignees may propose lease period schedules in your segregation or consolidation application.
§ 585.236
If I have a limited lease, how long will my lease remain in effect?
(a) For limited leases, the lease periods are as shown in the following table:
Lease period
Extension or suspension
Requirements
(1) Each limited lease has a preliminary period of 12 months within which to submit a GAP. The preliminary period begins on the effective date of the lease
If we receive a GAP that satisfies the requirements of §§ 585.640 through 585.648, the preliminary period will be automatically extended for the period of time necessary for us to conduct a technical and environmental review of the GAP
The GAP must meet the requirements of §§ 585.640 through 585.648.
(2) Each limited lease has an operations period as specified by BOEM (if the lease is issued competitively) or negotiated with the applicant (if the lease is issued noncompetitively). In either case, the duration of the operations period will depend on the intended use of the lease. The operations period begins on the date that we approve your GAP
We may order or grant a suspension of the operations period as provided in §§ 585.415 through 585.421
(b) You may request an extension of any of the lease periods outlined in paragraph (a) of this section for good cause. In its discretion, BOEM may approve your request.
§ 585.237
What is the effective date of a lease?
(a) A lease issued under this part must be dated and becomes effective as of the first day of the month following the date a lease is signed by the lessor.
(b) If the lessee submits a written request and BOEM approves, a lease may be dated and become effective the first day of the month in which it is signed by the lessor.
§ 585.238
May I develop my commercial lease in phases?
In your COP, you may request development of your commercial lease in phases. In support of your request, you
must provide details as to what portions of the lease will be initially developed for commercial operations and what portions of the lease will be reserved for subsequent phased development. You must also propose a lease period schedule for each phase described in your COP in accordance with § 585.235(c). BOEM may condition its approval of subsequent phases described in a phased development COP.
§ 585.239
Are there any other renewable energy research activities that will be allowed on the OCS?
(a) The Director may issue OCS leases, ROW grants, and RUE grants to a Federal agency or a State for renewable energy research activities that support the future production, transportation, or transmission of renewable energy.
(b) In issuing leases, ROW grants, and RUE grants to a Federal agency or a State on the OCS for renewable energy research activities under this section, BOEM will coordinate and consult with other relevant Federal agencies, affected federally recognized Indian Tribes, any other affected State(s), and affected local government executives.
(c) BOEM may issue leases, RUEs, and ROWs for research activities managed by a Federal agency or a State only in areas for which the Director has determined, after public notice and opportunity to comment, that no competitive interest exists.
(d) The Director and the head of the Federal agency or the Governor of a requesting State, or their authorized representatives, will negotiate the terms and conditions of such renewable energy leases, RUEs, or ROWs under this section on a case-by-case basis. The framework for such negotiations, and standard terms and conditions of such leases, RUEs, or ROWs may be set forth in a memorandum of agreement (MOA) or other agreement between BOEM and a Federal agency or a State. The MOA must include the agreement of the head of the Federal agency or the Governor to assure that all subcontractors comply with this part and 30 CFR part 285, other applicable laws, and terms and conditions of such leases or grants.
(e) Any lease, RUE, or ROW that BOEM issues to a Federal agency or to a State that authorizes access to an area of the OCS for research activities managed by a Federal agency or a State must include:
(1) Requirements to comply with all applicable Federal laws; and
(2) Requirements to comply with this part and 30 CFR part 285, except as otherwise provided in the lease or grant.
(f) BOEM will issue a public notice of any lease, RUE, or ROW issued to a Federal agency or to a State, or an approved MOA for such research activities.
(g) BOEM will not charge any fees for the purpose of ensuring a fair return for the use of such research areas on the OCS.
§§ 585.240-585.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Right-of-Way (ROW) Grants and Right-of-Use and Easement (RUE) Grants for Renewable Energy Activities

# Source:
89 FR 42735, May 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# ROW Grants and RUE Grants
§ 585.300
What types of activities are authorized by ROW grants and RUE grants issued under this part?
(a) A ROW grant authorizes the holder to install on the OCS cables, pipelines, and associated facilities that involve the transportation or transmission of electricity or other energy product from renewable energy projects.
(b) A RUE grant authorizes the holder to construct and maintain facilities or other installations on the OCS that support the production, transportation, or transmission of electricity or other energy product from any renewable energy resource.
(c) You do not need a ROW grant or RUE grant for a project easement authorized under § 585.200(b) to serve your lease.
§ 585.301
What do ROW grants and RUE grants include?
(a) A ROW grant:
(1) Includes the full length of the corridor on which a cable, pipeline, or associated facility is located;
(2) Is of a width sufficient to accommodate potential changes at the design and installation phases of the project, with an option for the grant holder to relinquish unused portions of the ROW after construction is complete; and
(3) For the associated facilities, is limited to the area reasonably necessary for a power or pumping station or other facilities requested.
(b) A RUE grant includes the site on which a facility or other structure is located and the areal extent of anchors, chains, and other equipment associated with a facility or other structure. The specific boundaries of a RUE will be determined by BOEM on a case-by-case basis and set forth in each RUE grant.
§ 585.302
What are the general requirements for ROW grant and RUE grant holders?
(a) To acquire a ROW grant or RUE grant, you must provide evidence that you meet the qualifications set forth in §§ 585.107 and 585.108.
(b) A ROW grant or RUE grant is subject to the following conditions:
(1) The rights granted will not prevent the granting of other rights by the United States, either before or after the granting of the ROW or RUE, provided that any subsequent authorization issued by BOEM in the area of a previously issued ROW grant or RUE grant may not unreasonably interfere with activities approved or impede existing operations under such a grant; and
(2) The holder agrees that the United States, its lessees, or other ROW grant or RUE grant holders may use or occupy any part of the ROW grant or RUE grant not actually occupied or necessarily incident to its use for any necessary activities.
§ 585.303
How long will my ROW grant or RUE grant remain in effect?
The periods within the term of your grant are defined as follows:
(a) Each ROW or RUE grant has a preliminary period of 12 months from the effective date of the ROW or RUE grant within which to submit a GAP. The preliminary period begins on the effective date of the grant. You must submit a GAP no later than the end of the preliminary period for your grant to remain in effect. However, you may submit a GAP before the issuance of your ROW or RUE grant.
(b) Each ROW or RUE grant has an operations period as set by BOEM (if the grant is issued competitively) or negotiated with the applicant (if the grant is issued noncompetitively). In either case, the duration of the operations period will depend on the intended use of the grant. The operations period begins on the date that we approve your GAP.
(c) You may request an extension of any of the grant periods outlined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for good cause. In its discretion, BOEM may approve your request.
§ 585.304
[Reserved]

# Obtaining ROW Grants and RUE Grants
§ 585.305
How do I request a ROW grant or a RUE grant?
You must submit a request for a new or modified ROW grant or RUE grant to BOEM pursuant to § 585.111. You must submit a separate request for each ROW grant or RUE grant you are requesting. The request must contain the following information:
(a) The area you are requesting for a ROW grant or RUE grant.
(b) A general description of your objectives and the facilities that you would use to achieve those objectives.
(c) A general schedule of proposed activities.
(d) Pertinent information concerning environmental conditions in the area of interest.
§ 585.306
What action will BOEM take on my request?
BOEM will consider requests for ROW grants and RUE grants on a case-by-case basis and may issue a grant competitively, as provided in § 585.308, or noncompetitively if we determine after public notice that there is no competitive interest. BOEM will coordinate and consult with relevant Federal agencies, the Governor of any affected
State, and the executive of any affected local government.
(a) In response to an unsolicited request for a ROW grant or RUE grant, BOEM will first determine if there is competitive interest, as provided in § 585.307.
(b) If BOEM determines there is no competitive interest in a ROW or RUE grant, BOEM will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
of such determination. After BOEM publishes this notice, you are responsible for submitting any required consistency certification and necessary data and information in a timely manner to BOEM and the applicable State CZMA agency pursuant to 15 CFR part 930, subpart D. BOEM may establish terms and conditions for a noncompetitive grant and offer the grant to you:
(1) If you accept the terms and conditions of the grant, BOEM will issue the grant.
(2) If you do not accept the terms and conditions of the grant, BOEM may agree to modify the terms and conditions or may decide not to issue the grant.
§ 585.307
How will BOEM determine whether competitive interest exists for ROW grants and RUE grants?
To determine whether or not there is competitive interest:
(a) We will publish a public notice, generally describing the parameters of the project, to give affected and interested parties an opportunity to comment on the proposed ROW grant or RUE grant area.
(b) We will evaluate any comments received on the notice and make a determination of the level of competitive interest.
(c) BOEM may consider a State's or Regional Transmission Operator/Independent System Operator's process that identifies a transmission project that needs a ROW and/or a RUE grant to achieve its intended purpose. BOEM may determine that there is no competitive interest that would be consistent with OCSLA's goal of allowing the expeditious and orderly development of OCS energy projects, if offering the ROW and/or RUE competitively could challenge the viability of the transmission project intended to be located on State submerged lands and the OCS (e.g., technical and economic feasibility or practicality concerns, including significant delays, by having different entities holding the right to develop the transmission project in State submerged lands and the OCS).
§ 585.308
How will BOEM conduct an auction for ROW grants and RUE grants?
(a) If BOEM determines that there is competitive interest, we will:
(1) Publish a notice of each grant auction in the
Federal Register
describing auction procedures, allowing interested persons 30 days to comment; and
(2) Conduct a competitive auction for issuing the ROW grant or RUE grant. The auction process for ROW grants and RUE grants will be conducted following the same process for leases set forth in §§ 585.210 through 585.226.
(b) If you are the successful bidder in an auction, you must pay the first year's rent, as provided in § 585.316.
§ 585.309
What is the effective date of a ROW grant or a RUE grant?
Your ROW grant or RUE grant becomes effective on the date established by BOEM on the ROW grant or RUE grant instrument.
§§ 585.310-585.314
[Reserved]

# Financial Requirements for ROW Grants and RUE Grants
§ 585.315
What deposits are required for a competitive ROW grant or RUE grant?
(a) You must make a deposit, as required in § 585.501(a), regardless of whether the auction is a sealed-bid, oral, electronic, or other auction format. BOEM will specify in the sale notice the official to whom you must submit the payment, the time by which the official must receive the payment, and the forms of acceptable payment.
(b) If your high bid is rejected, we will provide a written statement of reasons.
(c) For all rejected bids, we will refund, without interest, any money deposited with your bid.
§ 585.316
What payments are required for ROW grants or RUE grants?
Before we issue the ROW grant or RUE grant, you must pay:
(a) Any balance on accepted high bids to Office of Natural Resources Revenue (ONRR), as provided in the sale notice.
(b) An annual rent for the first year of the grant, as specified in § 585.508.
§§ 585.317-585.399
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Lease and Grant Administration

# Source:
89 FR 42736, May 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§§ 585.400-585.404
[Reserved]

# Designation of Operator
§ 585.405
How do I designate an operator?
(a) If you intend to designate an operator who is not the lessee or grant holder, you must identify the proposed operator in your SAP (under § 585.610(a)(3)), COP (under § 585.626(a)(2)), or GAP (under § 585.645(a)(2)), as applicable. If no operator is designated in a SAP, COP, or GAP, BOEM will deem the lessee or grant holder to be the operator.
(b) An operator must be designated in any SAP, COP, or GAP if there is more than one lessee or grant holder for any individual lease or grant.
(c) Once approved in your plan, the designated operator is authorized to act on your behalf and required to perform activities necessary to comply with the OCS Lands Act, the lease or grant, and the regulations in this part.
(d) You, or your designated operator, must immediately provide BOEM with a written notification of change of address of the lessee or operator.
(e) If there is a change in the designated operator, you must provide written notice to BOEM and identify the new designated operator within 72 hours on a form approved by BOEM. The lessee(s) or grantee(s) is the operator and responsible for compliance until BOEM approves designation of the new operator.
(f) Designation of an operator under any lease or grant issued under this part does not relieve the lessee or grant holder of its obligations under this part or its lease or grant.
(g) A designated operator performing activities on the lease must comply with all regulations governing those activities and may be held liable or penalized for any noncompliance during the time it was the operator, notwithstanding its subsequent resignation.
§ 585.406
Who is responsible for fulfilling lease and grant obligations?
(a) When you are not the sole lessee or grantee, you and your co-lessee(s) or co-grantee(s) are jointly and severally responsible for fulfilling your obligations under the lease or grant and the provisions of this part and 30 CFR part 285, unless otherwise provided in this part.
(b) If your designated operator fails to fulfill any of your obligations under the lease or grant and this part, BOEM may require you or any or all of your co-lessees or co-grantees to fulfill those obligations or other operational obligations under the OCS Lands Act, the lease, grant, or this part.
(c) Whenever the regulations in this part require the lessee or grantee to conduct an activity in a prescribed manner, the lessee or grantee and operator (if one has been designated) are jointly and severally responsible for complying with this part.
§ 585.407
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Assignment, Segregation, and Consolidation
§ 585.408
May I assign my lease or grant interest?
(a) You may assign all or part of your lease or grant interest, including record title, to one or more parties, subject to BOEM approval under this subpart. Each instrument that creates or transfers an interest must describe the entire tract or describe by officially designated subdivisions the interest you propose to create or transfer. Your application to assign a lease or grant may include a request to modify the existing lease or grant period schedule consistent with § 585.235(d).
(b) If you submit an application to assign a lease or grant, you will continue to be responsible for payments
that are or become due on the lease or grant until the date BOEM approves the assignment.
(c) The assignment takes effect on the first day of the month following the date on which BOEM approves your request, unless you request an earlier effective date and BOEM approves that earlier date, but such earlier effective date, if prior to the date of BOEM's approval, does not relieve you of your obligations accrued between that earlier effective date and the date of approval.
(d) You do not need to request an assignment for business mergers, name changes, or changes of business form. You must notify BOEM of these events under § 585.110.
§ 585.409
How do I request approval of a lease or grant assignment?
(a) You must request approval of each assignment on a form approved by BOEM and submit originals of each instrument that creates or transfers ownership of record title or certified copies thereof within 90 days after the last party executes the transfer agreement.
(b) Any assignee will be subject to all the terms and conditions of your original lease or grant, including the requirement to furnish financial assurance in the amount required in §§ 585.516 through 585.537.
(c) The assignee must submit proof of eligibility and other qualifications specified in §§ 585.107 and 585.108.
(d) Persons executing on behalf of the assignor and assignee must furnish evidence of authority to execute the assignment.
§ 585.410
When will my assignment result in a segregated lease?
(a) When there is an assignment by all record title owners of 100 percent of the record title to one or more aliquots in a lease, the assigned and retained portions become segregated into separate and distinct leases. In such a case, both the new lease and the remaining portion of the original lease are referred to as “segregated leases” and the assignee becomes the record title owner of the new lease, which is subject to all the terms and conditions of the original lease. The financial assurance requirements of subpart F of this part apply separately to each segregated lease.
(b) If a record title owner transfers an undivided interest of less than 100 percent of the record title interest in any given aliquot, that transfer will not segregate the portions of that aliquot, or the whole aliquot, in which part of the record title was transferred, into a separate lease from the portions in which no interest was transferred. Instead, that transfer will create a joint ownership between the assignee and assignor in the portions of the lease in which part of the record title interest was transferred.
(c) When a lease becomes segregated, BOEM may issue separate Plan approvals for a segregated lease or take other actions within its discretion.
§ 585.411
How does an assignment affect the assignor's liability?
As assignor, you are liable for all obligations, monetary and nonmonetary, that accrued under your lease or grant before BOEM approves your assignment. Our approval of the assignment does not relieve you of these accrued obligations. BOEM may require you to bring the lease or grant into compliance to the extent the obligation accrued before the effective date of your assignment if your assignee or subsequent assignees fail to perform any obligation under the lease or grant.
§ 585.412
How does an assignment affect the assignee's liability?
(a) As assignee, you are liable for all lease or grant obligations that accrue after BOEM approves the assignment. As assignee, you must comply with all the terms and conditions of the lease or grant and all applicable regulations, remedy all existing environmental and operational problems on the lease or grant, and comply with all decommissioning requirements under 30 CFR part 285, subpart I.
(b) Assignees are bound to comply with each term or condition of the lease or grant and the regulations in this part and 30 CFR part 285. You are jointly and severally liable for the performance of all obligations under the lease or grant and under the regulations in this part and 30 CFR part 285 with each prior and subsequent lessee
who held an interest from the time the obligation accrued until it is satisfied, unless this part provides otherwise.
§ 585.413
How do I consolidate leases or grants?
(a) You may apply to consolidate all or part of two or more adjacent leases or grants held by the same lessee or grant holder into one new lease or grant, subject to BOEM's approval. The application must include a description of the leases or grants, or portions thereof, to be consolidated, including the relevant lease number, lease blocks, and aliquots.
(b) An approved consolidation will create a new lease or grant that will be subject to the terms and conditions of the consolidated leases or grants.
(c) To the extent the leases or grants to be consolidated have different times remaining in the relevant lease or grant periods, BOEM will default to using the shorter remaining periods in the new lease or grant but will consider requests for a revised lease or grant period schedule included in the consolidation application.
(d) To the extent the leases or grants to be consolidated have other different terms and conditions, BOEM will default to using the terms and conditions in the most recently issued lease or grant to be consolidated for the new lease. BOEM will consider requests for modifications on a case-by-case basis and, in its discretion, approve such requests for good cause.
(e) Before BOEM will approve your consolidation request, BOEM will assess appropriate financial assurance obligations for the new lease or grant per §§ 585.516 and 585.517 or §§ 585.520 and 585.521.
(f) Any consolidated leases and grants that have been absorbed into the new lease or grant in their entirety will be considered terminated at the time of consolidation approval.
§ 585.414
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Suspension
§ 585.415
What is a lease or grant suspension?
(a) A suspension is an interruption of the period of your lease or grant that may occur:
(1) As approved by BOEM at your request, as provided in § 585.416; or
(2) As ordered by BOEM, as provided in § 585.417 or by BSEE as provided in 30 CFR 285.417.
(b) A lease or grant suspension extends the expiration date for the relevant period of your lease or grant for the length of time the suspension is in effect.
(c) Activities may not be conducted on your lease or grant during the period of a suspension except as expressly authorized under the terms of the lease or grant suspension.
§ 585.416
How do I request a lease or grant suspension?
(a) You must submit a written request to BOEM that includes the following information no later than 90 calendar days before the expiration of your appropriate lease or grant period:
(1) The reasons you are requesting suspension of your lease or grant, including an explanation why the suspension is necessary.
(2) The length of additional time requested.
(3) An explanation why it is in the public interest to approve the suspension.
(4) Any other information BOEM may require.
(b) If you are unable to timely submit a COP or GAP, as required, you may request a suspension to extend the preliminary period of your lease or grant. Your request must include a revised schedule for submission of your COP or GAP, as appropriate.
§ 585.417
When may BOEM order a suspension?
BOEM may order a suspension under the following circumstances:
(a) When necessary to comply with judicial decrees prohibiting some or all activities under your lease; or
(b) When the suspension is necessary for reasons of national security or defense.
§ 585.418
How will BOEM issue a suspension?
(a) BOEM will issue a suspension order orally or in writing.
(b) BOEM will send you a written suspension order as soon as practicable after issuing an oral suspension order.
(c) The written order will explain the reasons for its issuance and describe the effect of the suspension order on your lease or grant and any associated activities. BOEM may authorize certain activities during the period of the suspension, as set forth in the suspension order.
§ 585.419
What are my immediate responsibilities if I receive a suspension order?
You must comply with the terms of a suspension order upon receipt and take any action prescribed within the time set forth therein.
§ 585.420
What effect does a suspension order have on my payments?
(a) While BOEM evaluates your request for a suspension under § 585.416, you must continue to fulfill your payment obligation until the end of the original term of your lease or grant. If our evaluation goes beyond the end of the original term of your lease or grant, the term of your lease or grant will be extended for the period of time necessary for BOEM to complete its evaluation of your request, but you will not be required to make payments during the time of the extension.
(b) If BOEM approves your request for a suspension under § 585.416, or orders a suspension under § 585.417, BOEM may waive or defer your payment obligations during the suspension. BOEM's decision to waive or defer payments will depend on the reasons for the suspension, including your responsibility for the circumstances necessitating a suspension.
§ 585.421
How long will a lease or grant suspension be in effect?
A lease or grant suspension will be in effect for the period specified by BOEM.
(a) BOEM will not approve a lease or grant suspension request pursuant to § 585.416 for a period longer than 2 years.
(b) If BOEM determines that the circumstances giving rise to a suspension ordered under § 585.417 cannot be resolved within 5 years, the Secretary may initiate cancellation of the lease or grant.

# Lease or Grant Cancellation
§ 585.422
When can my lease or grant be canceled?
(a) The Secretary will cancel any lease or grant issued under this part upon proof that it was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation, and after notice and opportunity to be heard has been afforded to the lessee or grant holder.
(b) The Secretary may cancel any lease or grant issued under this part when:
(1) The Secretary determines after notice and opportunity for a hearing that, with respect to the lease or grant that would be canceled, the lessee or grantee has failed to comply with any applicable provision of the OCS Lands Act or this part; any order of the Director; or any term, condition, or stipulation contained in the lease or grant, and that the failure to comply continued 30 days (or other period BOEM specifies) after you receive notice from BOEM. The Secretary will mail a notice by registered or certified letter to the lessee or grantee at its record post office address;
(2) The Secretary determines after notice and opportunity for a hearing that you have terminated commercial operations under your COP, as provided in § 585.635, or other approved activities under your GAP, as provided in § 585.656;
(3) Required by national security or defense; or
(4) The Secretary determines after notice and opportunity for a hearing that continued activity under the lease or grant:
(i) Would cause serious harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance; and
(ii) That the threat of harm or damage would not disappear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a reasonable period of time; and
(iii) The advantages of cancellation outweigh the advantages of continuing the lease or grant in force.
§§ 585.423-585.424
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Renewal
§ 585.425
May I obtain a renewal of my lease or grant before it terminates?
You may request renewal of the operations period of your lease or the original authorized period of your grant. BOEM, at its discretion, may approve a renewal request to conduct substantially similar activities as were originally authorized under the lease or grant. BOEM will not approve a renewal request that involves development of a type of renewable energy not originally authorized in the lease or grant. BOEM may revise or adjust payment terms of the original lease, as a condition of lease renewal.
§ 585.426
When must I submit my request for renewal?
(a) You must request a renewal from BOEM:
(1) No later than 180 days before the termination date of your limited lease or grant.
(2) No later than two years before the termination date of the operations period of your commercial lease.
(b) You must submit to BOEM all information we request pertaining to your lease or grant and your renewal request.
§ 585.427
How long is a renewal?
BOEM will set the length of the renewal at the time of renewal on a case-by-case basis.
(a) For commercial leases, the length of the renewal will not exceed the original operations period unless a longer time is negotiated by the parties.
(b) For limited leases, the length of the renewal will not exceed the original operations period.
(c) For RUE and ROW grants, a renewal will continue for as long as the associated activities are conducted and facilities properly maintained and used for the purpose for which the grant was made, unless otherwise expressly stated.
§ 585.428
What effect does applying for a renewal have on my activities and payments?
If you timely request a renewal:
(a) You may continue to conduct activities approved under your lease or grant under the original terms and conditions for as long as your request is pending decision by BOEM.
(b) You may request a suspension of your lease or grant, as provided in § 585.416, while we consider your request.
(c) For the period BOEM considers your request for renewal, you must continue to make all payments in accordance with the original terms and conditions of your lease or grant.
§ 585.429
What criteria will BOEM consider in deciding whether to renew a lease or grant?
BOEM will consider the following criteria in deciding whether to renew a lease or grant:
(a) Design life of existing technology.
(b) Availability and feasibility of new technology.
(c) Environmental and safety record of the lessee or grantee.
(d) Operational and financial compliance record of the lessee or grantee.
(e) Competitive interest and fair return considerations.
(f) Effects of the lease or grant on generation capacity and reliability within the regional electrical distribution and transmission system.
(g) Other relevant factors, as appropriate.
§§ 585.430-585.431
[Reserved]

# Lease or Grant Termination
§ 585.432
When does my lease or grant terminate?
Your lease or grant terminates on whichever of the following dates occurs first:
(a) The expiration of the applicable period of your lease or grant, unless the relevant period is extended under § 585.235(b) or § 585.236(b), a request for renewal of your lease or grant is pending a decision by BOEM, or your lease or grant is suspended or renewed as provided in this subpart, in which case it terminates on the date set forth in the notice of suspension or renewal;
(b) A cancellation, as set forth in § 585.422; or
(c) Relinquishment, as set forth in § 585.435.
§ 585.433
What must I do after my lease or grant terminates?
(a) After your lease or grant terminates, you must:
(1) Make all payments due, including any accrued rentals and deferred bonuses; and
(2) Perform any other outstanding obligations under the lease or grant within 6 months.
(b) Within 2 years following termination of a lease or grant, you must remove or dispose of all facilities, installations, and other devices permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed on the OCS in accordance with your BOEM-issued lease for hydrokinetic facilities or an application approved by BSEE under 30 CFR part 285, subpart I.
(c) If you fail to comply with your BOEM-issued lease for hydrokinetic facilities or decommissioning application:
(1) BOEM may call for the forfeiture of your financial assurance; and
(2) You remain liable for removal or disposal costs and responsible for accidents or damages that might result from such failure.
§ 585.434
When may BOEM authorize facilities to remain in place following termination of a lease or grant?
(a) In your decommissioning application that you submit to BSEE in accordance with 30 CFR 285.905 and 285.906, you may request that certain facilities authorized in your lease or grant remain in place for activities authorized in this part, elsewhere in this subchapter, or by other applicable Federal laws.
(b) BOEM may approve such requests on a case-by-case basis considering the following:
(1) Potential impacts to the marine environment;
(2) Competing uses of the OCS;
(3) Impacts on marine safety and national defense;
(4) Maintenance of adequate financial assurance; and
(5) Other factors determined by the Director.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, if BOEM authorizes facilities to remain in place, the former lessee or grantee under this part remains jointly and severally liable for decommissioning the facility unless satisfactory evidence is provided to BOEM showing that another party has assumed that responsibility and has secured adequate financial assurances.
(d) In your decommissioning application, you may request that certain facilities authorized in your lease or grant be converted to an artificial reef or otherwise toppled in place. BOEM will evaluate all such requests.

# Lease or Grant Relinquishment, Contraction, or Cancellation
§ 585.435
How can I relinquish a lease or a grant or parts of a lease or grant?
(a) You may surrender a lease or grant, or a designated subdivision thereof, by filing with BOEM a properly completed official relinquishment form available on the BOEM website. A relinquishment takes effect on the date BOEM receives your completed form, subject to the continued obligation of the lessee or grant holder and the surety to:
(1) Make all payments due on the lease or grant, including any accrued rent and deferred bonuses;
(2) Decommission all facilities on the relinquished lease or grant (or portion thereof) to BSEE's satisfaction; and
(3) Perform any other outstanding obligations under the lease or grant.
(b) After you submit a completed relinquishment form for a lease or grant, ONRR will bill you for any outstanding payments that have accrued from obligations arising under the relinquished lease or grant.
§ 585.436
Can BOEM require lease or grant contraction?
At an interval no more frequent than every 5 years, BOEM may review your lease or grant area to determine whether the lease or grant area is larger than needed to develop the project and manage activities in a manner that is consistent with the provisions of this
part. BOEM will notify you of our proposal to contract the lease or grant area.
(a) BOEM will give you the opportunity to present orally or in writing information demonstrating that you need the area in question to manage lease or grant activities consistent with this part.
(b) Prior to taking action to contract the lease or grant area, BOEM will issue a decision addressing your contentions that the area is needed.
(c) You may appeal this decision under § 585.118.
§ 585.437
[Reserved]
§ 585.438
What happens to leases or grants (or portions thereof) that have been relinquished, contracted, or cancelled?
(a) If a lease or grant (or portion thereof) is relinquished, contracted, or cancelled under § 585.435, § 585.436, or § 585.422, respectively, BOEM may restart the competitive leasing process at any point set forth in § 585.210 that it deems reasonable and appropriate (
e.g.,
Call, area identification, PSN, or FSN), subject to all necessary environmental analyses and consultations.
(b) If a competitively issued lease or grant (or portion thereof) is relinquished or cancelled under § 585.435 or § 585.422, respectively, within six months of the auction, BOEM may reoffer the lease or grant (or portion thereof) to the next highest bidder from that auction, if one can be identified. If BOEM decides to reoffer to the next highest bidder, the price will be the next best bid, or a prorated amount based on the size of the relinquished share, as long as the next best bid reflects a fair return to the government.
§§ 585.439-585.499
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Payments and Financial Assurance Requirements

# Source:
89 FR 42740, May 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Payments
§ 585.500
How do I make payments under this part?
(a) For acquisition fees or the initial 12 months' rent paid for the preliminary period of your lease, you must make your electronic payments through the Fees for Services page on the BOEM website at
https://www.boem.gov,
and you must include one copy of the
Pay.gov
confirmation receipt page with your unsolicited request.
(b) For all other required rent payments and for operating fee payments, you must make your payments as required in 30 CFR 1218.51.
(c) The following table summarizes payments you must make for leases and grants, unless otherwise specified in the Final Sale Notice:
Payment
Amount
Due date
Payment mechanism
Section
reference
Initial payments for leases
(1) If your lease is issued competitively
Bid Deposit
As set in Final Sale Notice/depends on bid
With bid
Pay.gov
§ 585.501.
Bonus Balance
Within 10 business days of receiving the unsigned lease
30 CFR 1218.51
§ 585.225.
(2) If your lease is issued non-competitively
Acquisition Fee
$0.25 per acre, unless otherwise set by the Director
With application
Pay.gov
§ 585.502.
(3) All leases
Initial Rent
$3 per acre per year
Within 45 calendar days after receiving your copy of the executed lease from BOEM
Pay.gov
§ 585.503.
Subsequent payments for leases and project easements
(4) All leases
Subsequent Rent, unless otherwise provided in the terms of the lease
$3 per acre per year
Annually
30 CFR 1218.51
§§ 585.503 and 585.504.
(5) If you have a project easement
Rent, unless otherwise provided in the terms of the grant
Greater of $5 per acre per year or $450 per year
Upon COP or GAP approval, then annually
30 CFR 1218.51
§ 585.507.
(6) If your commercial lease is producing
Operating Fee
Determined by the formula in § 585.506
Annually
30 CFR 1218.51
§ 585.506.
Payments for ROW grants and RUE grants
1
(7) All ROW grants and RUE grants
Initial Rent
Greater of $5 per acre per year or $450 per year, unless otherwise established in the grant
Grant execution
Pay.gov
§ 585.508.
Subsequent Rent
Annually or in 5-year batches
30 CFR 1218.51
1
There is no acquisition fee for ROW grants or RUE grants.
§ 585.501
What deposits must I submit for a competitively issued lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant?
(a) For a competitively issued lease or grant, BOEM may require a bid deposit before the auction as established in the FSN.
(b) The provisional winner of a lease must pay the balance of its accepted bid in accordance with § 585.225.
§ 585.502
What initial payment requirements must I meet to obtain a noncompetitive lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant?
When requesting a noncompetitive lease, you must meet the initial payment (acquisition fee) requirements of this section, unless specified otherwise in your lease instrument. No initial payment is required when requesting noncompetitive ROW grants and RUE grants.
(a) If you request a noncompetitive lease, you must submit an acquisition fee of $0.25 per acre, unless otherwise set by the Director, as provided in § 585.500.
(b) If BOEM determines there is no competitive interest, we will then:
(1) Retain your acquisition fee if we issue you a lease; or
(2) Refund your acquisition fee, without interest, if we do not issue your requested lease.
(c) If we determine that there is a competitive interest in an area you requested, then we will proceed with a competitive lease sale process provided for in subpart C of this part, and we will:
(1) Apply your acquisition fee to the required deposit for your bid amount if you submit a bid;
(2) Apply your acquisition fee to your bonus bid if you acquire the lease; or
(3) Retain your acquisition fee if you do not bid for or acquire the lease.
§ 585.503
What are the rent and operating fee requirements for a commercial lease?
(a) The rent for a commercial lease is $3 per acre per year, unless otherwise established in the FSN or lease.
(1) You must pay ONRR the first 12 months' rent no later than 45 calendar days after you receive your copy of the executed lease from BOEM under § 585.500(c)(3).
(2) You must pay ONRR as provided in 30 CFR 1218.51 the rent due at the beginning of each subsequent 1-year period for the entire lease area until the facility begins commercial operations as specified in § 585.506 or as otherwise specified in the FSN or lease:
(i) For leases issued competitively, BOEM will specify in the FSN and lease any adjustment to the rent that will take effect during commercial operations but before the operations period.
(ii) For leases issued noncompetitively, BOEM will specify in the lease any adjustment to the rent that will take effect during commercial operations but before the operations period.
(3) You must pay ONRR as provided in 30 CFR 1218.51 the rent due for a project easement in addition to the lease rent as provided in § 585.507. You
must commence rent payments for your project easement upon BOEM's approval of your COP or GAP.
(b) After your lease begins commercial operations, you must pay the operating fees in the amount specified in § 585.506. Regardless of whether the lease is awarded competitively or noncompetitively, BOEM will specify in the lease when operating fees commence.
§ 585.504
How are my payments affected if I develop my commercial lease in phases?
If you develop your commercial lease in phases as approved by BOEM in your COP under § 585.238, you must pay ONRR as provided in 30 CFR 1218.51:
(a) Rent on the portion of the lease that has not commenced commercial operations.
(b) Operating fees on the portion of the lease that has commenced commercial operations, in the amount specified in § 585.506 and as described in § 585.503(b).
(c) Rent for a project easement in addition to lease rent, as provided in § 585.507. You must commence rent payments for your project easement upon our approval of your COP.
§ 585.505
What are the rent and operating fee requirements for a limited lease?
(a) The rent for a limited lease is $3 per acre per year, unless otherwise established in the Final Sale Notice and/or your lease instrument.
(b) You must pay ONRR the initial 12 months' rent 45 days after you receive the lease copies from BOEM in accordance with the requirements provided in § 585.500(c)(3).
(c) You must pay ONRR as provided in 30 CFR 1218.51 the rent due at the beginning of each subsequent 1-year period on the entire lease area for the duration of your operations period.
(d) BOEM will not charge an operating fee for the authorized sale of power from a limited lease.
§ 585.506
What operating fees must I pay on a commercial lease?
Once you commence commercial operations, you must pay ONRR as provided in 30 CFR 1218.51 operating fees on your commercial lease as described in § 585.503.
(a) BOEM will determine the annual operating fee for activities relating to the generation of electricity on your lease based on the formula F = M * H * c * P * r, where:
(1) F is the dollar amount of the annual operating fee;
(2) M is the nameplate capacity expressed in megawatts;
(3) H is the number of hours in a year, equal to 8,760, used to calculate an annual payment;
(4) c is the “capacity factor” representing the anticipated efficiency of the facility's operation expressed as a decimal between zero and one;
(5) P is a measure of the annual average wholesale electric power price expressed in dollars per megawatt hour, as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and
(6) r is the operating fee rate expressed as a decimal between zero and one.
(b) The annual operating fee formula relating to the value of annual electricity generation is restated as:
Equation 1 to Paragraph (
b
)
F
(annual operating fee)
=
M
(nameplate
capacity)
*
H
(hours per year)
*
c
(capacity factor)
*
P
(power price)
*
r
(operating fee rate)
(c) BOEM will specify operating fee parameters in the Final Sale Notice for commercial leases issued competitively and in the lease for those issued noncompetitively.
(1) Unless BOEM specifies otherwise, the operating fee rate “r” is 0.02 for
each year the operating fee applies when you begin commercial operations. We may apply a different fee rate for new projects (
i.e.,
a new generation based on new technology) after considering factors such as program objectives, state of the industry, project type, and project potential. Also, we may agree to reduce or waive the fee rate under § 585.510.
(2) The power price “P,” for each year when the operating fee applies, will be determined annually. The process by which the power price will be determined will be specified in the Final Sale Notice and/or in the lease. BOEM:
(i) Will use the most recent annual average wholesale power price in the State in which a project's transmission cables make landfall, as published by the Department of Energy (DOE), Energy Information Administration (EIA), or other publicly available wholesale power price indices; and
(ii) May adjust the published average wholesale power price to reflect documented variations by State or within a region and recent market conditions.
(3) BOEM will select the capacity factor “c” based upon applicable analogs drawn from present and future domestic and foreign projects that operate in comparable conditions and on comparable scales.
(i) Upon the completion of the first year of the operations period on a lease, BOEM may adjust the capacity factor as necessary (to accurately represent a comparison of actual production over a given period of time with the amount of power a facility would have produced if it had run at full capacity) in a subsequent year.
(ii) After the first adjustment, BOEM may adjust the capacity factor (to accurately represent a comparison of actual generation over a given period of time with the amount of power a facility would have generated if it had run at full capacity) no earlier than in 5-year intervals from the most recent year that BOEM adjusts the capacity factor.
(iii) The process by which BOEM will adjust the capacity factor, including any calculations (incorporating an average capacity factor reflecting actual operating experience), will be specified in the lease. The operator or lessee may request review and adjustment of the capacity factor under § 585.510.
(4) For the nameplate capacity “M,” BOEM will use the total installed capacity of the equipment you install, as specified in your approved COP.
(d) You must submit all operating fee payments to ONRR in accordance with the provisions under 30 CFR 1218.51.
(e) BOEM will establish the operating fee in the Final Sale Notice or in the lease on a case-by-case basis for:
(1) Activities that do not relate to the generation of electricity (
e.g.,
hydrogen production); and
(2) Leases issued for hydrokinetic activities requiring a FERC license.
§ 585.507
What rent payments must I pay on a project easement?
(a) You must pay rent to ONRR as provided in 30 CFR 1218.51 for your project easement in the amount of $5 per acre, subject to a minimum of $450 per year, unless specified otherwise in the lease.
(1) The size of the project easement will be determined according to § 585.628(g)(1).
(2) The size of a project easement area for an accessory platform is limited to the areal extent of anchor chains and other facilities and devices associated with the accessory.
(b) You must commence rent payments for your project easement upon our approval of your COP or GAP:
(1) You must make the first rent payment as provided in § 585.500;
(2) You must submit all subsequent rent payments in accordance with the regulations at 30 CFR 1218.51; and
(3) You must continue to pay annual rent for your project easement until your lease is terminated.
§ 585.508
What rent payments must I pay on ROW grants or RUE grants associated with renewable energy projects?
(a) For each ROW grant BOEM approves under subpart D of this part, you must pay annual rent of $5 per acre to ONRR as provided in 30 CFR 1218.51 and as determined by § 585.301(a), but in no case less than $450, for use of the grant, unless specified otherwise in the grant.
(b) For each RUE grant BOEM approves under subpart D of this part,
you must pay rent to ONRR as provided in 30 CFR 1218.51 in the amount of:
(1) $5 per acre per year; or
(2) A minimum of $450 per year.
(c) You must make the rent payments required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section on:
(1) An annual basis;
(2) For a 5-year period; or
(3) For multiples of 5 years.
(d) You must make the first annual rent payment upon approval of your ROW grant or RUE grant request, as provided in § 585.500, and all subsequent rent payments to ONRR in accordance with the regulations at 30 CFR 1218.51.
§ 585.509
Who is responsible for submitting lease or grant payments to ONRR?
(a) For each lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant issued under this part, you must identify one person who is responsible for all payments due and payable under the provisions of the lease or grant. The responsible person identified is designated as the payor, and you must document acceptance of such responsibilities, as provided in 30 CFR 1218.52.
(b) All payors must submit payments and maintain auditable records in accordance with guidance we issue or any applicable regulations in subchapter A of this chapter. In addition, the lessee or grant holder must also maintain such auditable records.
§ 585.510
May BOEM defer, reduce, or waive my lease or grant payments?
(a) The BOEM Director may defer, reduce, or waive the rent or operating fee or components of the operating fee, such as the fee rate or capacity factor, when the Director determines that continued activities would be uneconomic without the requested deferral, reduction, or waiver, or that it is necessary to encourage continued or additional activities.
(b) When requesting a deferral, reduction, or waiver, you must submit an application to BOEM that includes all of the following:
(1) The number of the lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant involved;
(2) Name of each lessee or grant holder of record;
(3) Name of each operator;
(4) A demonstration that:
(i) Continued activities would be uneconomic without the requested deferral, reduction, or waiver; or
(ii) A deferral, reduction, or waiver is necessary to encourage additional activities; and
(5) Any other information required by the Director.
(c) No more than 6 years of your operations period will be subject to a full waiver of the operating fee.
§§ 585.511-585.515
[Reserved]

# Financial Assurance Requirements for Commercial Leases
§ 585.516
What are the financial assurance requirements for each stage of my commercial lease?
(a) The financial assurance requirements for each stage of your commercial lease are:
Before BOEM will . . .
You must provide . . .
(1) Execute a commercial lease or approve an assignment of an existing commercial lease
A bond or other authorized financial assurance in the amount of 12 months' rent.
(2) Allow you to install facilities approved in your SAP
A supplemental bond or other authorized financial assurance in an amount determined by BOEM based on the anticipated decommissioning costs of the proposed facilities.
(3) Allow you to install facilities approved in your COP
A supplemental bond or other authorized financial assurance in an amount determined by BOEM based on anticipated decommissioning costs of the proposed facilities. If you propose to incrementally fund your financial assurance instrument, BOEM must approve the schedule for providing the appropriate financial assurance.
(b) Each bond or other authorized financial assurance must guarantee compliance with this part, the applicable plan approvals, and the terms and conditions of the lease.
(c) For hydrokinetic commercial leases, supplemental financial assurance may be required in an amount determined by BOEM prior to installation of facilities pursuant to a FERC license.
§ 585.517
How will BOEM determine the supplemental financial assurance associated with commercial leases?
(a) BOEM determines the amount of your supplemental financial assurance based on the estimated costs to meet all accrued lease obligations, including:
(1) The projected amount of annual rent and other payments due to the United States over the next 12 months, to the extent that amount is not covered in the initial financial assurance provided in § 585.516(a)(1);
(2) Any past due rent and other payments;
(3) Other monetary obligations; and
(4) The estimated cost of facility decommissioning, as required by 30 CFR part 285, subpart I.
(b) If your cumulative potential obligations and liabilities increase or decrease, we may adjust the amount of the supplemental financial assurance.
(1) If we propose adjusting your financial assurance amount, we will notify you of the proposed adjustment and give you an opportunity to comment; and
(2) We may approve a reduced financial assurance amount if you request it and if the reduced amount that you request is sufficient to cover your obligations and liabilities calculated under paragraph (a) of this section.
§§ 585.518-585.519
[Reserved]

# Financial Assurance for Limited Leases, ROW Grants, and RUE Grants
§ 585.520
What financial assurance must I provide when I obtain my limited lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant?
Before BOEM will execute your limited lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant, or approve an assignment of an interest therein, you or a proposed assignee must guarantee compliance with all terms and conditions of the lease or grant by providing a bond or other authorized financial assurance in the amount of 12 months' rent.
§ 585.521
Do my financial assurance requirements change as activities progress on my limited lease or grant?
(a) BOEM may require you to increase or allow you to decrease the amount of your financial assurance as activities progress on your limited lease or grant based on the estimated costs to meet all accrued lease or grant obligations.
(b) The total amount of the financial assurance must be no less than the amount required to meet your limited lease and grant obligations, including:
(1) The projected amount of rent and other payments due to the United States over the next 12 months;
(2) Any past due rent and other payments;
(3) Other monetary obligations; and
(4) The estimated cost of facility decommissioning as required by 30 CFR part 285, subpart I.
(c) If BOEM proposes adjusting the amount of your financial assurance to ensure your limited lease and grant obligations are met, BOEM will notify you of the proposed adjustment and will provide you an opportunity to object.
(d) You may submit a written request to BOEM to reduce the amount of your financial assurance if your proposed amount is not less than the sum of your obligations listed in paragraph (b) of this section. BOEM may approve your request in its discretion.
(e) You may satisfy the requirement for increased financial assurance on your limited lease or grant by increasing the amount of your existing bond or by providing a supplemental bond or other financial assurance.
(1) The supplemental bond or other financial assurance must meet the requirements specified in §§ 585.525 through 585.529.
(2) If you propose to incrementally fund your financial assurance, BOEM must approve the schedule for providing the appropriate financial assurance.
§§ 585.522-585.524
[Reserved]

# Requirements for Financial Assurance Instruments
§ 585.525
What general requirements must a financial assurance instrument meet?
(a) Any bond or other acceptable financial assurance instrument that you provide must:
(1) Be payable to BOEM upon demand; and
(2) Guarantee compliance of all lessees, grant holders, operators, and payors with all terms and conditions of the lease or grant, any subsequent approvals and authorizations, and all applicable regulations.
(b) All bonds and other forms of financial assurance must be on or in a form approved by BOEM. You may submit this on an approved form that you have reproduced or generated by use of a computer. If the document you submit omits any terms and conditions that are included on the BOEM-approved form, your bond is deemed to contain the omitted terms and conditions.
(c) Surety bonds must be issued by an approved surety listed in the current Treasury Circular 570, as required by 31 CFR 223.16. You may obtain a copy of Circular 570 from the Treasury website at
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/circular-570.html
.
(d) Your surety bond cannot exceed the underwriting limit listed in the current Treasury Circular 570, except as permitted therein.
(e) You and a qualified surety must execute your bond. When the surety is a corporation, an authorized corporate officer must sign the bond and attest to it over the corporate seal.
(f) You may not terminate the period of liability of your bond or cancel your bond, except as provided in this subpart. Bonds must continue in full force and effect even though an event has occurred that could diminish or terminate a surety's obligation under State law.
(g) Your surety must notify you and BOEM within 5 business days after:
(1) It initiates any judicial or administrative proceeding alleging its insolvency or bankruptcy; or
(2) The Treasury decertifies the surety.
§ 585.526
What instruments other than a surety bond may I use to meet the financial assurance requirement?
(a) You may use other types of security instruments, if BOEM determines that such security protects BOEM to the same extent as the surety bond. BOEM will consider pledges of the following:
(1) U.S. Department of Treasury securities identified in 31 CFR part 225;
(2) A pledge of cash, in an amount equal to the required dollar amount of the financial assurance, to be deposited and maintained in a Federal depository account of the U.S. Treasury;
(3) Certificates of deposit or savings accounts in a bank or financial institution organized or authorized to transact business in the United States with:
(i) Minimum net assets of $500,000,000; and
(ii) Minimum
Bankrate.com
Safe
Sound rating of 3 Stars, and Capitalization, Assets, Equity and Liquidity (CAEL) rating of 3 or less;
(4) Negotiable U.S. Government, State, and municipal securities or bonds having a market value of not less than the required dollar amount of the financial assurance and maintained in a Securities Investors Protection Corporation insured trust account by a licensed securities brokerage firm for the benefit of BOEM;
(5) Investment-grade rated securities having a Standard and Poor's rating of AAA or an equivalent rating from a nationally recognized securities rating service having a market value of not less than the required dollar amount of the financial assurance and maintained in a Securities Investors Protection Corporation insured trust account by a licensed securities brokerage firm for the benefit of BOEM;
(6) Insurance, if its form and function is such that the funding or enforceable pledges of funding are used to guarantee performance of regulatory obligations in the event of default on such obligations by the lessee. Insurance must have an A.M. Best rating of “superior” or an equivalent rating from a nationally recognized insurance rating service;
(7) Letters of credit, subject to the following conditions:
(i) The letter of credit provider must have an issuer credit rating from a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization (NRSRO) greater than or equal to investment grade from either Standard
Poor's Ratings Service or Moody's Investor Service, or a proxy credit rating determined by BOEM based on audited financial information (including an income statement, balance sheet, statement of cash flows, and the auditor's certificate) greater than or equal to investment grade from either Standard
Poor's Ratings Service or Moody's Investor Service;
(ii) The letter of credit must grant BOEM full authority to demand immediate payment in case of default in the performance of the terms and conditions of a lease or regulatory obligations;
(iii) The letter of credit must be irrevocable during its term and will be subject to collection by BOEM if not replaced by another letter of credit or other form of financial assurance at least 30 calendar days before its expiration date;
(iv) The expiration date of the letter of credit must not be less than 90 days following the date it becomes effective;
(v) The letter of credit must contain a provision for automatic renewal for periods of not less than 1 year in the absence of notice of cancellation to BOEM at least 90 calendar days before the expiration date; and
(vi) The letter of credit must contain a venue provision, which requires any disputes to be adjudicated in a U.S. Federal court that is mutually agreed upon by BOEM and the issuers of the letter of credit;
(8) Another form of security approved by BOEM in its discretion; or
(9) A combination of security instruments described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section.
(b) If you use a Treasury security:
(1) You must post 115 percent of your financial assurance amount;
(2) You must monitor the collateral value of your security. If the collateral value of your security as determined in accordance with 31 CFR part 203, Collateral Margins Table (which can be found at
https://www.treasurydirect.gov
), falls below the required level of coverage, you must pledge additional security to provide 115 percent of the required amount; and
(3) You must include with your pledge authority for us to sell the security and use the proceeds if we determine that you have failed to comply with any of the terms and conditions of your lease or grant, any subsequent approval or authorization, or applicable regulations.
(c) If you use the instruments described in paragraph (a)(4) or (5) of this section, you must provide BOEM by the end of each calendar year a certified statement describing the nature and market value of the instruments maintained in that account, and including any current statements or reports furnished by the brokerage firm to the lessee concerning the asset value of the account.
§ 585.527
May I demonstrate financial strength and reliability to meet the financial assurance requirement for lease or grant activities?
BOEM may allow you to use your financial strength and reliability to meet financial assurance requirements if:
(a) You have an investment grade issuer credit rating. If any Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)-recognized NRSRO provides a credit rating that differs from any other SEC-recognized NRSRO credit rating, BOEM will apply the highest rating for the purposes of determining your financial assurance requirements.
(b) You have a proxy credit rating determined by BOEM, which must be based on audited financial information for the most recent fiscal year (which must include an income statement, balance sheet, statement of cash flows, and the auditor's certificate).
(1) The audited financial information for your most recent fiscal year must cover a continuous twelve-month period within the twenty-four-month period prior to the lessee's receipt of the determination that you must provide supplemental financial assurance.
(2) In determining your proxy credit rating, BOEM may include the value of the offshore decommissioning liabilities associated with any lease(s) or
grants in which you have an ownership interest. Upon BOEM's request, you must provide the information that BOEM determines is necessary to properly evaluate your offshore decommissioning liabilities, including joint ownership interests and liabilities associated with your OCS leases and grants.
(c) Your co-lessee or co-grant-holder has an issuer credit rating or a proxy credit rating that meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this section; however, BOEM may require you to provide financial assurance for decommissioning obligations for which such co-lessee or co-grant-holder is not liable.
(d) You have a contract with a counterparty that projects net income will exceed three times the estimated decommissioning expenses associated with the facilities that will generate that income.
(e) If we approve your request to use your financial strength and reliability to meet your financial assurance requirements, you must submit annual updates.
(f) If the annual updates do not continue to demonstrate financial strength and reliability or BOEM has reason to believe that you are unable to meet the requirements of this section, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, BOEM will terminate your ability to use financial strength and reliability for financial assurance and require you to provide another type of financial assurance. You must provide this new financial assurance instrument within 90 days after we terminate your use of financial strength and reliability.
§ 585.528
May I use a third-party guaranty to meet the financial assurance requirement for lease or grant activities?
(a) You may use a third-party guaranty to secure all or part of the obligations for which financial assurance was demanded by BOEM if the guarantor:
(1) Meets the credit rating or proxy credit rating criterion set forth in § 585.527(a); and
(2) Submits an agreement containing each of the provisions in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) A third-party guarantor may limit its cumulative obligations to a fixed dollar amount as agreed to by BOEM at the time the third-party guaranty is provided.
(c) If, during the life of your third-party guaranty, your guarantor no longer meets the criterion referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must:
(1) Notify BOEM within 72 hours of so learning; and
(2) Submit a surety bond or other financial assurance covering the obligations previously secured by the third-party guaranty.
(d) Your guarantor must submit an agreement executed by the guarantor and all parties bound by the agreement. All parties are bound jointly and severally, and the guarantor must meet the legal and financial qualifications set forth in §§ 585.107 and 585.108.
(1) When any party is a corporation, two corporate officers authorized to execute the guaranty agreement on behalf of the corporation must sign the agreement.
(2) When any party is a partnership, joint venture, or syndicate, the guaranty agreement must bind each party who has a beneficial interest in your guarantor and provide that, upon BOEM demand under your guaranty, each party is jointly and severally liable for compliance with all terms and conditions of your lease(s) or grant(s) covered by the agreement.
(3) When forfeiture of the guaranty is called for, the agreement must provide that your guarantor will either bring your lease(s) or grant(s) into compliance or provide, within 7 days, sufficient funds to permit BOEM to complete corrective action.
(4) The guaranty agreement must contain a confession of judgment, providing that, if BOEM determines that you or your operator is in default, the guarantor must not challenge the determination and must remedy the default.
(5) If your guarantor wants to terminate the period of liability, your guarantor must notify you and BOEM at least 90 days before the proposed termination date, obtain BOEM's approval for termination of all or a specified portion of the guarantee for liabilities
arising after that date, and remain liable for all your work performed during the period the agreement is in effect.
(6) Each guaranty submitted pursuant to this section is deemed to contain all the terms described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section, even if they are not actually in the agreement.
(e) Before the termination of your guaranty, you must provide an acceptable replacement in the form of a bond or other security.
§ 585.529
Can I use a lease- or grant-specific decommissioning account to meet the financial assurance requirements related to decommissioning?
(a) In lieu of a surety bond, BOEM may authorize you to establish a lease-, ROW grant-, or RUE grant-specific decommissioning account in a federally insured institution. The funds may not be withdrawn from the account without our written approval.
(1) The funds must be payable to BOEM and pledged to meet your lease or grant decommissioning and site clearance obligations;
(2) You must fund the account in the amount determined by and according to the payment schedule approved by BOEM. BOEM will estimate the cost of decommissioning, including site clearance; and
(3) Subject to BOEM's approval, a decommissioning account may be funded in whole or in part during the operations period of a lease or grant.
(b) Any interest paid on the account will be treated as account funds unless we authorize in writing that any interest be paid to the depositor.
(c) We may allow you to pledge Treasury securities, payable to BOEM on demand, to satisfy your obligation to make payments into the account. Acceptable Treasury securities and their collateral value are determined in accordance with 31 CFR part 203, Collateral Margins Table (which can be found at
https://www.treasurydirect.gov
).
(d) We may require you to commit a specified stream of revenues as payment into the account so that the account will be fully funded, as prescribed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The commitment may include revenue from other operations.

# Changes in Financial Assurance
§ 585.530
What must I do if my financial assurance lapses?
(a) If your surety is decertified by the Treasury, becomes bankrupt or insolvent, or if your surety's charter or license is suspended or revoked, or if any other approved financial assurance expires for any reason, you must:
(1) Inform BOEM within 3 business days about the financial assurance lapse; and
(2) Provide new financial assurance in the amount set by BOEM, as provided in this subpart.
(b) You must notify BOEM within 3 business days after you learn of any action filed alleging that you, your surety, or your third-party guarantor is insolvent or bankrupt.
§ 585.531
What happens if the value of my financial assurance is reduced?
If the value of your financial assurance is reduced below the required financial assurance amount because of a default or any other reason, you must provide additional financial assurance sufficient to meet the requirements of this subpart within 45 days or within a different period as specified by BOEM.
§ 585.532
What happens if my surety wants to terminate the period of liability of my financial assurance?
(a) Terminating the period of liability of your financial assurance ends the period during which surety liability continues to accrue. The surety continues to be responsible for obligations and liabilities that accrued during the period of liability and before the date on which BOEM terminates the period of liability under paragraph (b) of this section. The liabilities that accrue during a period of liability include:
(1) Obligations that started to accrue before the beginning of the period of liability and have not been met; and
(2) Obligations that began accruing during the period of liability.
(b) Your surety must submit to BOEM its request to terminate the period of liability under its financial assurance and notify you of that request no less than 90 days before the proposed termination date. If you intend to continue activities on your lease or
grant, you must provide replacement financial assurance of equivalent or greater value. BOEM will terminate that period of liability within 90 days after BOEM receives the request.
§ 585.533
How does my surety obtain cancellation of my financial assurance?
BOEM will allow a surety to cancel financial assurance and will relieve the surety from liability for accrued obligations on the earliest to occur of the following:
(a) BOEM determines that there are no outstanding obligations covered by the financial assurance;
(b) The following occurs:
(1) BOEM accepts replacement financial assurance in an amount equal to or greater than the financial assurance to be cancelled to cover the period of liability prior to termination; or
(2) The surety issuing the new financial assurance has expressly agreed to assume all outstanding liabilities under the original financial assurance that accrued during the period of liability that was terminated; and
(c) Seven years have elapsed since the termination of the period of liability if the new surety did not assume the accrued obligations for the terminated period of liability, unless there are any appeals or judicial litigation related to your liabilities covered by the financial assurance.
§ 585.534
When may BOEM cancel my financial assurance?
(a) When your lease or grant ends, your sureties remain responsible, and BOEM will cancel your financial assurance as shown in the following table:
Financial assurance
Your financial assurance will not be cancelled until . . .
(1) Financial assurance for commercial leases submitted under § 585.516(a)(1) and for grants or limited leases submitted under §§ 585.520 and 585.521
Seven years after all operations and activities under the lease or grant cease, including decommissioning and site clearance, or a longer period as necessary to complete any appeals or judicial litigation related to your financial assurance obligation. BOEM may reduce or cancel your financial assurance or return some or all of your security if BOEM determines that the full amount is no longer needed.
(2) Supplemental financial assurance for commercial leases submitted under § 585.516 and for grants or limited leases submitted under §§ 585.520 and 585.521
(i) The lease or grant expires or is terminated and BOEM determines you have met your secured obligations, unless BOEM:
(A) Determines that the future potential liability resulting from any undetected problem is greater than the amount of your lease-specific financial assurance; and
(B) Notifies the provider of the supplemental financial assurance that BOEM will wait 7 years before cancelling all or a part of the supplemental financial assurance (or longer period as necessary to complete any appeals or judicial litigation related to your secured obligations); or
(ii) At any time when:
(A) BOEM determines, in its discretion, that you no longer need to provide the supplemental financial assurance;
(B) The operations for which the supplemental financial assurance was provided were cancelled before accrual of any decommissioning obligation; or
(C) Cancellation of the supplemental financial assurance is appropriate because, under the regulations in this part, BOEM determines such financial assurance never should have been required.
(b) BOEM may require reinstatement of your financial assurance as if no cancellation had occurred if:
(1) A person makes a payment under the lease or grant, and the payment is rescinded or must be repaid by the recipient because the person making the payment is insolvent, bankrupt, subject to reorganization, or placed in receivership; or
(2) The responsible party represents to BOEM that it has discharged its obligations under the lease or grant, and the representation was materially false when the financial assurance was cancelled.
§ 585.535
Why might BOEM call for forfeiture of my financial assurance?
(a) BOEM may call for forfeiture of all or part of your financial assurance if:
(1) After notice and demand for performance by BOEM, you refuse or fail, within the timeframe we prescribe, to comply with any term or condition of your lease or grant, other authorization or approval, or applicable regulations; or
(2) You default on one of the conditions under which we accepted your financial assurance.
(b) We may pursue forfeiture without first making demands for performance against any co-lessee or holder of an interest in your ROW or RUE, or other person approved to perform obligations under your lease or grant.
§ 585.536
How will I be notified of a call for forfeiture?
(a) BOEM will notify you and your surety, including any provider of financial assurance, in writing of the call for forfeiture and provide the reasons for the forfeiture and the amount to be forfeited. We will base the amount upon an estimate of the total cost of corrective action to bring your lease or grant into compliance.
(b) We will advise you and your surety that you may avoid forfeiture if, within 10 business days:
(1) You agree to and demonstrate in writing to BOEM that you will bring your lease or grant into compliance within the timeframe we prescribe, and you do so; or
(2) Your surety agrees to and demonstrates that it will bring your lease or grant into compliance within the timeframe we prescribe, even if the cost of compliance exceeds the face amount of the bond.
§ 585.537
How will BOEM proceed once my bond or other security is forfeited?
(a) If BOEM determines that your bond or other security is forfeited, we will collect the forfeited amount and use the funds to bring your lease or grant(s) into compliance and correct any default.
(b) If the amount collected under your bond or other security is insufficient to pay the full cost of corrective action, BOEM may take or direct action to obtain full compliance and recover all costs in excess of the forfeited bond from you or any co-lessee or co-grantee.
(c) If the amount collected under your bond or other security exceeds the full cost of corrective action to bring your lease or grant(s) into compliance, we will return the excess funds to the party from whom the excess was collected.
§§ 585.538-585.539
[Reserved]

# Revenue Sharing With States
§ 585.540
How will BOEM equitably distribute revenues to States?
(a) BOEM will distribute among the eligible coastal States 27 percent of the following revenues derived from qualified projects, where a qualified project and qualified project area is determined in § 585.541 and an eligible State is determined in § 585.542, where a qualified project and qualified project area are determined in 585.541 and an eligible State is defined in § 585.113. Revenues subject to distribution to eligible States include all bonuses, acquisition fees, rentals, and operating fees derived from the entire qualified project area and associated project easements and are not limited to revenues attributable to the portion of the project area within 3 miles of the seaward boundary of a coastal State. The revenues to be shared do not include administrative fees such as service fees and those assessed for civil penalties and forfeiture of bond or other surety obligations.
(b) The project area is the area included within a single lease or grant. For each qualified project, BOEM will determine and announce the project area and its geographic center at the time it grants or issues a lease, easement, or right-of-way on the OCS. If a qualified project lease or grant's boundaries change significantly due to actions pursuant to § 585.435 or § 585.436, BOEM will re-evaluate the project area to determine whether the geographic center has changed. If it has, BOEM will re-determine State eligibility and shares accordingly.
(c) To determine each eligible State's share of the 27 percent of the revenues for a qualified project, BOEM will use the inverse distance formula, which apportions shares according to the relative proximity of the nearest point on the coastline of each eligible State to the geographic center of the qualified project area. If S
i
is equal to the nearest distance from the geographic center of the project area to the i = 1, 2, * * *
nth eligible State's coastline, then eligible State i would be entitled to the fraction F
i
of the 27-percent aggregate revenue share due to all the eligible States according to the following formula:
Formula 1 to paragraph (c)
F
i
= (1/S
i
) ÷ (Σ
i=
1* * *
n
(1/S
i
))
§ 585.541
What is a qualified project for revenue sharing purposes?
A qualified project for the purpose of revenue sharing with eligible coastal States is one authorized under subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act, which includes acreage within the area extending 3 miles seaward of State submerged lands. A qualified project is subject to revenue sharing with those States that are eligible for revenue sharing under § 585.542. The entire area within a lease or grant for the qualified project, excluding project easements, is considered the qualified project area.
§ 585.542
What makes a State eligible for payment of revenues?
A State is eligible for payment of revenues if any part of the State's coastline is located within 15 miles of the announced geographic center of the project area of a qualified project. A State is not eligible for revenue sharing if all parts of that State's coastline are more than 15 miles from the announced geographic center of the qualified project area. This is the case even if the qualified project area is located wholly or partially within an area extending 3 miles seaward of the submerged lands of that State or if there are no States with a coastline less than 15 miles from the announced geographic center of the qualified project area.
§ 585.543
Example of how the inverse distance formula works.
(a) Assume that the geographic center of the project area lies 12 miles from the closest coastline point of State A and 4 miles from the closest coastline point of State B. BOEM will round dollar shares to the nearest whole dollar. The proportional share due each State would be calculated as follows:
(1) State A's share = [(1/12) ÷ (1/12 + 1/4)] = 1/4.
(2) State B's share = [(1/4) ÷ (1/12 + 1/4)] = 3/4.
(b) Therefore, State B would receive a share of revenues that is three times as large as that awarded to State A, based on the finding that State B's nearest coastline is one-third the distance to the geographic center of the qualified project area as compared to State A's nearest coastline. Eligible States share the 27 percent of the total revenues from the qualified project as mandated under the OCS Lands Act. Hence, if the qualified project generates $1,000,000 of Federal revenues in a given year, the Federal Government would distribute the States' 27-percent share as follows:
(1) State A's share = $270,000 × 1/4 = $67,500.
(2) State B's share = $270,000 × 3/4 = $202,500.
§§ 585.544-585.599
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Plans and Information Requirements

# Source:
89 FR 42748, May 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 585.600
What plans must I submit to BOEM before I conduct activities on my lease or grant?
(a) You must submit a SAP, COP, or GAP and receive BOEM approval before you conduct activities on your lease or grant as set forth in the following table:
Before you:
You must submit and obtain approval for your:
(1) Conduct site assessment activities on your commercial lease, such as meteorological towers or other facilities that are installed on the seabed using a fixed-bottom foundation requiring professional engineering design and assessment of sediment, meteorological, and oceanographic conditions as part of the design
SAP under §§ 585.605 through 585.613.
(2) Conduct any activities pertaining to construction of facilities for commercial operations on your commercial lease
COP under §§ 585.620 through 585.628.
(3) Conduct any activities on your limited lease or grant in any OCS area
GAP under §§ 585.640 through 585.648.
(b) BOEM may waive certain types of information or analyses that you otherwise must provide in your proposed plan when you demonstrate that:
(1) Sufficient applicable information or analysis is readily available to BOEM;
(2) The coastal or marine resources that are the subject of the information requirement are not present or affected;
(3) Other factors affect your ability to obtain or BOEM's need for the required information; or
(4) Information is neither necessary nor required for a State to determine consistency with its coastal management program.
§ 585.601
When must I submit my plans to BOEM?
(a) You may submit your SAP anytime; however, your SAP must be submitted to and approved by BOEM before you conduct activities requiring a SAP under § 585.600(a)(1).
(b) You must submit your COP by the end of the preliminary period of your commercial lease in accordance with § 585.235.
(1) Your COP must contain sufficient data and information for BOEM to complete its reviews and NEPA analysis.
(2) BOEM may need to conduct additional reviews of your COP, including environmental analysis under NEPA, if significant new information becomes available from your site assessment and characterization activities or if you substantially revise your COP. As a result of the additional reviews, BOEM may require that you revise your COP.
(c) You must submit your GAP by the end of the preliminary period for your limited lease in accordance with § 585.236, or the preliminary period for your grant in accordance with § 585.303.
§§ 585.602-585.604
[Reserved]

# Site Assessment Plan and Information Requirements for Commercial Leases
§ 585.605
What is a Site Assessment Plan (SAP)?
(a) A SAP describes the site assessment activities meeting the criteria in § 585.600(a)(1) that you plan to perform on your commercial lease.
(b) You must receive BOEM approval of your SAP, as provided in § 585.613, before you can begin any proposed site assessment activities requiring such approval.
(c) If BOEM determines that your proposed site assessment facility or combination of facilities is complex or significant under § 585.613(a)(1), you must comply with the requirements in 30 CFR part 285, subpart G, regarding facility design and construction and submit your SMS as required by 30 CFR 285.810.
§ 585.606
What must I demonstrate in my SAP?
Your SAP must demonstrate that you have planned and are prepared to conduct the proposed site assessment activities in a manner that:
(a) Conforms to your responsibilities listed in § 585.105(a);
(b) Conforms to all applicable laws, regulations, and provisions of your commercial lease;
(c) Is safe;
(d) Does not unreasonably interfere with other uses of the OCS, including those involved with national security or defense;
(e) Does not cause undue harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance;
(f) Uses best available and safest technology;
(g) Uses best management practices; and
(h) Uses properly trained personnel.
§ 585.607
How do I submit my SAP?
You must submit your SAP to BOEM pursuant to § 585.111.
§§ 585.608-585.609
[Reserved]

# Contents of the Site Assessment Plan
§ 585.610
What must I include in my SAP?
(a) Project information may be provided using a PDE. When you provide information using a PDE, BOEM reserves the right to determine what range of values for any given parameter is acceptable. Your SAP must include the following project-specific information, as applicable:
Project information:
Including:
(1) Contact information
The name, address, email address, and phone number of an authorized representative.
(2) The site assessment or technology testing concept
A discussion of the objectives; description of the proposed activities, including the technology you will use; and proposed schedule from start to completion.
(3) Designation of operator, if applicable
As provided in § 585.405.
(4) Commercial lease stipulations and compliance
A description of the measures you took, or will take, to satisfy the conditions of any lease stipulations related to your proposed activities.
(5) A location plat, or indicative layout
The range of surface locations and associated water depths for proposed structures, facilities, and appurtenances located both offshore and onshore, including all anchor and mooring data; and the location and associated water depths of all existing structures.
(6) General structural and project design, fabrication, and installation
For facilities deemed complex or significant you must provide preliminary design information for each facility associated with your site assessment activity and subpart G of 30 CFR part 285 applies. For facilities not deemed complex or significant you must provide final design information.
(7) Deployment activities
A description of the safety, prevention, and environmental protection features or measures that you will use.
(8) Your proposed measures for avoiding, minimizing, reducing, eliminating, and monitoring environmental impacts
A description of the measures you will use to avoid or minimize adverse effects and any potential incidental take, before you conduct activities on your lease, and how you will mitigate environmental impacts from your proposed activities, including a description of the measures you will use as required by §§ 585.700 through 585.703.
(9) Project verification strategy
An analysis supporting your recommendation as to whether your site assessment activities should be determined complex or significant. If your recommendation supports a complex or significant determination, describe your strategy for compliance with 30 CFR 285.705 through 285.714.
(10) References
A bibliographic list of any document or published source that you cite as part of your plan. You may reference information and data discussed in other plans that you previously submitted or that are otherwise readily available to BOEM.
(11) Decommissioning and site clearance procedures
A discussion of general concepts and methodologies.
(12) Air quality information
Information as described in § 585.700.
(13) A listing of all Federal, State, and local authorizations or approvals required to conduct site assessment activities
A statement indicating whether you have applied for or obtained such authorization or approval from the U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and any other applicable Federal, State, or local authorizers.
(14) A list of agencies and persons with whom you have communicated, or with whom you will communicate, regarding potential impacts associated with your proposed activities
Contact information and issues discussed.
(15) Financial assurance information
Statements attesting that the activities and facilities proposed in your SAP are or will be covered by an appropriate bond or other approved financial assurance instrument as required in § 585.516 and §§ 585.525 through 585.529.
(16) Information you incorporate by reference
A list of the documents you have incorporated by reference and their public availability.
(17) Other information
Additional information as required by BOEM.
(b) You must include reports that document the results of surveys and investigations that characterize and model the site of your proposed assessment activities. Your reports must address the following topics:
Topic:
Purpose of report:
Including:
(1) Geological and geotechnical
To define the baseline geological conditions of the seabed and provide sufficient data to develop a geologic model, assess geologic hazards, and determine the feasibility of the proposed site for your assessment facility
(i) Desktop studies to collect available data from published sources and nearby sites.
(ii) Geophysical surveys of the proposed area with sufficient areal coverage, depth penetration, and resolution to define the geological conditions of the seabed at the site that could impact, or be impacted by, your proposed site assessment activities.
(iii) Geotechnical investigations of sufficient scope and detail to: ground truth the geophysical surveys; support development of a geological model; assess potential geological hazards that could impact the proposed site assessment activities; and provide geotechnical data for design of the site assessment facility, including type and approximate dimensions of the foundation.
(iv) An overall site characterization report for your site assessment facility that integrates the findings of your studies, surveys, and investigations; describes the geological model; contains supporting data and findings; and states your recommendations.
(2) Biological
To determine the presence of biological features and marine resources
A description of the results of surveys used to evaluate the spatial and temporal distribution and abundance of biological species in the site area, including migratory and non-migratory species of vertebrate animals such as fish, marine mammals, sea turtles, and coastal and marine birds; invertebrate animals; plants; algae; and other organisms; also including the presence of live bottoms, hard bottoms, topographic features, and other marine resources.
(3) Archaeological resources and other historic properties
To provide BOEM with required information to conduct review of your SAP under NHPA
Archeological resource and other historic property identification surveys with supporting data.
(4) Meteorological and oceanographic (metocean)
To provide an overall understanding of the meteorological and oceanographic conditions at the site of your proposed facility, and to identify conditions that may pose a significant risk to your facility
Desktop studies to collect available data from hindcast or re-analysis models and field measurements in sufficient detail to support design of your facility and support the analysis of wake effects, sediment mobility and scour, and navigation risks.
§ 585.611
What information and certifications must I submit with my SAP to assist BOEM in complying with NEPA and other applicable laws?
(a) Your SAP must contain detailed information and analysis to assist BOEM in complying with NEPA and other applicable laws.
(b) When proposing site assessment activities in an area where BOEM has no previous experience, your SAP must contain information about resources, conditions, and activities listed in the following table that your proposed activities may significantly affect or that may have a significant effect on your proposed activities (including where the potential significance of the effect is unknown) and must contain any other information required by law.
Type of information:
Including:
(1) Hazard information
Meteorology, oceanography, sediment transport, geology, and shallow geological or manmade hazards.
(2) Water quality
Turbidity and total suspended solids from construction; impact from vessel discharges.
(3) Biological resources
Characterization of the spatial and temporal distribution and abundance of biological species in the site area, such as benthic communities, marine mammals, sea turtles, coastal and marine birds, fish and shellfish, plankton, sea grasses, and other plant life.
(4) Threatened or endangered species
As needed for ESA consultation.
(5) Sensitive biological resources or habitats
Essential fish habitat, refuges, preserves, special management areas identified in coastal management programs, nearby marine protected areas, including State and Federal coastal and marine protected areas, as well as nearby national marine sanctuaries, and nearby marine national monuments, rookeries, hard bottom habitat, chemosynthetic communities, calving grounds, barrier islands, beaches, dunes, and wetlands.
(6) Archaeological resources use, other historic property use, Indigenous traditional cultural use, or use pertaining to treaty and reserved rights with Native Americans or other Indigenous peoples
Required information to conduct review of the COP under the NHPA or other applicable laws or policies, including treaty and reserved rights with Native Americans or other Indigenous peoples.
(7) Social and economic conditions
Employment, existing offshore and coastal infrastructure (including major sources of supplies, services, energy, and water), land use, subsistence resources and harvest practices, recreation, recreational and commercial fishing (including typical fishing seasons, location, and type), minority and lower income groups, coastal zone management programs, and a visual impact assessment.
(8) Coastal and marine uses
Military activities, vessel traffic, fisheries, and exploration and development of other natural resources. This includes a navigational safety risk assessment that provides a description of the predicted impacts of the project to navigation, and the measures you will use to avoid or minimize adverse impacts. This document must also be submitted to the U.S. Coast Guard to assist with its analysis if your proposal identifies potential impediments to safe navigation.
(9) Consistency Certification
If required by CZMA, under:
(i) 15 CFR part 930, subpart D, if the SAP is submitted before lease issuance;
(ii) 15 CFR part 930, subpart E, if the SAP is submitted after lease issuance.
(10) Other resources, conditions, and activities
As identified by BOEM.
(c) When proposing site assessment activities in an area BOEM previously considered, BOEM will review your SAP to determine if its impacts are consistent with those previously considered. If the anticipated effects of your proposed SAP activities are significantly different than those previously anticipated, we may determine that additional NEPA and other relevant Federal reviews are required. In that case, BOEM will notify you of such determination, and you must submit information required in paragraph (b) of this section as appropriate.
§ 585.612
How will my SAP be processed for Federal consistency under the Coastal Zone Management Act?
Your SAP will be processed based on whether it is submitted before or after your lease is issued:
If your SAP is submitted:
Consistency review of your SAP will be handled as follows:
(a) Before lease issuance
You will furnish a copy of your SAP, consistency certification, and necessary data and information to conduct an adequate consistency review to the applicable State CZMA agency or agencies if required by 15 CFR part 930, subpart D. and submit a copy to BOEM in accordance with § 585.111.
(b) After lease issuance
You must submit a copy of your SAP, consistency certification, and necessary data and information pursuant to 15 CFR part 930, subpart E, to BOEM only if BOEM did not consider the proposed site assessment activities for your lease area under its previously submitted consistency determination under 15 CFR part 930, subpart C, and if required by 15 CFR part 930, subpart E. BOEM will forward to the applicable State CZMA agency or agencies one copy of your SAP, consistency certification, and necessary data and information required to conduct an adequate consistency review under 15 CFR part 930, subpart E, after BOEM has determined that all information requirements for the SAP are met.
§ 585.613
How will BOEM process my SAP?
(a) BOEM will review your submitted SAP, and additional information provided pursuant to § 585.611, to determine if it contains the information necessary to conduct our technical and environmental reviews.
(1) We will notify you if we deem your proposed facility or combination of facilities to be complex or significant; and
(2) We will notify you if your submitted SAP lacks any necessary information.
(b) BOEM will prepare a NEPA analysis, as appropriate.
(c) As appropriate, we will coordinate and consult with relevant Federal and State agencies, affected federally recognized Indian Tribes and executives of relevant local governments and will provide to other Federal, State, and local agencies and affected federally recognized Indian Tribes relevant nonproprietary data and information pertaining to your proposed activities.
(d) During the review process, we may request additional information if we determine that the information provided is not sufficient to complete the review and approval process. If you fail to provide the requested information, BOEM may disapprove your SAP.
(e) Upon completion of our technical and environmental reviews and other reviews required by Federal laws (
e.g.,
CZMA), BOEM will approve, disapprove, or approve with conditions your SAP.
(1) If we approve your SAP, we will specify terms and conditions to be incorporated into your SAP. You must certify compliance with those terms and conditions, required under 30 CFR 285.615(b); and
(2) If we disapprove your SAP, we will inform you of the reasons and allow you an opportunity to submit a revised plan addressing our concerns, and we may suspend your lease, as appropriate, to give you a reasonable amount of time to resubmit the SAP.

# Activities under an Approved SAP
§ 585.614
When may I begin conducting activities under my approved SAP?
(a) You may begin conducting the activities approved in your SAP following BOEM approval of your SAP.
(b) If you are installing a facility or a combination of facilities deemed by BOEM to be complex or significant, as provided in § 585.613(a)(1), you must comply with the requirements of 30 CFR part 285, subpart G, and also submit your Safety Management System description required by 30 CFR 285.810 before construction may begin.
§ 585.615
What other reports or notices must I submit to BOEM under my approved SAP?
You must prepare and submit to BOEM a report annually on November 1st of each year that summarizes your site assessment activities and the results of those activities. BOEM will withhold trade secrets and commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential from public disclosure under exemption 4 of the FOIA and as provided in § 585.114.
§ 585.616
[Reserved]
§ 585.617
What activities require a revision to my SAP, and when will BOEM approve the revision?
(a) You must notify BOEM in writing before conducting site assessment activities not described in your approved SAP involving facilities that are installed on the seabed using a fixed-bottom foundation requiring professional engineering design and assessment of sediment, meteorological, and oceanographic conditions as part of the design. Your notice must describe in detail the type of activities you propose to conduct. We will determine whether the activities you propose require a revision to your SAP. We may request additional information from you, if necessary, to make this determination.
(b) If a revised SAP is required, BOEM will reassess, upon its receipt, whether the facility or combination of facilities described in it is complex or significant.
(1) If BOEM determines that the facilities described in your revised SAP are not complex or significant, you may conduct your approved activities under § 585.614(a).
(2) If BOEM determines that the facilities described in your revised SAP are complex or significant, you must comply with § 585.614(b).
(c) BOEM will periodically review the activities conducted under an approved SAP. The frequency and extent of the review will be based on the significance of any changes in available information and on onshore or offshore conditions affecting or affected by the activities conducted under your SAP. If the review indicates that the SAP should be revised to meet the requirements of this part, BOEM will require you to submit the needed revisions.
(d) Activities for which a proposed revision to your SAP likely will be necessary include:
(1) Activities on the OCS not described in your approved SAP that
could have significant environmental impacts or that may affect threatened or endangered species, or that may affect designated critical habitat of such species, or that may result in incidental take of marine mammals;
(2) Modifications to the number, size, or type of facilities (including associated components) or equipment you will use outside of the PDE that was approved for your project;
(3) Changes in the geographical location or layout of your bottom disturbances, offshore facilities, or onshore support bases beyond the range of possible locations described in your approved SAP;
(4) Structural failure of any facility operated under your approved SAP; or
(5) Changes to any other activity specified by BOEM.
(e) We may begin the appropriate NEPA analysis and other relevant consultations when we determine that a proposed revision could:
(1) Result in a significant change in the impacts previously identified and evaluated;
(2) Require any additional Federal authorizations; or
(3) Involve activities not previously identified and evaluated.
(f) When you propose a revision, we may approve the revision if we determine that the revision is:
(1) Designed not to cause undue harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance; and
(2) Otherwise, consistent with the provisions of section 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act.
§ 585.618
What must I do upon completion of approved site assessment activities?
(a) If your COP or FERC license application describes the continued use of existing facilities approved in your SAP, you may keep such facilities in place on your lease during the time that BOEM reviews your COP or FERC reviews your license application.
(b) You are not required to initiate the decommissioning process for facilities that are authorized to remain in place under your approved COP or approved FERC license.
(c) If, following the technical and environmental review of your submitted COP, BOEM determines that such facilities may not remain in place, you must initiate the decommissioning process, as provided in 30 CFR part 285, subpart I.
(d) If FERC determines that such facilities may not remain in place, you must initiate the decommissioning process as provided in 30 CFR part 285, subpart I.
(e) You must decommission your site assessment facilities as set forth in 30 CFR part 285, subpart I, upon the termination of your lease. You must submit your decommissioning application as required in 30 CFR 285.905 and 285.906.
§ 585.619
[Reserved]

# Construction and Operations Plan for Commercial Leases
§ 585.620
What is a Construction and Operations Plan (COP)?
The COP describes your construction, operations, and conceptual decommissioning plans under your commercial lease, including your project easement. BOEM will withhold trade secrets and commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential from public disclosure under exemption 4 of the FOIA and in accordance with the terms of § 585.114.
(a) Your COP must describe all planned facilities that you will construct and use for your project, including onshore and support facilities and all anticipated project easements.
(b) Your COP must describe all proposed activities including your proposed construction activities, commercial operations, and conceptual decommissioning plans for all planned facilities, including onshore and support facilities.
(c) You must receive BOEM approval of your COP before you can begin any of the approved activities on your lease.
§ 585.621
What must I demonstrate in my COP?
Your COP must demonstrate that you have planned and are prepared to
conduct the proposed activities in a manner that:
(a) Conforms to your responsibilities listed in § 585.105(a);
(b) Conforms to all applicable laws, regulations, and provisions of your commercial lease;
(c) Is safe;
(d) Does not unreasonably interfere with other uses of the OCS, including those involved with national security or defense;
(e) Does not cause undue harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance;
(f) Uses best available and safest technology;
(g) Uses best management practices; and
(h) Uses properly trained personnel.
§ 585.622
How do I submit my COP?
(a) You must submit your COP to BOEM pursuant to § 585.111.
(b) You may submit information and a request for any project easement as part of your original COP submission or as a revision to your COP.
§§ 585.623-585.625
[Reserved]

# Contents of the Construction and Operations Plan
§ 585.626
What must I include in my COP?
(a) Project information may be provided using a PDE. When you provide information using a PDE, BOEM reserves the right to determine what range of values for any given parameter is acceptable. Your COP must include the following project-specific information, as applicable:
Project information:
Including:
(1) Contact information
The name, address, email address, and phone number of an authorized representative.
(2) Designation of operator, if applicable
As provided in § 585.405.
(3) Commercial lease stipulations and compliance
A description of the measures you took, or will take, to satisfy the conditions of any lease stipulations related to your proposed activities.
(4) A location plat, or indicative layout
The range of surface locations and associated water depths for proposed structures, facilities, and appurtenances located both offshore and onshore, including all anchor and mooring data, and the location and associated water depths of all existing structures.
(5) General structural and project design, fabrication, and installation
Preliminary design information for each facility associated with your project including information needed to justify any request for an operations period exceeding the length provided in this part or the lease.
(6) Deployment activities
A description of safety, prevention, and environmental protection features or measures that you will use.
(7) A list of solid and liquid wastes generated
Disposal methods and locations.
(8) A listing of chemical products used (if stored volume exceeds Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reportable quantities)
A list of chemical products used; the volume stored on location; their treatment, discharge, or disposal methods used; and the name and location of the onshore waste receiving, treatment, and/or disposal facility. A description of how these products would be brought onsite, the number of transfers that may take place, and the quantity that will be transferred each time.
(9) A description of any vessels, vehicles, and aircraft you will use to support your activities
An estimate of the frequency and duration of vessel, vehicle, or aircraft traffic.
(10) A general description of the operating procedures and systems
(i) Under normal conditions.
(ii) In the case of accidents or emergencies, including those that are natural or manmade.
(11) Decommissioning and site clearance procedures
A discussion of general concepts and methodologies.
(12) A listing of all Federal, State, and local authorizations or approvals required to conduct the proposed activities, including commercial operations
A statement indicating whether you have applied for or obtained such authorization or approval from the U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and any other applicable Federal, State, or local authorizers pertaining to energy gathering, transmission, or distribution (
e.g.,
interconnection authorizations).
(13) Your proposed measures for avoiding, minimizing, reducing, eliminating, and monitoring environmental impacts
A description of the measures you will use to avoid or minimize adverse effects and any potential incidental take before you conduct activities on your lease, and how you will mitigate environmental impacts from your proposed activities, including a description of the measures you will use as required by §§ 585.700 through 585.703.
(14) Information you incorporate by reference
A list of the documents you have incorporated by reference and their public availability.
(15) A list of agencies and persons with whom you have communicated, or with whom you will communicate, regarding potential impacts associated with your proposed activities
Contact information and issues discussed.
(16) References
A bibliographic list of any document or published source that you cite as part of your plan. You may reference information and data discussed in other plans you previously submitted or that are otherwise readily available to BOEM.
(17) Financial assurance
Statements attesting that the activities and facilities proposed in your COP are or will be covered by an appropriate bond or other approved financial assurance instrument as required in § 585.516 and §§ 585.525 through 585.529.
(18) Project verification strategy
You must describe your strategy for compliance with 30 CFR285.705 through 285.714.
(19) Construction schedule
A reasonable schedule of construction activity showing significant milestones, including the commencement of commercial operations consistent with the requirements of 30 CFR part 285, subpart G.
(20) Air quality information
Information as described in § 585.700.
(21) Other information
Additional information as required by BOEM.
(b) You must include reports that document the results of surveys and investigations that characterize and model the site of your proposed project. Your reports must address the following topics:
Topic:
Purpose of report:
Including:
(1) Geological and geotechnical
To define the baseline geological conditions of the seabed and provide sufficient data to develop a geologic model, assess geologic hazards, and determine the feasibility of the proposed site for your proposed facility
(i) Desktop studies to collect available data from published sources and nearby sites.
(ii) Geophysical surveys of the proposed area with sufficient areal coverage, depth penetration, and resolution to define the geological conditions of the site's seabed that could impact, or be impacted by, the proposed project.
(iii) Geotechnical investigations of sufficient scope and detail to: ground truth the geophysical surveys; support development of a geological model; assess potential geological hazards that could impact the proposed project; and provide geotechnical data for preliminary design of the facility, including type and approximate dimensions of the foundation.
(iv) An overall site characterization report for your facility that integrates the findings of your studies, surveys, and investigations; describes the geological model; contains supporting data and findings; and states your recommendations.
(2) Biological
To determine the presence of biological features and marine resources
A description of the results of biological surveys used to determine the presence of live bottoms, hard bottoms, topographic features, and other marine resources, including migratory populations such as fish, marine mammals, sea turtles, and sea birds.
(3) Archaeological resources and other historic properties
To provide BOEM with required information to conduct review of the COP under NHPA
Archaeological resources and other historic properties.
(4) Meteorological and oceanographic (metocean)
To provide an overall understanding of the meteorological and oceanographic conditions at the site of the proposed facility, and to identify conditions that may pose a significant risk to the facility
Desktop studies to collect available data from hindcast or re-analysis models and field measurements in sufficient detail to support preliminary design of the facility and support the analysis of wake effects, sediment mobility and scour, and navigational risks.
§ 585.627
What information and certifications must I submit with my COP to assist BOEM in complying with NEPA and other applicable laws?
(a) Your COP must contain detailed information and analysis to assist BOEM in complying with NEPA and other applicable laws. Your COP must contain information about those resources, conditions, and activities listed in the following table that your proposed activities may significantly affect, or that may have a significant effect on your proposed activities (including where the potential significance of the effect is unknown) and must contain any other information required by law:
Type of information:
Including:
(1) Hazard information
Meteorology, oceanography, sediment transport, geology, and shallow geological or manmade hazards.
(2) Water quality
Turbidity and total suspended solids from construction; impact from vessel discharges.
(3) Biological resources
Benthic communities, marine mammals, sea turtles, coastal and marine birds, fish and shellfish, plankton, seagrasses, and plant life.
(4) Threatened or endangered species
As required by ESA.
(5) Sensitive biological resources or habitats
Essential fish habitat, refuges, preserves, special management areas identified in coastal management programs, nearby marine protected areas, including State and Federal coastal and nearby marine protected areas, as well as national marine sanctuaries and nearby marine national monuments, rookeries, hard bottom habitat, chemosynthetic communities, calving grounds, barrier islands, beaches, dunes, and wetlands.
(6) Archaeological resources use, other historic property use, Indigenous traditional cultural use, or use pertaining to treaty and reserved rights with Native Americans or other Indigenous peoples
Required information to conduct review of the COP under the NHPA or other applicable laws or policies, including treaty and reserved rights with Native Americans or other Indigenous peoples.
(7) Social and economic resources
Employment, existing offshore and coastal infrastructure (including major sources of supplies, services, energy, and water), land use, subsistence resources and harvest practices, recreation, recreational and commercial fishing (including typical fishing seasons, location, and type), minority and lower income groups, coastal zone management programs, and a visual impact assessment.
(8) Coastal and marine uses
Military activities, vessel traffic, fisheries, and exploration and development of other natural resources. This includes a navigational safety risk assessment that provides a description of the predicted impacts of the project to navigation and the measures you will use to avoid or minimize such adverse impacts. This document also must be submitted to the U.S. Coast Guard to assist with its analysis.
(9) Consistency Certification
If required by CZMA regulations:
(i) 15 CFR part 930, subpart D, if your COP is submitted before lease issuance.
(ii) 15 CFR part 930, subpart E, if your COP is submitted after lease issuance.
(10) Other resources, conditions, and activities
As identified by BOEM.
(b) You must submit one copy of your consistency certification. Your consistency certification must include:
(1) One copy of your consistency certification either under subsection 307(c)(3)(B) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)) and 15 CFR 930.76, or under subsection 307(c)(3)(A) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(A)) and 15 CFR 930.57, stating that the proposed activities described in detail in your plans comply with the enforceable policies of the applicable States' approved coastal management programs and will be conducted in a manner that is consistent with such programs; and
(2) “Necessary data and information,” as required by 15 CFR 930.58.
(c) You must submit a detailed description of an oil spill response plan to BSEE in compliance with 33 U.S.C. 1321, including information identified in 30 CFR part 254 that is applicable to your activities.
(d) You must submit a detailed description of your safety management system to BSEE as required by 30 CFR 285.810.
§ 585.628
How will BOEM process my COP?
(a) BOEM will review your submitted COP, including the information provided under § 585.627, to determine if it contains the information necessary to conduct our technical and environmental reviews. We will notify you if
your submitted COP lacks any necessary information.
(b) BOEM will prepare an appropriate NEPA analysis.
(c) If your COP is subject to Federal consistency review under CZMA regulations at 15 CFR part 930, subpart E, you must submit your COP, consistency certification, and associated data and information under CZMA to BOEM after all information requirements for the COP are met, and the appropriate environmental assessment or draft environmental impact statement, if required, has been published. BOEM will forward the COP, consistency certification, and associated data and information to the applicable State CZMA agencies.
(d) As appropriate, BOEM will coordinate and consult with relevant Federal, State, and local agencies and affected federally recognized Indian Tribes, and provide to them relevant nonproprietary data and information pertaining to your proposed activities.
(e) During the review process, we may request additional information if we determine that the information provided is not sufficient to complete the review and approval process. If you fail to provide the requested information, BOEM may disapprove your COP.
(f) Upon completion of our technical and environmental reviews and other reviews required by Federal law (
e.g.,
CZMA), BOEM will approve, disapprove, or approve your COP with conditions.
(1) If we approve your COP, we will specify terms and conditions to be incorporated into your COP. You must certify compliance with certain of those terms and conditions, as required under 30 CFR 285.633(a); and
(2) If we disapprove your COP, we will inform you of the reasons and allow you an opportunity to submit a revised plan addressing our concerns, and we may suspend the COP review period of your lease, as appropriate, to give you a reasonable amount of time to submit the revised plan.
(g) If BOEM approves your project easement, BOEM will issue an addendum to your lease specifying the terms of the project easement.
(1) The project easement will provide sufficient off-lease area to accommodate potential changes at the design and installation phases with respect to any facilities or activities necessary for your project.
(2) Unused portions of the project easement may be relinquished after construction is complete.
(3) A project easement is subject to the following conditions:
(i) The rights granted will not prevent the granting of other rights by the United States, either before or after the granting of the project easement, provided that any subsequent authorization issued by BOEM in the area of a previously issued project easement may not unreasonably interfere with activities approved or impede existing operations under the project easement; and
(ii) If the project easement is granted in an area where a lease, ROW or RUE grant has previously been issued, the project easement holder must agree that its activities will not unreasonably interfere with or impede existing operations under the lease or ROW or RUE grant.
§§ 585.629-585.630
[Reserved]

# Activities under an Approved COP
§ 585.631
When must I initiate activities under an approved COP?
After your COP is approved, you are expected to commence construction on the OCS in accordance with the construction schedule included as a part of your approved COP, unless you notify BOEM in advance of a deviation from your schedule.
§ 585.632
What documents must I submit before I may construct and install facilities under my approved COP?
(a) You must submit to BSEE the documents listed in the following table:
Document:
Requirements are found in:
(1) Facility Design Report
30 CFR 285.701.
(2) Fabrication and Installation Report
30 CFR 285.702.
(b) You must submit your Safety Management System, as required by 30 CFR 285.810.
(c) These activities must fall within the scope of your approved COP. If they do not fall within the scope of your approved COP, you will be required to submit a revision to your COP, under § 585.634, for BOEM approval before commencing the activity.
§ 585.633
[Reserved]
§ 585.634
What activities require a revision to my COP, and when will BOEM approve the revision?
(a) You must notify BOEM in writing before conducting any activities on the OCS not described in your approved COP. Your notice must describe in detail the type of activities you propose to conduct. We will determine whether the activities you propose require a revision to your COP. We may request additional information from you, if necessary, to make this determination.
(b) BOEM will periodically review the activities conducted under an approved COP. The frequency and extent of the review will be based on the significance of any changes in available information, and on onshore or offshore conditions affecting, or affected by, the activities conducted under your COP. If the review indicates that the COP should be revised to meet the requirement of this part, BOEM will require you to submit the needed revisions.
(c) Activities for which a proposed revision to your COP likely will be necessary include:
(1) Activities on the OCS not described in your approved COP that could have significant environmental impacts, that may affect threatened or endangered species, or affect designated critical habitat of such species, or that may result in incidental take of marine mammals;
(2) Modifications to the number, size, or type of facilities (including associated components) or equipment you will use outside of the PDE that was approved for your project;
(3) Material changes in the geographical location or layout of bottom disturbances, offshore facilities, or onshore support bases beyond the range of possible locations described in your approved COP;
(4) Structural failure of any facility operated under your approved COP;
(5) Submission of an FDR or FIR that contains new activities beyond the scope of or that is materially inconsistent with the COP that has been previously submitted; or
(6) Change in any other activity specified by BOEM.
(d) We may begin the appropriate NEPA analysis and relevant consultations when we determine that a proposed revision could:
(1) Result in a significant change in the impacts previously identified and evaluated;
(2) Require any additional Federal authorizations; or
(3) Involve activities not previously identified and evaluated that could have significant environmental impacts, that may affect threatened or endangered species, or designated critical habitat of such species, or that may result in incidental take of marine mammals.
(e) When you propose a revision, we may approve the revision if we determine that the revision is:
(1) Designed not to cause undue harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance; and
(2) Otherwise consistent with the provisions of subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act.
§ 585.635
What must I do if I cease activities approved in my COP before the end of my commercial lease?
You must notify BSEE, within 5 business days, any time you cease commercial operations, without an approved suspension, under your approved COP. If you cease commercial operations for an indefinite period, which extends longer than 6 months, we may cancel your lease under § 585.422 and you must initiate the decommissioning process as set forth in 30 CFR part 285, subpart I.
§§ 585.636-585.639
[Reserved]

# General Activities Plan Requirements for Limited Leases, ROW Grants, and RUE Grants
§ 585.640
What is a General Activities Plan (GAP)?
(a) A GAP describes your proposed construction, activities, and conceptual decommissioning plans for all planned facilities, including testing of technology devices and onshore and support facilities that you will construct and use for your project, including any project easements for the assessment and development of your limited lease or grant.
(b) You must receive BOEM approval of your GAP before you can begin any of the proposed activities on your lease or grant.
§ 585.641
What must I demonstrate in my GAP?
Your GAP must demonstrate that you have planned and are prepared to conduct the proposed activities in a manner that:
(a) Conforms to your responsibilities listed in § 585.105(a);
(b) Conforms to all applicable laws, regulations, and provisions of your limited lease or grant;
(c) Is safe;
(d) Does not unreasonably interfere with other uses of the OCS, including those involved with national security or defense;
(e) Does not cause undue harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance;
(f) Uses best available and safest technology;
(g) Uses best management practices; and
(h) Uses properly trained personnel.
§ 585.642
How do I submit my GAP?
(a) You must submit your GAP to BOEM pursuant to § 585.111.
(b) If you have a limited lease, you may submit information on any project easement as part of your original GAP submission or as a revision to your GAP.
§§ 585.643-585.644
[Reserved]

# Contents of the General Activities Plan
§ 585.645
What must I include in my GAP?
(a) Project information may be provided using a PDE. When you provide a range of parameters using a PDE, BOEM reserves the right to determine what range of values for any given parameter is acceptable. Your GAP must include the following project-specific information, as applicable:
Project information:
Including:
(1) Contact information
The name, address, email address, and phone number of an authorized representative.
(2) Designation of operator, if applicable
As provided in § 585.405.
(3) Your proposed construction, activities, and conceptual decommissioning plans, and/or technology testing concept
A discussion of the objectives; description of the proposed activities, including the technology you will use; and proposed schedule from start to completion.
(4) ROW or RUE grant, or limited lease stipulations, if known
A description of the measures you took, or will take, to satisfy the conditions of any grant or lease stipulations related to your proposed activities.
(5) A location plat, or indicative layout
The range of surface locations and associated water depths for proposed structures, facilities, and appurtenances located both offshore and onshore, including all anchor and mooring data; and the location and associated water depths of all existing structures.
(6) General structural and project design, fabrication, and installation
Preliminary design information for each facility associated with your project.
(7) Deployment activities
A description of the safety, prevention, and environmental protection features or measures that you will use.
(8) Your proposed measures for avoiding, minimizing, reducing, eliminating, and monitoring environmental impacts
A description of the measures you will use to avoid or minimize adverse effects and any potential incidental take before you conduct activities on your lease, and how you will mitigate environmental impacts from your proposed activities, including a description of the measures you will use as required by §§ 585.701 through 585.703.
(9) A list of solid and liquid wastes generated
Disposal methods and locations.
(10) A listing of chemical products used (if stored volume exceeds EPA reportable quantities)
A list of chemical products used; the volume stored on location; their treatment, discharge, or disposal methods used; and the name and location of the onshore waste receiving, treatment, and/or disposal facility. A description of how these products would be brought onsite, the number of transfers that may take place, and the quantity that will be transferred each time.
(11) A description of any vessels, vehicles, and aircraft you will use to support your activities
An estimate of the frequency and duration of vessel, vehicle, and aircraft traffic.
(12) Reference information
A bibliographic list of any document or published source that you cite as part of your plan. You may reference information and data discussed in other plans you previously submitted or that are otherwise readily available to BOEM.
(13) Decommissioning and site clearance procedures
A discussion of general concepts and methodologies.
(14) Air quality information
As described in § 585.700.
(15) A listing of all Federal, State, and local authorizations or approvals required to conduct activities on your grant or limited lease
A statement indicating whether you have applied for or obtained such authorization or approval from the U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and any other applicable Federal, State, or local authorizers pertaining to your activities.
(16) A list of agencies and persons with whom you have communicated, or with whom you will communicate, regarding potential impacts associated with your proposed activities
Contact information and issues discussed.
(17) Financial assurance information
Statements attesting that the activities and facilities proposed in your GAP are, or an explanation of how they will be, covered by an appropriate bond or other approved security, as required in §§ 585.520 and 585.521.
(18) Project verification strategy
You must describe your strategy for compliance with 30 CFR 285.705 through 285.714.
(19) Information you incorporate by reference
A list of the documents you have incorporated by reference and where they may be publicly accessed; for confidential information, you may reference information and data discussed in other plans previously submitted or that are otherwise readily available to BOEM.
(20) Other information
Additional information as required by BOEM.
(b) You must include reports that document the results of surveys and investigations that characterize and model the site of your proposed activities. Your reports must cover the following topics:
Topic:
Purpose of report:
Including:
(1) Geological and geotechnical
To define the baseline geological conditions of the seabed and provide sufficient data to develop a geologic model, assess geologic hazards, and determine the feasibility of the proposed facility
(i) Desktop studies to collect available data from published sources and nearby sites.
(ii) Geophysical surveys of the proposed area with sufficient areal coverage, depth penetration, and resolution to define the geological conditions of the seabed at the site that could impact, or be impacted by, the proposed project.
(iii) Geotechnical investigations of sufficient scope and detail to: ground truth the geophysical surveys; support development of a geological model; assess potential geological hazards that could impact the proposed development; and provide geotechnical data for preliminary design of the facility, including type and approximate dimensions of the foundation.
(iv) An overall site characterization report for your facility that integrates the findings of your studies, surveys, and investigations; describes the geological model; contains supporting data and findings; and states your recommendations.
(2) Biological
To determine the presence of biological features and marine resources
A description of the results of biological surveys used to determine the presence of live bottoms, hard bottoms, topographic features, and other marine resources, including migratory populations, such as fish, marine mammals, sea turtles, and sea birds.
(3) Archaeological resources and other historic properties
To provide BOEM with required information to conduct review of the GAP under NHPA
Archaeological resource and other historic property identification surveys with supporting data.
(4) Meteorological and oceanographic (metocean)
To provide an overall understanding of the meteorological and oceanographic conditions at the site of the proposed facility, and to identify conditions that may pose a significant risk to the facility
Desktop studies to collect available data from hindcast or re-analysis models and field measurements in sufficient detail to support preliminary design of the facility and support the analysis of wake effects, sediment mobility and scour, and navigation risks.
(c) If you are applying for a project easement, or constructing a facility or a combination of facilities deemed by BOEM to be complex or significant, you must provide the following additional information and comply with the requirements of 30 CFR part 285, subpart G:
Project information:
Including:
(1) The construction and operation concept
A discussion of the objectives, description of the proposed activities, and tentative schedule from start to completion.
(2) All cables and pipelines, including cables on project easements
The location, design, installation methods, testing, maintenance, repair, safety devices, exterior corrosion protection, inspections, and decommissioning.
(3) A general description of the operating procedures and systems
(i) Under normal conditions.
(ii) In the case of accidents or emergencies, including those that are natural or manmade.
(4) Construction schedule
A reasonable schedule of construction activity showing significant milestones including the commencement of activities consistent with the requirements of 30 CFR part 285, subpart G.
(5) Other information
Additional information as requested by BOEM.
(d) BOEM will withhold trade secrets and commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential from public disclosure in accordance with the terms of § 585.114.
§ 585.646
What information and certifications must I submit with my GAP to assist BOEM in complying with NEPA and other applicable laws?
You must submit, with your GAP, detailed information and analysis to assist BOEM in complying with NEPA and other applicable laws.
(a) A GAP submitted for an area in which BOEM has not reviewed GAP activities under NEPA or other applicable Federal laws must describe those resources, conditions, and activities listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section that your proposed activities may significantly affect or that may have a significant effect on your activities proposed in your GAP (including where the potential significance of the effect is unknown) and must contain any other information required by law.
(b) For a GAP submitted for an area in which BOEM has considered GAP activities under applicable Federal law (
e.g.,
a NEPA analysis and CZMA consistency determination for the GAP activities), BOEM will review the GAP to determine if its impacts are consistent with those previously considered. If the anticipated effects of your proposed GAP activities are significantly different than those previously anticipated, we may determine that additional NEPA and other relevant Federal reviews are required. In that case, BOEM will notify you of such determination, and you must submit a GAP that describes those resources, conditions, and activities listed in the following table that your proposed activities may significantly affect or that may have a significant effect on your activities proposed in your GAP (including where the potential significance of the effect is unknown) and must contain any other information required by law, including:
Type of information:
Including:
(1) Hazard information
Meteorology, oceanography, sediment transport, geology, and shallow geological or manmade hazards.
(2) Water quality
Turbidity and total suspended solids from construction; impact from vessel discharges.
(3) Biological resources
Benthic communities, marine mammals, sea turtles, coastal and marine birds, fish and shellfish, plankton, sea grasses, and other plant life.
(4) Threatened or endangered species
As required by the ESA (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
).
(5) Sensitive biological resources or habitats
Essential fish habitat, refuges, preserves, special management areas identified in coastal management programs, marine protected areas, including State and Federal coastal and marine protected areas, as well as nearby national marine sanctuaries and nearby marine national monuments, rookeries, hard bottom habitat, chemosynthetic communities, calving grounds, barrier islands, beaches, dunes, and wetlands.
(6) Archaeological resources use, other historic property use, Indigenous traditional cultural use, or use pertaining to treaty and reserved rights with Native Americans or other Indigenous peoples
Required information to conduct review of the COP under the NHPA or other applicable laws or policies, including treaty and reserved rights with Native Americans or other Indigenous peoples.
(7) Social and economic conditions
Employment, existing offshore and coastal infrastructure (including major sources of supplies, services, energy, and water), land use, subsistence resources and harvest practices, recreation, recreational and commercial fishing (including typical fishing seasons, location, and type), minority and lower income groups, coastal zone management programs, and a visual impact assessment.
(8) Coastal and marine uses
Military activities, vessel traffic, fisheries, and exploration and development of other natural resources. This includes a navigational safety risk assessment that provides a description of the predicted impacts of the project to navigation, and the measures you will use to avoid or minimize such adverse impacts. This document also must be submitted to the U.S. Coast Guard to assist with its analysis if your proposal identifies potential impediments to safe navigation.
(9) Consistency Certification
If required by CZMA, under:
(i) 15 CFR part 930, subpart D, if the GAP is submitted before lease or grant issuance;
(ii) 15 CFR part 930, subpart E, if the GAP is submitted after lease or grant issuance.
(10) Other resources, conditions, and activities
As required by BOEM.
§ 585.647
How will my GAP be processed for Federal consistency under the Coastal Zone Management Act?
Your GAP will be processed based on whether it is submitted before or after your lease or grant is issued:
If your GAP is
submitted:
Consistency review of your GAP will be handled as follows:
(a) Before lease or grant issuance
You will furnish a copy of your GAP, consistency certification, and necessary data and information to conduct an adequate consistency review to the applicable State CZMA agencies if required by 15 CFR part 930, subpart D. Submit a copy to BOEM pursuant to § 585.111.
(b) After lease or grant issuance
You will submit a copy of your GAP, consistency certification, and necessary data and information to BOEM if required by 15 CFR part 930, subpart E. BOEM will forward to the applicable State CZMA agency or agencies one copy of your GAP, consistency certification, and necessary data and information to conduct an adequate consistency review required under 15 CFR part 930, subpart E, after BOEM has determined that all information requirements for the GAP are met.
§ 585.648
How will BOEM process my GAP?
(a) BOEM will review your submitted GAP, along with the information and certifications you submitted in compliance with § 585.646, to determine if it contains the information necessary to conduct our technical and environmental reviews.
(1) We will notify you if we deem your proposed facility or combination of facilities to be complex or significant; and
(2) We will notify you if your submitted GAP lacks any necessary information.
(b) BOEM will prepare appropriate NEPA analysis.
(c) When appropriate, we will coordinate and consult with relevant State and Federal agencies and affected federally recognized Indian Tribes and provide to other local, State, and Federal agencies and affected federally recognized Indian Tribes relevant nonproprietary data and information pertaining to your proposed activities.
(d) During the review process, we may request additional information if we determine that the information provided is not sufficient to complete the review and approval process. If you fail to provide the requested information, BOEM may disapprove your GAP.
(e) Upon completion of our technical and environmental reviews and other reviews required by Federal law (
e.g.,
CZMA), BOEM may approve, disapprove, or approve your GAP with conditions.
(1) If we approve your GAP, we will specify terms and conditions to be incorporated into your GAP. You must certify compliance with certain of those terms and conditions, as required under 30 CFR 285.653(b); and
(2) If we disapprove your GAP, we will inform you of the reasons and allow you an opportunity to submit a revised plan addressing our concerns, and we may suspend your lease or grant, as appropriate, to give you a reasonable amount of time to resubmit the GAP.
§ 585.649
[Reserved]

# Activities under an Approved GAP
§ 585.650
When may I begin conducting activities under my GAP?
After BOEM approves your GAP, you may begin conducting the approved activities that do not involve a project easement or the construction of facilities on the OCS that BOEM has deemed to be complex or significant.
§ 585.651
When may I construct complex or significant OCS facilities on my limited lease or any facilities on my project easement proposed under my GAP?
If you are applying for a project easement or installing a facility or a combination of facilities on your limited lease deemed by BOEM to be complex or significant, as provided in § 585.648(a)(1), you also must comply with the requirements of 30 CFR part 285, subpart G, and submit your safety management system description required by 30 CFR 285.810 before construction may begin.
§ 585.652
How long do I have to conduct activities under an approved GAP?
After BOEM approves your GAP, you have:
(a) For a limited lease, the time period established under § 585.236(a)(2), unless we renew the operations period under §§ 585.425 through 585.429.
(b) For a ROW grant or RUE grant, the time provided in the terms of the grant.
§ 585.653
What other reports or notices must I submit to BOEM under my approved GAP?
You must prepare and submit to BOEM annually a report that summarizes the findings from any activities you conduct under your approved GAP and the results of those activities. BOEM will protect the information from public disclosure as provided in § 585.114.
§ 585.654
[Reserved]
§ 585.655
What activities require a revision to my GAP, and when will BOEM approve the revision?
(a) You must notify BOEM in writing before conducting any activities on the OCS not described in your approved GAP. Your notice must describe in detail the type of activities you propose to conduct. We will determine whether the activities you propose require a revision to your GAP. We may request additional information from you, if necessary, to make this determination. Upon receipt of your revised GAP, BOEM will make a determination as to whether it deems the facility or combination of facilities described in your revised GAP to be complex or significant.
(1) If BOEM determines that your revised GAP is not complex or significant, you may conduct your approved activities in accordance with § 585.650.
(2) If BOEM determines that your revised GAP is complex or significant, then you must comply with the requirements of § 585.651.
(b) BOEM will periodically review the activities conducted under an approved GAP. The frequency and extent of the review will be based on the significance of any changes in available information and on onshore or offshore conditions affecting, or affected by, the activities conducted under your GAP. If the review indicates that the GAP should be revised to meet the requirement of this part, BOEM will require you to submit the needed revisions.
(c) Activities for which a proposed revision to your GAP likely will be necessary include:
(1) Activities on the OCS not described in your approved GAP that could have significant environmental impacts or that may affect threatened or endangered species, or that may affect designated critical habitat of such species or that may result in incidental take of marine mammals;
(2) Modifications to the number, size, or type of facilities (including associated components) or equipment you will use outside of the PDE that was approved for your project;
(3) Changes in the geographical location or layout of bottom disturbances, offshore facilities, or onshore support bases beyond the range of possible locations described in your approved GAP;
(4) Structural failure of any facility operated under your approved GAP; or
(5) Change to any other activity specified by BOEM.
(d) We may begin the appropriate NEPA analysis and any relevant consultations when we determine that a proposed revision could:
(1) Result in a significant change in the impacts previously identified and evaluated;
(2) Require any additional Federal authorizations; or
(3) Involve activities not previously identified and evaluated that could have significant environmental impacts or that may affect threatened or endangered species, or that may affect designated critical habitat of such species, or that may result in incidental take of marine mammals.
(e) When you propose a revision, we may approve the revision if we determine that the revision is:
(1) Designed not to cause undue harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance; and
(2) Otherwise consistent with the provisions of subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act.
§ 585.656
What must I do if I cease activities approved in my GAP before the end of my term?
You must notify BOEM any time you cease activities under your approved GAP without an approved suspension. If you cease activities for an indefinite period that exceeds 6 months, BOEM may cancel your lease or grant under § 585.422, as applicable, and you must initiate the decommissioning process, as set forth in 30 CFR part 285, subpart I.
§ 585.657
What must I do upon completion of approved activities under my GAP?
Upon completion of your approved activities under your GAP, you must decommission your project as set forth in 30 CFR part 285, subpart I. You must submit your decommissioning application as provided in 30 CFR 285.905 and 285.906.

# Cable and Pipeline Deviations
§ 585.658
Can my cable or pipeline construction deviate from my approved COP or GAP?
(a) You must make every effort to ensure that all cables and pipelines are constructed in a manner that minimizes deviations from the approved plan under your lease or grant.
(b) If BOEM determines that a significant change in conditions has occurred that would necessitate an adjustment to your ROW, RUE, or lease before the commencement of construction of the cable or pipeline on the grant or lease, BOEM will consider modifications to your ROW grant, RUE grant, or your lease addendum for a project easement in connection with your COP or GAP.
(c) If, after construction, it is determined that a deviation from the approved plan has occurred, you must:
(1) Notify the operators of all leases (including mineral leases issued under this subchapter) and holders of all ROW grants or RUE grants (including all grants issued under this subchapter) which include the area where a deviation has occurred and provide BOEM with evidence of such notification;
(2) Relinquish any unused portion of your lease or grant; and
(3) Submit a revised plan for BOEM approval as necessary.
(d) Construction of a cable or pipeline that substantially deviates from the approved plan may be grounds for cancellation of the lease or grant.
§ 585.659-585.699
[Reserved]

# Environmental Protection Requirements Under Approved Plans

# Source:
89 FR 42728, May 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 585.700
What requirements must I include in my SAP, COP, or GAP regarding air quality?
(a) You must comply with the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7409) and its implementing regulations in 40 CFR part 55, according to the following table.
If your project is located . . .
You must . . .
(1) In the Gulf of America west of 87.5° west longitude (western Gulf of America) or offshore of the North Slope Borough of Alaska
Include in your plan any information required for BOEM to make the appropriate air quality determinations for your project.
(2) Anywhere else on the OCS
Follow the appropriate implementing regulations as promulgated by the EPA under 40 CFR part 55.
(b) For air quality modeling that you perform in support of the activities proposed in your plan, you should contact the appropriate regulatory agency to establish a modeling protocol to ensure that the agency's needs are met and that the meteorological files used are acceptable before initiating the modeling work. In the western Gulf of America (west of 87.5° west longitude) and offshore of the North Slope Borough of Alaska, you must submit to BOEM three copies of the modeling report and three sets of digital files as supporting information. The digital files must contain the formatted meteorological files used in the modeling runs, the model input file, and the model output file.
[89 FR 42728, May 15, 2024, as amended at 90 FR 24072, June 6, 2025]
§ 585.701
How must I conduct my approved activities to protect marine mammals, threatened and endangered species, and designated critical habitat?
(a) You must not conduct any activity under your lease or grant that may affect threatened or endangered species or that may affect designated critical habitat of such species until the appropriate level of consultation is conducted, as required under the ESA, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
), to ensure that your actions are not likely to jeopardize a threatened or endangered species and are not likely to destroy or adversely modify designated critical habitat.
(b) You must not conduct any activity under your lease or grant that is likely to result in an incidental taking of marine mammals until the appropriate authorization has been issued under the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (MMPA) as amended (16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.
).
(c) If there is reason to believe that a threatened or endangered species may be present while you conduct your BOEM-approved activities or may be affected by the direct or indirect effects of your actions:
(1) You must notify us that endangered or threatened species may be present in the vicinity of the lease or grant or may be affected by your actions; and
(2) We will consult with appropriate State and Federal fish and wildlife agencies and, after consultation, shall
identify whether, and under what conditions, you may proceed.
(d) If there is reason to believe that designated critical habitat of a threatened or endangered species may be affected by the direct or indirect effects of your BOEM-approved activities:
(1) You must notify us that designated critical habitat of a threatened or endangered species in the vicinity of the lease or grant may be affected by your actions; and
(2) We will consult with appropriate State and Federal fish and wildlife agencies and, after consultation, shall identify whether, and under what conditions, you may proceed.
(e) If there is reason to believe that marine mammals are likely to be incidentally taken as a result of your proposed activities:
(1) You must agree to secure an authorization from National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) or the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) for incidental taking, including taking by harassment, that may result from your actions; and
(2) You must comply with all measures required by the NOAA or FWS, including measures to affect the least practicable impact on such species and their habitat and to ensure no immitigable adverse impact on the availability of the species for subsistence use.
(f) Submit to us:
(1) Measures designed to avoid or minimize adverse effects and any potential incidental take of the endangered or threatened species or marine mammals;
(2) Measures designed to avoid likely adverse modification or destruction of designated critical habitat of such endangered or threatened species;
(3) Your agreement to monitor for the incidental take of the species and adverse effects on the critical habitat, and provide the results of the monitoring as required;
(4) Your agreement to perform any relevant terms and conditions of the Incidental Take Statement that may result from the ESA consultation; and
(5) Your agreement to perform any relevant mitigation measures under an MMPA incidental take authorization.
§ 585.702
What must I do if I discover a potential archaeological resource while conducting my approved activities?
(a) If you, your subcontractors, or any agent acting on your behalf discovers a potential archaeological resource while conducting construction activities, or any other activity related to your project, you must:
(1) Immediately halt all seafloor-disturbing activities within the area of the discovery;
(2) Notify BOEM of the discovery within 72 hours; and
(3) Keep the location of the discovery confidential and not take any action that may adversely affect the archaeological resource until we have made an evaluation and instructed you on how to proceed.
(b) We may require you to conduct additional investigations to determine if the resource is eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places under 36 CFR 60.4. We will do this if:
(1) The site has been impacted by your project activities; or
(2) Impacts to the site or to the area of potential effect cannot be avoided.
(c) If investigations under paragraph (b) of this section indicate that the resource is potentially eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, we will tell you how to protect the resource, or how to mitigate adverse effects to the site.
(d) If we incur costs in protecting the resource, under section 110(g) of the NHPA, we may charge you reasonable costs for carrying out preservation responsibilities under the OCS Lands Act.
§ 585.703
How must I conduct my approved activities to protect essential fish habitats identified and described under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act?
(a) If, during the conduct of your approved activities, BOEM finds that essential fish habitat or habitat areas of particular concern may be adversely affected by your activities, BOEM must consult with National Marine Fisheries Service.
(b) Any conservation recommendations adopted by BOEM to avoid or
minimize adverse effects on essential fish habitat will be incorporated as terms and conditions in the lease and must be adhered to by the applicant. BOEM may require additional surveys to define boundaries and avoidance distances.
(c) If required, BOEM will specify the survey methods and instrumentations for conducting the biological survey and will specify the contents of the biological report.
Pt. 586

# PART 586—ALTERNATE USES OF EXISTING FACILITIES ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
586.100
Authority.
586.101
What is the purpose of this part?
586.102
What activities does this part regulate?
586.103
What are BOEM's responsibilities under this part?
586.104
When may BOEM prescribe or approve departures from the regulations in this part?
586.105
What are my responsibilities under this part?
586.106
What happens if I fail to comply with this part?
586.107
Who can hold a grant under this part?
586.108
How do I show that I am qualified to be a grant holder?
586.109
When must I notify BOEM if an action has been filed alleging that I am insolvent or bankrupt?
586.110
When must I notify BOEM of mergers, name changes, or changes of business form?
586.111
How do I submit plans, applications, or notices required by this part?
586.112
When and how does BOEM charge me processing fees on a case-by-case basis?
586.113
Definitions.
586.114
How will data and information obtained by BOEM under this part be disclosed to the public?
586.115
Paperwork Reduction Act statements—information collection.
586.116—586.117
[Reserved]
586.118
What are my appeal rights?

# Subpart B—Issuance of Alternate Use RUEs for Energy- and Marine-Related Activities Using Existing OCS Facilities

# Requesting an Alternate Use RUE
586.200
What must I do before I request an Alternate Use RUE?
586.201
How do I request an Alternate Use RUE?
586.202
How will BOEM decide whether to issue an Alternate Use RUE?
586.203
What process will BOEM use for competitively offering an Alternate Use RUE
586.204-586.209
[Reserved]

# Alternate Use RUE Administration
586.210
How long may I conduct activities under an Alternate Use RUE?
586.211
What payments are required for an Alternate Use RUE?
586.212
What financial assurance is required for an Alternate Use RUE?
586.213
Is an Alternate Use RUE assignable?
586.214
When will BOEM suspend an Alternate Use RUE?
586.215
How do I relinquish an Alternate Use RUE?
586.216
When will an Alternate Use RUE be cancelled?
586.217
[Reserved]
586.218
Who is responsible for decommissioning an OCS facility subject to an Alternate Use RUE?
586.219
What are the decommissioning requirements for an Alternate Use RUE?

# Authority:
43 U.S.C. 1337.

# Source:
88 FR 6468, Jan. 31, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 586.100
Authority.
The authority for this part derives from subsection 8 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCS Lands Act) (43 U.S.C. 1337). The Secretary of the Interior delegated to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) the authority to regulate activities under section 1337(p)(1)(D) of OCS Lands Act.
§ 586.101
What is the purpose of this part?
The purpose of this part is to:
(a) Establish procedures for issuance and administration of right-of-use and easement (RUE) grants for the alternate use of existing OCS facilities for energy or marine-related purposes;
(b) Inform you and third parties of your obligations when you undertake activities authorized in this part; and
(c) Ensure that activities involving the alternate use of OCS facilities for energy or marine-related purposes are
conducted in a safe and environmentally sound manner, in conformance with the requirements of subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act, other applicable laws and regulations, and the terms of your Alternate Use RUE grant.
(d) This part will not convey access rights for oil, gas, or other minerals.
§ 586.102
What activities does this part regulate?
(a) This part provides the general provisions for authorizing and regulating activities that use, or propose to use, an existing OCS facility for energy- or marine-related purposes, that are not otherwise authorized under any other part of this subchapter or any other applicable Federal statute. Activities authorized under any other part of this subchapter or under any other Federal law that use (or propose to use) an existing OCS facility are not subject to this part.
(b) BOEM will issue an Alternate Use RUE for activities authorized under this part.
(c) At the discretion of the Director, an Alternate Use RUE may:
(1) Permit alternate use activities to occur at an existing facility that is currently in use under an approved OCS lease; or
(2) Limit alternate use activities at the existing facility until after previously authorized activities at the facility have ceased and the OCS lease terminates.
§ 586.103
What are BOEM's responsibilities under this part?
(a) BOEM will ensure that any activities authorized in this part are carried out in a manner that provides for:
(1) Safety;
(2) Protection of the environment;
(3) Prevention of waste;
(4) Conservation of the natural resources of the OCS;
(5) Coordination with relevant Federal agencies (including, in particular, those agencies involved in planning activities that are undertaken to avoid conflicts among users and to maximize the economic and ecological benefits of the OCS, including multifaceted spatial planning efforts);
(6) Protection of National security interests of the United States;
(7) Protection of the rights of other authorized users of the OCS;
(8) A fair return to the United States;
(9) Prevention of interference with reasonable uses (as determined by the Secretary or Director) of the exclusive economic zone, the high seas, and the territorial seas;
(10) Consideration of the location of and any schedule relating to a grant under this part for an area of the OCS, and any other use of the sea or seabed;
(11) Public notice and comment on any proposal submitted for a grant under this part; and
(12) Oversight, research, and monitoring of activities authorized by a grant under this part.
(b) BOEM will require compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, other requirements, and the terms of your grant and approved plans under this part. BOEM will approve, disapprove, or approve with conditions any plans, applications, or other documents submitted to BOEM for approval under the provisions of this part.
(c) Unless otherwise provided in this part, BOEM may give oral directives or decisions whenever prior BOEM approval is required under this part. BOEM will document in writing any such oral directives within 10 business days.
(d) BOEM will establish practices and procedures to govern the collection of all payments due to the Federal Government, including any cost recovery fees, rents, operating fees, and other fees or payments. BOEM will do this in accordance with the terms of this part, the grant under this part, and applicable Office of Natural Resources Revenue (ONRR) regulations or guidance.
(e) BOEM will provide for coordination and consultation with the Governor of any State, the executive of any local government, and the executive of any Indian Tribe that may be affected by a grant issued under this part. BOEM may invite any affected State Governor, representative of an affected Indian Tribe, and affected local government executive to join in establishing a task force or other joint planning or coordination agreement in
carrying out our responsibilities under this part.
§ 586.104
When may BOEM prescribe or approve departures from the regulations in this part?
(a) BOEM may prescribe or approve departures from these regulations when departures are necessary to:
(1) Facilitate the appropriate activities on a grant under this part;
(2) Conserve natural resources;
(3) Protect life (including human and wildlife), property, or the marine, coastal, or human environment; or
(4) Protect sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance.
(b) Any departure approved under this section and its rationale must:
(1) Be consistent with subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act;
(2) Protect the environment and the public health and safety to the same degree as if there was no approved departure from the regulations;
(3) Not impair the rights of third parties; and
(4) Be documented in writing.
§ 586.105
What are my responsibilities under this part?
As an applicant, operator, or holder of an Alternate Use RUE grant, you must:
(a) Design your projects and conduct all activities in a manner that ensures safety and will not cause undue harm or damage to natural resources, including their physical, atmospheric, and biological components to the extent practicable; and take measures to prevent unauthorized discharge of pollutants including marine trash and debris into the offshore environment.
(b) Submit requests, applications, plans, notices, modifications, and supplemental information to BOEM as required by this part;
(c) Follow-up, in writing, any oral request or notification you made, within 3 business days;
(d) Comply with the terms, conditions, and provisions of all reports and notices submitted to BOEM, and of all plans, revisions, and other BOEM approvals, as provided in this part;
(e) Make all applicable payments on time;
(f) Comply with the DOI's non-procurement debarment regulations at 2 CFR part 1400;
(g) Include the requirement to comply with 2 CFR part 1400 in all contracts and transactions related to a lease or grant under this part;
(h) Conduct all activities authorized by the lease or grant in a manner consistent with the provisions of subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act;
(i) Compile, retain, and make available to BOEM representatives, within the time specified by BOEM, any data and information related to the site assessment, design, and operations of your project; and
(j) Respond to requests from the Director in a timely manner.
§ 586.106
What happens if I fail to comply with this part?
(a) BOEM may take appropriate corrective action under this part if you fail to comply with applicable provisions of Federal law, the regulations in this part, other applicable regulations, any order of the Director, the provisions of a grant issued under this part, or the requirements of an approved plan or other approval under this part.
(b) BOEM may issue to you a notice of noncompliance if we determine that there has been a violation of the regulations in this part, any order of the Director, or any provision of your grant or other approval issued under this part. When issuing a notice of noncompliance, BOEM will serve you at your last known address.
(c) A notice of noncompliance will tell you how you failed to comply with this part or any order of the Director, and/or the provisions of your grant or other approval, and will specify what you must do to correct the noncompliance and the time limits within which you must act.
(d) Failure of an operator or grant holder to take the actions specified in a notice of noncompliance issued under this part within the time limit specified provides the basis for cancellation of the grant by the Secretary (§ 586.216).
(e) BOEM may assess civil penalties, as authorized by section 24 of the OCS Lands Act, if you fail to comply with any provision of this part or any term
of a grant or order issued under the authority of this part, after notice of such failure and expirations of any reasonable period allowed for corrective action. Civil penalties will be determined and assessed in accordance with the procedures set forth in 30 CFR part 550, subpart N.
(f) You may be subject to criminal penalties as authorized by section 24 of the OCS Lands Act.
§ 586.107
Who can hold a grant under this part?
(a) You may hold a grant under this part if you can demonstrate that you have the technical and financial capabilities to conduct the activities authorized by the grant and you are a(n):
(1) Citizen or national of the United States;
(2) Alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20);
(3) Private, public, or municipal corporations organized under the laws of any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any territory or insular possession subject to U.S. jurisdiction;
(4) Association of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens, or corporations;
(5) Executive agency of the United States as defined in section 105 of Title 5 of the U.S. Code;
(6) State of the United States; or
(7) Political subdivision of a State of the United States.
(b) You may not hold a grant under this part or acquire an interest in a grant under this part if:
(1) You or your principals are excluded or disqualified from participating in transactions covered by the Federal non-procurement debarment and suspension system (2 CFR part 1400), unless BOEM explicitly has approved an exception for this transaction;
(2) BOEM determines or has previously determined after notice and opportunity for a hearing that you or your principals have failed to meet or exercise due diligence under any OCS lease or grant; or
(3) BOEM determines or has previously determined after notice and opportunity for a hearing that you:
(i) Remained in violation of the terms and conditions of any lease or grant issued under the OCS Lands Act for a period extending longer than 30 days (or such other period allowed for compliance) BSEE directed you to comply; and
(ii) You took no action to correct the noncompliance within that time period.
§ 586.108
How do I show that I am qualified to be a grant holder?
(a) You must demonstrate your technical and financial capability to construct, operate, maintain, and terminate/decommission projects for which you are requesting authorization. Documentation can include:
(1) Descriptions of international or domestic experience with renewable energy projects or other types of electric-energy-related projects; and
(2) information establishing access to sufficient capital to carry out development.
(b) An individual must submit a written statement of citizenship status attesting to U.S. citizenship. It does not need to be notarized nor give the age of individual. A resident alien may submit a photocopy of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services form evidencing legal status of the resident alien.
(c) A corporation or association must submit evidence, as specified in the table in paragraph (d) of this section, acceptable to BOEM that:
(1) It is qualified to hold grants under this part;
(2) It is authorized to conduct business under the laws of its State;
(3) It is authorized to hold grants on the OCS under the operating rules of its business; and
(4) The persons holding the titles listed are authorized to bind the corporation or association when conducting business with BOEM.
(d) Acceptable evidence under paragraph (c) of this section includes, but is not limited to the following:
Requirements to qualify to hold grants on the OCS:
Corp.
Ltd.
prtnsp.
Gen.
prtnsp.
LLC
Trust
(1) Original certificate or certified copy from the State of incorporation stating the name of the corporation exactly as it must appear on all legal documents.
XX
(2) Certified statement by Secretary/Assistant Secretary over corporate seal, certifying that the corporation is authorized to hold OCS grants.
XX
(3) Evidence of authority of titled positions to bind corporation, certified by Secretary/Assistant Secretary over corporate seal, including the following:
XX
(i) Certified copy of resolution of the board of directors with titles of officers authorized to bind corporation.
(ii) Certified copy of resolutions granting corporate officer authority to issue a power of attorney.
(iii) Certified copy of power of attorney or certified copy of resolution granting power of attorney.
(4) Original certificate or certified copy of partnership or organization paperwork registering with the appropriate State official.
XX
XX
XX
(5) Copy of articles of partnership or organization evidencing filing with appropriate Secretary of State, certified by Secretary/Assistant Secretary of partnership or member or manager of LLC.
XX
XX
XX
(6) Original certificate or certified copy evidencing State where partnership or LLC is registered. Statement of authority to hold OCS leases, certified by Secretary/Assistant Secretary,
OR
original paperwork registering with the appropriate State official.
XX
XX
XX
(7) Statements from each partner or LLC member indicating the following:
XX
XX
XX
(i) If a corporation or partnership, statement of State of organization and authorization to hold OCS grants, certified by Secretary/Assistant Secretary over corporate seal, if a corporation.
(ii) If an individual, a statement of citizenship.
(8) Statement from general partner, certified by Secretary/Assistant Secretary that:
XX
(i) Each individual limited partner is a U.S. citizen and;
(ii) Each corporate limited partner or other entity is incorporated or formed and organized under the laws of a U.S. State or territory.
(9) Evidence of authority to bind partnership or LLC, if not specified in partnership agreement, articles of organization, or LLC regulations,
i.e.,
certificates of authority from Secretary/Assistant Secretary reflecting authority of officers.
XX
XX
XX
(10) Listing of members of LLC certified by Secretary/Assistant Secretary or any member or manager of LLC.
XX
(11) Copy of trust agreement or document establishing the trust and all amendments, properly certified by the trustee with reference to where the original documents are filed.
XX
(12) Statement indicating the law under which the trust is established and that the trust is authorized to hold OCS grants.
XX
(e) A local, State, or Federal executive entity must submit a written statement that:
(1) It is qualified to hold grants under this part; and
(2) The person(s) acting on behalf of the entity is authorized to bind the entity when conducting business with us.
(f) BOEM may require you to submit additional information at any time
considering your bid or request for a noncompetitive grant.
§ 586.109
When must I notify BOEM if an action has been filed alleging that I am insolvent or bankrupt?
You must notify BOEM within 3-business days after you learn of any action filed alleging that you are insolvent or bankrupt.
§ 586.110
When must I notify BOEM of mergers, name changes, or changes of business form?
You must notify BOEM in writing of any merger, name change, or change of business form. You must notify BOEM as soon as practicable following the merger, name change, or change in business form, but no later than 120 days after the earliest of either the effective date, or the date of filing the change or action with the Secretary of the State or other authorized official in the State of original registry.
§ 586.111
How do I submit plans, applications, or notices required by this part?
(a) You must submit all plans, applications, or notices required by this part to BOEM at the following address: Office of Renewable Energy Programs, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
(b) Unless otherwise stated, you must submit one paper copy and one electronic copy of all plans, applications, or notices required by this part.
§ 586.112
When and how does BOEM charge me processing fees on a case-by-case basis?
(a) BOEM will charge a processing fee on a case-by-case basis under the procedures in this section with regard to any application or request under this part if we decide at any time that the preparation of a particular document or study is necessary for the application or request and it will have a unique processing cost, such as the preparation of an environmental assessment (EA) or environmental impact statement (EIS).
(1) Processing costs will include contract oversight and efforts to review and approve documents prepared by contractors, whether the contractor is paid directly by the applicant or through BOEM.
(2) We may apply a standard overhead rate to direct processing costs.
(b) We will assess the ongoing processing fee for each individual application or request according to the following procedures:
(1) Before we process your application or request, we will give you a written estimate of the proposed fee based on reasonable processing costs.
(2) You may comment on the proposed fee.
(3) You may:
(i) Ask for our approval to perform, or to directly pay a contractor to perform, all or part of any document, study, or other activity according to standards we specify, thereby reducing our costs for processing your application or request; or
(ii) Ask to pay us to perform, or contract for, all or part of any document, study, or other activity.
(4) We will then give you the final estimate of the processing fee amount with payment terms and instructions after considering your comments and any BOEM-approved work you will do.
(i) If we encounter higher or lower processing costs than anticipated, we will re-estimate our reasonable processing costs following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, but we will not stop ongoing processing unless you do not pay in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(ii) Once processing is complete, we will refund to you the amount of money that we did not spend on processing costs.
(5)(i) Consistent with the payment and billing terms provided in the final estimate, we will periodically estimate what our reasonable processing costs will be for a specific period and will bill you for that period. Payment is due to us 30 days after you receive your bill. We will stop processing your document if you do not pay the bill by the date payment is due.
(ii) If a periodic payment turns out to be more or less than our reasonable processing costs for the period, we will adjust the next billing accordingly or make a refund. Do not deduct any
amount from a payment without our prior written approval.
(6) You must pay the entire fee before we will issue the final document or take final action on your application or request.
(7) You may appeal our estimated processing costs in accordance with the regulations in 43 CFR part 4. We will not process the document further until the appeal is resolved, unless you pay the fee under protest while the appeal is pending. If the appeal results in a decision changing the proposed fee, we will adjust the fee in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section. If we adjust the fee downward, we will not pay interest.
§ 586.113
Definitions.
Terms used in this part have the meanings as defined in this section:
Affected local government
means with respect to any activities proposed, conducted, or approved under this part, any locality—
(1) That is, or is proposed to be, the site of gathering, transmitting, or distributing electricity or other energy product, or is otherwise receiving, processing, refining, or transshipping product, or services derived from activities approved under this part;
(2) That is used, or is proposed to be used, as a support base for activities approved under this part; or
(3) In which there is a reasonable probability of significant effect on land or water uses from activities approved under this part.
Affected State
means with respect to any activities proposed, conducted, or approved under this part, any coastal State—
(1) That is, or is proposed to be, the site of gathering, transmitting, or distributing energy or is otherwise receiving, processing, refining, or transshipping products, or services derived from activities approved under this part;
(2) That is used, or is scheduled to be used, as a support base for activities approved under this part; or
(3) In which there is a reasonable probability of significant effect on land or water uses from activities approved under this part.
Alternate Use
refers to the energy- or marine-related use of an existing OCS facility for activities not otherwise authorized by this part.
Alternate Use RUE
means a right-of-use and easement issued for activities authorized under this part.
Archaeological resource
means any material remains of human life or activities that are at least 50 years of age and that are of archaeological interest (
i.e.,
which are capable of providing scientific or humanistic understanding of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques, such as controlled observation, contextual measurement, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation, and explanation).
BOEM
means Bureau of Ocean Energy Management of the Department of the Interior.
BSEE
means Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement of the Department of the Interior.
Decommissioning
means removing BOEM and BSEE approved facilities and returning the site of the grant to a condition that meets the requirements of this part.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM), of the Department of the Interior, or an official authorized to act on the Director's behalf.
Facility
means an installation that is permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed of the OCS. Facilities include any structures; devices; appurtenances; gathering, transmission, and distribution cables; pipelines; and permanently moored vessels. Any group of OCS installations interconnected with walkways, or any group of installations that includes a central or primary installation with one or more satellite or secondary installations, is a single facility. BOEM and BSEE may decide that the complexity of the installations justifies their classification as separate facilities.
Governor
means the Governor of a State or the person or entity lawfully designated by or under State law to exercise the powers granted to a Governor.
Grant
means an alternate use right-of-use and easement issued under the provisions of this part.
Human environment
means the physical, social, and economic components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the state, condition, and quality of living conditions, employment, and health of those affected, directly or indirectly, by activities occurring on the OCS.
Lease
means an agreement authorizing the use of a designated portion of the OCS for activities allowed under 30 CFR part 585. The term also means the area covered by that agreement, when the context requires.
Lessee
means the holder of a lease, a BOEM-approved assignee, and, when describing the conduct required of parties engaged in activities on the lease, it also refers to the operator and all persons authorized by the holder of the lease or operator to conduct activities on the lease.
Income,
unless clearly specified to the contrary, refers to the money received by the project owner or holder of the lease or grant issued under this part. The term does not mean that project receipts exceed project expenses.
Marine environment
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the marine ecosystem. These include the waters of the high seas, the contiguous zone, transitional and intertidal areas, salt marshes, and wetlands within the coastal zone and on the OCS.
Natural resources
include, without limiting the generality thereof, renewable energy, oil, gas, and all other minerals (as defined in section 2(q) of the OCS Lands Act), and marine animal and marine plant life.
Operator
means the individual, corporation, or association having control or management of activities on the grant under this part. The operator may be a grant holder or a contractor designated by the holder of a grant under this part.
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)
means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters, as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301), whose subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
Person
means, in addition to a natural person, an association (including partnerships and joint ventures); a Federal agency; a State; a political subdivision of a State; a Native American Tribal government; or a private, public, or municipal corporation.
Project,
for the purposes of defining the source of revenues to be shared, means an Alternate Use RUE on which the activities authorized under this part are conducted on the OCS. The term “project” may be used elsewhere in this rule to refer to these same authorized activities, the facilities used to conduct these activities, or to the geographic area of the project,
i.e.,
the project area.
Project area
means the geographic surface leased, or granted, for the purpose of a specific project. If OCS acreage is granted for a project under some form of agreement other than a lease (
i.e.,
a ROW, or RUE, or Alternate Use RUE issued under this part or 30 CFR part 585), the Federal acreage granted would be considered the project area.
Renewable Energy
means energy resources other than oil and gas and minerals as defined in 30 CFR part 580. Such resources include, but are not limited to, wind, solar, and ocean waves, tides, and current.
Revenues
mean bonuses, rents, operating fees, and similar payments made in connection with a project. It does not include administrative fees such as those assessed for cost recovery, civil penalties, and forfeiture of financial assurance.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an official authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.
Significant archaeological resource
means an archaeological resource that meets the criteria of significance for eligibility for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, as defined in 36 CFR 60.4 or its successor.
We, us,
and
our
refer to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management of the Department of the Interior, or its possessive, depending on the context.
You
and
your
means an applicant, the operator or designated operator of an Alternate Use RUE, or an Alternate
Use RUE grant holder under this part, or the designated agent of any of these, or the possessive of each, depending on the context. The terms
you
and
your
also include contractors and subcontractors of the entities specified in the preceding sentence.
§ 586.114
How will data and information obtained by BOEM under this part be disclosed to the public?
(a) BOEM will make data and information available in accordance with the requirements and subject to the limitations of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552) and the regulations contained in 43 CFR part 2.
(b) BOEM will not release such data and information that we have determined is exempt from disclosure under exemption 4 of FOIA. We will review such data and information and objections of the submitter to determine whether release at that time will result in substantial competitive harm or disclosure of trade secrets.
(c) After considering any objections from the submitter, if we determine that release of such data and information will result in:
(1) No substantial competitive harm or disclosure of trade secrets, then the data and information will be released.
(2) Substantial competitive harm or disclosure of trade secrets, then the data and information will not be released at that time but will be subject to further review every 3 years thereafter.
§ 586.115
Paperwork Reduction Act statements—information collection.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection requirements in this part under 44 U.S.C. 3501,
et seq.,
and assigned OMB Control Number 1010-0176. The table in paragraph (e) of this section lists the subparts in the rule requiring the information and its title, summarizes the reasons for collecting the information, and summarizes how BOEM uses the information.
(b) Respondents are primarily Alternate Use RUE grant holders and operators. The requirement to respond to the information collection in this part is mandated under subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act. Some responses are also required to obtain or retain a benefit, or may be voluntary.
(c) The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
) requires us to inform the public that an agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
(d) Comments regarding any aspect of the collections of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, should be sent to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
(e) BOEM is collecting this information for the reasons given in the following table:
30 CFR 586 subpart and title
Reasons for collecting information and how used
(1) Subpart A—General Provisions
To inform BOEM of actions taken to comply with general operational requirements on the OCS. To ensure that operations on the OCS meet statutory and regulatory requirements, are safe and protect the environment, and result in diligent development on OCS leases.
(2) Subpart B—Issuance of Alternate Use RUEs for Energy- and Marine-Related Activities Using Existing OCS Facilities
To enable BOEM to review information regarding the design, installation, and operation of Alternate Use RUEs on the OCS, to ensure that Alternate Use RUE operations are safe and protect the human, marine, and coastal environment. To ensure adherence with other Federal laws, these regulations, the Alternate Use RUE grant, and, where applicable, the approved plan.
§§ 586.116-586.117
[Reserved]
§ 586.118
What are my appeal rights?
(a) Any party adversely affected by a BOEM official's final decision or order issued under the regulations of this part may appeal that decision or order to the Interior Board of Land Appeals. The appeal must conform with the procedures found in part 590 of this chapter and in 43 CFR part 4, subpart E. Appeal of a final decision for bid acceptance is covered under paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) A decision will remain in full force and effect during the period in which an appeal may be filed and during an appeal, unless a stay is granted pursuant to 43 CFR part 4.
(c) Our decision on a bid is the final action of the Department, except that an unsuccessful bidder may apply for reconsideration by the Director.
(1) A bidder whose bid we reject may file a written request for reconsideration with the Director within 15 days of the date of the receipt of the notice of rejection, accompanied by a statement of reasons, with one copy to us. The Director will respond in writing either affirming or reversing the decision.
(2) The delegation of review authority given to the Office of Hearings and Appeals does not apply to decisions on high bids for leases or grants under this part.

# Subpart B—Issuance of Alternate Use RUEs for Energy- and Marine-Related Activities Using Existing OCS Facilities

# Requesting an Alternate Use RUE
§ 586.200
What must I do before I request an Alternate Use RUE?
If you are not the owner of the existing facility on the OCS and the lessee of the area in which the facility is located, you must contact the lessee and owner of the facility and reach a preliminary agreement as to the proposed activity for the use of the existing facility.
§ 586.201
How do I request an Alternate Use RUE?
To request an Alternate Use RUE, you must submit to BOEM all of the following:
(a) The name, address, email address, and phone number of an authorized representative.
(b) A summary of the proposed activities for the use of an existing OCS facility, including:
(1) The type of activities that would involve the use of the existing OCS facility;
(2) A description of the existing OCS facility, including a map providing its location on the lease block;
(3) The names of the owner of the existing OCS facility, the operator, the lessee, and any owner of operating rights on the lease at which the facility is located;
(4) A description of additional structures or equipment that will be required to be located on or in the vicinity of the existing OCS facility in connection with the proposed activities;
(5) A statement indicating whether any of the proposed activities are intended to occur before existing activities on the OCS facility have ceased; and
(6) A statement describing how existing activities at the OCS facility will be affected if proposed activities are to occur at the same time as existing activities at the OCS facility.
(c) A statement affirming that the proposed activities sought to be approved under this subpart are not otherwise authorized by other provisions in this subchapter or any other Federal law.
(d) Evidence that you meet the requirements of § 586.107, as required by § 586.108.
(e) The signatures of the applicant, the owner of the existing OCS facility, and the lessee of the area in which the existing facility is located.
§ 586.202
How will BOEM decide whether to issue an Alternate Use RUE?
(a) We will consider requests for an Alternate Use RUE on a case-by-case basis. In considering such requests, we will consult with relevant Federal agencies and evaluate whether the proposed activities involving the use of an existing OCS facility can be conducted in a manner that:
(1) Ensures safety and minimizes adverse effects to the coastal and marine environments, including their physical, atmospheric, and biological components, to the extent practicable;
(2) Does not inhibit or restrain orderly development of OCS mineral or energy resources;
(3) Avoids serious harm or damage to, or waste of, any natural resource (including OCS mineral deposits and oil, gas, and sulfur resources in areas
leased or not leased), any life (including fish and other aquatic life), or property (including sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance);
(4) Is otherwise consistent with subsection 8(p) of the OCS Lands Act; and
(5) DOI can effectively regulate.
(b) Based on the evaluation that we perform under paragraph (a) of this section, BOEM may authorize, reject, or authorize with modifications or stipulations, the proposed activity.
§ 586.203
What process will BOEM use for competitively offering an Alternate Use RUE?
(a) An Alternate Use RUE must be issued on a competitive basis unless BOEM determines, after public notice of the proposed Alternate Use RUE, that there is no competitive interest.
(b) We will issue a public notice in the
Federal Register
to determine if there is competitive interest in using the proposed facility for alternate use activities. BOEM will specify a time period for members of the public to express competitive interest.
(c) If we receive indications of competitive interest within the published timeframe, we will proceed with a competitive offering. As part of such competitive offering, each competing applicant must submit a description of the types of activities proposed for the existing facility, as well as satisfactory evidence that the competing applicant qualifies to hold a grant on the OCS, as required in §§ 586.107 and 586.108, by a date we specify. We may request additional information from competing applicants, as necessary, to adequately evaluate the competing proposals.
(d) We will evaluate all competing proposals to determine whether:
(1) The proposed activities are compatible with existing activities at the facility; and
(2) BOEM and BSEE have the expertise and resources available to regulate the activities effectively.
(e) We will evaluate all proposals under the requirements of NEPA, CZMA, and other applicable laws.
(f) Following our evaluation, we will select one or more acceptable proposals for activities involving the alternate use of an existing OCS facility, notify the competing applicants, and submit each acceptable proposal to the lessee and owner of the existing OCS facility. If the lessee and owner of the facility agree to accept a proposal, we will proceed to issue an Alternate Use RUE. If the lessee and owner of the facility are unwilling to accept any of the proposals that we deem acceptable, we will not issue an Alternate Use RUE.
§§ 586.204-586.209
[Reserved]

# Alternate Use RUE Administration
§ 586.210
How long may I conduct activities under an Alternate Use RUE?
(a) We will establish on a case-by-case basis, and set forth in the Alternate Use RUE, the length of time for which you are authorized to conduct activities approved in your Alternate Use RUE instrument.
(b) In establishing this term, BOEM will consider the size and scale of the proposed alternate use activities, the type of alternate use activities, and any other relevant considerations.
(c) BOEM may authorize renewal of Alternate Use RUEs at its discretion.
§ 586.211
What payments are required for an Alternate Use RUE?
We will establish rental or other payments for an Alternate Use RUE on a case-by-case basis, as set forth in the Alternate Use RUE grant, depending on our assessment of the following factors:
(a) The effect on the original OCS Lands Act approved activity;
(b) The size and scale of the proposed alternate use activities;
(c) The income, if any, expected to be generated from the proposed alternate use activities; and
(d) The type of alternate use activities.
§ 586.212
What financial assurance is required for an Alternate Use RUE?
(a) The holder of an Alternate Use RUE will be required to secure financial assurances in an amount determined by BOEM that is sufficient to cover all obligations under the Alternate Use RUE, including decommissioning obligations, and must retain such financial assurance amounts until
all obligations have been fulfilled, as determined by BOEM.
(b) We may revise financial assurance amounts, as necessary, to ensure that there is sufficient financial assurance to secure all obligations under the Alternate Use RUE.
(c) We may reduce the amount of the financial assurance that you must retain if it is not necessary to cover existing obligations under the Alternate Use RUE.
§ 586.213
Is an Alternate Use RUE assignable?
(a) BOEM may authorize assignment of an Alternate Use RUE.
(b) To request assignment of an Alternate Use RUE, you must submit a written request for assignment that includes the following information:
(1) BOEM-assigned Alternate Use RUE number;
(2) The names of both the assignor and the assignee, if applicable;
(3) The names and telephone numbers of the contacts for both the assignor and the assignee;
(4) The names, titles, and signatures of the authorizing officials for both the assignor and the assignee;
(5) A statement affirming that the owner of the existing OCS facility and lessee of the lease in which the facility is located approve of the proposed assignment and assignee;
(6) A statement that the assignee agrees to comply with and to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Alternate Use RUE;
(7) Evidence required by § 586.108 that the assignee satisfies the requirements of § 586.107; and
(8) A statement on how the assignee will comply with the financial assurance requirements set forth in the Alternate Use RUE.
(c) The assignment takes effect on the date we approve your request.
(d) The assignor is liable for all obligations that accrue under an Alternate Use RUE before the date we approve your assignment request. An assignment approval by BOEM does not relieve the assignor of liability for accrued obligations that the assignee, or a subsequent assignee, fails to perform.
(e) The assignee and each subsequent assignee are liable for all obligations that accrue under an Alternate Use RUE after the date we approve the assignment request.
§ 586.214
When will BOEM suspend an Alternate Use RUE?
(a) BOEM may suspend an Alternate Use RUE if:
(1) necessary to comply with judicial decrees; or
(2) necessary for reasons of national security or defense.
(b) A suspension will extend the term of your Alternate Use RUE grant for the period of the suspension.
§ 586.215
How do I relinquish an Alternate Use RUE?
(a) You may voluntarily surrender an Alternate Use RUE by submitting a written request to us that includes the following:
(1) The name, address, email address, and phone number of an authorized representative;
(2) The reason you are requesting relinquishment of the Alternate Use RUE;
(3) BOEM-assigned Alternate Use RUE number;
(4) The name of the associated OCS facility, its owner, and the lessee for the lease in which the OCS facility is located;
(5) The name, title, and signature of your authorizing official (which must match exactly the name, title, and signature in the BOEM qualification records); and
(6) A statement that you will adhere to the decommissioning requirements in the Alternate Use RUE.
(b) We will not approve your relinquishment request until you have paid all outstanding rentals (or other payments) and fines.
(c) The relinquishment takes effect on the date we approve your request.
§ 586.216
When will an Alternate Use RUE be cancelled?
The Secretary may cancel an Alternate Use RUE if it is determined, after notice and opportunity to be heard:
(a) You no longer qualify to hold an Alternate Use RUE;
(b) You failed to provide any additional financial assurance required by BOEM, replace or provide additional
coverage for a de-valued bond, or replace a lapsed or forfeited bond within the prescribed time period;
(c) Continued activity under the Alternate Use RUE is likely to cause serious harm or damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance;
(d) Continued activity under the Alternate Use RUE is determined to be adversely impacting the original OCS Lands Act approved activities on the existing OCS facility;
(e) You failed to comply with any of the terms and conditions of your approved Alternate Use RUE or your approved plan; or
(f) You otherwise failed to comply with applicable laws or regulations.
§ 586.217
[Reserved]
§ 586.218
Who is responsible for decommissioning an OCS facility subject to an Alternate Use RUE?
(a) The holder of an Alternate Use RUE is responsible for all decommissioning obligations that accrue following the issuance of the Alternate Use RUE and which pertain to the Alternate Use RUE.
(b) The lessee under the lease originally issued under 30 CFR chapter V will remain responsible for decommissioning obligations that accrued before issuance of the Alternate Use RUE, as well as for decommissioning obligations that accrue following issuance of the Alternate Use RUE to the extent associated with continued activities authorized under other parts of this title.
§ 586.219
What are decommissioning requirements for an Alternate Use RUE?
(a) Decommissioning requirements will be determined by BOEM and BSEE on a case-by-case basis and will be included in the terms of the Alternate Use RUE.
(b) Decommissioning activities must be completed within 1 year of termination of the Alternate Use RUE.
(c) If you fail to satisfy all decommissioning requirements within the prescribed time period, BOEM will call for the forfeiture of your bond or other financial guarantee, and you will remain liable for all accidents or damages that might result from such failure.

# SUBCHAPTER C—APPEALS
Pt. 590

# PART 590—APPEAL PROCEDURES

# Subpart A—Offshore Minerals Management Appeal Procedures
Sec.
590.1
What is the purpose of this subpart?
590.2
Who may appeal?
590.3
What is the time limit for filing an appeal?
590.4
How do I file an appeal?
590.5
Can I obtain an extension for filing my Notice of Appeal?
590.6
Are informal resolutions permitted?
590.7
Do I have to comply with the decision or order while my appeal is pending?
590.8
How do I exhaust my administrative remedies?
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301
et seq.;
31 U.S.C. 9701; 43 U.S.C. 1334.

# Source:
76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Appeal Procedures
§ 590.1
What is the purpose of this subpart?
The purpose of this subpart is to explain the procedures for appeals of Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) decisions and orders.
[89 FR 31598, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 590.2
Who may appeal?
If you are adversely affected by a BOEM official's final decision or order issued under chapter V of this title, you may appeal that decision or order to the Interior Board of Land Appeals (IBLA). Your appeal must conform with the procedures found in this subpart and 43 CFR part 4, subpart E. A request for reconsideration of a BOEM decision concerning a lease bid, authorized in § 556.517(b), § 581.21(a)(2), or § 585.118(c)(1) of this chapter, is not subject to the procedures found in this part.
[89 FR 31598, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 590.3
What is the time limit for filing an appeal?
You must file your appeal within 60 days after you receive BOEM's final decision or order. The 60-day time period applies rather than the time period provided in 43 CFR 4.411(a). A decision or order is received on the date you sign a receipt confirming delivery or, if there is no receipt, the date otherwise documented.
[89 FR 31598, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 590.4
How do I file an appeal?
For your appeal to be filed, BOEM must receive all of the following within 60 days after you receive the decision or order:
(a) A written Notice of Appeal, together with a copy of the decision or order you are appealing, in the office of the BOEM officer that issued the decision or order. You cannot extend the 60-day period for that office to receive your Notice of Appeal; and
(b) A nonrefundable processing fee of $150 paid with the Notice of Appeal.
(1) You must pay electronically through the
Fees for Services
page on the BOEM Web site at
http://www.boem.gov,
and you must include a copy of the
Pay.gov
confirmation receipt page with your Notice of Appeal.
(2) You cannot extend the 60-day period for payment of the processing fee.
(c) You may file an appeal of a BOEM supplemental financial assurance demand with the IBLA. However, if you request that the IBLA stay the demand pending a final ruling on your appeal, you must post an appeal surety bond equal to the amount of the demand that you seek to stay before any such stay is effective.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 21626, Apr. 17, 2014; 89 FR 31598, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 590.5
Can I obtain an extension for filing my Notice of Appeal?
You cannot obtain an extension of time to file the Notice of Appeal. See 43 CFR 4.411(c).
§ 590.6
Are informal resolutions permitted?
(a) You may seek informal resolution with the issuing officer's next level supervisor during the 60-day period established in § 590.3.
(b) Nothing in this subpart precludes resolution by settlement of any appeal or matter pending in the administrative process after the 60-day period established in § 590.3.
§ 590.7
Do I have to comply with the decision or order while my appeal is pending?
(a) The decision or order is effective during the 60-day period for filing an appeal under § 590.3 unless:
(1) BOEM notifies you that the decision or order, or some portion of it, is suspended during this period because there is no likelihood of immediate and irreparable harm to human life, the environment, any mineral deposit, or property; or
(2) You post a surety bond under 30 CFR 550.1409 pending the appeal challenging an order to pay a civil penalty.
(b) This section applies rather than 43 CFR 4.21(a) for appeals of BOEM orders.
(c) After you file your appeal, IBLA may grant a stay of a decision or order under 43 CFR 4.21(b); however, a decision or order remains in effect until IBLA grants your request for a stay of the decision or order under appeal.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended by 89 FR 31598, Apr. 24, 2024]
§ 590.8
How do I exhaust my administrative remedies?
(a) If you receive a decision or order issued under this chapter, you must appeal that decision or order to the IBLA under 43 CFR part 4, subpart E, to exhaust administrative remedies.
(b) This section does not apply if the Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management or the IBLA makes a decision or order immediately effective notwithstanding an appeal.
[76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended by 89 FR 31598, Apr. 24, 2024]
Subpart B [Reserved]
PARTS 591-599 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
30 CFR (7-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
30 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter II
250.198 (e)(8), (9), (11), (12), (14), and (16), (20) through (24), (26) through (28), (34), (43) through (46), (50) and (55) revised
84236
250.1203 (b)(4) amended
84237
250.1403 Revised
12735
Chapter V
550.105 Amended; eff. 7-6-20
34935
550.218 (a) introductory text and (e) revised; eff. 7-6-20
34936
550.249 (a) introductory text and (e) revised; (a)(2) amended; eff. 7-6-20
34936
550.283 (a)(4) amended; eff. 7-6-20
34936
550.302 Amended; eff. 7-6-20
34936
550.303 Heading, (d), (e), (f), (h), and (j) heading revised; (a), (b)(1), (c), (g)(1), (2), (i)(B), and (j) amended; eff. 7-6-20
34937
550.304 (b), (c), (d), (e)(1), and (f) heading revised; eff. 7-6-20
34937
550.1403 Revised
7220
553.51 (a) revised
7221
2021
30 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter II
250.1403 Revised
23608
250.1453 Revised
34134
250.1460 Revised
34134
Chapter V
550.1403 Revised
19784
550.1453 Revised
38559
550.1460 (b) revised
38559
553.51 (a) revised
19784
2022
30 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter II
250.125 (a)(1) through (31) revised
19803
250.126 (a) revised
19803
250.1403 Revised
10308
254.54 CFR correction: Amended
39337
Chapter V
550.125 (a) revised
52445
550.1403 Revised
15335
553 Authority citation revised
15335
553.51 (a) revised
15335
556 Authority citation revised
52446
556.106 (a) revised
52446
2023
30 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter II
250.105 Amended
23579
250.730 (a) introductory text and (c) revised
57347
250.732 (b) revised
57347
250.733 (b)(1) revised
57347
250.734 (a)(4) revised
57348
250.737 (d)(2)(ii) and (3)(iii) revised
57348
250.1403 Revised
17727
250.1700 Heading and (a)(2) revised; (d) added
23579
250.1701 Revised
23580
250.1702 (e) revised; (f) redesignated as (g); new (f) added
23580
250.1703 (e) revised
23580
250.1704 (b) through (j) redesignated as (c) through (k); new (b) added
23580
250.1708 Added
23580
250.1725 (a) introductory text amended
23581
285 Added
6413
285.114 Correction: (a) revised
54880
Chapter V
550.1403 Revised
9752
553 Authority citation revised
22912
553.51 (a) revised
9752
553.702 Revised
22912
585 Revised
6430
585.113 Amended
68462
586 Added
6468
2024
30 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter II
250 Technical correction
85050
250.105 Amended
71111
250.125 (a)(2) revised
71111
250.198 Introductory text, (e)(82), (86), (91), and (i)(1) revised
71111
250.200—250.295 (Subpart B) Revised
71112
250.490 (p) introductory text revised
71120
250.518 (a), (c), and (d) revised
71120
250.619 (a), (c), and (d) revised
71121
250.731 (c)(4) revised
71121
250.732 (c) revised
71121
250.804 Removed
71121
250.1403 Revised
18543
250.1409 (b) and (d) revised; (e) added
89925
285.103 (a) revised; eff. 7-15-24
42713
285.105 (d) revised; eff. 7-15-24
42713
285.110 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42713
285.112 Amended; eff. 7-15-24
42713
285.113 (b)(1) revised; eff. 7-15-24
42714
285.116 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42714
285.117 Added; eff. 7-15-24
42714
285.118 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42714
285.400 (f) revised; eff. 7-15-24
42714
285.415 (b) revised; eff. 7-15-24
42714
285.417 (b)(2) revised; eff. 7-15-24
42714
285.420 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42715
285.602 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42715
285.614 (b) revised; eff. 7-15-24
42715
285.637 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42715
285.638 (a) amended; eff. 7-15-24
42715
285.700 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42715
285.701 (a)(1) through (10), (b), (c), and (d); (a)(11) through (13) added; (e) removed; eff. 7-15-24
42715
285.702 (d) removed; (b) and (c) redesignated as (c) and new (d); (a)(1) through (7) and new (d) revised; (a)(8) through (10) and new (b) added; eff. 7-15-24
42716
285.703 (a) and (c) revised; eff. 7-15-24
42717
285.704 Added; eff. 7-15-24
42717
285.705 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42717
285.706 (a), (b)(2), (7), (c), and (d) revised; (e) removed; (f) redesignated as new (e); eff. 7-15-24
42718
285.707 (a), (b)(8) amended; (b)(9) redesignated as (b)(10); new (b)(9) added; (c) revised; eff. 7-15-24
42718
285.708 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42718
285.709 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42719
285.710 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42719
285.712 (a) revised; (b) introductory text, (3), and (4) amended; (b)(5) added; eff. 7-15-24
42719
285.713 Removed; eff. 7-15-24
42720
285.714 Heading and (c) revised; (a)(4) and (5) redesignated as (a)(5) and (6); new (a)(4) added; eff. 7-15-24
42720
285.810 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42720
285.811 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42720
285.812 Added; eff. 7-15-24
42720
285.815 (a) amended; eff. 7-15-24
42720
285.820 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42720
285.821 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42721
285.822 (a)(1) and (b) revised; eff. 7-15-24
42721
285.824 Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42721
285.830 (d) revised; eff. 7-15-24
42721
285.900 (c) added; eff. 7-15-24
42721
285.902 (a) introductory text revised; eff. 7-15-24
42721
285.905 (e) added; eff. 7-15-24
42721
290.4 (a) and (b) introductory text amended; (c) added
89926
Chapter V
550 Heading revised
31585
550 Authority citation revised
71182
550.101 Introductory text revised
31585
550.102 (a) and (b)(16) revised
31585
550.103 Revised
31586
550.105 Revised
31586
550.105 Amended
71182
550.125 (a) revised
70493
550.160 Introductory text removed; heading, (a) introductory text, (b) through (e), (f)(1), and (2) revised
31589
550.166 Revised
31589
550.167 Added
31589
550.194 Revised
71182
550.195 Added
71184
550.199 (b) revised
31590
550.1011 Revised
31590
550.1403 Revised
4818
553 Authority citation amended
4818
553.51 (a) revised
4818
556 Authority citation and heading revised
31590
556.104 (a)(4) revised
31590
556.105 (a) amended; (b) revised
31590
556.106 (a) revised
70493
556.703 (a) revised
31593
556.704 Heading, (a) introductory text, (1), and (2) revised
31593
556.802 Heading, introductory text, (a), and (b) revised
31593
556.900—556.907 (Subpart I) Revised
31593
556.900 Heading, introductory text, (a) introductory text, (g) introductory text, and (h) revised; (i) added
31593
556.901 Heading, (a) introductory text, (1)(i), (b) introductory text, (1)(i), and (c) through (f) revised; (g) and (h) added
31594
556.901 Correction: (h) revised
47081
556.902 Heading, (a), and (e)(2) revised; (g), and (h) added
31595
556.903 Revised
31595
556.904 Revised
31595
556.905 Revised
31596
556.906 Revised
31596
556.907 Revised
31597
585.100—585.149 (Subpart A) Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42721
585.150—585.199 (Subpart B) Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42728
585.200—585.299 (Subpart C) Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42729
585.300—585.399 (Subpart D) Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42735
585.400—585.499 (Subpart E) Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42736
585.500—585.599 (Subpart F) Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42740
585.600—585.699 (Subpart G) Revised; eff. 7-15-24
42748
590.1—590.8 (Subpart A) Heading revised
31598
590.1 Revised
31598
590.2 Revised
31598
590.3 Revised
31598
590.4 (a) revised; (c) added
31598
590.7 (a)(1) and (b) revised
31598
590.8 (a) revised
31598
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through July 1, 2025)
30 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter V
550 Authority citation revised
2614
550.105 Amended
15532, 24071
550.115 Introductory text amended
24071
550.116 Heading and introductory text amended
24071
550.194 Revised
15532
550.195 Removed
15532
550.201 (a)(2) and (3) amended
24071
550.225 (a)(2) amended
24071
550.269 (a) amended
24071
550.1403 Revised
2614
550.1495 (a)(2) amended
24071
551.5 Amended
24071
553.45 Amended
24071
553.51 (a) revised
2614
556.102 (e)(2) amended
24071
556.105 (a) amended
24071
556.105 (b) revised
24072
556.309 (c) amended
24071
556.900 (b)(1) amended
24071
560.201 Amended
24072
560.221 Amended
24072
580.13 Amended
24072
582.40 Amended
24072
585.700 Amended
24072
○
