Commercial transport of passengers by motor vehicles on Exit Glacier Road is allowed without a written permit. However, if required to protect public health and safety or park resources, or to provide for the equitable use of park facilities, the Superintendent may establish a permit requirement with appropriate terms and conditions for the transport of passengers. Failure to comply with permit terms and conditions is prohibited.

# Exit Glacier Developed Area (EGDA)
§ 13.1318
Location of the EGDA.
(a) A map showing the boundaries of the EGDA is available at the park visitor center.
(b) For the purpose of this subpart, the EGDA means:
(1) From the park boundary to Exit Glacier Campground Entrance Road, all park areas within 350 meters (383 yards) of the centerline of the Exit Glacier Road;
(2) From Exit Glacier Campground Entrance Road to the end of the main paved trail, all park areas within 500 meters (546 yards) of any paved surface; or
(3) All park areas within 300 meters (328 yards) of the terminus of Exit Glacier.
§ 13.1320
Camping.
Within the EGDA, camping is prohibited except in designated sites within the Exit Glacier Campground, or as authorized by the Superintendent.
§ 13.1322
Food storage.
Cooking, consuming, storing or preparing food in the Exit Glacier Campground is prohibited except in designated areas.
§ 13.1324
Bicycles.
Within the EGDA, the use of a bicycle is prohibited except on the Exit Glacier Road and parking areas.
§ 13.1326
Snowmachines.
The use of snowmachines is prohibited within the EGDA, except—
(a) On Exit Glacier Road;
(b) In parking areas;
(c) On a designated route through the Exit Glacier Campground to Exit Creek;
(d) Within Exit Creek; and
(e) For NPS administrative activities.
§ 13.1328
EGDA closures and restrictions.
The Superintendent may prohibit or otherwise restrict activities in the EGDA to protect public health, safety, or park resources, or to provide for the equitable and orderly use of park facilities. Information on closures and restrictions will be available at the park visitor information center. Violating closures or restrictions is prohibited.

# Subpart Q—Special Regulations—Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park
§ 13.1402
Camping.
(a) Camping is permitted only in designated areas.
(b) Camping without a permit is prohibited. The Superintendent may establish permit terms and conditions. Failure to comply with permit terms and conditions is prohibited.
(c) Camping at Dyea campground more than 14 days in a calendar year is prohibited.
§ 13.1404
Preservation of natural, cultural, and archaeological resources.
The Superintendent may allow the gathering of mushrooms in accordance with § 2.1(c) of this chapter.
§ 13.1406
State lands.
The National Park Service administers certain state-owned lands and waters within the boundary of Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park under a memorandum of understanding with the State of Alaska. The prohibition on carrying, possession, and use of weapons, traps, and nets in this chapter does not apply to the lawful taking of wildlife on these State-owned lands and waters.
§ 13.1408
Dyea.
The Dyea Historic Townsite is closed to the use of horses by members of the public except by special use permit issued by the Superintendent under § 1.6 of this chapter. A map showing the boundaries of the Dyea Historic Townsite is available on the park Web site and at the park visitor center.
[80 FR 66419, Oct. 29, 2015]

# Subpart R—Special Regulations—Kobuk Valley National Park
§ 13.1502
Subsistence resident zone.
The following area is included within the resident zone for Kobuk Valley National Park: The NANA Region.
§ 13.1504
Customary trade.
In addition to the exchange of furs for cash, “customary trade” in Kobuk
Valley National Park shall include the selling of handicraft articles made from plant material taken by local rural residents of the park area.

# Subpart S—Special Regulations—Lake Clark National Park and Preserve
§ 13.1602
Subsistence resident zone.
The following communities and areas are included within the resident zone for Lake Clark National Park: Iliamna, Lime Village, Newhalen, Nondalton, Pedro Bay, and Port Alsworth.
§ 13.1604
Solid waste disposal.
(a) A solid waste disposal site may accept non-National Park Service solid waste generated within the boundaries of the park area.
(b) A solid waste disposal site may be located within one mile of facilities as defined by this part so long as it does not degrade natural or cultural resources of the park area.
(c) A transfer station located wholly on nonfederal lands within Lake Clark National Park and Preserve may be operated without the permit required by §§ 6.4(b) and 6.9(a) only if:
(1) The solid waste is generated within the boundaries of the park area;
(2) The Regional Director determines that the operation will not degrade any of the natural or cultural resources of the park area; and
(3) The transfer station complies with the provisions of part 6 of this chapter.
(d) For purposes of this section, a transfer station means a public use facility for the deposit and temporary storage of solid waste, excluding a facility for the storage of a regulated hazardous waste.
[73 FR 3187, Jan. 17, 2008]
Subpart T—Special Regulations—Noatak National Preserve [Reserved]

# Subpart U—Special Regulations—Sitka National Historical Park
§ 13.1802
Prohibited activities.
The following activities are prohibited in Sitka National Historical Park—
(a) Camping.
(b) Riding a bicycle, except in the public parking areas and on routes designated by the Superintendent. Routes may only be designated for bicycle use based on a written determination that such use is consistent with the purposes for which the park was established.
(c) The use of roller skates, skateboards, roller skis, in-line skates, and other similar devices.

# Subpart V—Special Regulations—Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve
§ 13.1902
Subsistence.
(a)
Subsistence resident zone communities.
The following communities and areas are included within the resident zone for Wrangell-St. Elias National Park: Chisana, Chistochina, Chitina, Copper Center, Dot Lake, Gakona, Gakona Junction, Glennallen, Gulkana, Healy Lake, Kenny Lake, Lower Tonsina, McCarthy, Mentasta Lake, Nabesna, Northway/Northway Village/Northway Junction, Slana, Tanacross, Tazlina, Tetlin, Tok, Tonsina, and Yakutat.
(b)
Subsistence resident zone boundaries.
Boundaries for communities and areas added to the park resident zone will be determined by the Superintendent after consultation with the affected area or community. If the Superintendent and community are not able to agree on a boundary within two years, the boundary of the area or community added will be the boundary of the Census Designated Place, or other area designation, used by the Alaska Department of Labor for census purposes for that community or area. Copies of the boundary map will be available in the park headquarters office.
(c)
Subsistence aircraft exemption.
In extraordinary cases where no reasonable alternative exists local rural residents who permanently reside in the
following exempted community(ies) may use aircraft for access to lands and waters within the park for subsistence purposes in accordance with a permit issued by the Superintendent: Yakutat (for access to the Malaspina Forelands Area only).
(d)
Use of bait for taking bears.
(1) The superintendent may issue individual, annual permits allowing the use of human-produced food items as bait for taking bears upon a finding that:
(i) Such use is compatible with the purposes and values for which the area was established (e.g. does not create a user conflict); and
(ii) The permit applicant does not have reasonable access to natural bait that may be used under § 13.480(b)(1).
(2) Permits will identify specific locations within the park area where the bait station may be established and will not include areas where the use of such materials could create a user conflict.
[71 FR 69333, Nov. 30, 2006, as amended at 82 FR 3633, Jan. 12, 2017]
§ 13.1904
Kennecott Mines National Historic Landmark (KNHL).
A map showing the boundaries of the KNHL is available at the park visitor center. The following activities are prohibited within the KNHL—
(a) Entering closed structures or passing beyond barricades;
(b) Entering mine tunnels and other mine openings;
(c) Camping in or on any historic structure; and
(d) Camping within the mill site of the KNHL. The mill site consists of the collection of buildings clustered around the mill building on both sides of National Creek. For purposes of this subpart, the mill site is the area bounded by Bonanza Creek to the north, the Kennicott Glacier to the west, the 2,200 foot contour line to the east, and Sweet Creek to the south. The mill site is depicted on a map available at the park visitor center; and
(e) Lighting or maintaining a fire within the mill site as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.
§ 13.1906
Headquarters/Visitor Center Developed Area (HVCDA).
For purposes of this subpart, the HVCDA consists of all park areas within a
1/2
mile radius of the Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve Headquarters building, other than the Valdez Trail. The following activities are prohibited within the HVCDA:
(a) Lighting or maintaining a fire;
(b) Camping;
(c) Entering the area after visiting hours (visiting hours will be posted at the entrance gate).
§ 13.1908
Slana Developed Area (SDA).
For purposes of this subpart, the Slana Developed Area consists of all park areas within a
1/4
mile radius of the Slana Ranger Station.
§ 13.1910
KNHL and developed area closures and restrictions.
The Superintendent may prohibit or otherwise restrict activities in the KNHL, Headquarters/Visitor Center Developed Area, and Slana Developed Area to protect public health and safety or park resources. Information on closures and restrictions will be available at the park visitor center. Violating these closures or restrictions is prohibited. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subpart, the Superintendent may issue a Special Use Permit to authorize uses in the KNHL and either developed area.
§ 13.1912
Solid waste disposal.
(a) A solid waste disposal site may accept non-National Park Service solid waste generated within the boundaries of the park area.
(b) A solid waste disposal site may be located within one mile of facilities as defined by this part so long as it does not degrade natural or cultural resources of the park area.
(c) A transfer station located wholly on nonfederal lands within Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve may be operated without the permit required by §§ 6.4(b) and 6.9(a) only if:
(1) The solid waste is generated within the boundaries of the park area;
(2) The Regional Director determines that the operation will not degrade any of the natural or cultural resources of the park area; and
(3) The transfer station complies with the provisions of part 6 of this chapter.
(d) For purposes of this section, a transfer station means a public use facility for the deposit and temporary storage of solid waste, excluding a facility for the storage of a regulated hazardous waste.
[73 FR 3187, Jan. 17, 2008]
§ 13.1914
Off-road motor vehicle use in the Nabesna District.
(a)
What is the scope of this regulation?
The regulations contained in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section apply to the use of motor vehicles off roads within the boundaries of the Nabesna District within Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve. This section does not affect the use of snowmobiles or snowmachines.
(b)
What terms do I need to know?
The following definitions apply only to the regulations in this section:
FEIS Wilderness Area
means an area of designated wilderness identified on the Upper Copper/Jacksina Wilderness map available at the Slana Ranger Station, the Main Park Visitor Center, the Tanada and Copper Lake trailheads, and on the park Web site.
Frozen
means frost depth of 6 inches as measured with a soil probe and determined by the Superintendent.
Improved
means a trail that is in a design-sustainable or maintainable condition as determined by the Superintendent.
Nabesna District
means a designated area in the northern portion of Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve as shown on a map available at the Slana Ranger Station, the Main Park Visitor Center, and on the park Web site.
Recreational use
means the use of an off-road vehicle for any purpose other than for subsistence uses, which are defined in § 13.420, or access to inholdings in accordance with 43 CFR 36.10.
Trail corridor
means an area extending 0.5 miles from either side of the centerline on the Black Mountain trails and portions of the Tanada Lake trail within the FEIS Wilderness Area.
(c)
Must I obtain a permit to operate an off-road vehicle for recreational use?
(1) You must obtain a permit before operating an off-road vehicle for recreational use. Permits may be obtained at the Slana Ranger Station in Slana or the Main Park Visitor Center in Copper Center.
(2) The Superintendent may issue permits for the recreational use of off-road vehicles on any of the following trails in the National Preserve:
(i) Suslota Trail.
(ii) Caribou Creek Trail.
(iii) Trail Creek Trail.
(iv) Lost Creek Trail.
(v) Soda Lake Trail.
(vi) Reeve Field Trail.
(3) Permits may be issued for the recreational use of off-road vehicles only on designated trails that are either frozen or improved. A map showing trails designated for recreational off-road vehicle use, and a current list of frozen and improved trails, are available at Slana Ranger Station, the Main Visitor Center, and on the park's Web site.
(4) You must obtain a permit for each off-road vehicle that you want to use for recreational purposes on designated off-road vehicle trails. The operator of the off-road vehicle must have the permit in his or her possession when the off-road vehicle is in use.
(5) Violating any term or condition of a permit is prohibited.
(6) The recreational use of off-road vehicles without a permit is prohibited.
(d)
May I operate an off-road vehicle for subsistence uses in the FEIS Wilderness Area?
(1) In the FEIS Wilderness Area, local rural residents may operate off-road vehicles for subsistence uses as defined by this part on the following trails:
(i) Black Mountain Trails.
(ii) Tanada Lake Trail.
(2) In the FEIS Wilderness Area, off-road vehicles may be operated off the designated trails only for the purpose of game retrieval in the designated trail corridors.
(3) All other areas of the FEIS Wilderness Area are closed to subsistence ORV use and local rural residents may not operate an off-road vehicle for subsistence uses outside of the trails and trail corridors identified in paragraphs (d)(1)-(2) of this section.
(4) Trails and trail corridors in the FEIS Wilderness Area, and the boundaries of the FEIS Wilderness Area, are
shown on the Upper Copper/Jacksina Wilderness map available at the Slana Ranger Station, the Main Park Visitor Center, the Tanada and Copper Lake trailheads, and on the park Web site.
(e)
Are there limits on the types of off-road vehicles that may be operated off roads in the Nabesna District of Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve?
The following types of vehicles may not be used off roads for recreational or subsistence uses in the Nabesna District of Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve:
(1) Nodwells or other tracked rigs greater than 5.5 feet in width or 4,000 pounds curb weight.
(2) Street-legal highway vehicles.
(3) Custom 4x4 jeeps, SUVs, or trucks designed for off-road use.
(4) Original or modified “deuce and a half” cargo trucks.
(5) Dozers, skid-steer loaders, excavators, or other construction equipment.
(6) Motorcycles or dirt bikes.
(7) Log skidders.
(8) Wheeled vehicles (including all terrain vehicles, utility vehicles, and Argos) exceeding 1,500 pounds curb weight, not including trailers.
[79 FR 49238, Aug. 20, 2014]
Subpart W—Special Regulations—Yukon Charley Rivers National Preserve [Reserved]
Pt. 14

# PART 14—RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Sec.
14.1
Purpose and scope.
14.2
Definitions for this part.
14.3
Pre-application meeting.
14.4
Right-of-way permit application.
14.5
Review of a complete right-of-way permit application.
14.6
Application withdrawal.
14.7
Cost recovery.
14.8
Use and occupancy fee.
14.9
Resource impact considerations.
14.10
Terms and conditions.
14.11
Special use permit for construction.
14.12
Right-of-way permit renewal.
14.13
Right-of-way permit transfer.
14.14
Right-of-way permit amendment.
14.15
Right-of-way permit suspension and termination.
14.16
Trespass.
14.17
Penalties.
14.18
Restoration and reclamation.
14.19
Severability.

# Authority:
54 U.S.C. 100902; 54 U.S.C. 100751; 54 U.S.C. 103104; 31 U.S.C. 9701

# Source:
89 FR 96550, Dec. 5, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 14.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) Consistent with applicable Federal law, the regulations in this part establish procedures an entity must follow when applying for a right-of-way permit and provisions under which the NPS may authorize a right-of-way permit within a National Park System unit, under applicable current or future statutory authority, whether the statutory authority is System-wide or specific to a System unit.
(b) The regulations in this part ensure that use of lands and waters, and the operation and maintenance of infrastructure under a right-of-way permit will:
(1) Comply with all applicable statutory authorities, including the NPS Organic Act (54 U.S.C. 100101
et seq.
);
(2) Protect lands, waters, and resources of the National Park System; and
(3) Protect visitor uses and experiences within the National Park System, as well as promote the health and safety of the public and NPS employees and volunteers.
§ 14.2
Definitions for this part.
Applicant
means an entity that has submitted an application for a right-of-way permit or an application for a special use permit for construction.
Co-location
means the placement of infrastructure on or in authorized infrastructure owned or controlled by another or within an area authorized for use by another.
Entity
means a party including, but not limited to, Federal, State, and local governments, Tribes, citizens, and organizations of the United States, including corporations, associations, partnerships, and non-profit organizations.
Infrastructure
means public utilities and power and communications facilities, as described in 54 U.S.C. 100902, and any other equipment, facility, installation or use that the NPS may authorize under a right-of-way permit.
Operation and maintenance
means the use of infrastructure for purposes specifically authorized in a right-of-way permit, including means of access and actions associated with its service on a routine and on-going basis to ensure good order, safe conditions, and timely repair.
Permitted area
means the land or water mapped, described, and authorized for use of lands and waters, and operation and maintenance in a right-of-way permit or for construction in a special use permit for construction, and may include routes and means of access.
Permittee
means an entity that holds a current, fully executed right-of-way permit or a special use permit for construction.
Right-of-way permit
means a discretionary and revocable special use permit issued by the NPS to authorize the use of lands and waters, and operation and maintenance. A right-of-way permit does not grant, convey, or imply transfer of title to any interest in, including a leasehold or easement interest in, the lands or waters authorized for use.
Special use permit for construction
means a discretionary and revocable special use permit issued by the NPS to authorize the construction of infrastructure, or construction activities associated with infrastructure, within the National Park System. A special use permit for construction does not grant, convey, or imply transfer of title to any interest in, including a leasehold or easement interest in, the lands or waters authorized for use.
§ 14.3
Pre-application meeting.
Prior to submitting an application for a right-of-way permit, the potential applicant should contact the superintendent of the System unit that would be affected by the project to schedule a pre-application meeting to discuss the project and the permitting process along with applicable law and policy. Through a pre-application meeting, the NPS may inform the potential applicant about documentation needed to make an application complete, and provide the potential applicant with an expected timeline and potential costs the NPS will incur to review and process the application.
§ 14.4
Right-of-way permit application.
(a)
Complete application requirement.
The NPS will not begin processing a right-of-way permit application until it has determined the applicant has complied with the requirements in this part, including the submission of all required information. Making this determination does not guarantee the NPS will issue a right-of-way permit.
(b)
Application form.
(1) To request a right-of-way permit, applicants must submit a complete Standard Form 299, Application for Transportation, Utility Systems, Telecommunications and Facilities on Federal Lands and Property (SF-299), or the applicable common form approved by the General Services Administration at the time of the application, including all materials required in the SF-299 and this part, to the superintendent of the System unit. If materials required in this part were previously filed with the superintendent for the issuance of another right-of-way permit for the same System unit, the NPS may decide the applicant is not required to resubmit these materials, provided the previous date of filing, place of filing, and existing right-of-way permit number are included in the new application.
(2) The SF-299 must be signed by the applicant or applicant's authorized representative.
(3) The applicant must submit the application charge pursuant to § 14.7 of this part.
(c)
Applicant documentation.
Only citizens, corporations, partnerships, and associations of the United States are eligible to apply for a right-of-way permit.
(1)
Corporations.
An application by a corporation must include:
(i) A copy of its charter or articles of incorporation, duly certified by the proper official of the State where the corporation was organized.
(ii) A copy of the law under which the corporation was formed and proof of organization and good standing under the same.
(iii) If a corporation is operating in a State other than its State of incorporation, a certificate of good standing
from the proper official of the State where it is operating that it has complied with the laws of that State governing foreign corporations operating in such State.
(iv) An affidavit from the appropriate individual at the corporation certifying:
(A) The corporation's ability to do business in the State or States where the affected park area is located;
(B) The corporation's ability to file an application for the stated purpose; and
(C) The ability of the individual filing the application to bind and sign for the corporation for purposes of the application.
(2)
Partnerships, limited liability companies, and similar entities.
An application by an association of individuals with legal standing must be accompanied by:
(i) A certified copy of articles of association or other current governing documents, if any, indicating appropriate signature authority and authority to file the application. If these articles or documents do not exist, all members must sign the application.
(ii) Evidence of U.S. citizenship for each individual member of the association.
(3)
Individuals.
An application by an individual must be accompanied by evidence of U.S. citizenship.
(d)
Maps.
(1) Applicants must provide a map that meets current NPS mapping standards, showing at a minimum:
(i) The area proposed to be included in the right-of-way permit, including the placement of proposed infrastructure; and
(ii) Proposed access points and routes (including uses of existing roads), and other areas associated with the right-of-way permit.
(2) The NPS may require an official land survey, legal description, and digital information.
(e)
Water Rights.
Unless otherwise required by Federal law, applications requesting authorization to operate and maintain infrastructure to support the storage, diversion, conveyance, or use of water, must include proof of the applicant's valid water right from the appropriate State official or State law.
(f)
Access.
(1) The applicant must include a description of proposed access routes and means of access.
(2) Access routes and means of access will be limited to existing roads, or existing or NPS-approved routes, trails, or access points.
(3) Unless otherwise provided by law, the NPS will not authorize new roads by a right-of-way permit.
(4) No right of access is granted under a right-of-way permit. Access routes and means of access identified in a right-of-way permit are revocable at the discretion of the NPS.
(g)
Co-location.
(1) The applicant must design infrastructure to accommodate co-location to the greatest extent possible after consideration of potential impacts to park area resources, values, public health and safety, and visitor experience.
(2) Before proposing a new or undisturbed location for infrastructure, the applicant must demonstrate that they have evaluated all options for co-location with existing infrastructure.
(3) Each entity seeking to co-locate will be required to have a separate right-of-way permit.
(h)
Financial assurance and liability insurance.
As appropriate to the proposed project, the NPS may require proof of acceptable financial assurance and liability insurance.
(i)
Additional Information.
The NPS may require in writing that applicants submit additional information before an application is considered complete.
§ 14.5
Review of a complete right-of-way permit application.
(a)
Standards of review.
(1) The NPS will issue a right-of-way permit only if the proposed use of lands and waters, and operation and maintenance are not incompatible with the public interest and consistent with applicable laws and policies, including statutes governing administration of the National Park System, regulations, and NPS planning documents.
(2) Except where Federal law provides otherwise, the NPS will issue a right-of-way permit only if the applicant has demonstrated that there is no practicable alternative to locating the infrastructure within the National Park System.
(b)
Managerial findings.
After completing review of an application, the NPS will notify the applicant in writing that the right-of-way permit is:
(1) Conditionally approved; or
(2) Denied, with an explanation.
(c)
Execution of right-of-way permits.
The applicant must sign a conditionally approved right-of-way permit prior to execution by the NPS. No right-of-way permit is valid until it has been executed by the NPS.
(d)
Behavior and conduct.
At any time during the application process for a right-of-way permit, the NPS may, in its discretion, suspend or end the application process if the applicant:
(1) Is delinquent in paying any cost recovery, use and occupancy fees, or other debts to the Federal Government;
(2) Has an unresolved criminal or civil violation with the Federal Government;
(3) Has been notified that they are liable for damages under the System Unit Resource Protection Act (SURPA), 54 U.S.C. 100721-100725, for injuries to park area resources, or have not resolved or fully paid response costs and damages under SURPA; or
(4) Has caused unpermitted resource damage, impacts to visitors, management problems, or the applicant has violated the terms and conditions of any permit issued by a Federal agency, including the NPS.
§ 14.6
Application withdrawal.
(a) An applicant may withdraw an application at any time during the permitting process.
(b) If at any time during the permitting process an applicant does not respond to a written communication from the NPS within 90 days, the NPS may presume that the application has been withdrawn without further notice to the applicant.
(c) When an application is withdrawn or presumed withdrawn, the permitting process is terminated and the applicant must resubmit a new application pursuant to § 14.4 of this part.
§ 14.7
Cost recovery.
(a) The NPS will recover all costs from applicants and permittees pursuant to 54 U.S.C. 103104, according to NPS cost recovery policy, even in the case of withdrawn or denied applications, and suspended or terminated right-of-way permits. In addition to the application charge referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, the NPS may recover other actual costs incurred in processing an application for a right-of-way permit or special use permit for construction, including, but not limited to, costs incurred from completion of required compliance and reviews, appraisal or valuation related costs, and costs incurred from monitoring or managing permittee activities during the term of a permit.
(b) An applicant must pay an application charge with each application for a right-of-way permit unless this charge is waived by the NPS pursuant to NPS cost recovery policy. The application charge will include costs incurred by the NPS for review of the application to determine if it is complete. At its discretion, the NPS also may include costs incurred for initial discussions (including pre-application meetings) in the application charge.
(1) The minimum application charge for a right-of-way permit is the cost of two hours of the System unit permit coordinator's time, plus one hour of their supervisor's time, including overhead costs.
(2) If the System unit permit coordinator is the superintendent, then the minimum application charge is the cost of two hours of the superintendent's time, including overhead costs.
(3) The application charge addresses the costs incurred by the NPS in initially discussing and reviewing an application for completeness and does not constitute all of the costs that the NPS may recover.
§ 14.8
Use and occupancy fee.
(a) Every permittee must pay a use and occupancy fee to the NPS for the use and occupancy of federally owned lands and waters within the National Park System, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) The use and occupancy fee will be the fair market value of the use and occupancy of federally owned lands and waters under the right-of-way permit.
(1) The NPS may adopt any method approved by the Department of the Interior to determine the use and occupancy fee.
(2) Costs for administration of the right-of-way program will be collected by the NPS in accordance with OMB Circular A-25 at the current indirect cost rate and will be retained as cost recovery under 54 U.S.C. 103104 out of the use and occupancy fees collected on right-of-way permits issued.
(3) If a permittee's infrastructure is for both exempt and non-exempt uses or users, as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section, only those discrete portions that serve exempt uses or users may be eligible for exemption from the use and occupancy fee.
(c) The use and occupancy fee may be re-evaluated at any time during the term of a right-of-way permit at the discretion of the NPS, but at a minimum will be re-evaluated every 10 years.
(d) The use and occupancy fee will be re-evaluated when a right-of-way permit is renewed under § 14.12 of this part and when a subsequent right-of-way permit is issued for infrastructure that was authorized under an expired right-of-way permit that was not renewed in a timely manner.
(e) A permittee may be exempt from paying a use and occupancy fee if their infrastructure is exclusively:
(1) Used by a Federal Government agency, including the NPS;
(2) Serving the purposes of an authorized use and occupancy for which the NPS is already receiving compensation that was determined in consideration of services provided by the permittee;
(3) Operated or used by a Tribal, State, or local government for a direct non-commercial use; or
(4) For a project that is clearly in the public interest and consistent with the purposes and values of the park area.
§ 14.9
Resource impact considerations.
The NPS may direct the use and disposition of resources disturbed under a right-of-way permit. The permittee may be required to mitigate or compensate for permitted impacts to NPS resources and lost uses.
§ 14.10
Terms and conditions.
(a) A right-of-way permit will authorize the permittee to conduct specific operation and maintenance. Operation and maintenance not specifically authorized in the right-of-way permit requires written authorization or an amended right-of-way permit.
(b) The NPS will issue a right-of-way permit for a term that is consistent with applicable law and policy and may be up to 50 years when determined appropriate by the NPS.
(c) A permittee, by accepting a right-of-way permit, agrees and consents to comply with and be bound by the following terms and conditions, and any additional terms and conditions or modifications that may be required by the NPS in a right-of-way permit:
(1) To comply with all applicable laws and policies, including NPS regulations and planning documents.
(2) To ensure that all of its employees, agents, officers, contractors, and subcontractors comply with all of the terms and conditions of the right-of-way permit and requirements of this part.
(3) To pay the United States the full value of all damage to the lands, waters, or other property of the United States caused by permittee or permittee's employees, agents, officers, contractors, and subcontractors, and to indemnify the United States against any liability for damages to life, person, or property arising from operation and maintenance; except that where a right-of-way permit is issued to a State or other government agency whose power to assume liability by agreement is limited by law, such State or agency shall indemnify the United States as provided above to the extent allowed by law.
(4) That the exercise of authorized activities under a right-of-way permit will not unduly interfere with the management, administration, or disposal by the United States of any land, waters, structures, or interests in land or waters affected thereby. The permittee must agree and consent to the use and occupancy by the United States, its grantees, permittees, licensees, invitees, and lessees of any part of the permitted area not actually occupied for the purpose of the right-of-way
permit to the extent that such use does not materially interfere with the full and safe utilization thereof by the permittee.
(5) That except as expressly authorized by the right-of-way permit or subsequently approved in writing by the NPS, the permittee may not move, remove, alter, damage, or destroy any park area resources, including vegetation, within the permitted area or other areas of the System unit. As directed by the NPS, the permittee must take all reasonable measures to avoid or minimize damage to park area resources. The NPS may require mitigation or compensation for permitted impacts to System unit resources authorized under this permit. The NPS may also direct the use and disposition of the disturbed resources.
(6) That the NPS will have a right of access at any time to the permitted area.
(7) That, unless an extension is granted in writing by the NPS, within 6 months after the expiration or termination of the right-of-way permit, the permittee will have completed removal of all infrastructure from the permitted area, as well as restoration and reclamation of the permitted area, to NPS standards directed and approved by the NPS. Any infrastructure not removed within that time will be deemed abandoned and will be disposed of in accordance with applicable Federal law, and the permittee will be liable for all costs incurred by the NPS that are associated with removing and disposing of such infrastructure, as well as with restoration and reclamation of the permitted area, to the satisfaction of the NPS. This obligation will survive the termination or expiration of a right-of-way permit.
(8) That the right-of-way permit terms and conditions, use and occupancy fee, and other stipulations and provisions may be modified during a right-of-way permit transfer, amendment, or renewal process.
§ 14.11
Special use permit for construction.
(a)
Permit requirement.
Applicants must apply for and obtain a separate special use permit for construction prior to beginning construction associated with a right-of-way permit.
(b)
Application form.
The applicant must use the currently approved application form for a special use permit.
(c)
Complete application.
The NPS will not begin processing an application for a special use permit for construction until the NPS has reviewed the application and determined that it is complete.
(d)
Associated right-of-way permit.
The NPS will only issue a special use permit for construction simultaneously or after it issues an associated right-of-way permit.
(e)
Application information.
(1) The applicant must include all of the information required by the currently approved special use permit application form. This information must include, at a minimum, the following information:
(i) Description of proposed activity.
(ii) Requested location.
(iii) Proposed schedule, including proposed start and end dates, and interim activities.
(iv) List of equipment.
(2) The applicant is encouraged to attach additional pages with information useful in evaluating the permit request, including:
(i) Construction drawings.
(ii) A map showing areas for construction activities, including staging areas and access routes.
(iii) A construction area restoration plan, as applicable.
(3) The NPS may require additional information by written request.
(f)
Affidavit.
Prior to issuing a special use permit for construction, the NPS may require the applicant to provide an affidavit stating that all other required land rights, water rights, permits, certifications, approvals, and authorizations necessary for a viable project have been secured.
§ 14.12
Right-of-way permit renewal.
(a) Right-of-way permit renewal means the issuance of a new, separate, consecutive right-of-way permit, in response to a timely right-of-way permit application, for a new term and with new terms and conditions, as applicable.
(b) A permittee must submit a new, complete right-of-way permit application to continue use of lands and waters, and operation and maintenance of infrastructure beyond the term of a current right-of-way permit, unless the current right-of-way permit is extended under § 14.14(c) of this part.
(1) Permittees are encouraged to submit a timely, complete application at least six months prior to expiration of their current right-of-way permit.
(2) Renewal applications must meet the criteria in § 14.4 of this part.
(3) The term of a right-of-way permit may only be reset for a new and continuous term by renewal.
(4) The decision to renew a right-of-way permit is at the discretion of the NPS.
(c) If a right-of-way permit expires prior to issuance of a renewal, the infrastructure that had been authorized under the right-of-way permit will, upon expiration, be considered in trespass under § 14.16 of this part.
§ 14.13
Right-of-way permit transfer.
(a) Right-of-way permit transfers are necessary when a current permittee intends to convey ownership or control of and responsibility for the use and lands and waters, and operation and maintenance to a new entity.
(b) The NPS will not consider a transfer request until both of the following have occurred:
(1) The current permittee has provided a written request to the NPS that is signed by a representative legally authorized to bind the permittee, that contains the permit number and a statement clearly describing the reason for the requested transfer.
(2) The new entity has provided the NPS with written notice of its acceptance of and agreement to comply with the terms and conditions of the existing right-of-way permit. The written notice must be signed by a representative legally authorized to bind the new entity, and must contain the following information:
(i) Name of the entity;
(ii) Address and phone number of the entity;
(iii) Name, title, and contact information of the representative of the entity assuming responsibility for the right-of-way permit;
(iv) Statement affirming that the existing permitted uses, permitted areas, and purposes specified in the right-of-way permit remain the same;
(v) Proof of acceptable financial assurance and liability insurance, if required as a condition of the right-of-way permit, or requested as a modification by the NPS;
(vi) Proof of eligibility and suitability to hold a right-of-way permit as required by § 14.4 and § 14.5 of this part; and
(vii) Any additional information that the NPS may require by written request.
(c) The decision to approve a transfer is at the discretion of the NPS. A right-of-way permit transfer will be documented as an amendment to the existing right-of-way permit and will be reviewed and executed using the procedures that apply to the review and execution of right-of-way permits in paragraphs (a)-(d) in § 14.5 of this part.
(d) Unless and until a transfer is approved in writing by the NPS, the current permittee named on the right-of-way permit will remain responsible for compliance with the terms and conditions of the right-of-way permit, including all financial obligations.
§ 14.14
Right-of-way permit amendment.
(a) A permittee may request or the NPS may initiate an amendment to a right-of-way permit. If the NPS initiates an amendment, it will provide notice to the permittee.
(b) An amendment to an existing right-of-way permit may address operation and maintenance, the use and occupancy fee, a new permittee as a result of an approved transfer, or other terms and conditions.
(1) If a permittee requests an amendment to a right-of-way permit that would modify, change, or add to the authorized uses or locations, then the NPS may require the permittee to include some or all of the materials required under § 14.4.
(2) If modifications, changes, or additions to the authorized uses or locations proposed by the permittee are
deemed significant by the NPS, then the NPS may require the permittee to submit a complete right-of-way permit application requesting a new right-of-way permit.
(c) An amendment may not alter the term of a right-of-way permit, except for a single extension of up to one year to prevent expiration of the right-of-way permit when there is a reasonable delay or ongoing good faith negotiations regarding renewal of an expiring right-of-way permit.
(d) Requests by the permittee for an amendment to a right-of-way permit must be in writing, signed by a representative legally authorized to bind the permittee, and must contain the following information:
(1) Right-of-way permit number;
(2) Permittee name;
(3) System unit name;
(4) Description of the activities and infrastructure authorized by the right-of-way permit;
(5) Description of the proposed amendment;
(6) Description of the purpose or justification for the requested amendment; and
(7) Other information required by the NPS.
(e) The decision to approve an amendment is at the discretion of the NPS. Amendments will be reviewed and executed using the procedures that apply to the review and execution of right-of-way permits in paragraphs (a) through (c) in § 14.5. An approved amendment is deemed to be a part of the original right-of-way permit.
§ 14.15
Right-of-way permit suspension and termination.
(a) At any time during the term of a right-of-way permit and upon written notice provided to the permittee, the NPS may suspend or terminate all or any part of the right-of-way permit without liability or expense to the United States.
(b) If the NPS intends to suspend or terminate all or part of a right-of-way permit, the permittee may be provided an opportunity to cure the cause prior to commencement of the suspension or termination.
(c) Reasons for suspension or termination include, but are not limited to:
(1) Visitor and resource protection concerns;
(2) Failure to comply with right-of-way permit terms and conditions;
(3) Failure to comply with any provision of this part; or
(4) Abandonment or nonuse.
(d) A permittee may terminate a right-of-way permit by providing a written notice of termination to the NPS that is signed by the permittee's authorized representative and identifies the desired date of termination.
(e) Upon suspension, the permittee remains responsible for fulfilling all obligations under the permit, including payment of any use and occupancy fees and cost recovery due.
(f) Upon termination, the permittee will remain responsible for fulfilling all obligations under the permit, including:
(1) Payment of any use and occupancy fees and any cost recovery due;
(2) Restoration and reclamation of the permitted area; and
(3) Any other terms and conditions that survive the termination of the right-of-way permit.
§ 14.16
Trespass.
(a) Any uses, activities, or infrastructure not specifically authorized under a valid right-of-way permit or other legal authorization are prohibited and considered a trespass against the United States.
(b) The NPS may require an entity in trespass to immediately remove any of its infrastructure in trespass or cease the uses or associated activities and may pursue any additional legal remedy, penalty, or fees available.
(c) The NPS may continue to enforce the terms and conditions of an expired right-of-way permit, including collection of cost recovery and use and occupancy fees. An entity with an expired right-of-way permit has no authorization for continued use of lands and waters, and operation and maintenance, and those uses and associated infrastructure are considered a trespass.
(d) The NPS may require an entity to apply for a permit to authorize maintenance activities on infrastructure considered in trespass. Any permit issued for maintenance will not authorize the
presence of the infrastructure. A maintenance permit will be considered only for activities that are required to maintain the safety of the infrastructure, and to protect public health and safety, visitor experience, or the resources and values of the park area.
§ 14.17
Penalties.
Violation of any section of this part, including any term and condition of a right-of-way permit, may result in fine or imprisonment, or both, in accordance with 36 CFR 1.3.
§ 14.18
Restoration and reclamation.
(a) After expiration or termination of the right-of-way permit, the permittee must restore or reclaim the permitted area to standards directed and approved by the NPS.
(b) If restoration or reclamation is not completed within a reasonable time or in accordance with a schedule established in a special use permit for the restoration and reclamation activities, the permittee will be liable to the NPS for all costs of restoring and reclaiming the permitted area undertaken by the NPS, or its contractor, to the satisfaction of the NPS. This obligation will survive the termination or expiration of a right-of-way permit.
§ 14.19
Severability.
If a court holds any provisions of the regulations in this part or their applicability to any person or circumstances invalid, the remainder of these rules and their applicability to other people or circumstances will not be affected.
Pt. 17

# PART 17—CONVEYANCE OF FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD INTERESTS ON LANDS OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
Sec.
17.1
Authority.
17.2
Definitions.
17.3
Lands subject to disposition.
17.4
Notice.
17.5
Bids.
17.6
Action at close of bidding.
17.7
Preference rights.
17.8
Conveyance.

# Authority:
Sec. 5(a), of the Act of July 15, 1968, 82 Stat. 354, 16 U.S.C. 460l-22(a).

# Source:
42 FR 46302, Sept. 15, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.1
Authority.
Section 5(a) of the Act of July 15, 1968, 82 Stat. 354, 16 U.S.C. 4601-22(a), authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, under specified conditions, to convey a leasehold or freehold interest on federally owned real property acquired by the Secretary from non-Federal sources within any unit of the National Park System except national parks and those national monuments of scientific significance. This legislation is referred to as “the act” in regulations in this part.
§ 17.2
Definitions.
As used in the regulations in this part:
(a)
Authorized officer
shall mean an officer or employee of the National Park Service designated to conduct the sale or lease and delegated authority to execute all necessary documents, including deeds and leases.
(b) The term
unit
of the National Park System means any area of land or water administered by the Secretary of the Interior through the National Park Service for park, monument, historic, parkway, recreational, or other purposes.
(c) The term
national park
means any unit of the National Park System the organic act of which declares it to be a “national park.”
(d) The term
national monument of scientific significance
means a unit of the National Park System designated as a national monument by statute or proclamation for the purpose of preserving landmarks, structures, or objects of scientific interest.
(e) The term
person
includes but is not necessarily limited to an individual partnership, corporation, or association.
(f) The term
freehold interest
means an estate in real property of permanent or of indefinite duration.
(g) The term
leasehold interest
means an estate in real property for a fixed term of years or an estate from month-to-month or from year-to-year.
(h) The term
fair market value
means the appraised value as set forth in an
approved appraisal made for the Secretary for the interest to be sold or leased.
[42 FR 46302, Sept. 15, 1977, as amended at 62 FR 30234, June 3, 1997]
§ 17.3
Lands subject to disposition.
The Act is applicable to any Federally owned real property acquired by the Secretary from non-Federal sources within any unit of the National Park System other than national parks and those national monuments of scientific significance. No leasehold or freehold conveyance shall be made except as to lands which the General Management Plan for the particular unit of the National Park System has designated as a Special Use Zone for the uses that are permitted by the freehold or leasehold conveyance. No leasehold or freehold conveyance shall be made unless the lands have been surveyed for natural, historical, and cultural values and a determination made by the Secretary that such leasehold or freehold conveyance will not be inconsistent with any natural, historical, or cultural values found on the land. Any conveyances affecting properties listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places must be reviewed by the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. Procedures for obtaining the Council's comments appear at 36 CFR part 800, “Procedures for the Protection of Historic and Cultural Resources.”
[42 FR 46302, Sept. 15, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 3360, Jan. 25, 1978]
§ 17.4
Notice.
(a) When the Secretary has determined in accordance with these regulations that a freehold or leasehold interest will be offered, he will have a notice published in the
Federal Register
and, subsequently, once weekly for five consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the vicinity of the property. Publication of the notice shall be completed not less than 30 nor more than 120 days of the date for bid opening. The notice shall contain, at a minimum: (1) A legal description of the land by public lands subdivisions, metes-and-bounds, or other suitable method, (2) a statement of the interest to be conveyed, including restrictions to be placed on the use of the property, (3) a statement of the fair market value of the interest as determined by the Secretary below which the interest will not be conveyed, together with information as to where the Government's appraisal may be inspected, (4) information as to any preference rights of former owners to acquire the interest upon matching the highest bid, (5) an outline of bid procedure and a designation of the time and place for submitting bids, and (6) an outline of conveyance procedures, requirements, and time schedule.
(b) If the property has been in Federal ownership for less than two years, the last owner or owners of record shall be sent a notice by certified mail to their present or last known address providing the information in the published notice and advising them of their right under section 5(a) of the act to acquire the interest upon payment or agreement to pay an amount equal to the highest bid price.
§ 17.5
Bids.
Bids may be made by the principal or his agent, either personally or by mail. Bids will be considered only if received at the place and prior to the hour fixed in the notice. No particular form is specified for bids. However, a bid must be in writing, clearly identify the bidder, be signed by the bidder or his designated agent, state the amount of the bid, and refer to the notice. Bids conditioned in ways not provided for by the notice will not be considered. Bids must be accompanied by certified checks, post office money orders, bank drafts, or cashier's checks made payable to the United States of America for 2 percent of the amount of the fair market value or $2,500, whichever is greater, in the case of a freehold interest or for the amount of the first year's rent in the case of a leasehold interest. This payment will be refunded to unsuccessful bidders. A separate nonrefundable payment of $100 to cover costs of publication and of processing of bids will also be included with the bid. The bid and payments must be enclosed in a sealed envelope upon which the prospective bidder shall write: (a) Bid on interest in land of the National
Park System, and (b) the scheduled date the bids are to be opened. In the event two or more valid bids are received in the same amount, the determination of which is the highest will be by drawing. Bids will be opened at the time and place specified in the notice. Bidders, their agents or representatives, and any other persons may attend the bid opening. No bid in an amount less than the fair market value, as herein defined, shall be considered.
[42 FR 46302, Sept. 15, 1977, as amended at 61 FR 28508, June 5, 1996]
§ 17.6
Action at close of bidding.
The person who is declared by the authorized officer to be the high bidder shall be bound by his bid and the regulations in this part to complete the purchase in accordance therewith unless his bid is rejected or he is released therefrom by the authorized officer. The declared high bid on property for which a preference right exists will be conditionally accepted subject to the exercise of the preference as described below. In the case of a freehold interest, the high bidder must submit the balance of the bid within 45 days of the bid award in the form of a certified check, post office money order, bank draft, or cashier's check, made payable to the United States of America. Failure to submit the full balance within 45 days will result in the forfeiture of $1,000 of bid deposit, unless the bidder has been released from the bid or an extension has been granted by the authorized officer, and the property will be awarded to the next highest bidder upon fulfillment of the requirements of this section.
[42 FR 46302, Sept. 15, 1977, as amended at 61 FR 28508, June 5, 1996]
§ 17.7
Preference rights.
On any property which has been in Federal ownership less than two years, the Secretary, in addition to the notice specified in § 17.4, shall inform the last owner or owners of record by certified mail at their present or last known address of the highest bid on the interest and advise them of their right to acquire the interest for an amount equal to the highest bid if within 30 days they notify the Secretary of their desire to do so and make payment or agree to make payment of an amount equal to that specified in § 17.5.
If within 30 days of mailing of such notification, the former owner or owners do not indicate a desire to acquire the interest and make payment or agree to make payment for such interest in an amount equal to the declared high bid, or, if they do indicate such a desire but fail to consummate the transaction within the time period established for the conveyance, then the bid of the declared high bidder will be accepted. In the event that a former owner who indicates a desire to repurchase pursuant to this procedure fails to consummate the transaction within the established time period the declared high bidder shall be permitted, but not required, to consummate the transaction. If the declared high bidder does not choose to consummate the transaction in this circumstance, the entire transaction will be cancelled, and, if appropriate, a new bidding procedure instituted.
§ 17.8
Conveyance.
Conveyance of a leasehold or freehold interest shall be by lease or deed, as appropriate, at the highest bid price, but not less than fair market value. All conveyance of leasehold or freehold interests shall contain such terms and conditions as the Secretary deems necessary to assure use of the property in a manner consistent with the purpose for which the area was authorized by Congress. The conveyancing or leasing document shall contain such provisions and restrictions as may be determined by the Secretary to be necessary to protect the natural, historic, cultural or other values present on the lands. All conveyances shall be without warranty.
Pt. 18

# PART 18—LEASING OF PROPERTIES IN PARK AREAS
Sec.
18.1
What is the authority and purpose for this part?
18.2
What definitions do you need to know to understand this part?
18.3
What property may be leased?
18.4
What determinations must the Director make before leasing property?
18.5
May property be leased without receiving fair market value rent?
18.6
Are there limitations on the use of property leased under this part?
18.7
How are lease proposals solicited and selected if the Director issues a Request for Bids?
18.8
How are lease proposals solicited and selected if the Director issues a Request for Proposals?
18.9
When may the Director lease property without issuing a request for bids or a request for proposals?
18.10
How long can the term of a lease be?
18.11
What general provisions must a lease contain?
18.12
What specific provisions must a lease contain?

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
particularly 16 U.S.C. 1a-2(k), and, 16 U.S.C. 470h-3.

# Source:
66 FR 66759, Dec. 27, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 18.1
What is the authority and purpose for this part?
16 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
particularly 16 U.S.C. 1a-2(k), and, 16 U.S.C. 470h-3 are the authorities for this part. These authorities allow the Director (or delegated officials) to lease certain federally owned or administered property located within the boundaries of park areas. All leases to be entered into by the Director under these authorities are subject to the requirements of this part, except that, proposed leases that were solicited pursuant to this part prior to January 28, 2002, may be executed in accordance with the terms of the solicitation.
§ 18.2
What definitions do you need to know to understand this part?
In addition to the definitions contained in 36 CFR Part 1, the following definitions apply to this part:
(a)
Associated property
means land and/or structures (e.g., parking lots, retaining walls, walkways, infrastructure facilities, farm fields) related to a building or buildings and their functional use and occupancy.
(b)
Building
means an enclosed structure located within the boundaries of a park area and constructed with walls and a roof to serve a residential, industrial, commercial, agricultural or other human use.
(c)
Commercial use authorization
means a written authorization to provide services to park area visitors issued by the Director pursuant to Section 418 of Public Law 105-391 and implementing regulations.
(d)
Concession contract
has the meaning stated in 36 CFR part 51.
(e)
Fair market value rent
means the most probable rent, as of a specific date, in cash or in terms equivalent to cash, for which the property to be leased, under the terms and conditions of the lease, should rent for its highest and best permitted use after reasonable exposure in a competitive market under all conditions requisite to a fair leasing opportunity, with the lessor and the lessee each acting prudently, knowledgeably, and for self-interest, and assuming that neither is under undue duress. Determinations of fair market value rent under this part are to be made taking into account the considerations stated in § 18.5.
(f)
Historic building
means a building or buildings located within the boundaries of a park area if the building is part of a pre-historic or historic district or site included on, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places.
(g)
Historic land
means land located within the boundaries of an historic property.
(h)
Historic property
means building(s) and land located within the boundaries of a park area if the building(s) and land are part of a pre-historic or historic district or site included on, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places.
(i)
Land
means unimproved real property.
(j)
Lease
means a written contract entered into under the authority of this part through which use and possession of property is granted to a person for a specified period of time.
(k)
Non-historic building
is a building (or buildings) and its associated property located within the boundaries of a park area but not part of a pre-historic or historic district or site included on, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places.
(l)
Non-historic land
means land located within the boundaries of a park area that is not associated property
and is not part of a pre-historic or historic district or site included on, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places.
(m)
Non-historic property
means building(s) and/or land that are located within the boundaries of a park area but are not part of a pre-historic or historic district or site included on, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places.
(n)
Park area
means a unit of the national park system.
(o)
Property
means both historic and non-historic property that is located within the boundaries of a park area and is federally owned or administered.
(p)
Request
for bids refers to the lease bid process described in § 18.7.
(q)
Request for proposals
refers to the lease proposal process described in § 18.8.
(r)
Responsive bid or proposal
means a timely submitted bid or proposal that meets the material requirements of a request for bids or a request for proposals.
§ 18.3
What property may be leased?
(a)
In general.
The Director may lease any property (except non-historic land) under this part if the Director makes the determinations required by § 18.4.
(b)
Non-historic land.
Non-historic land may not be leased under this part. Certain non-historic land is eligible for leasing under 36 CFR part 17.
§ 18.4
What determinations must the Director make before leasing property?
Before leasing property in a park area under this part, the Director must determine that:
(a) The lease will not result in degradation of the purposes and values of the park area;
(b) The lease will not deprive the park area of property necessary for appropriate park protection, interpretation, visitor enjoyment, or administration of the park area;
(c) The lease contains such terms and conditions as will assure the leased property will be used for activity and in a manner that are consistent with the purposes established by law for the park area in which the property is located;
(d) The lease is compatible with the programs of the National Park Service;
(e) The lease is for rent at least equal to the fair market value rent of the leased property as described in § 18.5;
(f) The proposed activities under the lease are not subject to authorization through a concession contract, commercial use authorization or similar instrument; and
(g) If the lease is to include historic property, the lease will adequately insure the preservation of the historic property.
§ 18.5
May property be leased without receiving fair market value rent?
Property may be leased under this part only if the lease requires payment of rent to the government equal to or higher than the property's fair market value rent. The determination of fair market value rent shall take into account:
(a) Any restrictions on the use of the property or terms of the lease that limit the value and/or the highest and best use of the property; and
(b) Any requirements under the lease for the lessee to restore, rehabilitate or otherwise improve the leased property.
§ 18.6
Are there limitations on the use of property leased under this part?
(a) A lease issued under this part may authorize the use of the leased property for any lawful purpose, subject to the determinations required by § 18.4 and the limitations on activities set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Unless otherwise authorized by law, a lease issued under this part may not authorize the lessee to engage in activities that are subject to authorization through a concession contract, commercial use authorization or similar instrument. Proposed lease activities are subject to authorization under a concession contract if the Director determines in accordance with 36 CFR part 51 and park area planning documents and related guidelines and policies that the proposed activities meet applicable requirements for issuance of a concession contract. Proposed activities are subject to authorization under a commercial use authorization if the Director determines in accordance with
park area planning documents and related guidelines and policies that the proposed activities meet applicable requirements for issuance of a commercial use authorization.
§ 18.7
How are lease proposals solicited and selected if the Director issues a Request for Bids?
(a) If the amount of the rent is the only criterion for award of a lease, the Director may solicit bids through issuance of a request for bids as described in this section. If historic property is to be leased under the authority of this section, the Director must comply with 36 CFR part 800 (commenting procedures of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation) at an appropriate time during the leasing process.
(b) A request for bids under this section shall be advertised by public notice published at least twice in local and/or national newspapers of general circulation. The notice shall provide at least a thirty (30) day period from the last date of publication for the submission of sealed bids. The notice will provide necessary information to prospective bidders. It may specify a minimum rent and/or require submission of a rent deposit or advance rent payment. Bids will be considered only if timely received at the place designated in the request. Bids must be in the form specified by the Director, or, if no form is specified, a bid must be in writing, signed by the bidder or authorized representative, state the amount of the bid, and refer to the applicable public notice. If the notice requires submission of a rent deposit or advance rent payment, the bids must include the required funds in the form of a certified check, post office money order, bank drafts, or cashier's checks made out to the United States of America. The bid (and payment where applicable) must be enclosed in a sealed envelope upon which the bidder shall write: “Bid on lease of property of the National Park Service” and shall note the date the bids are to be opened.
(c) Bids will be opened publicly by the Director at a time and place specified in the public notice. Bidders or their representatives may attend the bid opening. The bidder submitting a responsive bid offering the highest rent will be selected for award of the lease (subject to a determination of financial capability by the Director). A responsive bid is a bid that meets the material terms and conditions of the request for bids. The Director shall accept no bid in an amount less than the fair market rental value as determined by the Director. If two or more bids are equal, a drawing shall make the lease award by lot limited to the equal responsive bids received.
(d) When a property is to be leased through a request for bids, the bidder that is declared by the Director to be the high bidder shall be bound by his bid and this part to execute the offered lease, unless the bid is rejected. If the declared high bidder fails to enter into the lease for any reason, the Director may choose to enter into the lease with the next highest bidder (if that bidder offered to pay at least the fair market rent value). The Director may reject any and all bids in his discretion and resolicit or cancel a lease solicitation under this part at any time without liability to any person.
§ 18.8
How are lease proposals solicited and selected if the Director issues a Request for Proposals?
(a) When the award of a lease is to be based on selection criteria in addition to or other than the amount of the rent, the Director must, subject to § 18.9, solicit proposals for the lease through issuance of a public Request for Proposals (RFP).
(b) An RFP may be preceded by issuance of a public Request for Qualifications (RFQ). The purpose of an RFQ is to select a “short list” of potential offerors that meet minimum management, financial and other qualifications necessary for submission of a proposal in response to an RFP. If the Director issues an RFQ, only persons determined as qualified by the Director under the terms of the RFQ shall be eligible to submit a proposal under the related RFP.
(c) The Director must provide public notice of the leasing opportunity by publication at least twice in local and/or national newspapers of general circulation and/or through publication in the Commerce Business Daily. The
public notice shall contain general information about the leasing opportunity and advise interested persons how to obtain a copy of the RFP (or RFQ where applicable). The RFP (and RFQ where applicable) shall contain appropriate information about the property proposed for lease, including limitations on the uses of the property to be leased, information concerning the leasing process, information and materials that must be contained in a proposal, the time and place for submission of proposals, terms and conditions of the lease, and the criteria under which the Director will evaluate proposals. The RFP may state the fair market value rent as the minimum acceptable rent if determined by the Director at that time. The RFP (and RFQ where applicable) must allow at least sixty (60) days for submission of proposals (or qualifications under an RFQ) unless a shorter period of time is determined to be sufficient in the circumstances of a particular solicitation.
(d) The Director may determine that a proposal is non-responsive and not consider it further. A non-responsive proposal is a proposal that was not timely submitted or fails to meet the material terms and conditions of the RFP. After the submission of offers and prior to the selection of the best overall proposal, the Director may request from any offeror additional information or written clarification of a proposal, provided that proposals may not be amended after the submission date unless all offerors that submitted responsive proposals are given an opportunity to amend their proposals. The Director may choose to reject all proposals received at any time and resolicit or cancel a solicitation under this part without liability to any person.
(e) (1) The criteria to be used in selection of the best proposal are:
(i) The compatibility of the proposal's intended use of the leased property with respect to preservation, protection, and visitor enjoyment of the park;
(ii) The financial capability of the offeror to carry out the terms of the lease;
(iii) The experience of the offeror demonstrating the managerial capability to carry out the terms of the lease;
(iv) The ability and commitment of the offeror to conduct its activities in the park area in an environmentally enhancing manner through, among other programs and actions, energy conservation, waste reduction, and recycling; and
(v) Any other criteria the RFP may specify.
(2) If the property to be leased is an historic property, the compatibility of the proposal with the historic qualities of the property shall be an additional selection criterion. If the RFP requires proposals to include the amount of rent offered, the amount of rent offered also shall be an additional selection criterion.
(f) The Director will evaluate all responsive proposals received. The responsive proposal determined by the Director to best meet on an overall basis the evaluation criteria will be selected for negotiation of the lease. If two or more responsive proposals are determined by the Director to be substantially equal under the evaluation criteria, the Director shall provide an opportunity for those proposals to be amended by their offerors as necessary for the Director to select the best amended proposal. In such circumstances, the Director will provide each offeror that submitted a substantially equal proposal appropriate information as to how their proposals may be amended in order to enhance the possibility of selection as the best amended proposal. If two or more proposals remain as substantially equal after amendment, the Director will select for negotiation of the lease from among these proposals the proposal that the Director determines on an overall basis will be most beneficial to effective management of the park area.
(g) The Director will provide the offeror that submitted the best overall responsive proposal as determined by the Director a specified period of time to negotiate the final terms of the lease (and may enter into a letter of intent to negotiate in this connection). The final terms of the lease must be consistent with the requirements of the RFP. If the negotiations do not result in an executed lease within the
specified time period, the Director, in his discretion, may extend the negotiation period, terminate negotiations and negotiate with the offeror that submitted the next best responsive proposal, or, cancel the solicitation.
(h) RFPs may state that the amount of rent to be paid will be negotiated subsequently with the offeror that submitted the best proposal, initially or as amended. The Director may execute a lease only if the Director determines that it requires the lessee to pay at least the fair market value rent of the leased property.
(i) The Director may execute a lease that includes historic property only after complying with 36 CFR part 800 (commenting procedures of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation).
§ 18.9
When may the Director lease property without issuing a request for bids or a request for proposals?
The Director, except as provided in this section, may not lease property without issuing a request for bids or a request for proposals in compliance with § 18.7 or § 18.8. The Director under this part may enter into leases with non-profit organizations (recognized as such by the Internal Revenue Service) or units of government without complying with §§ 18.7 or 18.8 if the Director determines that the non-profit or governmental use of the property will contribute to the purposes and programs of the park area. All other requirements of this part are applicable to leases entered into or to be entered into under authority of this section. The Director may enter into leases under this part with a term of sixty (60) days or less without complying with §§ 18.7 or 18.8 if the Director determines that to do so is in the best interests of the administration of the park area. If historic land is to be leased under the authority of this section, the Director must comply with 36 CFR part 800 (commenting procedures of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation) before entering into the lease.
§ 18.10
How long can the term of a lease be?
All leases entered into under this part shall have as short a term as possible, taking into account the financial obligations of the lessee and other factors related to determining an appropriate lease term. No lease shall have a term of more than 60 years. Leases entered under the authority of this part may not be extended, except that, leases with an initial term of one (1) year or more may be extended once for a period not to exceed one (1) additional year if the Director determines that an extension is necessary because of circumstances beyond the Director's control.
§ 18.11
What general provisions must a lease contain?
All leases entered into under this part must contain terms and conditions that are determined necessary by the Director to assure use of the leased property in a manner consistent with the purposes of the applicable park area as established by law, and where applicable, to assure the preservation of historic property.
§ 18.12
What specific provisions must a lease contain?
All leases entered into under this part must contain:
(a) A termination for cause or default provision;
(b) Appropriate provisions requiring the lessee to maintain the leased property in good condition throughout the term of the lease;
(c) Appropriate provisions stating that subletting of a portion of the leased property and assignment of a lease, if permissible under the terms of the lease, must be subject to the Director's written approval. Such subleases and assignments shall be approved only of the Director determines, among other relevant matters, that the proposed sub-lessee or assignee is financially and managerially capable of carrying out the terms of the lease. Assignment of a lease for the purpose of effectuating an encumbrance to the lease or the leased property is subject to approval pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (l) of this section;
(d) Appropriate provisions requiring the lessee to secure and maintain from responsible companies liability insurance sufficient to cover losses connected with or occasioned by the use and activities authorized by the lease.
Types and amounts of insurance coverage will be specified in writing and periodically reviewed by the Director;
(e) Appropriate provisions, unless the Director determines otherwise in the circumstances of a particular lease, requiring the lessee to obtain from responsible companies casualty insurance (including flood insurance if applicable) in an amount sufficient to protect the interests of the lessee and the government. In the event of casualty, the lessee shall be required to repair or replace damaged or destroyed property unless otherwise determined by the Director;
(f) Appropriate provisions requiring the lessee to save, hold harmless, and indemnify the United States of America and its agents and employees for all losses, damages, or judgments and expenses resulting from personal injury, death or property damage of any nature arising out of the lessee's activities under the lease, and/or the activities of the lessee's employees, subcontractors, sub-lessees, or agents. No lease entered into this part may contain provisions intended to provide indemnification or other assurances to the lessee regarding the conduct or activities of the Director concerning the lease or the administration of the applicable park area. Leases may contain appropriate provisions that commit the Director to accept responsibility for tortious actions of government officials to the extent authorized by the Federal Torts Claim Act or as otherwise expressly authorized by law;
(g) Appropriate provisions requiring the lessee to pay for use of all utilities used by the lessee and to pay all taxes and assessments imposed by federal, state, or local agencies applicable to the leased property or to lessee activities;
(h) Appropriate provisions stating that the lessee has no rights of renewal of the lease or to the award of a new lease upon lease termination or expiration and that the lease is subject to cancellation by the Director in the exercise of the sovereign authority of the United States to the extent provided by applicable law;
(i) Appropriate provisions stating that the lessee may not construct new buildings or structures on leased property, provided that, a lease may contain appropriate provisions that authorize the lessee to construct, subject to the prior written approval of the Director, minor additions, buildings and/or structures determined by the Director to be necessary for support of the authorized activities of the lessee and otherwise to be consistent with the protection and purposes of the park area. Approval by the Director of new construction may only be granted if the Director makes the determinations required by § 18.4;
(j) Appropriate provisions requiring that:
(1) Any improvements to or demolition of leased property to be made by the lessee may be undertaken only with written approval from the Director;
(2) That any improvements to or demolition of historic property may only be approved if the Director determines that the improvements or demolition complies with the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties (36 CFR part 68); and
(3) Any improvements made by a lessee shall be the property of the United States;
(k) Appropriate provisions that describe and limit the type of activities that may be conducted by the lessee on the leased property. The types of activities described in a lease may be modified from time to time with the approval of the Director through an amendment to the lease. The Director may approve modified activities only if the determinations required by § 18.4 remain valid under the proposed modified activities and the proposed activities are otherwise determined appropriate by the Director;
(l) Appropriate provisions, unless the Director determines not to permit pledges or encumbrances in the circumstances of a particular lease, authorizing the lessee to pledge or encumber the lease as security, provided that any pledge or encumbrance of the lease and the proposed holder of the pledge or encumbrance must be approved in writing in advance by the Director and that a pledge or encumbrance may only grant the holder the right, in the event of a foreclosure, to
assume the responsibilities of the lessee under the lease or to select a new lessee subject to the approval of the Director. Pledges or encumbrances may not grant the holder the right to alter or amend in any manner the terms of the lease;
(m) Appropriate provisions stating that fulfillment of any obligations of the government under the lease is subject to the availability of appropriated funds. No lease issued under authority of this part shall entitle the lessee to claim benefits under the Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1970 (Public Law 91-646) and all leases entered into under the authority of this part shall require the lessee to waive any such benefits; and
(n) Appropriate provisions granting the Director and the Comptroller General access to the records of the lessee as necessary for lease administration purposes and/or as provided by applicable law.
Pt. 20

# PART 20—ISLE ROYALE NATIONAL PARK; COMMERCIAL FISHING
Sec.
20.1
Definitions.
20.2
Permits; conditions.
20.3
Maximum number of permittees.
20.4
Revocation of permits; appeal.

# Authority:
Secs. 1-3, 39 Stat. 535, as amended, sec. 3, 56 Stat. 133, secs. 1, 2, 67 Stat. 495, 496; 16 U.S.C. 1, 1b, 1c, 2, 3, 408k.

# Source:
24 FR 11055, Dec. 30, 1959, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Park
means Isle Royale National Park.
(b)
Permittee
includes all persons engaged in commercial fishing from bases in the Park, except those life lessees who were engaged in such occupation at the date of the issuance of their leases.
[24 FR 11055, Dec. 30, 1959, as amended at 60 FR 55791, Nov. 3, 1995; 62 FR 30235, June 3, 1997]
§ 20.2
Permits; conditions.
Annual, revocable special use permits authorizing the use of Government-owned structures and facilities in the Park as bases for commercial fishing in the waters contiguous to the Park may be granted by the Director of the National Park Service, or the Regional Director if authorized by the Director, to bona fide commercial fishermen, where such structures and facilities were used for this purpose during the period from April 1, 1937, to December 31, 1939, inclusive, subject to the following conditions.
(a) Permittees will be required to pay an annual fee as set forth in part 6 of this chapter.
(b) Permittees shall personally reside at their Park bases during the fishing season.
(c) Permittees shall secure and possess at all times such commercial fishing license as may be required by the State of Michigan.
(d) Permittees shall comply with all Michigan laws, and related regulations prescribed by the Michigan Department of Conservation, governing commercial fishing in the waters contiguous to the Park.
(e) Permittees shall use the bases covered by the permit for commercial fishing only. No permittee shall furnish boat or guide service to the public unless expressly authorized to do so by the Secretary or the Director.
(f) Permittees shall maintain at their own expense, in accordance with reasonable standards of repair, safety, and sanitation, all Government-owned structures and facilities embraced in the permits.
(g) The size, type and location of nets and gear and the number of men engaged in the operation of the fishing base of the permittee shall be prescribed in the permit. Only nets and gear approved by the Michigan Department of Conservation shall be used.
§ 20.3
Maximum number of permittees.
Commercial fishermen to whom the annual revocable permits may be granted shall not exceed the maximum number of persons conducting commercial fishing operations from bases in the area comprising the Park at any one time during the period from April 1, 1937 to December 31, 1939, inclusive.
§ 20.4
Revocation of permits; appeal.
The Director of the National Park Service may, by notification in writing, revoke the permit of any permittee found by him to have violated any Federal statute or the provisions of these or any other regulations of the Secretary, relating to the Park. A permittee, however, shall have the right to appeal to the Director, Office of Hearings and Appeals, from a decision of the Director of the National Park Service revoking his permit. Any such appeal shall comply with the general rules set forth in Department Hearings and Appeals Procedures, 43 CFR part 4, subpart B, and the special procedural rules in subpart G of 43 CFR part 4, applicable to proceedings in appeals cases which do not lie within the appellate jurisdiction of an established Appeals Board of the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
[36 FR 7184, Apr. 15, 1971]
Pt. 21

# PART 21—HOT SPRINGS NATIONAL PARK; BATHHOUSE REGULATIONS
Sec.
21.1
Definitions.
21.2
Penalties.
21.3
Use of thermal water.
21.4
Registration of physicians.
21.5
Therapeutic bathing requirements.
21.6
Use of therapeutic pools.
21.7
Health examinations.
21.8
Employee certification.
21.9
Solicitation by employees.
21.10
Losses.
21.11
Redemption of bath tickets.
21.12
Loss of bath tickets.

# Authority:
Sec. 3, Act of August 25, 1916, 39 Stat. 535, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3); sec. 3, Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 842, as amended (16 U.S.C. 363).

# Source:
44 FR 2577, Jan. 12, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.1
Definitions.
When used in the regulations in this part:
(a) The term
physician
means doctor of medicine or osteopathy who is licensed to practice by a State or territory of the United States.
(b) The term
registered physician
means a physician registered at the office of the Superintendent as authorized to prescribe the waters of Hot Springs National Park.
(c) The term
employee
means any person licensed or certified by a State or territory of the United States in his or her specialty, or who is certified by the Superintendent to perform or render special services in a bathhouse.
(d) The term
bathhouse
means any facility which is operated by an individual, trustee, partnership, corporation, or business entity and which receives thermal water from Hot Springs National Park.
[44 FR 2577, Jan. 12, 1979, as amended at 62 FR 30235, June 3, 1997]
§ 21.2
Penalties.
Any person convicted of violating any provision of the regulations contained in this part, or as the same may be amended or supplemented, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100 and shall be adjudged to pay all costs of the proceedings.
§ 21.3
Use of thermal water.
(a) The use of the thermal waters of Hot Springs National Park, for purposes other than those authorized by the Superintendent, is prohibited.
(b) The heating, reheating, or otherwise increasing the temperature of the thermal waters of Hot Springs National Park is prohibited.
(c) The introduction of any substance, chemical, or other material or solution into the thermal waters of Hot Springs National Park, except as may be prescribed by a physician for a bather or as may be directed by the Superintendent, is prohibited.
§ 21.4
Registration of physicians.
Physicians desiring to prescribe the thermal waters of Hot Springs National Park must first be registered at the office of the Superintendent. Any physician may make application for registration to the Superintendent. To maintain registered status, reapplication is required triannually.
§ 21.5
Therapeutic bathing requirements.
Baths shall be administered to persons having a prescription from a registered physician with prescription instructions therein. Baths shall be administered to person who do not have prescriptions from registered physicians only if the bath is administered in accordance with the bath directions prescribed by the Superintendent, the violation of which is not subject to the penalty provisions of § 21.2.
§ 21.6
Use of therapeutic pools.
Persons undergoing medical treatment may use the therapeutic pools only upon presenting a prescription describing the treatment from a registered physician. Persons with acute or infectious diseases or discharges of the body, or who lack complete control of their bodily functions, are prohibited from using the therapeutic pools.
§ 21.7
Health examinations.
No employee who comes in direct personal contact with bathers or pool users will be permitted to enter duty without first undergoing a health examination, or remain in such employment without undergoing periodic health examinations, as required by the Superintendent, and being found free from any infectious or communicable disease.

# Cross Reference:
For a list of communicable diseases included in the regulations of the United States Public Health Service, see 21 CFR 1240.54.
§ 21.8
Employee certification.
(a) Employees engaged as physical therapists must be licensed or certified by a State or territory of the United States to practice
(b) Employees engaged as physical therapy aids or physical therapy technicians will be certified by the Superintendent upon completion of an ­examination.
(c) Employees engaged as masseurs or masseuses must be licensed or certified by a State or territory of the United States, or be certified by the Superintendent upon the completion of an examination.
(d) Employees engaged as bath attendants will be certified by the Superintendent upon completion of an apprenticeship and an examination.
§ 21.9
Solicitation by employees.
Soliciting by employees for any purpose, including soliciting for gratuities, commonly called “tips,” is prohibited in all bathhouses.
§ 21.10
Losses.
A bathhouse receiving deposits of jewelry, money, or other valuables from patrons shall provide means for the safekeeping thereof, satisfactory to the Superintendent. It is understood, however, that the Government assumes no responsibility for such valuables kept on the premises. All losses must be reported promptly to the Superintendent by the bathhouse ­manager.
§ 21.11
Redemption of bath tickets.
Unused tickets may be redeemed by the purchaser within one year from the date of purchase, according to the redemption scale approved by the Superintendent.
§ 21.12
Lost bath tickets.
A patron who loses his ticket may continue to receive service, without additional charge, for the number of units remaining in the ticket. Records of lost tickets, and of service given thereunder, shall be maintained as required by the Superintendent. Lost tickets shall have no redemption value.
Pt. 25

# PART 25—NATIONAL MILITARY PARKS; LICENSED GUIDE SERVICE REGULATIONS
Sec.
25.1
Scope.
25.2
License.
25.3
Supervision; suspensions.
25.4
Schedule of rates.
25.5
Badges and uniforms.

# Authority:
Secs. 1-3, 39 Stat. 535, as amended, sec. 1, 47 Stat. 1420, secs. 1, 2, 67 Stat. 495, 496; 16 U.S.C. 1, 1b, 1c, 2, 3, 9a E.O. 6166, June 10, 1933.

# Source:
24 FR 11060, Dec. 30, 1959, unless otherwise noted.
§ 25.1
Scope.
The regulations in this part are made prescribed and published for the regulation and maintenance of licensed guide service at all national military parks where such service has been established or hereafter may be authorized in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior upon the recommendation of the Director of the National Park Service.
§ 25.2
License.
(a) No person shall be permitted to offer his services or to act as a guide unless licensed for that purpose by the superintendent. Any person desiring to become a licensed guide shall make application to the superintendent in writing for authority to take the examination for a license as guide.
(b) Guides shall be of good character, in good physical condition, honest, intelligent, tactful, and of good repute. They must be thoroughly familiar with the history of the events which the park commemorates and with the location of all memorials. It is their duty to escort visitors to the various parts of the park and point out different historical features. The story of the guides shall be limited to the historical outlines approved by the superintendent and shall be free from praise or censure.
(c) Examinations will be held at parks where a licensed guide service is authorized, at times to be designated by the Director of the National Park Service, for the purpose of securing a list of eligibles for such service. The examination will consist of an investigation of the character, reputation, intelligence, and ability of the applicants, and of questions designed to test their knowledge of the history of the battle, or features of historical interest, the markings of the park, the rules and regulations promulgated for the government of the park, and the regulations governing the guide service. Examination questions will be prepared under the direction of the Director of the National Park Service, who will likewise supervise the marking of examination papers and the rating of applicants.
(d) The names of applicants who successfully pass the examination will be placed on a list of eligibles and selected in accordance with their relative standing.
(e) Each person licensed to act as a full-time guide will be issued a license in the following form:
________________________
(Place)
________________________
(Date)
________________________, having successfully passed the examination prescribed for license, is hereby licensed to offer his service as a guide to visitors. This license is issued subject to the condition that the licensee shall comply with all the rules and regulations prescribed for guide service by the Secretary of the Interior and with the prescribed schedule of rates, copies of all of which have been furnished to him.
This license will be renewed at the expiration of one year from the date of issue, provided the rules above-mentioned have been fully complied with and services rendered satisfactorily.
Failure to act as a guide for any period exceeding 30 days between June 1 and August 31 automatically suspends this license. Renewal under these conditions will only be made following proper application to and approval by the park superintendent. During other times of heavy visitation, and especially on week ends and holidays, any and all guides are subject to call for duty unless excused by the park superintendent or his representative.
________________________
Superintendent,
________________________
National Military Park.
(f) Each person licensed to act as a temporary or part-time guide, during periods of heavy visitation, will be issued a license in the following form:
________________________
(Place)
________________________
(Date)
________________________, having successfully passed the examination prescribed for license, is hereby licensed to offer service as a guide to visitors. This license is issued subject to the condition that the licensee shall comply with all the rules and regulations prescribed for guide service by the Secretary of the Interior, copies of which have been furnished to him.
This license shall continue in effect for a period of ________ days beginning ________ unless revoked prior to the expiration of such
period for failure to comply with the condition set out herein.
________________________
Superintendent,
________________________
National Military Park.
(g) Before being issued a license to act as a guide, each applicant will be required to subscribe to the following agreement:
________________________
(Place)
________________________
(Date)
To Superintendent, ________________ National Military Park.
For and in consideration of the issuance to me a license to act as guide, I hereby accept and agree to observe fully the following conditions:
1. To abide by and observe the laws and all rules and regulations promulgated for the government of the park and for the regulation of guide service.
2. In case of difference of opinion as to the interpretation of any law, rule, or regulation, to accept the decision of the superintendent.
3. To accord proper respect to the park rangers in their enforcement of the rules and regulations.
4. To require drivers of all vehicles, while under my conduct, to observe the park rules and regulations.
5. To be watchful to prevent damage to, or destruction of, park property or acts of vandalism affecting monuments, buildings, fences, or natural features of the park, to report any such damage, destruction, or vandalism which I may observe to the nearest available ranger without delay, and to furnish him with all information in my possession tending to identify the offenders and assist in their apprehension and punishment.
6. To demand of visitors not more than the authorized fees for guide service and, when employed, to render service to the best of my ability.
7. To advise visitors who employ me, in advance, the length of time needed for a trip and its cost and, if visitors desire a shortened tour, to arrange for such service as may suit their convenience.
8. (a) Not to operate for hire any passenger vehicle or other vehicle of any kind, while pursuing the vocation of guide or wearing a guide's badge or uniform.
(b) Not to operate a visitor's motor vehicle unless I hold a valid motor vehicle operator's license issued by the State in which the national military park is located.
(c) Not to charge an extra fee for operating a visitor's motor vehicle.
9. In the event my license should be suspended or revoked by the superintendent, to refrain from offering my services or pursuing the vocation of guide, pending appeal to and decision of the Director of the National Park Service.
10. To return the license and official badge without delay to the superintendent should my license be revoked or suspended for more than 5 days or upon abandoning the occupation of guide.
11. While wearing the badge of a guide or any uniform or part of a uniform indicating me to be a guide, I will not act as agent, solicitor, representative, or runner for any business or enterprise whatever (except in offering my services as a guide to visitors), nor solicit nor accept from any person, firm, association, or corporation any fee, commission, or gratuity for recommending their goods, wares, or services.
(Signed)
(80 Stat. 383; 5 U.S.C. 553)
[24 FR 11060, Dec. 30, 1959, as amended at 30 FR 8222, June 26, 1965]
§ 25.3
Supervision; suspensions.
(a) The guide service will operate under the direction of the superintendent or his designated representative. Records will be kept of the efficiency of the guides and of all matters pertaining to the service.
(b) Superintendents are authorized to suspend any guide for violation of the regulations or for conduct prejudicial to the interests of the Government. A full report of the facts attending each suspension will be made to the Director of the National Park Service. The license of a guide who has been suspended indefinitely will not be renewed without the approval of the Director of the National Park Service.
§ 25.4
Schedule of rates.
As the conditions of each park differ with respect to the proper charge for the service rendered to the public, the schedule of rates for observance by the licensed guides at each separate park will be submitted to the Director of the National Park Service for approval. The superintendent will prepare itineraries arranged so as best to observe the different features of the battlefield and submit them with recommendations as to schedule of rates to the Director of the National Park Service for approval.
§ 25.5
Badges and uniforms.
Licensed guides will be furnished with official badges as evidence of their authority, which shall remain the property of the Government and be returned to the superintendent upon relinquishment or revocation of the license as a guide. Where conditions warrant it and its purchase would not prove a hardship on the guides, they may be required to adopt a standard uniform, to be procured at their own expense.
Pt. 27

# PART 27—CAPE COD NATIONAL SEASHORE; ZONING STANDARDS
Sec.
27.1
General objectives.
27.2
Commercial and industrial activities.
27.3
Seashore District.
27.4
Variances and exceptions.

# Authority:
Secs. 1, 5, 75 Stat. 284, 290; 16 U.S.C. 459b, 459b-4.

# Source:
27 FR 6714, July 14, 1962, unless otherwise noted.
§ 27.1
General objectives.
(a) Consistent with the objectives set out in section 5 of the Act of August 7, 1961 (75 Stat. 284), development and management of the Cape Cod National Seashore will be conducted in a manner which will assure the widest possible public use, understanding and enjoyment of its natural, cultural and scientific features. The regulations in this part are designed and promulgated to establish minimum standards which local zoning bylaws must meet in furtherance of those purposes.
(b) The standards hereby established for approval of zoning bylaws or amendments of zoning bylaws—are intended: (1) To contribute to the effect of prohibiting the commercial and industrial use, other than existing commercial or industrial use not inconsistent with the purposes of the Act of August 7, 1961 (75 Stat. 284, 291), of all property within the boundaries of the Cape Cod National Seashore and situated in the towns of Provincetown, Truro, Wellfleet, Eastham, Orleans and Chatham; and (2) to promote preservation and development, in accordance with the purposes of the said Act, of the area comprising the seashore, by means of acreage, frontage and setback requirements and other provisions which may be required to be included in zoning bylaws consistent with the laws of Massachusetts. Zoning bylaws or amendments of zoning bylaws applicable to the area within Cape Cod National Seashore, in order that they may be approved, shall conform to the standards herein set forth relating to preservation and development of the seashore in accordance with the purposes of the said Act. The Secretary shall be given notice of any amendments to approved zoning bylaws that affect the Seashore District. Nothing in these standards or in the zoning bylaws adopted pursuant thereto for the area within Cape Cod National Seashore shall preclude the Secretary of the Interior from fulfilling the responsibilities vested in him by the Act of August 7, 1961, or by the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535), as amended and supplemented.
(c) Wherever the term “improved property” is used in this part it shall mean a detached, one-family dwelling, the land on which it is situated, and accessory structures, and as further defined in section 4(d) of the Act of August 7, 1961 (75 Stat. 284).
§ 27.2
Commercial and industrial activities.
No commercial or industrial districts may be established within the Cape Cod National Seashore.
§ 27.3
Seashore District.
(a)
Description.
The Seashore District shall include all those portions of the towns of Provincetown, Truro, Wellfleet, Eastham, Orleans and Chatham lying within the exterior boundaries of the Cape Cod National Seashore.
(b) Zoning bylaws for the Seashore District shall be consistent with the objectives and purposes of the Act of August 7, 1961, so that—to the extent possible under Massachusetts law—the scenic, scientific and cultural values of the area will be protected, undeveloped areas will be preserved in a natural condition, and the distinctive Cape Cod character of existing residential structures will be maintained.
(c)(1) No moving, alteration, or enlargement of existing one-family residential dwellings or structures accessory thereto situated within this District shall be permitted if such would afford less than a 50-foot setback from all streets measured at a right angle with the street line, and a 25-foot distance from the abutters' property lines (or less than such lesser setback or distance requirements already in existence for such dwellings or accessory structures).
(2) If through natural phenomena or causes a lot or lots are so diminished in size that an owner would be unable to comply with the setback or sideline requirements herein prescribed, such owner or the zoning authorities may, as provided in § 27.4(b), request the Secretary of the Interior to determine whether a proposed move, reconstruction, alteration of enlargement of an existing residential dwelling or accessory structure would subject the property to acquisition by condemnation.
(d) Zoning bylaws adopted pursuant to this regulation shall contain provisions designed to preserve the seashore character of the area by appropriate restrictions or prohibitions upon the burning of cover, cutting of timber, filling of land, removal of soil, loam, sand or gravel and dumping, storage, or piling of refuse and other unsightly objects or other uses which would detract from the natural or traditional seashore scene.
(e) Zoning bylaws for the Seashore District may permit residential uses of “improved property” and other uses of such dwellings and their accessory structures:
Provided,
Such other uses are traditional to these seashore communities, are customarily incidental to the principal residential use and do not alter the essential character of the dwelling and premises as a private residence. Subject to those conditions such uses may include, but are not limited to: (1) Partial use of dwellings by residents for a professional office (as for the practice of theology, law or medicine), as an artists' studio, for appropriate small scale home occupations as the making and selling of traditional Cape Cod products produced on the premises, and for the rental of rooms and serving of meals by residents of the premises to overnight guests; (2) the existence of structures, such as a garage, barn or boathouse accessory to the dwelling; (3) display of a sign which may be indirectly but not directly illuminated and not to exceed two square feet in area, referring to the occupancy, sale, or rental of the premises; (4) traditional agricultural uses of cleared land, but not including such objectionable uses as a piggery or the raising of livestock, poultry or fur-bearing animals for commercial purposes; and (5) the opening of shellfish, the storage and use of fishing equipment, and other traditional fishing activities. No commercial or industrial ventures (other than of the types described above), may be established within the Seashore District.
§ 27.4
Variances and exceptions.
(a) Zoning bylaws may provide for variances and exceptions.
(b) Bylaws adopted pursuant to these standards shall contain provisions which constitute notice to applicants for variances and exceptions that, under section 5(d) of the Act of August 7, 1961, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to withdraw the suspension of his authority to acquire, by condemnation, “improved property” that is made the subject of a variance or exception which, in his opinion, fails to conform or is in any manner opposed to or inconsistent with preservation and development of the seashore as contemplated in the said Act. The Secretary may be consulted at any time by zoning authorities or by the owner of “improved property” regarding the effect of a proposed variance or exception upon the status of the affected property with regard to the suspension of the Secretary's authority to condemn. The Secretary, within 60 days of the receipt of a request for such determination, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably possible, shall advise the owner or zoning authorities whether or not the intended use will subject the property to acquisition by condemnation.
(c) The Secretary shall be promptly notified of the granting of any variance or exception.
Pt. 28

# PART 28—FIRE ISLAND NATIONAL SEASHORE: ZONING STANDARDS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
28.1
Purpose.
28.2
Definitions.
28.3
Boundaries: The Community Development District; The Dune District; The Seashore District.
28.4
Severability.

# Subpart B—Federal Standards and Approval of Local Ordinances
28.10
Permitted and prohibited uses.
28.11
Nonconforming uses.
28.12
Development standards.
28.13
Variance, commercial and industrial application procedures.
28.14
Emergency action.
28.15
Approval of local zoning ordinances.

# Subpart C—Federal Review and Condemnation
28.20
Review by the Superintendent.
28.21
Suspension of condemnation authority in the communities.
28.22
Condemnation authority of the Secretary.
28.23
Certificates of suspension of authority for acquisition by condemnation.
28.24
Information collection.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1,3,459e-2.

# Source:
56 FR 42790, Aug. 29, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 28.1
Purpose.
(a) The enabling legislation for Fire Island National Seashore (the Seashore) mandated the Secretary of the Interior (the Secretary) to issue regulations which provide standards for local zoning in order to protect and conserve Fire Island. The regulations in this part set forth Federal standards to which local ordinances for Fire Island must conform to enable certain private property within the Seashore to be exempt from Federal condemnation. The standards also apply to use and development of public property. From time to time these standards may be reviewed and revised. These standards are intended:
(1) To promote the protection and development of the land within the Seashore, for the purposes of the Fire Island National Seashore Act (the Act), by means of size, location, or use limitations or restrictions on commercial, residential, or other structures with the objective of controlling population density and protecting the island's natural resources;
(2) To limit development and use of land to single-family homes, to prohibit development and use of multiple family homes, and to prohibit the conversion of structures to multiple family homes;
(3) To prohibit commercial or industrial uses initiated after September 11, 1964 or the expansion of existing commercial or industrial uses on any property within the Seashore which is inconsistent with the Federal standards and approved local ordinances or the purposes of the Act, is likely to cause a significant harm to the resources of the Seashore or will not provide a service to Fire Island;
(4) To recognize that the zoning authorities have the primary responsibility for zoning enforcement within the Seashore;
(5) To provide that private property within the Community Development District may be retained by its owner as long as it is maintained in accordance with approved local ordinances and the Federal standards;
(6) To provide that, within the Seashore District, private “improved property” may be retained by its owner as long as it is maintained in accordance with approved local ordinances, and the Federal standards;
(7) To provide that, in the Dune District, private undeveloped property, if otherwise subject to condemnation, may be retained by its owner as long as it is maintained in its natural state; and
(8) To provide a mechanism for the Superintendent to inform landowners and the zoning authority if a use or development will be inconsistent with the Federal standards or the purposes of the Act and may subject the property to condemnation, subject to available funds.
(b) The Secretary may utilize any other statutory authority available to the Secretary for the conservation and development of natural resources to the extent the Secretary finds that
such authority will further the purpose of the Act.
§ 28.2
Definitions.
(a)
Accessory structure
means any development which is located on the same lot as the principal building or use and is customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal building or use. Accessory structure may include a storage shed, dock, deck, patio, swimming pool, or tennis court but does not include a garbage or bicycle rack and the single primary access walk. Accessory structure includes a guest house without cooking facilities used for overnight habitation.
(b)
Act
means the Fire Island National Seashore Act of September 11, 1964, (16 U.S.C. 459e), as amended.
(c)
Building
means an enclosed structure having a roof supported by columns, walls, or cantilevers. (If a structure is separated by a party wall without openings, it is considered two separate “buildings.”)
(d)
Developed property
means any property which has been altered from its natural state by the construction or erection of materials located in, upon, or attached to something located in or upon the ground. Such alterations may include a building, deck, swimming pool, storage shed, patio, dock, tennis court, septic system or leaching field, walkway, groin, fence or sign (except dune protection fences and signs), road, retaining wall, grading, artificial fill, or other structure or material excluding live vegetation.
(e)
Development
means any activity, action, alteration, structure or use which changes undeveloped property into developed property.
(f)
Exception to a zoning ordinance
means any development or change in use of developed property which is not authorized by the zoning ordinance or the variance procedures of the zoning authority or, if authorized by the zoning authority, fails to conform to the ordinance approved by the Secretary or to the Federal standards.
(g)
Guest house
means an accessory structure on the same lot as the principal building that does not contain cooking facilities and is used for the temporary accommodation of guests of a resident living in the principal building.
(h)
Improved property
is developed property defined by the Act to mean any building, the construction of which was begun prior to July 1, 1963, together with such amount of land on which said building is situated as the Secretary considers reasonably necessary to the use of said building not, however, to exceed 2 acres in the case of a residence and 10 acres in the case of a commercial use. The Secretary may exclude from such “improved property” any beach or waters, as well as land adjoining such beach or waters, which the Secretary deems necessary for public access thereto.
(i)
Local ordinance
means a State, town, or village law applicable to the development or use of real property.
(j)
Lot
means a parcel of land which meets the minimum acreage and frontage requirements of the zoning authority and is occupied or capable of being legally occupied by one (1) principal building or main building, and the accessory structures or uses including such open spaces as are required by these standards, but in no case does a lot include lands below the toe of the natural foredune line.
(k)
Non-conforming use
means any use or development that, if commenced after the effective date of these standards, fails to conform to these standards; or, if commenced prior to October 17, 1984, failed to conform to Federal standards in effect at the time of construction or fails to conform to these standards, whether or not the use or development was first commenced in compliance with the local ordinance.
(l)
Single-family home
means a building which contains no more than one kitchen or cooking facility. An exterior barbecue does not constitute a cooking facility for the purposes of this regulation.
(m)
Undeveloped property
means property which has not been altered from its natural state with the exception of dune protection measures such as snow fencing, beach nourishment, dune grass planting, or other approved biological or ecological sand-enhancing or stabilization methods.
(n)
Zoning authority
means the Town of Brookhaven, the Town of Islip, the
Village of Saltaire, the Village of Ocean Beach and/or any other legally incorporated village or political subdivision hereafter created and the officials authorized by local ordinance to make rulings and determinations on zoning in said towns and villages.
[56 FR 42790, Aug. 29, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 30235, June 3, 1997]
§ 28.3
Boundaries: The Community Development District; The Dune District; The Seashore District.
(a)
Generally.
The boundaries of the Seashore are described in the Act, as amended, and are delineated on the official boundary maps OGP-OOO2, dated June 1964, and amended by OGP-OOO4, dated May 1978. The maps are available for inspection at the Seashore headquarters. There are three districts: The Community Development District, the Seashore District, and the Dune District.
(b)
The Community Development District.
(1) The seventeen communities which comprise the Community Development District are set out below with their respective west/east boundaries.
(i) Lighthouse Shores—Kismet Park
West Boundary: 100 feet west of the west line of West Lighthouse Walk.
East Boundary: 80 feet east of the east line of Pine Street.
(ii) Seabay Beach
West Boundary: Approximately 94 feet west of the west line of Seabay Walk.
East Boundary: Approximately 94 feet east of the east line of Seabay Walk.
(iii) Saltaire
West Boundary: 185 feet west of the west line of West Walk.
East Boundary: 85 feet east of the east line of East Walk.
(iv) Fair Harbor
West Boundary: 333 feet west of the west line of Cedar Walk.
East Boundary: The east line of Spruce Walk.
(v) Dunewood
West Boundary: The east line of Spruce Walk.
East Boundary: 85 feet east of the east line of East Walk.
(vi) Lonelyville
West Boundary: 85 feet east of the east line of East Walk.
East Boundary: 100 feet east of the east line of Raven Walk.
(vii) Atlantique
West Boundary: 80 feet west of the west line of Sea Breeze Walk.
East Boundary: 80 feet east of the east line of East End Walk.
(viii) Robbins Rest
West Boundary: The west line of Compass Walk.
East Boundary: 113 feet east of the east line of Sextant Walk.
(ix) Fire Island Summer Club—Corneille Estates
West Boundary: 100 feet west of west line of Schooner Walk.
East Boundary: 100 feet east of east line of Frigate Roadway.
(x) Ocean Beach
West Boundary: 7 feet west of the west line of Surf Road.
East Boundary: 2 feet east of the east line of Surf View Walk.
(xi) Seaview
West Boundary: East line of Surf View Walk.
East Boundary: 200 feet east of Laurel Avenue.
(xii) Ocean Bay Park
West Boundary: 90 feet west of the west line of Superior Street.
East Boundary: 100 feet East of the east line of Cayuga Street.
(xiii) Point O'Woods
West Boundary: 100 feet east of the east line of Cayuga Street.
East Boundary: Western boundary of Sunken Forest Preserve.
(xiv) Cherry Grove
West Boundary: The west line of West Walk.
East Boundary: Approximately 100 feet east of the east line of Ivy Walk.
(xv) Fire Island Pines
West Boundary: Approximately 150 feet west of the west line of Sandy Walk.
East Boundary: Approximately 120 feet east of Sail Walk.
(xvi) Water Island
West Boundary: The west line of Charach Walk.
East Boundary: Approximately 100 feet east of the east line of East Walk.
(xvii) Davis Park
West Boundary: 90 feet west of the west line of Eider Duck Walk.
East Boundary: 90 feet east of east line of Whalebone Walk.
(2) The northern boundary of the communities listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is the mean high water
line on the south shore of the Great South Bay.
(3) The southern boundary of the communities listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is the mean high water line on the south shore of Fire Island.
(c)
The Seashore District.
The Seashore District is comprised of all portions of the lands and waters within the boundary of the Seashore which are not included in the Community Development District with the exception of the headquarters facilities at Patchogue and the William Floyd Estate at Mastic.
(d)
The Dune District.
The Dune District extends from the mean high water line to 40 feet landward of the primary natural high dune crest, as defined on Fire Island National Seashore Map #OGP-0004 and on Suffolk County Property Maps, section numbers 491-498 (Islip), 002 (Ocean Beach), 002-004 (Saltaire), and 985.70-987 (Brookhaven), as mapped in November 1976 or as subsequently remapped. Map overlays of the Dune District are available for inspection in the Office of the Superintendent of the Seashore. The Dune District overlaps portions of the Community Development District and the Seashore District.
§ 28.4
Severability.
The invalidation of any provision of this part 28 by any court of competent jurisdiction shall not invalidate any other provision thereof.

# Subpart B—Federal Standards and Approval of Local Ordinances
§ 28.10
Permitted and prohibited uses.
(a)
The Community Development District
—(1)
Permitted uses.
(i) The construction, alteration, expansion, movement, reconstruction, and maintenance of a detached building which is used principally as a single-family home, church, school, or community facility; as an accessory structure; or as an office for a professional occupation, as defined in approved local ordinances is permitted. Reconstruction of non-conforming uses is permitted in accordance with § 28.11. A professional office may be maintained only incidental to a residential use and shall be utilized by a person residing on the premises.
(ii) A commercial or industrial use in continuous and unchanged operation since September 11, 1964 is permitted. Any change in use of a commercial or industrial use since September 11, 1964 including construction, expansion, or conversion of an existing structure or a change in type, mode or manner of operation constitutes a new commercial or industrial use and may be permitted subject to the approval of the local zoning authority and review by the Superintendent.
(iii) A commercial or industrial use initiated after September 11, 1964 constitutes a new commercial or industrial use and may be permitted with the approval of the local zoning authority and review by the Superintendent. Any change in use of a commercial or industrial use approved by a local zoning authority after September 11, 1964, including construction, expansion, or conversion of an existing structure, or a change in type, location, mode or manner of operation, shall constitute a new commercial or industrial use and may be permitted with approval of the local zoning authority and review by the Superintendent.
(2)
Prohibited uses.
(i) The construction or expansion of an apartment building or other building with multiple dwelling units or conversion of an existing building into a multiple family home is prohibited.
(ii) The construction or expansion of a guest house with cooking facilities, or conversion of an existing structure to a guest house with cooking facilities is prohibited.
(iii) The subdivision of land into lots which are less than 4000 feet, or that do not meet the requirements of the applicable approved zoning ordinance is prohibited.
(iv) The rezoning of an area zoned residential to commercial or industrial without review by the Secretary is prohibited.
(b)
The Seashore District
—(1)
Permitted uses.
(i) The alteration, expansion, movement, and maintenance of privately-held “improved property” used as a single-family home or as an accessory structure is permitted. Reconstruction is permitted in accordance with § 28.11.
(ii) Any use consistent with the purposes of this Act, which is not likely to cause significant harm to the natural resources of the Seashore, on any lands, whether publicly or privately-held, which lie below mean high water in either the Atlantic Ocean or the Great South Bay is allowable.
(2)
Prohibited uses.
Construction, development or expansion of any property other than “improved property” is prohibited. The provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section apply to all privately-held property in the Seashore District.
(c)
The Dune District
—(1)
Permitted uses.
(i) A community vehicular and private or community pedestrian dune crossing approved by the zoning authority and reviewed by the Superintendent as necessary for access to areas behind the dune. Such dune protection measures as snow fencing, poles, beach nourishment, dune grass planting, or other scientifically sanctioned biological or ecological sand enhancing or stabilization methods are allowable.
(ii) Residential use and maintenance of an existing structure or reconstruction in accordance with § 28.11 is allowable.
(2)
Prohibited uses.
(i) Any development subsequent to November 10, 1978 including construction of a new structure or expansion of an existing structure, such as a building, bulkhead, pile, septic system, revetment, deck, swimming pool, or other structure or man-made dune stabilization device except as allowed under paragraph (c)(i) of this section.
(ii) Any use of the dune, other than those outlined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, including recreational use.
(3)
Conflict with other provisions.
If a development or lot lies partially within the Dune District and partially in the Community Development District, or partially within the Dune District and partially within the Seashore District, and the standards applicable to the development, lot, or use are in conflict, the standards for the Dune District prevail for the portion of the development, lot, or use which lies within the Dune District. (d) General recreation, environmental and historic preservation and education, and natural resource protection uses and facilities consistent with the uses and facilities appropriate for each zone as set forth in the General Management Plan and Final Environmental Impact Statement are permitted on publicly-held property.
§ 28.11
Nonconforming uses.
(a) Any use or structure lawfully existing under local law as of October 17, 1984 and rendered nonconforming by adoption of the federal standards may continue, subject to the provisions of this section, and will not lose its exemption from condemnation, if otherwise eligible.
(b)
Change in nonconforming uses.
(1) No nonconforming development or use may be altered, intensified, enlarged, extended, or moved except to bring the use or structure into conformity with the approved local zoning ordinance.
(2) A nonconforming use which has been abandoned for more than one (1) year may not be resumed or replaced by another nonconforming use or structure.
(3) A nonconforming use in the Dune District may be moved to bring it into conformity with the approved local zoning ordinance.
(c)
Reconstruction of nonconforming uses.
If a nonconforming use or structure is severely damaged (as determined by fair professional insurance practices), destroyed or rendered a hazard, whether by fire, natural disaster, abandonment or neglect, no alteration, intensification, enlargement, reconstruction, extension, or movement is allowable without compliance with the following conditions:
(1) No use or structure within the Seashore built in violation of a local ordinance when constructed may be reconstructed except in compliance with the approved local zoning ordinance.
(2) Local building permit applications for reconstruction shall be filed with the appropriate zoning authority within one (1) year of the damage, destruction, or abandonment.
(3) A commercial or industrial use may not be reconstructed without the approval of the local zoning authority and review by the Superintendent.
(4) A nonconforming use in the Community Development District or in the Seashore District (i.e. “improved property”) may be reconstructed to previous dimensions. It may not be altered, enlarged, intensified, extended, or moved except to bring the use or structure into conformity with the approved local zoning ordinance.
(5) A nonconforming use in the Dune District may be reconstructed if it can conform to the approved local zoning ordinance and lie north of the crest of the dune at the time of reconstruction.
§ 28.12
Development standards.
No use allowable under § 28.10 may be developed, constructed, altered, or conducted unless it complies with the following:
(a) A single-family home is the only type of development permitted in a residential district defined by a local zoning authority.
(b) Commercial or industrial development is limited to commercial or business districts defined by a zoning authority within the Community Development District. Such development must provide a service to Fire Island and will not be likely to cause significant harm to the natural resources of the Seashore.
(c) Minimum lot size is 4,000 square feet. A subdivision must comply with the subdivision requirements of the applicable zoning authority and may not result in development of any lot which is less than 4,000 feet.
(d) Maximum lot occupancy for all development may not exceed 35 percent of the lot. Lot occupancy is calculated to include all buildings and accessory structures on the property and any extension of the upper floors beyond the developed area on the ground level.
(e) Lot occupancy of all privately-held improved property in the Seashore District is limited to 35 percent of the square footage of a lot that is less than 7,500 square feet, and to 2,625 square feet for a lot 7,500 square feet or greater. Lot occupancy is calculated to include all buildings and accessory structures on the property and any extension of the upper floors beyond the developed area of the ground.
(f) No building or accessory structure may be erected to a height in excess of 28 feet as measured from the average existing ground elevation or the minimum elevation necessary to meet the prerequisites for Federal flood insurance as determined by the National Flood Insurance Program/FEMA shown on Flood Insurance Rate Maps for Fire Island communities.
(g) A swimming pool is an allowable accessory structure and is calculated in measuring lot occupancy.
(h) No sign may be self-illuminated.
(i) A zoning authority shall have in effect limitations, requirements, or restrictions on the burning of cover and trash, excavation, displacement or removal of sand or vegetation, and the dumping, storing, or piling of refuse materials, equipment or other unsightly objects which would pose safety hazards and/or detract from the natural or cultural scene.
(j) A zoning authority shall have in place ordinances to lessen the potential for flood and related erosion and property losses consistent with the Federal Insurance Administration's National Flood Insurance Program criteria for “Land Management and Use,” as set forth in 24 CFR part 1910, subpart A, as it may from time to time be amended.
§ 28.13
Variance, commercial and industrial application procedures.
(a) The zoning authority shall send the Superintendent a copy of all applications for variances, exceptions, special permits, and permits for commercial and industrial uses submitted to the zoning authority within five calendar days of their submission of the completed application by the applicant.
(b) The zoning authority shall send the Superintendent a copy of the written notice of the dates and times of any public hearing to be held concerning an application no less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(c) The zoning authority shall send the Superintendent a copy of the written notice within fifteen calendar days of the approval or disapproval of any application for a variance, exception, special permit, or permit and copies of any variance, exception, special permit, or certificate which has been granted.
(d) The zoning authority shall send copies of all correspondence referred to in this section to:
The Superintendent, Special Attention: Zoning, Fire Island National Seashore, 120 Laurel St., Patchogue, New York 11772.
§ 28.14
Emergency action.
If allowable by local law and if immediate action is essential to avoid or eliminate an immediate threat to the public health or safety or a serious and immediate threat to private property or natural resources, an agency or person may commence a temporary use without a permit from the zoning authority. In all cases, the agency or person shall inform the Superintendent and send an application for a permit to the zoning authority within 10 days after the commencement of the use and the applicant shall proceed in full compliance with the provisions of the approved local zoning ordinance. When the reasons for undertaking the emergency action no longer exist, the agency or person shall cease an emergency action taken under this section.
§ 28.15
Approval of local zoning ordinances.
(a) The Secretary shall approve local ordinances or amendments to approved ordinances which conform to these regulations. The Secretary may not, however, approve an ordinance or amendment thereto which:
(1) Contains a provision that the Secretary considers adverse to the protection and development of the Seashore;
(2) Does not comply with the federal standards set out in §§ 28.10, 28.11, and 28.12; or
(3) Fails to provide for the variance procedures of § 28.13.
(b) A zoning authority from time to time may amend its ordinance. At such time the Secretary may revoke the approval of any ordinance or portion of an ordinance which fails to conform to these regulations. Upon resubmission by the zoning authority of an amended ordinance, the Secretary shall approve the ordinance, if it conforms with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Secretarial approval of a local ordinance will be withdrawn if the Secretary finds that a zoning authority is not enforcing its ordinance.

# Subpart C—Federal Review and Condemnation
§ 28.20
Review by the Superintendent.
(a) The Superintendent, within 15 working days of the receipt of a copy of an application for a variance, exception, permits for commercial or industrial use, or special permit submitted to the zoning authority for any development, use or change in use shall provide the applicant/landowner and the appropriate zoning authority written comments on the application. The purpose of the Superintendent's review is to determine if the proposed use or development does not conform to the federal standards and the purposes of the Act or is likely to cause significant harm to the natural resources of the Seashore. If the Superintendent's review determines the proposal does not conform, the Superintendent shall inform the applicant/landowner and appropriate zoning authority that should the proposed use or development proceed, the National Park Service may seek to enjoin the development and acquire the property by condemnation.
(b) The Superintendent may also appeal the decision of the zoning authority pursuant to procedures of local law.
§ 28.21
Suspension of condemnation authority in the communities.
The Secretary has the authority to acquire land by condemnation. Upon Secretarial approval of local ordinances, Secretarial authority to acquire by condemnation private property within the communities and “improved property” in the Seashore District that conforms to the federal standards and the provisions of the Act or is not likely to cause significant harm to the natural resources of the Seashore is suspended, except as provided for in § 28.22.
§ 28.22
Condemnation authority of the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary has the authority to exercise powers of condemnation with respect to:
(1) Private property within the 8-mile area between the eastern boundary of
Davis Park and the western boundary of the Smith Point County Park;
(2) Any beach or water and such adjoining land as the Secretary determines is necessary for access to the beach or water;
(3) Any property for which the Certificate of Suspension of Authority for Acquisition by Condemnation has been revoked;
(4) Any property, if the approval of the ordinance of the zoning authority has been revoked; partially revoked, or an exception was made to the Secretarial approval and such property fails to conform to these standards, or any property where the appropriate local zoning authority does not have an ordinance approved by the Secretary;
(5) Any property built or altered after October 17, 1984 that does not conform to the regulations in this part 28;
(6) Any property which becomes an exception to or has been granted a variance, exception, or special use permit after October 17, 1984 that fails or will fail to conform to the regulations in this part 28;
(7) Any new commercial or industrial use that the Superintendent has determined does not conform with § 28.20(a). A new commercial or industrial use is defined as any commercial or industrial use commenced after September 11, 1964. Any change in use of a commercial or industrial use including construction, expansion, or conversion of an existing structure, or change in type, location, mode, or manner of operation, constitutes a new commercial or industrial use;
(8) Any property with respect to which the Secretary's authority to condemn was not suspended and the property failed to conform to the federal standards existing at the time of construction, modification, or commencement of a use, unless such construction, modification or use conforms to the current federal standards; and
(9) Any property in violation of a local ordinance required by § 28.12 (i) and (j).
(b) Undeveloped property which is otherwise subject to condemnation under the Act is not subject to condemnation if it is located in the Dune District and is maintained in its natural state.
(c) The Secretarial authority to condemn any property in the Seashore is suspended for any structure or use constructed, modified, or commenced prior to October 17, 1984 if:
(1) It was built or conducted in conformity with local zoning ordinances and procedures in effect at the time of such construction or commencement or had been issued a variance under local law;
(2) It was built or conducted in conformity to the federal standards existing at the time of such construction or commencement or to these standards; and
(3) The local zoning ordinance is approved by the Secretary without exceptions, or if approved by the Secretary with exceptions, such exceptions are not pertinent or applicable to the property.
(d) The above provisions shall not be interpreted to otherwise limit or circumscribe the authority of the Secretary to condemn property as provided by the Act, or other provisions of law.
§ 28.23
Certificates of suspension of authority for acquisition by condemnation.
Upon approval of a local zoning ordinance, a private property owner may apply to the Superintendent for a Certificate of Suspension of Authority for Acquisition by Condemnation. Procedures for obtaining a certificate are as follows:
(a) A property owner shall submit an application for a certificate to:
Superintendent,
Fire Island National Seashore,
120 Laurel Street,
Patchogue, New York 11772.
(b) An application for a certificate shall contain:
(1) A current survey of the lot showing the dimension of all buildings, accessory structures, garbage and bicycle racks, all access walks, and any extensions of the upper floors beyond the developed area on the ground level;
(2) On the survey, the line of mean high water, the toe of the dune, and the crest of the dune shall be identified if they traverse the lot;
(3) A floor plan of each floor of each building showing the configuration of all rooms and cooking facilities;
(4) A vertical drawing of the structure showing actual ground level and building height; and
(5) Copies of the original and all subsequent building permit applications and permits, certificates of occupancy, certified-as-completed surveys, variances, special use permits, certificates of pre-existing use, or other documents relating to local authorization to develop or use the property. The burden rests on the applicant to show that the structure conformed to local law at the time of construction and at the time of each subsequent alteration and that the structure conforms to current federal standards.
(6) For commercial or industrial uses, the owner of the property shall submit further information describing the type, mode, and manner of operation. All local, county, state, or federal licenses and permits required for construction, occupancy, operation of the commercial activity shall be submitted. Any change in use as described in § 28.10(a)(1)(iii) will require application for a new certificate.
(c) Upon receipt of the application, the Superintendent shall conduct a site inspection of both the interior and exterior of the property.
(d) After review of the materials submitted by the applicant and other pertinent information, and completion of the site inspection, the Superintendent shall determine whether the Secretary's authority to acquire by condemnation is suspended, and if so, shall furnish to any eligible party in interest a Certificate of Suspension of Authority for Acquisition by Condemnation.
(e) A Certificate of Suspension of Authority for Acquisition by Condemnation may be revoked at any time that the Secretary's authority to condemn is reinstated or that it becomes evident to the Superintendent that the Certificate was initially issued by mistake or on misinformation.
§ 28.24
Information collection.
The collection of information contained in §§ 28.13, and 28.23 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1024-0050. The information will be used to determine if private property conforms to the federal regulations. Response is required to obtain a benefit in accordance with 16 U.S.C. Section 459e
et seq.
Pt. 30

# PART 30—WHISKEYTOWN-SHASTA-TRINITY NATIONAL RECREATION AREA: ZONING STANDARDS FOR WHISKEYTOWN UNIT
Sec.
30.1
Introduction.
30.2
General provisions.
30.3
Recreation District I.
30.4
Recreation District II.
30.5
Variances, exceptions, and use permits.

# Authority:
Subsection 2(e), 79 Stat. 1295, 1297; sec. 3, 39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 460q-1(e); 16 U.S.C. 3.

# Source:
32 FR 13189, Sept. 16, 1967, unless otherwise noted.
§ 30.1
Introduction.
(a) Administration of the Whiskeytown Unit is required to be coordinated with the other purposes of the Central Valley project and with the purposes of the recreation area as a whole so as to provide for: (1) Public outdoor recreation benefits; (2) conservation of scenic, scientific, historic, and other values contributing to public enjoyment; and (3) such management, utilization and disposal of renewable natural resources as in the judgment of the Secretary of the Interior will promote or is compatible with, and does not significantly impair, public recreation and conservation of scenic, scientific, historic, or other values contributing to public enjoyment.
(b) The Secretary may not acquire without consent of the owner any privately owned “improved property” or interests therein within the boundaries of the unit, so long as the appropriate local zoning agency (Shasta County), shall have in force and applicable to such property a duly adopted, valid, zoning ordinance that is approved by the Secretary. This suspension of the Secretary's authority to acquire “improved property” without the owner's consent would automatically cease: (1) If the property is made the subject to a variance or exception to any applicable
zoning ordinance that does not conform to the applicable standards contained in the regulations in this part; or (2) if such property is put to any use which does not conform to any applicable zoning ordinance approved by the Secretary.
(c) “Improved property” as used in this section, means any building or group of related buildings, the actual construction of which was begun before February 7, 1963, together with not more than 3 acres of land in the same ownership on which the building or group of buildings is situated, but the Secretary may exclude from such “improved property” any shore or waters, together with so much of the land adjoining such shore or waters, as he deems necessary for public access thereto.
(d) The regulations in this part specify the standards with which local zoning ordinances for the Whiskeytown Unit must conform if the “improved property” within the boundaries of that unit is to be exempt from acquisition by condemnation. The objectives of the regulations in this part are to: (1) Prohibit new commercial or industrial uses other than those which the Secretary considers to be consistent with the purposes of the act establishing the national recreation area; (2) promote the protection and development of properties in keeping with the purposes of that act by means of use, acreage, frontage, setback, density, height, or other requirements; and (3) provide that the Secretary receive notice of any variance granted under, or any exception made to, the application of the zoning ordinance approved by him.
(e) Following promulgation of the regulations in this part in final form, the Secretary is required to approve any zoning ordinance or any amendment to an approved zoning ordinance submitted to him which conforms to the standards contained in the regulations in this part in effect at the time of adoption of the ordinance or amendment. Within 60 days following submission, the county will be notified of the Secretary's approval or disapproval of the zoning ordinances or amendments thereto. If more than 60 days is required the county will be notified of the expected delay and of the additional time deemed necessary to reach a decision. The Secretary's approval shall remain effective so long as the zoning ordinances or amendments thereto remain in effect as approved.
(f) Nothing contained in the regulations in this part or in the zoning ordinances or amendments adopted for the Whiskeytown Unit to implement the regulations in this part shall preclude the Secretary from exercising his power of condemnation at any time with respect to property other than “improved property” as defined herein. Nor shall the regulations in this part preclude the Secretary from otherwise fulfilling the responsibilities vested in him by the act authorizing establishment of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area, by the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535, 16 U.S.C. 3), as amended and supplemented, and such other statutory authorities relating to the National Park System.
§ 30.2
General provisions.
(a) Following issuance of the regulations in this part, Shasta County shall submit to the Secretary for his approval, all zoning ordinances and amendments thereto duly adopted by the county which are in force and applicable to property within the Whiskeytown Unit and which demonstrate conformity with the standards contained in the regulations in this part. This shall include any ordinances and amendments in effect prior to the issuance of the regulations in this part which demonstrate such conformity and any that have been adopted specifically to implement the regulations in this part.
(b) Any new uses, and the location, design and scope of any new developments, permitted under the regulations in this part shall be harmonized with adjacent uses, developments and the natural features and shall be consistent with the current Master Plan proposed or adopted by the National Park Service for the Whiskeytown Unit, so as to minimize disruption of the natural scene and to further the public recreational purposes of the aforesaid establishment act for this unit.
(c) Zoning ordinances for the districts hereinafter prescribed shall conform to the general and specific standards contained in the regulations in this part to assure that use and development of the lands within the Whiskeytown Unit are consistent with the objectives of the Congress to protect and preserve the values of the lands in such unit for public use and enjoyment, as set out in the Act of November 8, 1965 (79 Stat. 1295). Except as otherwise provided herein, no additional or increased commercial or industrial uses are permitted within these districts. Any existing nonconforming commercial or industrial uses shall be discontinued within 10 years from the date of this section:
Provided, however,
That with the approval of the Secretary such 10-year period may be extended by the county for an additional period of time sufficient to allow the owner a reasonable opportunity to amortize investments made in the property before November 8, 1965.
§ 30.3
Recreation District I.
(a) Definition. This district shall comprise all those portions of the Whiskeytown Unit of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area delineated as “Recreation District I” on a map bearing the identification NRA-WHI1000, and dated August 1966.
(b) The following uses are permitted in Recreation District I provided the Shasta County Planning Commission has issued a use permit in each case:
(1) Single-family dwellings, not including tents and trailers, but including servants' quarters in the same structure or in an accessory dwelling, and one noncommercial guest house. Such residential uses shall meet the following requirements:
(i) Minimum building site area—3 acres; but a lesser acreage may be utilized for this purpose if, on or before February 7, 1963, the site was in separate ownership and within a recorded subdivision.
(ii) Maximum building height—35 feet.
(iii) Minimum frontage—150 feet.
(iv) Minimum front yard setback—75 feet.
(v) Minimum side yard setback—50 feet.
(vi) Minimum rear yard setback—25 feet.
(vii) Maximum percentage of lot coverage permitted—10 percent.
(2) Moving, alteration, or improvement of existing residences or accessory structures provided there is compliance with the acreage, frontage, setback, density, height, and other requirements prescribed for residential uses under paragraph (b)(1) of this section,
And provided, further,
That such moving alteration, or improvement does not alter the residential character of the premises. Any moving, alteration or improvement of such structures that would result in a deviation from these prescribed limitations and requirements would subject the property to acquisition without consent of the owner, unless the Secretary has waived such limitations or requirements.
(3) Tree farming under a timber management plan that conforms to the California Forest Practices Act.
(4) Riding stables.
(5) Campgrounds, organizational camps and picnic areas.
(6) Limited agricultural uses such as truck gardening, provided these uses do not require the extensive cutting or clearing of wooded areas and are not otherwise destructive of natural or recreational values.
(7) Clearing and removal of trees, shrubbery, and other vegetation to the extent necessary in order to permit the exercise of a use otherwise allowed within this district.
(8) Recreational pursuits such as horseshoe pitching, archery, croquet, tennis, softball, volley ball, and similar outdoor game-type activities compatible with the recreational purposes of the area.
(9) Religious and educational uses.
(10) Removal of gravel, sand, and rock or other alteration of the landscape to the minimum extent necessary for the construction of an access road to the property on which a use is permitted. In all other circumstances, such removal or alteration shall be permitted only to the minimum extent
necessary to make possible the exercise of a use otherwise permitted in this district.
(11) Signs that are appurtenant to any permitted use and which (i) do not exceed 1 square foot in area for any residential use; (ii) do not exceed 4 square feet in area for any other use, including advertisement of the sale or rental of property; and (iii) which are not illuminated by any neon or flashing device. Such signs may be placed only on the property on which the advertised use occurs, or on the property which is advertised for sale or rental. Signs shall be subdued in appearance, harmonizing in design and color with the surroundings and shall not be attached to any tree or shrub. Nonconforming signs may continue such nonconformity until they are destroyed, moved, structurally altered or redesigned, but the period of such nonconformity may not exceed 2 years from the date a zoning ordinance containing this limitation is adopted by Shasta County.
(12) Accessory uses and temporary removable structures appurtenant to any permitted use.
(c) Any use not included above as a permitted use shall be deemed a prohibited use. Moreover, all land within the boundaries of the Whiskeytown Unit, except certain “improved property” as defined herein, will be acquired by the United States as rapidly as appropriated funds are made available therefor and before any development occurs thereon. Any property that is developed before such acquisition takes place will be subject to acquisition by the Secretary without consent of the owner.
§ 30.4
Recreation District II.
(a) Definition: This district shall comprise all those portions of the Whiskeytown Unit of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area delineated as “Recreation District II” on a map bearing the identification NRA-WHI-1000 and dated August 1966.
(b) The following uses are permitted in Recreation District II:
(1) All uses permitted in Recreation District I, subject to all the limitations, conditions and requirements prescribed for such uses in that district.
(2) The following additional uses are permitted in Recreation District II, provided the Shasta County Planning Commission has issued a use permit in each case:
(i) Agricultural pursuits such as crop farming, grazing, animal husbandry, nurseries, and greenhouses.
(ii) Stands for retail sales of products produced on the premises.
(iii) Measures to promote conservation of soil, water, and vegetation, including reforestation and tree stand improvement, and measures to reduce fire hazards.
(iv) Public or privately operated parks and playgrounds.
(v) Trailer campgrounds.
(vi) Golf courses.
(vii) Heliports, provided they are located and screened so their operations will cause a minimum of interference with public recreational use and enjoyment of the area.
(viii) Accessory structures, facilities, and utilities as necessary to make possible the exercise of any use otherwise permitted.
(c) Structures developed for the exercise of the additional uses listed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall not exceed two stories in height (35 feet), shall have a minimum principal use area of 5 acres, and shall have a front yard setback of not less than 100 feet from the nearest right-of-way line of a road or street. However, a lesser area than 5 acres may be utilized for such purposes if the property in question was in separate ownership on February 7, 1963.
(d) Any use not included above as a permitted use shall be deemed a prohibited use. Moreover, all land within the boundaries of the Whiskeytown Unit, except certain “improved property” as defined herein, will be acquired by the United States as rapidly as appropriated funds are made available therefor and before any development occurs thereon. Any property that is developed before such acquisition takes place will be subject to acquisition by the Secretary without consent of the owner.
§ 30.5
Variances, exceptions, and use permits.
(a) Zoning ordinances or amendments thereto, for the zoning districts comprising the Whiskeytown Unit of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area may provide for the granting of variances and exceptions.
(b) Zoning ordinances or amendments thereto for each of the districts established by the regulations in this part shall contain provisions advising applicants for variances and exceptions that, under section 2(f) of the Act of November 8, 1965, the authority of the Secretary to acquire “improved property” without the owner's consent would be reinstated (1) if such property is made the subject of a variance or exception to any applicable zoning ordinance that does not conform to any applicable standard contained in the regulations in this part; or (2) if such property is put to any use which does not conform to any applicable zoning ordinance approved by the Secretary.
(c) The Shasta County Planning Commission, or private owners of “improved property” may consult the Secretary as to whether the grant of any proposed variance or exception would terminate the suspension of his authority to acquire the affected property without consent of the owner, and may request the approval of a variance or exception by the Secretary:
Provided,
The Secretary is notified in writing at least 30 days in advance of the hearing on the application for the variance or exception. The Secretary within 30 days after the receipt of a request for approval of a variance or exception, shall advise the owner or the Commission whether or not the intended use will subject the property to acquisition by condemnation. If more than 30 days is required by the Secretary for such determination, he shall so notify the owner or Commission, stating the additional time required and the reasons therefor.
(d) The Secretary shall be given written notice of any variance granted under, or exception made to the application of, a zoning ordinance or amendment thereof approved by him. The Secretary shall be provided a copy of every use permit granted by the Shasta County Planning Commission authorizing any use or development of lands within the boundaries of the Whiskeytown Unit of the recreation area.
Pt. 34

# PART 34—EL PORTAL ADMINISTRATIVE SITE REGULATIONS
Sec.
34.1
Purpose.
34.2
Applicability and scope.
34.3
Penalties.
34.4
Definitions.
34.5
Applicable regulations.
34.6
Fires.
34.7
Cultivation of controlled substances.
34.8
Preservation of natural, cultural and archeological resources.
34.9
Protective custody.
34.10
Saddle and pack animals.
34.11
Boating operations.
34.12
Information collection.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1, 3, 47-1, 460l-6a(e).

# Source:
51 FR 29103, Aug. 14, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 34.1
Purpose.
These regulations provide for the protection of persons, property and natural and cultural resources within the El Portal Administrative Site.
§ 34.2
Applicability and scope.
(a) The regulations in this part apply to all persons entering, using, visiting, residing on or otherwise within the boundaries of the El Portal Administrative Site. All regulations apply throughout the site, with certain specific exceptions provided for leased lands.
(b) The regulations in this part may be enforced only by persons authorized to enforce the other provisions of this chapter.
§ 34.3
Penalties.
(a) A person convicted of violating a provision of the regulations contained in this part shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment not exceeding 6 months, or both, and shall be adjudged to pay all costs of the proceedings.
(b) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (a) of this section, a person convicted of violating § 34.5(b)(15) of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.
§ 34.4
Definitions.
When used in regulations in this part:
Administrative site
means all of the federally owned or controlled lands and waters administered by the National Park Service pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 47-1 (72 Stat. 1772), in the vicinity of El Portal, California.
Leased lands
means all lands within the administrative site in which there is a lawful possessory interest in addition to that of the National Park Service, which have been leased, permitted or otherwise assigned by the Superintendent. All other lands within the administrative site are nonleased lands.
§ 34.5
Applicable regulations.
The following sections and paragraphs of this chapter, as amended from time to time, apply to the administrative site and are hereby incorporated and made a part of this part except as modified by the regulations in this part:
(a)
General provisions.
(1) 1.2(d) Applicability and scope; exception for administrative activities.
(2) 1.4 Definitions.
(3) 1.5 Closures and public use limits.
(4) 1.6 Permits.
(5) 1.7 Public notice.
(b)
Resource Protection, Public Use and Recreation.
(1) 2.1 Preservation of natural, cultural and archeological resources.
(2) 2.2 Wildlife protection.
(3) 2.3 (a), (c) and (f) Fishing.
(4) 2.4 Weapons, traps and nets.
(5) 2.5 Research specimens.
(6) 2.10 Camping and food storage.
(7) 2.11 Picnicking.
(8) 2.12 Audio disturbances.
(9) 2.13 Fires.
(10) 2.14 Sanitation.
(11) 2.15 (a) (1), (3), (4) and (5); (c); (d); (e) and (f) Pets.
(12) 2.17 Aircraft and air delivery.
(13) 2.21 Smoking.
(14) 2.22 Property.
(15) 2.23 Recreation fees.
(16) 2.30 Misappropriation of property and services.
(17) 2.31 Trespassing, tampering and vandalism.
(18) 2.32 Interfering with agency function.
(19) 2.33 Report of injury or damage.
(20) 2.34 Disorderly conduct.
(21) 2.35 Alcoholic beverages and controlled substances.
(22) 2.36 (a) Gambling.
(23) 2.37 Noncommercial soliciting.
(24) 2.38 Explosives.
(25) 2.50 Special events.
(26) 2.51 Public assemblies, meetings.
(27) 2.52 Sale or distribution of printed matter.
(28) 2.61 Residing on Federal lands.
(29) 2.62 Memorialization.
(c)
Boating and Water Use Activities.
(1) 3.1 Applicable regulations.
(2) 3.3 Permits.
(3) 3.4 Accidents.
(4) 3.5 Inspections.
(5) 3.6 (a) and (b) Prohibited operations.
(6) 3.21 (a) (1), (2) and (b) Swimming and bathing.
(d)
Vehicles and traffic safety.
(1) 4.2 State law applicable.
(2) 4.4 Report of motor vehicle accident.
(3) 4.10(a), (c)(1) and (c)(2) Travel on park roads and designated routes.
(4) 4.11 Load, weight and size limits.
(5) 4.12 Traffic control devices.
(6) 4.14 Open container of alcoholic beverage.
(7) 4.21 Speed limits.
(8) 4.22 Unsafe operation.
(9) 4.23 Operating under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
(e)
Commercial and Private Operations.
(1) 5.1 Advertisements.
(2) 5.2 Alcoholic beverages; sale of intoxicants.
(3) 5.3 Business operations.
(4) 5.5 Commercial photography.
(5) 5.7 Construction of buildings or other facilities.
(6) 5.8 Discrimination in employment practices.
(7) 5.9 Discrimination in furnishing public accommodations and transportation services.
(8) 5.13 Nuisances.
(9) 5.14 Prospecting, mining, and mineral leasing.
[51 FR 29103, Aug. 14, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 10686, Apr. 2, 1987]
§ 34.6
Fires.
(a) All wildland, vehicular or structural fires shall be reported to the Superintendent immediately.
(b) Nonconflicting provisions of the California State Forest and Fire Laws and Regulations are adopted as a part of this part. Violation of any of these regulations is prohibited.
(c) The kindling of any open fire, including the burning of debris, is prohibited without a permit from the Superintendent.
(d) On undeveloped, untended or otherwise open land, operating any equipment powered by an internal combustion engine without a spark arrestor maintained in effective working order is prohibited. Such spark arrestor shall also meet either the USDA Forest Service Standard 5100-1
a
or the Society of Automotive Engineers Recommended Practice J335 or J350.
(e) The Superintendent may, during periods of high fire danger or diminished water supply, temporarily limit use and consumption of domestic water. These limitations shall be published. Violation of a limitation established by the Superintendent is prohibited.
(f) An owner or operator of a commercial establishment located within the administrative site shall comply with applicable standards prescribed by the National Fire Codes, Federal OSHA, CAL OSHA and other applicable laws, regulations and standards.
§ 34.7
Cultivation of controlled substances.
In addition to the provisions of § 2.35 of this chapter, the planting, cultivating, harvesting, drying or processing of a controlled substance, or any part thereof, is prohibited.
§ 34.8
Preservation of natural, cultural and archeological resources.
In addition to the provisions of § 2.1 of this chapter, the following are in effect:
(a) Upon nonleased lands, the cutting or removal of any tree, plant, or shrub or part thereof is prohibited without a permit from the Superintendent.
(b) Upon leased lands, the cutting or removal of any tree, plant, shrub or part thereof that is six inches or less in diameter, for the purpose of maintaining its proper health and appearance or for reasons of public safety, is allowed. Cutting or removing any vegetation exceeding six inches in diameter without a permit from the Superintendent is prohibited.
(c) Upon leased lands, the planting of personal gardens or domestic trees is allowed subject to all applicable Federal, State, and County agricultural regulations.
Provided, however:
the Superintendent may temporarily suspend this general privilege in the event of a water shortage or agricultural pest or disease emergency.
(d) Wood gathering is prohibited except in accordance with conditions and within areas designated by the Superintendent. Violation of such conditions or gathering wood outside of designated areas is prohibited.
§ 34.9
Protective custody.
(a) An authorized person, with reasonable cause to believe that a juvenile found within the administrative site has been unlawfully abused or neglected by any person living in the juvenile's place of residence, may take such juvenile into protective custody. An authorized person taking protective custody action pursuant to this paragraph shall deliver the juvenile to the care and custody of the appropriate State or local authorities.
(b) An authorized person, with reasonable cause to believe that a person found within the administrative site is either temporarily or permanently psychologically or mentally impaired to a degree that the person is gravely disabled or that presents a clear danger to that person or another, may take such person into protective custody. An authorized person taking protective custody action pursuant to this paragraph shall deliver the person to the care of the Mariposa County Mental Health Authorities for an initial 72-hour evaluation in accordance with applicable provisions of the California Welfare and Institutions Code.
(c) An authorized person may take into protective custody any juvenile found within the administrative site who is deemed to be a runaway according to applicable provisions of the California Welfare and Institutions Code.
An authorized person taking protective custody action pursuant to this paragraph shall deliver the juvenile to the care and custody of the Mariposa County Sheriff's Office.
§ 34.10
Saddle and pack animals.
The use of saddle and pack animals is prohibited without a permit from the Superintendent.
§ 34.11
Boating operations.
The launching or operation of a motor boat is prohibited.
§ 34.12
Information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in §§ 34.6, 34.8 and 34.10 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.,
and assigned clearance number 1024-0026. This information is being collected to solicit information necessary for the Superintendent to issue permits and other benefits, and to gather information. This information will be used to grant administrative benefits. The obligation to respond is required to obtain a benefit.
Pt. 51

# PART 51—CONCESSION CONTRACTS

# Subpart A—Authority and Purpose
Sec.
51.1
What does this part cover?
51.2
What is the policy underlying concessions contracts?

# Subpart B—General Definitions
51.3
How are terms defined in this part?

# Subpart C—Solicitation, Selection and Award Procedures
51.4
How will the Director invite the general public to apply for the award of a concession contract and how will the Director determine when to issue a prospectus for a new concession opportunity where no prior concession services had been provided?
51.5
What information will the prospectus include?
51.6
Will a concession contract be developed for a particular potential offeror?
51.7
How will information be provided to a potential offeror after the prospectus is issued?
51.8
Where will the Director publish the notice of availability of the prospectus?
51.9
How do I get a copy of the prospectus?
51.10
How long will I have to submit my proposal?
51.11
May the Director amend, extend, or cancel a prospectus of solicitation?
51.12
Are there any other additional procedures that I must follow to apply for a concession contract?
51.13
When will the Director determine if proposals are responsive?
51.14
What happens if no responsive proposals are submitted?
51.15
May I clarify, amend or supplement my proposal after it is submitted?
51.16
How will the Director evaluate proposals and select the best one?
51.17
What are the selection factors?
51.18
When must the Director reject a proposal?
51.19
Must the Director award the concession contract that is set forth in the prospectus?
51.20
Does this part limit the authority of the Director?
51.21
When must the selected offeror execute the concession contract?
51.22
When may the Director award the concession contract?

# Subpart D—Non-Competitive Award of Concession Contracts
51.23
May the Director extend an existing concession contract without a public solicitation?
51.24
May the Director award a temporary concession contract without a public solicitation?
51.25
Are there any other circumstances in which the Director may award a concession contract without public solicitation?

# Subpart E—Right of Preference to a New Concession Contract
51.26
What solicitation, selection and award procedures apply when a preferred offeror exists?
51.27
Who is a preferred offeror and what are a preferred offeror's rights to the award of a new concession contract?
51.28
When will the Director determine whether a concessioner is a preferred offeror?
51.29
How will I know when a preferred offeror exists?
51.30
What must a preferred offeror do before it may exercise a right of preference?
51.31
What happens if a preferred offeror does not submit a responsive proposal?
51.32
What is the process if the Director determines that the best responsive proposal was not submitted by a preferred offeror?
51.33
What if a preferred offeror does not timely amend its proposal to meet the terms and conditions of the best proposal?
51.34
What will the Director do if a selected preferred offeror does not timely execute the new concession contract?
51.35
What happens to a right of preference if the Director receives no responsive proposals?

# Subpart F—Determining a Preferred Offeror
51.36
What conditions must be met before the Director determines that a concessioner is a preferred offeror?
51.37
How will the Director determine that a new concession contract is a qualified concession contract?
51.38
How will the Director determine that a concession contract is an outfitter and guide concession contract?
51.39
What are some examples of outfitter and guide concession contracts?
51.40
What are some factors to be considered in determining that outfitter and guide operations are conducted in the backcountry?
51.41
If the concession contract grants a compensable interest in real property improvements, will the Director find that the concession contract is an outfitter and guide concession contract?
51.42
Are there exceptions to this compensable interest prohibition?
51.43
Who will make the determination that a concession contract is an outfitter and guide contract?
51.44
How will the Director determine if a concessioner was satisfactory for purposes of a right of preference?
51.45
Will a concessioner that has operated for less than the entire term of a concession contract be considered a satisfactory operator?
51.46
May the Director determine that a concessioner has not operated satisfactorily after a prospectus is issued?
51.47
How does a person appeal a decision of the Director that a concessioner is or is not a preferred offeror?
51.48
What happens to a right of preference in the event of termination of a concession contract for unsatisfactory performance or other breach?
51.49
May the Director grant a right of preference except in accordance with this part?
51.50
Does the existence of a preferred offeror limit the authority of the Director to establish the terms of a concession contract?

# Subpart G—Leasehold Surrender Interest
51.51
What special terms must I know to understand leasehold surrender interest?
51.52
How do I obtain a leasehold surrender interest?
51.53
When may the Director authorize the construction of a capital improvement?
51.54
What must a concessioner do before beginning to construct a capital improvement?
51.55
What must a concessioner do after substantial completion of the capital improvement?
51.56
How will the construction cost for purposes of leasehold surrender interest value be determined?
51.57
How does a concessioner request arbitration of the construction cost of a capital improvement?
51.58
What actions may or must the concessioner take with respect to a leasehold surrender interest?
51.59
Will leasehold surrender interest be extinguished by expiration or termination of a leasehold surrender interest concession contract or may it be taken for public use?
51.60
How will a new concession contract awarded to an existing concessioner treat a leasehold surrender interest obtained under a prior concession contract?
51.61
How is an existing concessioner who is not awarded a new concession contract paid for a leasehold surrender interest?
51.62
What is the process to determine the leasehold surrender interest value when the concessioner does not seek or is not awarded a new concession contract?
51.63
When a new concessioner pays a prior concessioner for a leasehold surrender interest, what is the leasehold surrender interest in the related capital improvements for purposes of a new concession contract?
51.64
May the concessioner gain additional leasehold surrender interest by undertaking a major rehabilitation or adding to a structure in which the concessioner has a leasehold surrender interest?
51.65
May the concessioner gain additional leasehold surrender interest by replacing a fixture in which the concessioner has a leasehold surrender interest?
51.66
Under what conditions will a concessioner obtain a leasehold surrender interest in existing real property improvements in which no leasehold surrender interest exists?
51.67
Will a concessioner obtain leasehold surrender interest as a result of repair and maintenance of real property improvements?

# Subpart H—Possessory Interest
51.68
If a concessioner under a 1965 Act concession contract is not awarded a new concession contract, how will a concessioner that has a possessory interest receive compensation for its possessory interest?
51.69
What happens if there is a dispute between a new concessioner and a prior concessioner as to the value of the prior concessioner's possessory interest?
51.70
If a concessioner under a 1965 Act concession contract is awarded a new concession contract, what happens to the concessioner's possessory interest?
51.71
What is the process to be followed if there is a dispute between the prior concessioner and the Director as to the value of possessory interest?
51.72
If a new concessioner is awarded the contract, what is the relationship between leasehold surrender interest and possessory interest?

# Subpart I—Concession Contract Provisions
51.73
What is the term of a concession contract?
51.74
When may a concession contract be terminated by the Director?
51.75
May the Director segment or split concession contracts?
51.76
May the Director amend a concession contract to provide new or additional visitor services or grant a concessioner a preferential right to provide new or additional visitor services?
51.77
Will a concession contract provide a concessioner an exclusive right to provide visitor services?
51.78
Will a concession contract require a franchise fee and will the franchise fee be subject to adjustment?
51.79
May the Director waive payment of a franchise fee or other payments?
51.80
How will the Director establish franchise fees for multiple outfitter and guide concession contracts in the same park area?
51.81
May the Director include “special account” provisions in concession contracts?
51.82
Are a concessioner's rates required to be reasonable and subject to approval by the Director?
51.83
Sale of Native handicrafts.

# Subpart J—Assignment or Encumbrance of Concession Contracts
51.84
What special terms must I know to understand this part?
51.85
What assignments require the approval of the Director?
51.86
What encumbrances require the approval of the Director?
51.87
Does the concessioner have an unconditional right to receive the Director's approval of an assignment or encumbrance?
51.88
What happens if an assignment or encumbrance is completed without the approval of the Director?
51.89
What happens if there is a default on an encumbrance approved by the Director?
51.90
How does the concessioner get the Director's approval before making an assignment or encumbrance?
51.91
What information may the Director require in the application?
51.92
What are standard proformas?
51.93
If the transaction includes more than one concession contract, how must required information be provided?
51.94
What information will the Director consider when deciding to approve a transaction?
51.95
Does the Director's approval of an assignment or encumbrance include any representations of any nature?
51.96
May the Director amend or extend a concession contract for the purpose of facilitating a transaction?
51.97
May the Director open to renegotiation or modify the terms of a concession contract as a condition to the approval of a transaction?

# Subpart K—Information and Access to Information
51.98
What records must the concessioner keep and what access does the Director have to records?
51.99
What access to concessioner records will the Comptroller General have?
51.100
When will the Director make proposals and evaluation documents publicly available?

# Subpart L—The Effect of the 1998 Act's Repeal of the 1965 Act
51.101
Did the 1998 Act repeal the 1965 Act?
51.102
What is the effect of the 1998 Act's repeal of the 1965 Act's preference in renewal?
51.103
Severability.

# Subpart M—Information Collection
51.104
Has OMB approved the collection of information?

# Authority:
54 U.S.C. 101901-101926 and title IV of the National Parks Omnibus Management Act of 1998 (Pub. L. 105-391).

# Source:
65 FR 20668, Apr. 17, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Authority and Purpose
§ 51.1
What does this part cover?
This part covers the solicitation, award, and administration of concession contracts. The Director solicits, awards and administers concession contracts on behalf of the Secretary under the authority of the Act of August 25, 1916, as amended and supplemented, 16 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
and Title IV of the National Parks Omnibus Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-391). The purpose of concession contracts is to authorize persons (concessioners) to provide visitor services in park areas. All concession contracts are to be consistent with the requirements of this part. In accordance with section 403 of the 1998 Act, the Director will utilize concession contracts to authorize the provision of visitor services in park areas, except as may otherwise be authorized by law. For example, the Director may enter into commercial use authorizations under section 418 of the 1998 Act and may enter into agreements with non-profit organizations for the sale of interpretive materials and conduct of interpretive programs for a fee or charge in park areas. In addition, the Director may, as part of an interpretive program agreement otherwise authorized by law, authorize a non-profit organization to provide incidental visitor services that are necessary for the conduct of the interpretive program. Nothing in this part amends, supersedes, or otherwise affects any provision of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
) relating to revenue-producing visitor services.
§ 51.2
What is the policy underlying concessions contracts?
It is the policy of the Congress and the Secretary that visitor services in park areas may be provided only under carefully controlled safeguards against unregulated and indiscriminate use so that visitation will not unduly impair park values and resources. Development of visitor services in park areas will be limited to locations that are consistent to the highest practicable degree with the preservation and conservation of the resources and values of the park area. It is also the policy of the Congress and the Secretary of the Interior that development of visitor services in park areas must be limited to those as are necessary and appropriate for public use and enjoyment of the park area in which they are located.

# Subpart B—General Definitions
§ 51.3
How are terms defined in this part?
To understand this part, you must refer to these definitions, applicable in the singular or the plural, whenever these terms are used in this part:
The
1965 Act
means Public Law 89-249, commonly known as the National Park Service Concession Policies Act of 1965.
A
1965 Act concession contract
is a concession contract or permit entered into under the authority of the 1965 Act.
The
1998 Act
means Title IV of Public Law 105-391.
The
award
of a concession contract is the establishment of a legally binding concession contract. It occurs only when the Director and a selected offeror both fully execute a concession contract.
A concession contract (or contract)
means a binding written agreement between the Director and a concessioner entered under the authority of this part or the 1965 Act that authorizes the concessioner to provide certain visitor services within a park area under specified terms and conditions. Concession contracts are not contracts within the meaning of 41 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
(the Contract Disputes Act) and are not service or procurement contracts within the meaning of statutes, regulations or policies that apply only to federal service contracts or other types of federal procurement actions. Concession contracts will contain such terms and conditions as are required by this part or law and as are otherwise appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this part and the 1998 Act.
A
concessioner
is an individual, corporation, or other legally recognized entity that duly holds a concession contract.
Director
means the Director of the National Park Service (acting on behalf of the Secretary), or an authorized representative of the Director, except
where a particular official is specifically identified in this part. In circumstances where this part calls for an appeal to the Director, the appeal shall be considered by an official of higher authority than the official that made the disputed decision.
A
franchise fee
is the consideration paid to the Director by a concessioner for the privileges granted by a concession contract.
Offeror
means an individual, corporation, or other legally recognized entity, including an existing concessioner, that submits a proposal for a concession contract. If the entity that is to be the concessioner is not formally in existence as of the time of submission of a proposal, a proposal must demonstrate that the individuals or organizations that intend to establish the entity that will become the concessioner have the ability and are legally obliged to cause the entity to be a qualified person as defined in this part. In addition, if the entity that will be the concessioner is not established at the time of submission of a proposal, the proposal must contain assurances satisfactory to the Director that the entity that will be the concessioner will be a qualified person as of the date of the award of the contract and otherwise have the ability to carry out the commitments made in the proposal.
Possessory interest
means an interest in real property improvements as defined by the 1965 Act obtained by a concessioner under a possessory interest concession contract. Possessory interest, for the purposes of this part, does not include any interest in property in which no possessory interest, as defined by the 1965 Act, exists.
A
possessory interest concession contract
means a 1965 Act concession contract that provides the concessioner a possessory interest.
A
preferred offeror
is a concessioner that the Director determines is eligible to exercise a right of preference to the award of a qualified concession contract in accordance with this part.
A
qualified concession contract
is a new concession contract that the Director determines to be a qualified concession contract for right of preference purposes.
A
qualified person
is an individual, corporation or other legally recognized entity that the Director determines has the experience and financial ability to satisfactorily carry out the terms of a concession contract. This experience and financial ability includes, but is not limited to, the ability to protect and preserve the resources of the park area and the ability to provide satisfactory visitor services at reasonable rates to the public.
A
responsive proposal
means a timely submitted proposal that is determined by the Director as agreeing to all of the minimum requirements of the proposed concession contract and prospectus and as having provided the information required by the prospectus.
A
right of preference
is the preferential right of renewal set forth in Section 403(7)(C) of the 1998 Act which requires the Director to allow a preferred offeror the opportunity to match the terms and conditions of a competing responsive proposal that the Director has determined to be the best proposal for a qualified concession contract. A right of preference does not provide any rights of any nature to establish or negotiate the terms and conditions of a concession contract to which a right of preference may apply.
Visitor services
means accommodations, facilities and services determined by the Director as necessary and appropriate for public use and enjoyment of a park area provided to park area visitors for a fee or charge by a person other than the Director. The fee or charge paid by the visitor may be direct or indirect as part of the provision of comprehensive visitor services (
e.g.,
when a lodging concessioner may provide free transportation services to guests). Visitor services may include, but are not limited to, lodging, campgrounds, food service, merchandising, tours, recreational activities, guiding, transportation, and equipment rental. Visitor services also include the sale of interpretive materials or the conduct of interpretive programs for a fee or charge to visitors.

# Subpart C—Solicitation, Selection and Award Procedures
§ 51.4
How will the Director invite the general public to apply for the award of a concession contract and how will the Director determine when to issue a prospectus for a new concession opportunity where no prior concession services had been provided?
(a) The Director must award all concession contracts, except as otherwise expressly provided in this part, through a public solicitation process. The public solicitation process begins with the issuance of a prospectus. The prospectus will invite the general public to submit proposals for the contract. The prospectus will describe the terms and conditions of the concession contract to be awarded and the procedures to be followed in the selection of the best proposal.
(b) Except as provided under § 51.47 (which calls for a final administrative decision on preferred offeror appeals prior to the selection of the best proposal) the terms, conditions and determinations of the prospectus and the terms and conditions of the proposed concession contract as described in the prospectus, including, without limitation, its minimum franchise fee, are not final until the concession contract is awarded. The Director will not issue a new prospectus for a concession contract earlier than eighteen months prior to the expiration of a related existing contract except when the Director determines it is necessary to provide additional time to potential offerors, such as when additional time is needed to avoid issuing a prospectus during a busy operating season or where potential offerors must make significant financial commitments to meet the requirements of the contract. This additional time should be as short as prudent.
(c) The Director will issue a prospectus for a new concession opportunity in a park area when the Director determines, in the Director's discretion, that a new concession opportunity is necessary and appropriate for public use and enjoyment of the park area and is consistent to the highest practicable degree with the preservation and conservation of the resources and values of the park area.
(d) The Director will establish procedures to solicit and consider suggestions for new concession opportunities within park areas from the public (including from potential concessioners) through the National Park Service's planning processes for such opportunities as well as through annual invitations for proposals for improving visitor experiences through third-party providers. The Director shall fully review all proposals received, provide a written evaluation for each proposal, and make all proposals and completed evaluations available to the public.
(e) In determining whether to issue a prospectus for a concession contract to provide such new concession opportunities, the Director will consider relevant factors including whether the suggested concession opportunities are adequately provided within the park area by other authorized commercial providers; the potential for augmented resources for park area operations; the effects of the suggested concession operations on the park area; the long-term viability of the suggested concession opportunities; the innovative quality of the suggestions; and the potential impacts on park area visitation and on communities located near the park area.
(f) No preference to a concession contract shall be granted to a party based on that party's having submitted a proposal for a new concession opportunity described in this section. The Director, however, may award a contract noncompetitively to such a party when determined appropriate as described in § 51.25.
(g) The Director may consider suggestions for new services as additional services to be provided through an existing concession contract as described in § 51.76.
(h) Nothing in this section shall constrain the discretion of the Director to solicit or consider suggestions for new concession opportunities or collect other information that can be used by the Director in connection with a new concession opportunity.
[65 FR 20668, Apr. 17, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 90117, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 51.5
What information will the prospectus include?
The prospectus must include the following information:
(a) The minimum requirements of the concession contract. The minimum requirements of the concession contract, include, but are not limited to the following:
(1) The minimum acceptable franchise fee or other forms of consideration to the Government;
(2) The minimum visitor services that the concessioner is to be authorized to provide;
(3) The minimum capital investment, if any, that the concessioner must make;
(4) The minimum measures that the concessioner must take to ensure the protection, conservation, and preservation of the resources of the park area; and
(5) Any other minimum requirements that the new contract may specify, including, as appropriate and without limitation, measurable performance standards;
(b) The terms and conditions of a current concession contract, if any, relating to the visitor services to be provided, including all fees and other forms of compensation provided to the Director under such contract;
(c) A description of facilities and services, if any, that the Director may provide to the concessioner under the terms of the concession contract, including, but not limited to, public access, utilities and buildings;
(d) An estimate of the amount of any compensation due a current concessioner from a new concessioner under the terms of an existing or prior concession contract;
(e) A statement identifying each principal selection factor for proposals, including subfactors, if any, and secondary factors, if any, and the weight and relative importance of the principal and any secondary factors in the selection decision;
(f) Such other information related to the proposed concession contract as is provided to the Director pursuant to a concession contract or is otherwise available to the Director, as the Director determines is necessary to allow for the submission of competitive proposals. Among other such necessary information a prospectus will contain (when applicable) are the gross receipts of the current concession contract broken out by department for the three most recent years; franchise fees charged under the current concession contract for the three most recent years; merchandise inventories of the current concessioner for the three most recent years; and the depreciable fixed assets and net depreciable fixed assets of the current concessioner; and
(g) Identification of a preferred offeror for a qualified concession contract, if any, and, if a preferred offeror exists, a description of a right of preference to the award of the concession contract.
§ 51.6
Will a concession contract be developed for a particular potential offeror?
The terms and conditions of a concession contract must represent the requirements of the Director in accordance with the purposes of this part and must not be developed to accommodate the capabilities or limitations of any potential offeror. The Director must not provide a current concessioner or other person any information as to the content of a proposed or issued prospectus that is not available to the general public.
§ 51.7
How will information be provided to a potential offeror after the prospectus is issued?
Material information directly related to the prospectus and the concession contract (except when otherwise publicly available) that the Director provides to any potential offeror prior to the submission of proposals must be made available to all persons who have requested a copy of the prospectus.
§ 51.8
Where will the Director publish the notice of availability of the prospectus?
The Director will publish notice of the availability of the prospectus at least once in the System for Award Management (SAM) where Federal business opportunities are electronically posted, or in a similar publication if this site ceases to be used. The Director, if determined appropriate, may also publish notices electronically on websites including social media and
in local or national newspapers or trade magazines.
[88 FR 90118, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 51.9
How do I get a copy of the prospectus?
The Director will make the prospectus available upon request to all interested persons. The Director may charge a reasonable fee for a prospectus, not to exceed printing, binding and mailing costs.
§ 51.10
How long will I have to submit my proposal?
The Director will allow an appropriate period for submission of proposals that is not less than 60 days unless the Director determines that a shorter time is appropriate in the circumstances of a particular solicitation. Proposals that are not timely submitted will not be considered by the Director.
§ 51.11
May the Director amend, extend, or cancel a prospectus of solicitation?
The Director may amend a prospectus or extend the submission date, or both, prior to and on the proposal due date. The Director may cancel a solicitation at any time prior to award of the concession contract if the Director determines in his discretion that this action is appropriate in the public interest. No offeror or other person will obtain compensable or other legal rights as a result of an amended, extended, canceled, or resolicited solicitation for a concession contract.
[79 FR 58263, Sept. 29, 2014]
§ 51.12
Are there any other additional procedures that I must follow to apply for a concession contract?
The Director may specify in a prospectus additional solicitation and/or selection procedures consistent with the requirements of this part in the interest of enhancing competition. Such additional procedures may include, but are not limited to, issuance of a two-phased prospectus—a qualifications phase and a proposal phase. The Director will incorporate simplified administrative requirements and procedures in prospectuses for concession contracts that the Director considers are likely to be awarded to a sole proprietorship or are likely to have annual gross receipts of less than $100,000. Such simplified requirements and procedures may include, as appropriate and without limitation, a reduced application package, a shorter proposal submission period, and a reduction of proposal information requirements.
§ 51.13
When will the Director determine if proposals are responsive?
The Director will determine if proposals are responsive or non-responsive prior to or as of the date of selection of the best proposal.
§ 51.14
What happens if no responsive proposals are submitted?
If no responsive proposals are submitted, the Director may cancel the solicitation, or, after cancellation, establish new contract requirements and issue a new prospectus.
§ 51.15
May I clarify, amend or supplement my proposal after it is submitted?
(a) The Director may request from any offeror who has submitted a timely proposal a written clarification of its proposal. Clarification refers to making clear any ambiguities that may have been contained in a proposal but does not include amendment or supplementation of a proposal. An offeror may not amend or supplement a proposal after the submission date unless requested by the Director to do so and the Director provides all offerors that submitted proposals a similar opportunity to amend or supplement their proposals. Permitted amendments must be limited to modifying particular aspects of proposals resulting from a general failure of offerors to understand particular requirements of a prospectus or a general failure of offerors to submit particular information required by a prospectus.
(b) A proposal may suggest changes to the terms and conditions of a proposed concession contract and still be considered as responsive so long as the suggested changes are not conditions to acceptance of the terms and conditions of the proposed concession contract. The fact that a proposal may
suggest changes to the proposed concession contract does not mean that the Director may accept those changes without a resolicitation of the concession opportunity.
§ 51.16
How will the Director evaluate proposals and select the best one?
(a) The Director will apply the selection factors set forth in § 51.17 by assessing each timely proposal under each of the selection factors on the basis of a narrative explanation, discussing any subfactors when applicable. For each selection factor, the Director will assign a score that reflects the determined merits of the proposal under the applicable selection factor and in comparison to the other proposals received, if any. The maximum aggregate score available for all selection factors will be 40 points, and every selection factor used must have a maximum score of one point or higher. Each selection factor will be scored as identified in the prospectus, subject to the following criteria:
(1) The maximum score assignable for the principal selection factor described in § 51.17(a)(5) will be less than the lowest maximum score of the other principal selection factors described in § 51.17(a) with a score of one point for agreeing to the prospectus franchise fee (as defined in § 51.78) or, when the Director determines appropriate, the minimum acceptable franchise fee set forth in the prospectus.
(2) The maximum score assignable for the secondary selection factor set forth in § 51.17(b)(1) will be less than the maximum score for the principal selection factor described in § 51.17(a)(5); and,
(3) The maximum scores assignable for any additional secondary selection factors set forth in § 51.17(b) will be such that the maximum aggregate score assignable for all additional secondary selection factors will be less than the maximum score for the principal selection factor described in § 51.17(a)(5).
(b) The Director will then assign a cumulative point score to each proposal based on the assigned score for each selection factor.
(c) The responsive proposal with the highest cumulative point score will be selected by the Director as the best proposal. If two or more responsive proposals receive the same highest point score, the Director will select as the best proposal (from among the responsive proposals with the same highest point score), the responsive proposal that the Director determines on the basis of a narrative explanation will, on an overall basis, best achieve the purposes of this part. Consideration of revenue to the United States in this determination and in scoring proposals under principal selection factor five will be subordinate to the objectives of protecting, conserving, and preserving the resources of the park area and of providing necessary and appropriate visitor services to the public at reasonable rates.
[65 FR 20668, Apr. 17, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 90118, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 51.17
What are the selection factors?
(a) The five principal selection factors are:
(1) The responsiveness of the proposal to the objectives, as described in the prospectus, of protecting, conserving, and preserving resources of the park area;
(2) The responsiveness of the proposal to the objectives, as described in the prospectus, of providing necessary and appropriate visitor services at reasonable rates;
(3) The experience and related background of the offeror, including the past performance and expertise of the offeror in providing the same or similar visitor services as those to be provided under the concession contract;
(4) The financial capability of the offeror to carry out its proposal; and
(5) The amount of the proposed minimum franchise fee, if any, and/or other forms of financial consideration to the Director. However, consideration of revenue to the United States will be subordinate to the objectives of protecting, conserving, and preserving resources of the park area and of providing necessary and appropriate visitor services to the public at reasonable rates.
(b) The secondary selection factors are:
(1) The quality of the offeror's proposal to conduct its operations in a
manner that furthers the protection, conservation and preservation of park area and other resources through environmental management programs and activities, including, without limitation, energy conservation, waste reduction, and recycling. A prospectus may exclude this secondary factor if the prospectus solicits proposals for a concession contract that is anticipated to have annual gross receipts of less than $100,000 and the activities that will be conducted under the contract are determined by the Director as likely to have only limited impacts on the resources of the park area; and
(2) Any other selection factors the Director may adopt in furtherance of the purposes of this part, including, where appropriate and otherwise permitted by law, the extent to which a proposal calls for the employment of Indians (including Native Alaskans) and/or involvement of businesses owned by Indians, Indian Tribes, Native Alaskans, or minority or women-owned businesses in operations under the proposed concession contract. When appropriate, the Director will include a secondary selection factor requesting suggestions for new services.
(c) A prospectus may include subfactors under each of the principal and secondary factors to describe specific elements of the selection factor.
[65 FR 20668, Apr. 17, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 90118, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 51.18
When must the Director reject a proposal?
The Director must reject any proposal received, regardless of the franchise fee offered, if the Director makes any of the following determinations: the offeror is not a qualified person as defined in this part; The offeror is not likely to provide satisfactory service; the proposal is not a responsive proposal as defined in this part; or, the proposal is not responsive to the objectives of protecting and preserving the resources of the park area and of providing necessary and appropriate services to the public at reasonable rates.
§ 51.19
Must the Director award the concession contract that is set forth in the prospectus?
Except for incorporating into the concession contract appropriate elements of the best proposal, the Director must not award a concession contract which materially amends or does not incorporate the terms and conditions of the concession contract as set forth in the prospectus.
§ 51.20
Does this part limit the authority of the Director?
Nothing in this part may be construed as limiting the authority of the Director at any time to determine whether to solicit or award a concession contract, to cancel a solicitation, or to terminate a concession contract in accordance with its terms.
§ 51.21
When must the selected offeror execute the concession contract?
The selected offeror must execute the concession contract promptly after selection of the best proposal and within the time established by the Director. If the selected offeror fails to execute the concession contract in this period, the Director may select another responsive proposal or may cancel the selection and resolicit the concession contract.
§ 51.22
When may the Director award the concession contract?
Before awarding a concession contract with anticipated annual gross receipts in excess of $5,000,000 or of more than 10 years in duration, the Director must submit the concession contract to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate. The Director must not award any such concession contract until 60 days after the submission. Award of these contracts may not be made without the Director's written approval. The Director may not delegate this approval except to a Deputy Director or an Associate Director. The Director may award a concession contract that is not subject to these or other special award requirements at any time after selection of
the best proposal and execution of the concession contract by the offeror.
[65 FR 20668, Apr. 17, 2000, as amended at 79 FR 58263, Sept. 29, 2014]

# Subpart D—Non-Competitive Award of Concession Contracts
§ 51.23
May the Director extend an existing concession contract without a public solicitation?
Notwithstanding the public solicitation requirements of this part, the Director may award non-competitively an extension or extensions of an existing concession contract to the current concessioner for additional terms not to exceed three years in the aggregate,
e.g.,
the Director may award one extension with a three year term, two consecutive extensions, one with a two year term and one with a one year term, or three consecutive extensions with a term of one year each. The Director may award such extensions only if the Director determines that the extension is necessary to avoid interruption of visitor services. Before determining to award such a contract extension, the Director must take all reasonable and appropriate steps to consider alternatives to avoid an interruption of visitor services. Further, the Director must publish notice in the
Federal Register
of the proposed extension at least 30 days in advance of the award of the extension (except in emergency situations).
§ 51.24
May the Director award a temporary concession contract without a public solicitation?
(a) Notwithstanding the public solicitation requirements of this part, the Director may non-competitively award a temporary concession contract or contracts for consecutive terms not to exceed three years in the aggregate—
e.g.,
the Director may award one temporary contract with a three year term; two consecutive temporary contracts, one with a two year term and one with a one year term; or three consecutive temporary contracts with a term of one year each—to any qualified person for the conduct of particular visitor services in a park area if the Director determines that the award is necessary to avoid interruption of visitor services. Before determining to award a temporary concession contract, the Director must take all reasonable and appropriate steps to consider alternatives to avoid an interruption of visitor services. Further, the Director must publish notice in the
Federal Register
of the proposed temporary concession contract at least 30 days in advance of its award (except in emergency situations). A temporary concession contract may not be extended. A temporary concession contract may be awarded to continue visitor services that were provided under an extended concession contract pursuant to the terms and conditions in this paragraph. A temporary concession contract awarded under the authority of the prior sentence will be considered as a contract extension for purposes of determining the existence of a preferred offeror under § 51.44.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) A concessioner holding a temporary concession contract will not be eligible for a right of preference to a qualified concession contract that replaces a temporary contract unless the concessioner holding the temporary concession contract was determined or was eligible to be determined a preferred offeror under an extended concession contract that was replaced by a temporary concession contract under paragraph (a) of this section.
[79 FR 58263, Sept. 29, 2014]
§ 51.25
Are there any other circumstances in which the Director may award a concession contract without public solicitation?
Notwithstanding the public solicitation requirements of this part, the Director may award a concession contract non-competitively to any qualified person if the Director determines both that such an award is otherwise consistent with the requirements of this part and that extraordinary circumstances exist under which compelling and equitable considerations require the award of the concession contract to a particular qualified person in the public interest. Indisputable equitable considerations must be the determinant of such circumstances. The Director must publish a notice of his intention to award a concession contract
to a specified person under these circumstances and the reasons for the proposed award in the
Federal Register
at least 60 days before the concession contract is awarded. In addition, the Director also must notify the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives at least 60 days before the contract is awarded. The Director must personally approve any such award and may only do so with the prior written approval of the Secretary.

# Subpart E—Right of Preference to a New Concession Contract
§ 51.26
What solicitation, selection and award procedures apply when a preferred offeror exists?
The solicitation, selection and award procedures described in this part will apply to the solicitation, selection and award of contracts for which a preferred offeror exists, except as modified by this subpart, subpart F and other sections of this part related to preferred offerors and/or a right of preference.
§ 51.27
Who is a preferred offeror and what are a preferred offeror's rights to the award of a new concession contract?
(a) A preferred offeror is a concessioner that the Director has determined is eligible to exercise a right of preference to the award of a qualified new concession contract in accordance with this part.
(b) A right of preference is the right of a preferred offeror, if it submits a responsive proposal for a qualified concession contract, to match in accordance with the requirements of this part the terms and conditions of a competing proposal that the Director has determined to be the best responsive proposal.
§ 51.28
When will the Director determine whether a concessioner is a preferred offeror?
Subject to §§ 51.46 and 51.47, the Director will determine whether a concessioner is a preferred offeror in accordance with this part no later than the date of issuance of a prospectus for the applicable new concession contract.
§ 51.29
How will I know when a preferred offeror exists?
If the Director has determined that a preferred offeror exists for a qualified concession contract under this part, the Director will identify the preferred offeror in the applicable prospectus and describe the preferred offeror's right of preference.
§ 51.30
What must a preferred offeror do before it may exercise a right of preference?
A preferred offeror must submit a responsive proposal pursuant to the terms of an applicable prospectus for a qualified concession contract if the preferred offeror wishes to exercise a right of preference.
§ 51.31
What happens if a preferred offeror does not submit a responsive proposal?
If a preferred offeror fails to submit a responsive proposal, the offeror may not exercise a right of preference. The concession contract will be awarded to the offeror submitting the best responsive proposal.
§ 51.32
What is the process if the Director determines that the best responsive proposal was not submitted by a preferred offeror?
If the Director determines that a proposal other than the responsive proposal submitted by a preferred offeror is the best proposal submitted for a qualified concession contract, then the Director must advise the preferred offeror of the better terms and conditions of the best proposal and permit the preferred offeror to amend its proposal to match them. An amended proposal must match the better terms and conditions of the best proposal as determined by the Director. If the preferred offeror duly amends its proposal within the time period allowed by the Director, and the Director determines that the amended proposal matches the better terms and conditions of the best proposal, then the Director must select the preferred offeror for award of the contract upon the amended terms and
conditions, subject to other applicable requirements of this part.
§ 51.33
What if a preferred offeror does not timely amend its proposal to meet the terms and conditions of the best proposal?
If a preferred offeror does not amend its proposal to meet the terms and conditions of the best proposal within the time period allowed by the Director, the Director will select for award of the contract the offeror that submitted the best responsive proposal.
§ 51.34
What will the Director do if a selected preferred offeror does not timely execute the new concession contract?
If a selected preferred offeror fails to execute the concession contract in the time period specified by the Director, the Director either will select for award of the concession contract the offeror that submitted the best responsive proposal, or will cancel the solicitation and may resolicit the concession contract but only without recognition of a preferred offeror or right of preference.
§ 51.35
What happens to a right of preference if the Director receives no responsive proposals?
If the Director receives no responsive proposals, including a responsive proposal from a preferred offeror, in response to a prospectus for a qualified concession contract for which a preferred offeror exists, the Director must cancel the solicitation and may resolicit the concession contract or take other appropriate action in accordance with this part. No right of preference will apply to a concession contract resolicited under this section unless the contract is resolicited upon terms and conditions materially more favorable to offerors than those contained in the original contract.

# Subpart F—Determining a Preferred Offeror
§ 51.36
What conditions must be met before the Director determines that a concessioner is a preferred offeror?
A concessioner is a preferred offeror if the Director determines that the following conditions are met:
(a) The concessioner was a satisfactory concessioner during the term of its concession contract as determined under this part;
(b) The applicable new contract is a qualified concession contract as determined under this part; and
(c) If applicable, the concessioner's previous concession contract was an outfitter and guide concession contract as determined under this part.
§ 51.37
How will the Director determine that a new concession contract is a qualified concession contract?
A new concession contract is a qualified concession contract if the Director determines that:
(a) The new concession contract provides for the continuation of the visitor services authorized under a previous concession contract. The visitor services to be continued under the new contract may be expanded or diminished in scope but, for purposes of a qualified concession contract, may not materially differ in nature and type from those authorized under the previous concession contract; and either
(b) The new concession contract that is to replace the previous concession contract is estimated to result in, as determined by the Director, annual gross receipts of less than $500,000 in the first 12 months of its term; or
(c) The new concession contract is an outfitter and guide concession contract as described in this part.
§ 51.38
How will the Director determine that a concession contract is an outfitter and guide concession contract?
The Director will determine that a concession contract is an outfitter and guide concession contract if the Director determines that:
(a) The concession contract solely authorizes or requires (except for park
area access purposes) the conduct of specialized outdoor recreation guide services in the backcountry of a park area; and
(b) The conduct of operations under the concession contract requires employment of specially trained and experienced guides to accompany park visitors who otherwise may not have the skills and equipment to engage in the activity and to provide a safe and enjoyable experience for these visitors.
§ 51.39
What are some examples of outfitter and guide concession contracts?
Outfitter and guide concession contracts may include, but are not limited to, concession contracts which solely authorize or require the guided conduct of river running, hunting (where otherwise lawful in a park area), fishing, horseback, camping, and mountaineering activities in the backcountry of a park area.
§ 51.40
What are some factors to be considered in determining that outfitter and guide operations are conducted in the backcountry?
Determinations as to whether outfitter and guide operations are conducted in the backcountry of a park area will be made on a park-by-park basis, taking into account the park area's particular geographic circumstances. Factors that generally may indicate that outfitter and guide operations are conducted in the backcountry of a park area include, without limitation, the fact that:
(a) The operations occur in areas remote from roads and developed areas;
(b) The operations are conducted within a designated natural area of a park area;
(c) The operations occur in areas where search and rescue support is not readily available; and
(d) All or a substantial portion of the operations occur in designated or proposed wilderness areas.
[65 FR 20668, Apr. 17, 2000; 65 FR 54155, Sept. 7, 2000]
§ 51.41
If the concession contract grants a compensable interest in real property improvements, will the Director find that the concession contract is an outfitter and guide concession contract?
The Director will find that a concession contract is not an outfitter and guide contract if the contract grants any compensable interest in real property improvements on lands owned by the United States within a park area.
§ 51.42
Are there exceptions to this compensable interest prohibition?
Two exceptions to this compensable interest prohibition exist:
(a) The prohibition will not apply to real property improvements lawfully constructed by a concessioner with the written approval of the Director in accordance with the express terms of a 1965 Act concession contract; and
(b) The prohibition will not apply to real property improvements constructed and owned in fee simple by a concessioner or owned in fee simple by a concessioner's predecessor before the land on which they were constructed was included within the boundaries of the applicable park area.
§ 51.43
Who will make the determination that a concession contract is an outfitter and guide contract?
Only a Deputy Director or an Associate Director will make the determination that a concession contract is or is not an outfitter and guide contract.
§ 51.44
How will the Director determine if a concessioner was satisfactory for purposes of a right of preference?
To be a satisfactory concessioner for the purposes of a right of preference, the Director must determine that the concessioner operated satisfactorily on an overall basis during the term of its applicable concession contract, including extensions of the contract. The Director will base this determination in consideration of annual evaluations made by the Director of the concessioner's performance under the terms of the applicable concession contract
and other relevant facts and circumstances. The Director must determine that a concessioner did not operate satisfactorily on an overall basis during the term of a concession contract if the annual evaluations of the concessioner made subsequent to May 17, 2000 are less than satisfactory for any two or more years of operation under the concession contract.
§ 51.45
Will a concessioner that has operated for less than the entire term of a concession contract be considered a satisfactory operator?
The Director will determine that a concessioner has operated satisfactorily on an overall basis during the term of a concession contract only if the concessioner (including a new concessioner resulting from an assignment as described in this part, including, without limit, an assignment of a controlling interest in a concessioner as defined in this part) has or will have operated for more than two years under a concession contract with a term of more than five years or for one year under a concession contract with a term of five years or less. For purposes of this section, a new concessioner's first day of operation under an assigned concession contract (or as a new concessioner after approval of an assignment of a controlling interest in a concessioner) will be the day the Director approves the assignment pursuant to this part. If the Director determines that an assignment was compelled by circumstances beyond the control of the assigning concessioner, the Director may make an exception to the requirements of this section.
§ 51.46
May the Director determine that a concessioner has not operated satisfactorily after a prospectus is issued?
The Director may determine that a concessioner has not operated satisfactorily on an overall basis during the term of a current concession contract, and therefore is not a preferred offeror, after a prospectus for a new contract has been issued and prior to the selection of the best proposal submitted in response to a prospectus. In circumstances where the usual time of an annual evaluation of a concessioner's performance may not occur until after the selection of the best proposal submitted in response to a prospectus, the Director will make an annual performance evaluation based on a shortened operations period prior to the selection of the best proposal. Such shorter operations period, however, must encompass at least 6 months of operations from the previous annual performance evaluation. In the event the concessioner receives a second less than satisfactory annual evaluation (including, without limitation, one based on a shortened operations period), the prospectus must be amended to delete a right of preference or canceled and reissued without recognition of a right of preference to the new concession contract.
[65 FR 20668, Apr. 17, 2000; 65 FR 54155, Sept. 7, 2000]
§ 51.47
How does a person appeal a decision of the Director that a concessioner is or is not a preferred offeror?
(a) Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this section, any person may appeal to the Director a determination that a concessioner is or is not a preferred offeror for the purposes of a right of preference in renewal, including, without limitation, whether the applicable new concession contract is or is not a qualified concession contract as described in this part. This appeal must specify the grounds for the appeal and be received by the Director in writing no later than 30 days after the date of the determination. If applicable, the Director may extend the submission date for an appeal under this section upon request by the concessioner if the Director determines that good cause for an extension exists.
(b) The appeal provided by this section will not apply to determinations that a concessioner is not a preferred offeror as a consequence of two or more less than satisfactory annual evaluations as described in this part as the concessioner is given an opportunity to appeal those evaluations after they are made in accordance with applicable administrative guidelines.
(c) The Director must consider an appeal under this section personally or must authorize a Deputy Director or
Associate Director to consider the appeal. The deciding official must prepare a written decision on the appeal, taking into account the content of the appeal, other written information available, and the requirements of this part. The written decision on the appeal must be issued by the date of selection of the best proposal submitted in response to a prospectus. If the appeal results in a concessioner being determined a preferred offeror, then the concessioner will have a right of preference to the qualified concession contract as described in and subject to the conditions of this part, including, but not limited to, the obligation to submit a responsive proposal pursuant to the terms of the related prospectus. If the appeal results in a determination that a concessioner is not a preferred offeror, no right of preference will apply to the award of the related concession contract and the award will be made in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(d) No person will be considered as having exhausted administrative remedies with respect to a determination by the Director that a concessioner is or is not a preferred offeror until the Director issues a written decision in response to an appeal submitted pursuant to this section, or, where applicable, pursuant to an appeal provided by the administrative guidelines described in paragraph (b) of this section. The decision of the Director is final agency action.
§ 51.48
What happens to a right of preference in the event of termination of a concession contract for unsatisfactory performance or other breach?
Nothing in this part will limit the right of the Director to terminate a concession contract pursuant to its terms at any time for less than satisfactory performance or otherwise. If a concession contract is terminated for less than satisfactory performance or other breach, the terminated concessioner, even if otherwise qualified, will not be eligible to be a preferred offeror. The fact that the Director may not have terminated a concession contract for less than satisfactory performance or other breach will not limit the authority of the Director to determine that a concessioner did not operate satisfactorily on an overall basis during the term of a concession contract.
§ 51.49
May the Director grant a right of preference except in accordance with this part?
The Director may not grant a concessioner or any other person a right of preference or any other form of entitlement of any nature to a new concession contract, except in accordance with this part or in accordance with 36 CFR part 13.
§ 51.50
Does the existence of a preferred offeror limit the authority of the Director to establish the terms of a concession contract?
The existence of a preferred offeror does not limit the authority of the Director to establish, in accordance with this part, the terms and conditions of a new concession contract, including, but not limited to, terms and conditions that modify the terms and conditions of a prior concession contract.

# Subpart G—Leasehold Surrender Interest
§ 51.51
What special terms must I know to understand leasehold surrender interest?
To understand leasehold surrender interest, you must refer to these definitions, applicable in the singular or the plural, whenever these terms are used in this part:
Arbitration
means binding arbitration conducted by an arbitration panel. All arbitration proceedings conducted under the authority of this subpart or subpart H of this part will utilize the following procedures unless otherwise agreed by the concessioner and the Director. One member of the arbitration panel will be selected by the concessioner, one member will be selected by the Director, and the third (neutral) member will be selected by the two party-appointed members. The neutral arbiter must be a licensed real estate appraiser. The expenses of the neutral arbiter and other associated common costs of the arbitration will be borne equally by the concessioner and the Director. The arbitration panel will adopt
procedures that treat each party equally, give each party the opportunity to be heard, and give each party a fair opportunity to present its case. Adjudicative procedures are not encouraged but may be adopted by the panel if determined necessary in the circumstances of the dispute. Determinations must be made by a majority of the members of the panel and will be binding on the concessioner and the Director.
A capital improvement
is a structure, fixture, or non-removable equipment provided by a concessioner pursuant to the terms of a concession contract and located on lands of the United States within a park area. A capital improvement does not include any interest in land. Additionally, a capital improvement does not include any interest in personal property of any kind including, but not limited to, vehicles, boats, barges, trailers, or other objects, regardless of size, unless an item of personal property becomes a fixture as defined in this part. Concession contracts may further describe, consistent with the limitations of this part and the 1998 Act, the nature and type of specific capital improvements in which a concessioner may obtain a leasehold surrender interest.
Construction cost
of a capital improvement means the total of the incurred eligible direct and indirect costs necessary for constructing or installing the capital improvement that are capitalized by the concessioner in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principals (GAAP). The term “construct” or “construction” as used in this part also means “install” or “installation” of fixtures where applicable.
Consumer Price Index
means the national “Consumer Price Index—All Urban Consumers” published by the Department of Labor. If this index ceases to be published, the Director will designate another regularly published cost-of-living index approximating the national Consumer Price Index.
Depreciation
means the loss of value in a capital improvement as evidenced by the condition and prospective serviceability of the capital improvement in comparison with a new unit of like kind.
Eligible direct costs
means the sum of all incurred capitalized costs (in amounts no higher than those prevailing in the locality of the project), that are necessary both for the construction of a capital improvement and are typically elements of a construction contract. Eligible direct costs may include, without limitation, the costs of (if capitalized in accordance with GAAP and in amounts no higher than those prevailing in the locality of the project): building permits; materials, products and equipment used in construction; labor used in construction; security during construction; contractor's shack and temporary fencing; material storage facilities; power line installation and utility costs during construction; performance bonds; and contractor's (and subcontractor's) profit and overhead (including job supervision, worker's compensation insurance and fire, liability, and unemployment insurance).
Eligible indirect costs
means, except as provided in the last sentence of this definition, the sum of all other incurred capitalized costs (in amounts no higher than those prevailing in the locality of the project) necessary for the construction of a capital improvement. Eligible indirect costs may include, without limitation, the costs of (if capitalized in accordance with GAAP and in amounts no higher than those prevailing in the locality of the project): architectural and engineering fees for plans, plan checks; surveys to establish building lines and grades; environmental studies; if the project is financed, the points, fees or service charges and interest on construction loans; all risk insurance expenses and ad valorem taxes during construction. The actual capitalized administrative expenses (in amounts no higher than those prevailing in the locality of the project) of the concessioner for direct, on-site construction inspection are eligible indirect costs. Other administrative expenses of the concessioner are not eligible indirect costs.
Fixtures and non-removable equipment
are manufactured items of personal property of independent form and utility necessary for the basic functioning of a structure that are affixed to and considered to be part of the structure
such that title is with the Director as real property once installed. Fixtures and non-removable equipment do not include building materials (e.g., wallboard, flooring, concrete, cinder blocks, steel beams, studs, window frames, windows, rafters, roofing, framing, siding, lumber, insulation, wallpaper, paint, etc.). Because of their special circumstances, floating docks (but not other types of floating property) constructed by a concessioner pursuant to the terms of a leasehold surrender interest concession contract are considered to be non-removable equipment for leasehold surrender interest purposes only. Except as otherwise indicated in this part, the term “fixture” as used in this part includes the term “non-removable equipment.”
Leasehold surrender interest
means a right to payment in accordance with this part for related capital improvements that a concessioner makes or provides within a park area on lands owned by the United States pursuant to this part and under the terms and conditions of an applicable concession contract. The existence of a leasehold surrender interest does not give the concessioner, or any other person, any right to conduct business in a park area, to utilize the related capital improvements, or to prevent the Director or another person from utilizing the related capital improvements. The existence of a leasehold surrender interest does not include any interest in the land on which the related capital improvements are located.
Leasehold surrender interest concession contract
means a concession contract that provides for leasehold surrender interest in capital improvements.
Leasehold surrender interest value
means the amount of compensation a concessioner is entitled to be paid for a leasehold surrender interest in capital improvements in accordance with this part. Unless otherwise provided by the terms of a leasehold surrender interest concession contract under the authority of section 405(a)(4) of the 1998 Act, leasehold surrender interest value in existing capital improvements is an amount equal to:
(1) The initial construction cost of the related capital improvement;
(2) Adjusted by (increased or decreased) the same percentage increase or decrease as the percentage increase or decrease in the Consumer Price Index from the date the Director approves the substantial completion of the construction of the related capital improvement to the date of payment of the leasehold surrender interest value;
(3) Less depreciation of the related capital improvement on the basis of its condition as of the date of termination or expiration of the applicable leasehold surrender interest concession contract, or, if applicable, the date on which a concessioner ceases to utilize a related capital improvement (
e.g.,
where the related capital improvement is taken out of service by the Director pursuant to the terms of a concession contract).
Major rehabilitation
means a planned rehabilitation of an existing structure that the Director determines:
(1) The construction cost of which exceeds thirty percent of the pre-rehabilitation value of the structure; and
(2) Improves visitor health, safety, and enjoyment or the health and safety of concessioner employees and will either enhance the property's overall value, prolong its useful life, or adapt it to new uses.
Pre-rehabilitation value
of an existing structure means the replacement cost of the structure less depreciation.
Real property improvements
means real property other than land, including, but not limited to, capital improvements.
Related capital improvement
or
related fixture
means a capital improvement in which a concessioner has a leasehold surrender interest.
Replacement cost
means the estimated cost to reconstruct, at current prices, an existing structure with utility equivalent to the existing structure, using modern materials and current standards, design and layout.
Structure
means a building, dock, or similar edifice affixed to the land so as to be part of the real estate. A structure may include both constructed infrastructure (
e.g.,
water, power and sewer lines) and constructed site improvements (
e.g.,
paved roads, retaining walls, sidewalks, paved driveways,
paved parking areas) that are permanently affixed to the land so as to be part of the real estate and that are in direct support of the use of a building, dock, or similar edifice. Landscaping that is integral to the construction of a structure is considered as part of a structure. Interior furnishings that are not fixtures are not part of a structure.
Substantial completion of a capital improvement
means the condition of a capital improvement construction project when the project is substantially complete and ready for use and/or occupancy.
[65 FR 20668, Apr. 17, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 90118, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 51.52
How do I obtain a leasehold surrender interest?
Leasehold surrender interest concession contracts will contain appropriate leasehold surrender interest terms and conditions consistent with this part. A concessioner will obtain leasehold surrender interest in capital improvements constructed in accordance with this part and the leasehold surrender interest terms and conditions of an applicable leasehold surrender interest concession contract.
§ 51.53
When may the Director authorize the construction of a capital improvement?
The Director may only authorize or require a concessioner to construct capital improvements on park lands in accordance with this part and under the terms and conditions of a leasehold surrender interest concession contract for the conduct by the concessioner of visitor services, including, without limitation, the construction of capital improvements necessary for the conduct of visitor services.
§ 51.54
What must a concessioner do before beginning to construct a capital improvement?
Before beginning to construct any capital improvement, the concessioner must obtain written approval from the Director in accordance with the terms of its leasehold surrender interest concession contract. The request for approval must include appropriate plans and specifications for the capital improvement and any other information that the Director may specify. The request must also include an estimate of the total construction cost of the capital improvement. The estimate of the total construction cost must specify all elements of the cost in such detail as is necessary to permit the Director to determine that they are elements of construction cost as defined in this part. (The approval requirements of this and other sections of this part also apply to any change orders to a capital improvement project and to any additions to a structure or replacement of fixtures as described in this part.)
§ 51.55
What must a concessioner do after substantial completion of the capital improvement?
Upon substantial completion of the construction of a capital improvement in which the concessioner is to obtain a leasehold surrender interest, the concessioner must provide the Director a detailed construction report. The construction report must be supported by actual invoices of the capital improvement's construction cost together with, if requested by the Director, a written certification from a certified public accountant. The construction report must document, and any requested certification by the certified public accountant must certify, that all components of the construction cost were incurred and capitalized by the concessioner in accordance with GAAP, and that all components are eligible direct or indirect construction costs as defined in this part. Invoices for additional construction costs of elements of the project that were not completed as of the date of substantial completion may subsequently be submitted to the Director for inclusion in the project's construction cost.
§ 51.56
How will the construction cost for purposes of leasehold surrender interest value be determined?
After receiving the detailed construction report (and certification, if requested), from the concessioner, the Director will review the report, certification and other information as appropriate to determine that the reported construction cost is consistent with the construction cost approved by the Director in advance of the construction
and that all costs included in the construction cost are eligible direct or indirect costs as defined in this part. The construction cost determined by the Director will be the final determination of construction cost for purposes of the leasehold surrender interest value in the related capital improvement unless the concessioner requests arbitration of the construction cost under § 51.57. The Director may at any time review a construction cost determination (subject to arbitration under § 51.57) if the Director has reason to believe that it was based on false, misleading or incomplete information.
[66 FR 35083, July 3, 2001]
§ 51.57
How does a concessioner request arbitration of the construction cost of a capital improvement?
If a concessioner requests arbitration of the construction cost of a capital improvement determined by the Director, the request must be made in writing to the Director within 3 months of the date of the Director's determination of construction cost under § 51.56. The arbitration procedures are described in § 51.51. The decision of the arbitration panel as to the construction cost of the capital improvement will be binding on the concessioner and the Director.
[66 FR 35083, July 3, 2001]
§ 51.58
What actions may or must the concessioner take with respect to a leasehold surrender interest?
The concessioner:
(a) May encumber a leasehold surrender interest in accordance with this part, but only for the purposes specified in this part;
(b) Where applicable, must transfer in accordance with this part its leasehold surrender interest in connection with any assignment, termination or expiration of the concession contract; and
(c) May relinquish or waive a leasehold surrender interest.
§ 51.59
Will a leasehold surrender interest be extinguished by expiration or termination of a leasehold surrender interest concession contract or may it be taken for public use?
A leasehold surrender interest may not be extinguished by the expiration or termination of a concession contract and a leasehold surrender interest may not be taken for public use except on payment of just compensation. Payment of leasehold surrender interest value pursuant to this part will constitute the payment of just compensation for leasehold surrender interest within the meaning of this part and for all other purposes.
§ 51.60
How will a new concession contract awarded to an existing concessioner treat a leasehold surrender interest obtained under a prior concession contract?
When a concessioner under a leasehold surrender interest concession contract is awarded a new concession contract by the Director, and the new concession contract continues a leasehold surrender interest in related capital improvements, then the concessioner's leasehold surrender interest value (established as of the date of expiration or termination of its prior concession contract) in the related capital improvements will be continued as the initial value (instead of initial construction cost) of the concessioner's leasehold surrender interest under the terms of the new concession contract. No compensation will be due the concessioner for its leasehold surrender interest or otherwise in these circumstances except as provided by this part.
§ 51.61
How is an existing concessioner who is not awarded a new concession contract paid for a leasehold surrender interest?
(a) When a concessioner is not awarded a new concession contract after expiration or termination of a leasehold surrender interest concession contract, or, the concessioner, prior to such termination or expiration, ceases to utilize under the terms of a concession contract capital improvements in which the concessioner has a leasehold surrender interest, the concessioner will be entitled to be paid its leasehold
surrender interest value in the related capital improvements. The leasehold surrender interest will not be transferred until payment of the leasehold surrender interest value. The date for payment of the leasehold surrender interest value, except in special circumstances beyond the Director's control, will be the date of expiration or termination of the leasehold surrender interest contract, or the date the concessioner ceases to utilize related capital improvements under the terms of a concession contract. Depreciation of the related capital improvements will be established as of the date of expiration or termination of the concession contract, or, if applicable, the date the concessioner ceases to utilize the capital improvements under the terms of a concession contract.
(b) In the event that extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the Director prevent the Director from making the leasehold surrender interest value payment as of the date of expiration or termination of the leasehold surrender interest concession contract, or, as of the date a concessioner ceases to utilize related capital improvements under the terms of a concession contract, the payment when made will include interest on the amount that was due on the date of expiration or termination of the concession contract or cessation of use for the period after the payment was due until payment is made (in addition to the inclusion of a continuing Consumer Price Index adjustment until the date payment is made). The rate of interest will be the applicable rate of interest established by law for overdue obligations of the United States. The payment for a leasehold surrender interest value will be made within one year after the expiration or termination of the concession contract or the cessation of use of related capital improvements under the terms of a concession contract.
§ 51.62
What is the process to determine the leasehold surrender interest value when the concessioner does not seek or is not awarded a new concession contract?
Leasehold surrender interest concession contracts must contain provisions under which the Director and the concessioner will seek to agree in advance of the expiration or other termination of the concession contract as to what the concessioner's leasehold surrender interest value will be on a unit-by-unit basis as of the date of expiration or termination of the concession contract. In the event that agreement cannot be reached, the provisions of the leasehold surrender interest concession contract must provide for the Director to make a final determination of leasehold surrender interest value unless binding arbitration as to the value is requested by the concessioner. The arbitration procedures are described in § 51.51. A prior decision as to the construction cost of capital improvements made by the Director or by an arbitration panel in accordance with this part are final and not subject to further arbitration.
[66 FR 35083, July 3, 2001]
§ 51.63
When a new concessioner pays a prior concessioner for a leasehold surrender interest, what is the leasehold surrender interest in the related capital improvements for purposes of a new concession contract?
A new leasehold surrender interest concession contract awarded to a new concessioner will require the new concessioner to pay the prior concessioner its leasehold surrender interest value in existing capital improvements as determined under § 51.62. The new concessioner upon payment will have a leasehold surrender interest in the related capital improvements on a unit-by-unit basis under the terms of the new leasehold surrender interest contract. Instead of initial construction cost, the initial value of such leasehold surrender interest will be the leasehold surrender interest value that the new concessioner was required to pay the prior concessioner.
§ 51.64
May the concessioner gain additional leasehold surrender interest by undertaking a major rehabilitation or adding to a structure in which the concessioner has a leasehold surrender interest?
A concessioner that, with the written approval of the Director, undertakes a major rehabilitation or adds a new
structure (
e.g.,
a new wing to an existing building or an extension of an existing sidewalk) to an existing structure in which the concessioner has a leasehold surrender interest, will increase its leasehold surrender interest in the related structure, effective as of the date of substantial completion of the major rehabilitation or new structure, by the construction cost of the major rehabilitation or new structure. The Consumer Price Index adjustment for leasehold surrender interest value purposes will apply to the construction cost as of the date of substantial completion of the major rehabilitation or new structure. Approvals for major rehabilitations and additions to structures are subject to the same requirements and conditions applicable to new construction as described in this part.
§ 51.65
May the concessioner gain additional leasehold surrender interest by replacing a fixture in which the concessioner has a leasehold surrender interest?
A concessioner that replaces an existing fixture in which the concessioner has a leasehold surrender interest with a new fixture will increase its leasehold surrender interest by the amount of the construction cost of the replacement fixture less the construction cost of the replaced fixture.
§ 51.66
Under what conditions will a concessioner obtain a leasehold surrender interest in existing real property improvements in which no leasehold surrender interest exists?
(a) A concession contract may require the concessioner to replace fixtures in real property improvements in which there is no leasehold surrender interest (e.g., fixtures attached to an existing government facility assigned by the Director to the concessioner). A leasehold surrender interest will be obtained by the concessioner in such fixtures subject to the approval and determination of construction cost and other conditions contained in this part.
(b) A concession contract may require the concessioner to undertake a major rehabilitation of a structure in which there is no leasehold surrender interest (
e.g.,
a government-constructed facility assigned to the concessioner). Upon substantial completion of the major rehabilitation, the concessioner will obtain a leasehold surrender interest in the structure. The initial construction cost of this leasehold surrender interest will be the construction cost of the major rehabilitation. Depreciation for purposes of leasehold surrender interest value will apply only to the rehabilitated components of the related structure.
§ 51.67
Will a concessioner obtain leasehold surrender interest as a result of repair and maintenance of real property improvements?
A concessioner will not obtain initial or increased leasehold surrender interest as a result of repair and maintenance of real property improvements unless a repair and maintenance project is a major rehabilitation.

# Subpart H—Possessory Interest
§ 51.68
If a concessioner under a 1965 Act concession contract is not awarded a new concession contract, how will a concessioner that has a possessory interest receive compensation for its possessory interest?
A concessioner that has possessory interest in real property improvements pursuant to the terms of a 1965 Act concession contract, will, if the prior concessioner does not seek or is not awarded a new concession contract upon expiration or other termination of its 1965 Act concession contract, be entitled to receive compensation for its possessory interest in the amount and manner described by the possessory interest concession contract. The concessioner shall also be entitled to receive all other compensation, including any compensation for property in which there is no possessory interest, to the extent and in the manner that the possessory interest contract may provide.
§ 51.69
What happens if there is a dispute between the new concessioner and a prior concessioner as to the value of the prior concessioner's possessory interest?
In case of a dispute between a new concessioner and a prior concessioner
as to the value of the prior concessioner's possessory interest, the dispute will be resolved under the procedures contained in the possessory interest concession contract. A new concessioner will not agree on the value of a prior concessioner's possessory interest without the prior written approval of the Director unless the value is determined through the binding determination process required by the possessory interest concession contract. The Director's written approval is to ensure that the value is consistent with the terms and conditions of the possessory interest concession contract. If a new concessioner and a prior concessioner engage in a binding process to resolve a dispute as to the value of the prior concessioner's possessory interest, the new concessioner must allow the Director to assist the new concessioner in the dispute process to the extent requested by the Director. Nothing in this section may be construed as limiting the rights of the prior concessioner to be paid for its possessory interest or other property by a new concessioner in accordance with the terms of its concession contract.
§ 51.70
If a concessioner under a 1965 Act concession contract is awarded a new concession contract, what happens to the concessioner's possessory interest?
In the event a concessioner under a 1965 Act concession contract is awarded a new concession contract replacing a possessory interest concession contract, the concessioner will obtain a leasehold surrender interest in its existing possessory interest real property improvements under the terms of the new concession contract. The concessioner will carry over as the initial value of such leasehold surrender interest (instead of initial construction cost) an amount equal to the value of its possessory interest in real property improvements as of the expiration or other termination of its possessory interest contract. This leasehold surrender interest will apply to the concessioner's possessory interest in real property improvements even if the real property improvements are not capital improvements as defined in this part. In the event that the concessioner had a possessory interest in only a portion of a structure, depreciation for purposes of leasehold surrender interest value under the new concession contract will apply only to the portion of the structure to which the possessory interest applied. The concessioner and the Director will seek to agree on an allocation of the leasehold surrender interest value on a unit by unit basis.
§ 51.71
What is the process to be followed if there is a dispute between the prior concessioner and the Director as to the value of possessory interest?
Unless other procedures are agreed to by the concessioner and the Director, in the event that a concessioner under a possessory interest concession contract is awarded a new concession contract and there is a dispute between the concessioner and the Director as to the value of such possessory interest, or, a dispute as to the allocation of an established overall possessory interest value on a unit by unit basis, the value and/or allocation will be established by arbitration in accordance with the terms and conditions of this part. The arbitration procedures are described in § 51.51.
§ 51.72
If a new concessioner is awarded the contract, what is the relationship between leasehold surrender interest and possessory interest?
If a new concessioner is awarded a leasehold surrender interest concession contract and is required to pay a prior concessioner for possessory interest in real property improvements, the new concessioner will have a leasehold surrender interest in the real property improvements under the terms of its new concession contract. The initial value of the leasehold surrender interest (instead of initial construction cost) will be the value of the possessory interest as of the expiration or other termination of the 1965 Act possessory interest concession contract. This leasehold surrender interest will apply even if the related possessory interest real property improvements are not capital improvements as defined in this part. In the event a new concessioner obtains a leasehold surrender interest in only a portion of a structure as a result
of the acquisition of a possessory interest from a prior concessioner, depreciation for purposes of leasehold surrender interest value will apply only to the portion of the structure to which the possessory interest applied.

# Subpart I—Concession Contract Provisions
§ 51.73
What is the term of a concession contract?
(a) A concession contract will generally be awarded for a term of 10 years or less and may not have a term of more than 20 years (unless extended in accordance with this part). The Director will issue a contract with a term longer than 10 years when the Director determines that the contract terms and conditions, including but not limited to the required construction of capital improvements or other potential investments related to providing required services, warrant a longer term. It is the policy of the Director under these requirements that the term of concession contracts should take into account the financial requirements of the concession contract, resource protection, visitor needs, and other factors the Director may deem appropriate.
(b) The Director may include in a concession contract, as advertised in the applicable prospectus, an optional term or terms in increments of at least one year and not to exceed three years in total, where the total term of the contract, including all optional terms, does not exceed 20 years. The Director shall specify in the contract the performance criteria (including evaluation ratings) the concessioner must meet to be eligible to exercise such option term or terms. Such contract also shall provide that the concessioner may exercise an optional term or terms only if the Director determines that the concessioner has met the performance criteria defined in the contract.
(c) When the Director determines, in his or her sole discretion, that a substantial interruption of or change to operations due to natural events or other reasons outside the control of the concessioner, including but not limited to government-ordered interruptions, warrants lengthening the original term of a concession contract, the Director and the concessioner may amend the contract to add the amount of time to the term of the contract deemed appropriate by the Director, which in no case may be longer than three years and where the total term of the contract, including any added time, may not exceed 20 years.
[88 FR 90118, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 51.74
When may a concession contract be terminated by the Director?
Concession contracts will contain appropriate provisions for suspension of operations under a concession contract and for termination of a concession contract by the Director for default, including, without limitation, unsatisfactory performance, or termination when necessary to achieve the purposes of the 1998 Act. The purposes of the 1998 Act include, but are not limited to, protecting, conserving, and preserving park area resources and providing necessary and appropriate visitor services in park areas.
§ 51.75
May the Director segment or split concession contracts?
The Director may not segment or otherwise split visitor services authorized or required under a single concession contract into separate concession contracts if the purpose of such action is to establish a concession contract with anticipated annual gross receipts of less than $500,000.
§ 51.76
May the Director amend a concession contract to provide new or additional visitor services or grant a concessioner a preferential right to provide new or additional visitor services?
(a) The Director may provide for new or additional services under the annual operating plan of the concessioner or through a contract amendment, as appropriate, where the Director determines the new or additional services are necessary and appropriate for public use and enjoyment of the park area in which they are located. New or additional services must be consistent to the highest practicable degree with the preservation and conservation of the resources and values of the park area.
Such new or additional services shall not represent a material change to the required and authorized services as set forth in the applicable prospectus or contract. Changes may include, but are not limited to, extensions of seasons, operating hours and increases in capacity limitations.
(b) When considering whether to amend the applicable terms of an existing concession contract to provide new or additional services, the Director should consider the benefit to the visitor experience where other concessioners or holders of commercial use authorizations in the same park area already provide those services.
(c) A concessioner that is allocated park area entrance, user days or similar resource use allocations for the purposes of a concession contract will not obtain any contractual or other rights to continuation of a particular allocation level pursuant to the terms of a concession contract or otherwise. Such allocations will be made, withdrawn and/or adjusted by the Director from time to time in furtherance of the purposes of this part.
[88 FR 90118, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 51.77
Will a concession contract provide a concessioner an exclusive right to provide visitor services?
Concession contracts will not provide in any manner an exclusive right to provide all or certain types of visitor services in a park area. The Director may limit the number of concession contracts to be awarded for the conduct of visitor services in a particular park area in furtherance of the purposes described in this part.
§ 51.78
Will a concession contract require a franchise fee and will the franchise fee be subject to adjustment?
(a) Concession contracts will provide for payment to the government of a franchise fee or other monetary consideration as determined by the Director upon consideration of the probable value to the concessioner of the privileges granted by the contract involved. This probable value will be based upon a reasonable opportunity for net profit in relation to capital invested, including any funds required to be placed in special accounts identified in § 51.81, and the obligations of the contract as described in the prospectus.
(b) Each prospectus shall include one of the following:
(1) A proposed franchise fee based on the probable value determination in the prospectus (“prospectus franchise fee”). The prospectus franchise fee should be set at a level to encourage competition for the concession opportunity through offers of either:
(i) Higher franchise fees; or
(ii) Lower franchise fees in combination with enhanced or higher quality service offerings that exceed prospectus requirements.
(2) Alternatively, when the Director determines that using a prospectus franchise fee is inappropriate for the particular concession opportunity, a minimum acceptable franchise fee based on the probable value determination and set at a level to encourage competition.
(c) In determining the minimum acceptable franchise fee or prospectus franchise fee to include in a prospectus, the Director shall use relevant industry data for similar operations (
e.g.,
hospitality, recreation) and provide in the prospectus the basis for the determination of the minimum acceptable franchise fee or prospectus franchise fee. Consideration of revenue to the United States shall be subordinate to the objectives of protecting and preserving park areas and of providing necessary and appropriate services for public use and enjoyment of the park area in which they are located at reasonable rates.
(d) The franchise fee contained in a concession contract with a term of 5 years or less may not be adjusted during the term of the contract. Concession contracts with a term of more than 5 years will contain a provision that provides for adjustment of the contract's established franchise fee at the request of the concessioner or the Director. An adjustment will occur if the concessioner and the Director mutually determine that extraordinary, unanticipated changes occurred after the effective date of the contract that
have affected or will significantly affect the probable value of the privileges granted by the contract. The concession contract will provide for arbitration if the Director and a concessioner cannot agree upon an appropriate adjustment to the franchise fee that reflects the extraordinary, unanticipated changes determined by the concessioner and the Director.
[88 FR 90119, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 51.79
May the Director waive payment of a franchise fee or other payments?
The Director may not waive the concessioner's payment of a franchise fee or other payments or consideration required by a concession contract, except that a franchise fee may be waived in part by the Director pursuant to administrative guidelines that may allow for a partial franchise fee waiver in recognition of exceptional performance by a concessioner under the terms of a concession contract. A concessioner will have no right to require the partial waiver of a franchise fee under this authority or under any related administrative guidelines.
§ 51.80
How will the Director establish franchise fees for multiple outfitter and guide concession contracts in the same park area?
If the Director awards more than one outfitter and guide concession contract that authorizes or requires the concessioners to provide the same or similar visitor services at the same approximate location or utilizing the same resource within a single park area, the Director will establish franchise fees for those concession contracts that are comparable. In establishing these comparable franchise fees, the Director will take into account, as appropriate, variations in the nature and type of visitor services authorized by particular concession contracts, including, but not limited to, length of the visitor experience, type of equipment utilized, relative expense levels, and other relevant factors. The terms and conditions of an existing concession contract will not be subject to modification or open to renegotiation by the Director because of the award of a new concession contract at the same approximate location or utilizing the same resource.
§ 51.81
May the Director include “special account” provisions in concession contracts?
(a) The Director may not include in concession contracts “special account” provisions, that is, contract provisions which require or authorize a concessioner to undertake with a specified percentage of the concessioner's gross receipts the construction of real property improvements, including, without limitation, capital improvements on park lands. The construction of capital improvements will be undertaken only pursuant to the leasehold surrender interest provisions of this part and the applicable concession contract.
(b) Concession contracts may contain provisions that require the concessioner to set aside a percentage of its gross receipts or other funds in a component renewal reserve to be used at the direction of the Director solely for renewal of real property components located in park areas and utilized by the concessioner in its operations. The anticipated timing and estimated costs of component renewal projects should be identified in the prospectus. Component renewal reserve funds may not be expended to construct real property improvements, including, without limitation, capital improvements. Component renewal reserve provisions may not be included in concession contracts in lieu of a franchise fee, and funds from these reserves will be expended only for the renewal of real property components as identified in the contract and assigned to the concessioner by the Director for use in its operations. The component renewal reserve provides a mechanism for a concessioner to reserve monies to fund component renewal projects. Concessioner obligations to maintain assigned concession facilities including component renewal are not limited to the monies in the component renewal reserve.
(c) A concession contract must require the concessioner to maintain in good condition through a comprehensive repair and maintenance program all of the concessioner's personal property used in the performance of the
concession contract and all real property improvements, including, without limitation, capital improvements, and, government personal property, assigned to the concessioner by a concession contract.
[65 FR 20668, Apr. 17, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 90119, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 51.82
Are a concessioner's rates required to be reasonable and subject to approval by the Director?
(a) Concession contracts will permit the concessioner to set reasonable and appropriate rates and charges for visitor services provided to the public, subject to approval by the Director.
(b) The Director shall approve rates and charges that are reasonable and appropriate in a manner that is as prompt and as unburdensome to the concessioner as possible and that relies on market forces to establish the reasonableness of such rates and charges to the maximum extent practicable. Unless otherwise provided in the concession contract, the reasonableness and appropriateness of rates and charges shall be determined primarily by comparison with those rates and changes for facilities, goods and services of comparable character under similar conditions with due consideration to the following factors and other factors deemed relevant by the Director: length of season; peakloads; average percentage of occupancy; accessibility; availability and cost of labor; and types of patronage.
(c) The Director shall identify the rate approval method to be used for each category of facilities, goods, and services to be provided when preparing the prospectus for a concession contract. The Director will use the least burdensome and most market-based comparability method. Unless the Director determines that market forces are not sufficient to determine reasonable and appropriate rates, the Director shall make a competitive market declaration as the means of comparability, and rates and charges will be approved based upon what the concessioner determines the market will bear. Other rate approval methods will be used only when the Director determines that market forces are inadequate to establish the reasonableness of rates and charges for the facilities, goods, or services. The Director will monitor rates and charges and competition and may change the rate approval method during the term of the contract to reflect changes in market conditions.
(d) Each contract shall include a schedule for rate requests and describe the information necessary to include in a complete rate request. Upon receipt of a request for a change in rates or charges the Director shall, as soon as practicable but not more than 20 days of receipt of the request, provide the concessioner with a written determination that the request is complete, or where the Director determines the request incomplete, a description of the information required for the request to be determined complete. Where changes in rates and charges have been requested and the request has been deemed complete, concessioners shall be allowed to notify visitors making reservations 90 or more days in advance of the anticipated rates. Those rates are subject to adjustment prior to the visit based upon the Director's review and final decision about the requested rate change . The Director shall issue a final decision approving or rejecting a request by a concessioner to change rates and charges to the public within 10 days of receipt of a complete request in accordance with the conditions described in the contract, except for those change requests requiring a full comparability study, for which the Director shall issue a decision as soon as possible and in no event longer than 30 days after receipt of the complete request. If the Director does not approve of the rates and charges proposed by the concessioner, the Director must provide in writing the substantive basis for any disapproval. These timeframes will be exceeded only in extraordinary circumstances and the concessioner must be notified in writing of such circumstances. If the Director fails to meet the timeframes described above, and has not notified the concessioner in writing of the existence of extraordinary circumstances justifying delay, a concessioner may implement the requested change to rates and charges until the Director issues a final written decision. If the Director
denies the requested change to rates and charges after implementation by the concessioner, the Director will not require the concessioner to retroactively adjust any rates or charges for services booked prior to the Director's denial.
[65 FR 20668, Apr. 17, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 90119, Dec. 29, 2023]
§ 51.83
Sale of Native Handicrafts.
(a) Where authorized by an applicable concession contract, concessioners are encouraged to sell authentic native handicrafts appropriately labeled or denoted as authentic that reflect the cultural, historical, and geographic characteristics of the related park area. To further this objective, concession contracts will contain a provision that exempts the revenue of a concessioner derived from the sale of appropriately labeled or denoted authentic native handicrafts from the concession contract's franchise fee.
(b) The sale of products as authentic native handicrafts is further regulated under the Indian Arts and Crafts Act, Public Law 101-644, as amended.
(c)
Definitions.
(1)
Alaska Native
means any citizen of the United States who is a person of one-fourth degree or more Alaskan Indian (including Tsimshian Indians not enrolled in the Metalakatla Indian Community), Eskimo, or Aleut blood, or combination thereof. The term includes any person so defined either or both of whose adoptive parents are not Alaska Natives. It also includes, in the absence of a minimum blood quantum, any citizen of the United States who is regarded as an Alaska Native by the Alaska native village or native groups of which he or she claims to be a member and whose father or mother is (or, if deceased, was) regarded as an Alaska Native by any village or group.
(2)
Arts and crafts objects
means art works and crafts that are in a traditional or non-traditional style or medium.
(3)
Authentic native handicrafts
means arts and crafts objects created by a United States Indian, Alaska Native, Native Samoan or Native Hawaiian that are made with the help of only such devices as allow the manual skill of the maker to condition the shape and design of each individual object.
(4)
Native Hawaiian
means any individual who is a descendant of the aboriginal people that, prior to 1778, occupied and exercised sovereignty in the area that now constitutes the State of Hawaii.
(5)
United States Indian
means any individual that is a member of an Indian tribe as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1159(c)(3).
[72 FR 32190, June 12, 2007]

# Subpart J—Assignment or Encumbrance of Concession Contracts
§ 51.84
What special terms must I know to understand this part?
To understand this subpart specifically and this part in general you must refer to these definitions, applicable in the singular or plural, whenever the terms are used in this part.
A
controlling interest in a concession contract
means an interest, beneficial or otherwise, that permits the exercise of managerial authority over a concessioner's performance under the terms of the concession contract and/or decisions regarding the rights and liabilities of the concessioner.
A
controlling interest in a concessioner
means, in the case of corporate concessioners, an interest, beneficial or otherwise, of sufficient outstanding voting securities or capital of the concessioner or related entities that permits the exercise of managerial authority over the actions and operations of the concessioner. A “controlling interest” in a concessioner also means, in the case of corporate concessioners, an interest, beneficial or otherwise, of sufficient outstanding voting securities or capital of the concessioner or related entities to permit the election of a majority of the Board of Directors of the concessioner. The term “controlling interest” in a concessioner, in the instance of a partnership, limited partnership, joint venture, other business organization or individual entrepreneurship, means ownership or beneficial ownership of the assets of the concessioner that permits the exercise
of managerial authority over the actions and operations of the concessioner.
Rights to operate and/or manage
under a concession contract means any arrangement where the concessioner employs or contracts with a third party to operate and/or manage the performance of a concession contract (or any portion thereof). This does not apply to arrangements with an individual employee.
Subconcessioner
means a third party that, with the approval of the Director, has been granted by a concessioner rights to operate under a concession contract (or any portion thereof), whether in consideration of a percentage of revenues or otherwise.
§ 51.85
What assignments require the approval of the Director?
The concessioner may not assign, sell, convey, grant, contract for, or otherwise transfer (such transactions collectively referred to as “assignments” for purposes of this part), without the prior written approval of the Director, any of the following:
(a) Any concession contract;
(b) Any rights to operate under or manage the performance of a concession contract as a subconcessioner or otherwise;
(c) Any controlling interest in a concessioner or concession contract; or
(d) Any leasehold surrender interest or possessory interest obtained under a concession contract.
§ 51.86
What encumbrances require the approval of the Director?
The concessioner may not encumber, pledge, mortgage or otherwise provide as a security interest for any purpose (such transactions collectively referred to as “encumbrances” for purposes of this part), without the prior written approval of the Director, any of the following:
(a) Any concession contract;
(b) Any rights to operate under or manage performance under a concession contract as a subconcessioner or otherwise;
(c) Any controlling interest in a concessioner or concession contract; or
(d) Any leasehold surrender interest or possessory interest obtained under a concession contract.
§ 51.87
Does the concessioner have an unconditional right to receive the Director's approval of an assignment or encumbrance?
No, approvals of assignments or encumbrances are subject to the following determinations by the Director:
(a) That the purpose of a leasehold surrender interest or possessory interest encumbrance is either to finance the construction of capital improvements under the applicable concession contract in the applicable park area or to finance the purchase of the applicable concession contract. An encumbrance of a leasehold surrender interest or possessory interest may not be made for any other purpose, including, but not limited to, providing collateral for other debt of a concessioner, the parent of a concessioner, or an entity related to a concessioner;
(b) That the encumbrance does not purport to provide the creditor or assignee any rights beyond those provided by the applicable concession contract, including, but not limited to, any rights to conduct business in a park area except in strict accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable concession contract;
(c) That the encumbrance does not purport to permit a creditor or assignee of a creditor, in the event of default or otherwise, to begin operations under the applicable concession contract or through a designated operator unless and until the Director determines that the proposed operator is a qualified person as defined in this part;
(d) That an assignment or encumbrance does not purport to assign or encumber assets that are not owned by the concessioner, including, without limitation, park area entrance, user day, or similar use allocations made by the Director;
(e) That the assignment is to a qualified person as defined in this part;
(f) That the assignment or encumbrance would not have an adverse impact on the protection, conservation or preservation of park resources;
(g) That the assignment or encumbrance would not have an adverse impact on the provision of necessary and appropriate facilities and services to visitors at reasonable rates and charges; and
(h) That the terms of the assignment or encumbrance are not likely, directly or indirectly, to reduce an existing or new concessioner's opportunity to earn a reasonable profit over the remaining term of the applicable concession contract, to affect adversely the quality of facilities and services provided by the concessioner, or result in a need for increased rates and charges to the public to maintain the quality of concession facilities and services.
§ 51.88
What happens if an assignment or encumbrance is completed without the approval of the Director?
Assignments or encumbrances completed without the prior written approval of the Director will be considered as null and void and a material breach of the applicable concession contract which may result in termination of the contract for cause. No person will obtain any valid or enforceable rights in a concessioner, in a concession contract, or to operate or manage under a concession contract as a subconcessioner or otherwise, or to leasehold surrender interest or possessory interest, if acquired in violation of the requirements in this subpart.
§ 51.89
What happens if there is a default on an encumbrance approved by the Director?
In the event of default on an encumbrance approved by the Director in accordance with this part, the creditor, or an assignee of the creditor, may succeed to the interests of the concessioner only to the extent provided by the approved encumbrance, this part and the terms and conditions of the applicable concession contract.
§ 51.90
How does the concessioner get the Director's approval before making an assignment or encumbrance?
Before completing any assignment or encumbrance which may be considered to be the type of transaction described in this part, including, but not limited to, the assignment or encumbrance of what may be a controlling interest in a concessioner or a concession contract, the concessioner must apply in writing for approval of the transaction by the Director.
§ 51.91
What information may the Director require in the application?
An application for the Director's approval of an assignment or encumbrance will include, to the extent required by the Director in the circumstances of the transaction, the following information in such detail as the Director may specify in order to make the determinations required by this subpart:
(a) All instruments proposed to implement the transaction;
(b) An opinion of counsel to the effect that the proposed transaction is lawful under all applicable federal and state laws;
(c) A narrative description of the proposed transaction;
(d) A statement as to the existence and nature of any litigation relating to the proposed transaction;
(e) A description of the management qualifications, financial background, and financing and operational plans of any proposed transferee;
(f) A detailed description of all financial aspects of the proposed transaction;
(g) Prospective financial statements (proformas);
(h) A schedule that allocates in detail the purchase price (or, in the case of a transaction other than an asset purchase, the valuation) of all assets assigned or encumbered. In addition, the applicant must provide a description of the basis for all allocations and ownership of all assets; and
(i) Such other information as the Director may require to make the determinations required by this subpart.
§ 51.92
What are standard proformas?
Concessioners are encouraged to submit standard prospective financial statements (proformas) pursuant to this part. A “standard proforma” is one that:
(a) Provides projections, including revenues and expenses that are consistent with the concessioner's past operating history unless the proforma is
accompanied by a narrative that describes why differing expectations are achievable and realistic;
(b) Assumes that any loan related to an assignment or encumbrance will be paid in full by the expiration of the concession contract unless the proforma contains a narrative description as to why an extended loan period is consistent with an opportunity for reasonable profit over the remaining term of the concession contract. The narrative description must include, but is not limited to, identification of the loan's collateral after expiration of the concession contract; and
(c) Assumes amortization of any intangible assets assigned or encumbered as a result of the transaction over the remaining term of the concession contract unless the proforma contains a narrative description as to why such extended amortization period is consistent with an opportunity for reasonable profit over the remaining term of the concession contract.
§ 51.93
If the transaction includes more that one concession contract, how must required information be provided?
In circumstances of an assignment or encumbrance that includes more than one concession contract, the concessioner must provide the information described in this subpart on a contract by contract basis.
§ 51.94
What information will the Director consider when deciding to approve a transaction?
In deciding whether to approve an assignment or encumbrance, the Director will consider the proformas, all other information submitted by the concessioner, and other information available to the Director.
§ 51.95
Does the Director's approval of an assignment or encumbrance include any representations of any nature?
In approving an assignment or encumbrance, the Director has no duty to inform any person of any information the Director may have relating to the concession contract, the park area, or other matters relevant to the concession contract or the assignment or encumbrance. In addition, in approving an assignment or encumbrance, the Director makes no representations of any nature to any person about any matter, including, but not limited to, the value, allocation, or potential profitability of any concession contract or assets of a concessioner. No approval of an assignment or encumbrance may be construed as altering the terms and conditions of the applicable concession contract unless expressly so stated by the Director in writing.
§ 51.96
May the Director amend or extend a concession contract for the purpose of facilitating a transaction?
The Director may not amend or extend a concession contract for the purpose of facilitating an assignment or encumbrance. The Director may not make commitments regarding rates to the public, contract extensions, concession contract terms and conditions, or any other matter, for the purpose of facilitating an assignment or encumbrance.
§ 51.97
May the Director open to renegotiation or modify the terms of a concession contract as a condition to the approval of a transaction?
The Director may not open to renegotiation or modify the terms and conditions of a concession contract as a condition to the approval of an assignment or encumbrance. The exception is if the Director determines that renegotiation or modification is required to avoid an adverse impact on the protection, conservation or preservation of the resources of a park area or an adverse impact on the provision of necessary and appropriate visitor services at reasonable rates and charges.

# Subpart K—Information and Access to Information
§ 51.98
What records must the concessioner keep and what access does the Director have to records?
A concessioner (and any subconcessioner) must keep any records that the Director may require for the term of the concession contract and for five calendar years after the termination or expiration of the concession contract
to enable the Director to determine that all terms of the concession contract are or were faithfully performed. The Director and any duly authorized representative of the Director must, for the purpose of audit and examination, have access to all pertinent records, books, documents, and papers of the concessioner, subconcessioner and any parent or affiliate of the concessioner (but with respect to parents and affiliates, only to the extent necessary to confirm the validity and performance of any representations or commitments made to the Director by a parent or affiliate of the concessioner).
§ 51.99
What access to concessioner records will the Comptroller General have?
The Comptroller General or any duly authorized representative of the Comptroller General must, until the expiration of five calendar years after the close of the business year of each concessioner (or subconcessioner), have access to and the right to examine all pertinent books, papers, documents and records of the concessioner, subconcessioner and any parent or affiliate of the concessioner (but with respect to parents and affiliates only to the extent necessary to confirm the validity and performance of any representations or commitments made to the Director by the parent or affiliate of the concessioner).
§ 51.100
When will the Director make proposals and evaluation documents publicly available?
In the interest of enhancing competition for concession contracts, the Director will not make publicly available proposals submitted in response to a prospectus or documents generated by the Director in evaluating such proposals, until the date that the new concession contract solicited by the prospectus is awarded. At that time, the Director may or will make the proposals and documents publicly available in accordance with applicable law.

# Subpart L—The Effect of the 1998 Act's Repeal of the 1965 Act
§ 51.101
Did the 1998 Act repeal the 1965 Act?
Section 415 of the 1998 Act repealed the 1965 Act and related laws as of November 13, 1998. This repeal did not affect the validity of any 1965 Act concession contract. The provisions of this part apply to all 1965 Act concession contracts except to the extent that such provisions are inconsistent with terms and conditions of a 1965 Act concession contract.
§ 51.102
What is the effect of the 1998 Act's repeal of the 1965 Act's preference in renewal?
(a) Section 5 of the 1965 Act required the Secretary to give existing satisfactory concessioners a preference in the renewal (termed a “renewal preference” in the rest of this section) of its concession contract or permit. Section 415 of the 1998 Act repealed this statutory renewal preference as of November 13, 1998. It is the final decision of the Director, subject to the right of appeal set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, that holders of 1965 Act concession contracts are not entitled to be given a renewal preference with respect to such contracts (although they may otherwise qualify for a right of preference regarding such contracts under Sections 403(7) and (8) of the 1998 Act as implemented in this part). However, if a concessioner holds an existing 1965 Act concession contract and the contract makes express reference to a renewal preference, the concessioner may appeal to the Director for recognition of a renewal preference.
(b) Such appeal must be in writing and be received by the Director no later than thirty days after the issuance of a prospectus for a concession contract under this part for which the concessioner asserts a renewal preference. The Director must make a decision on the appeal prior to the proposal submission date specified in the prospectus. Where applicable, the Director will give notice of this appeal to all potential offerors that requested a prospectus. The Director may delegate consideration of such appeals only to a
Deputy or Associate Director. The deciding official must prepare a written decision on the appeal, taking into account the content of the appeal and other available information.
(c) If the appeal results in a determination by the Director that the 1965 Act concession contract in question makes express reference to a renewal preference under section 5 of the 1965 Act, the 1998 Act's repeal of section 5 of the 1965 Act was inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the concession contract, and that the holder of the concession contract in these circumstances is entitled to a renewal preference by operation of law, the Director will permit the concessioner to exercise a renewal preference for the contract subject to and in accordance with the otherwise applicable right of preference terms and conditions of this part, including, without limitation, the requirement for submission of a responsive proposal pursuant to the terms of an applicable prospectus. The Director, similarly, will permit any holder of a 1965 Act concession contract that a court of competent jurisdiction determines in a final order is entitled to a renewal preference, for any reason, to exercise a right of preference in accordance with the otherwise applicable requirements of this part, including, without limitation, the requirement for submission of a responsive proposal pursuant to the terms of an applicable prospectus.
§ 51.103
Severability.
A determination that any provision of this part is unlawful will not affect the validity of the remaining provisions.

# Subpart M—Information Collection
§ 51.104
Has OMB approved the collection of information?
The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) reviewed and approved the information collection requirements contained in this Part and assigned OMB Control No. 1024-0029. We use this information to administer the National Park Service concessions program, including solicitation, award, and administration of concession contracts. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor and you are not required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. You may send comments on the information collection requirements to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, National Park Service, 1849 C Street NW., (2601), Washington, DC 20240.
[79 FR 58263, Sept. 29, 2014]
Pt. 52

# PART 52—VISITOR EXPERIENCE IMPROVEMENTS AUTHORITY CONTRACTS

# Subpart A—Authority and Purpose
Sec.
52.1
What does this part cover?
52.2
What is the purpose of a commercial services contract?
52.3
How are terms defined in this part?
52.4
What types of commercial services contracts may the Director issue?
52.5
What types of professional services contracts may the Director issue?

# Subpart B—Solicitation, Selection, and Award Procedures
52.10
How will the Director solicit responses for the award of a commercial services contract?
52.11
Where will the Director publish notice of the availability of a request for proposals?
52.12
How long will respondents have to submit a response?
52.13
How will the Director share information with potential respondents after issuing the request for proposals?
52.14
How will the Director evaluate responses and select the best one?
52.15
When will the Director reject a response?
52.16
What options does the Director have in accepting or rejecting a response?
52.17
Does this part limit the authority of the Director?
52.18
When must the selected respondent execute the contract?
52.19
When may the Director award the commercial services contract?
52.20
How will the Director solicit and award professional services contracts?

# Subpart C—Contract Provisions
52.25
What is the term of a commercial services contract?
52.26
When may the Director terminate a contract?
52.27
May an operator or professional services provider receive leasehold surrender interest in capital improvements?
52.28
Are operator rates subject to approval by the Director?
52.29
May operators assign or encumber commercial services contracts?
52.30
How may commercial services contracts be funded?

# Subpart D—Information and Access to Information
52.35
What records must the operator and professional services provider keep and what access does the Director have to records?
52.36
What access does the Comptroller General have to records kept by operators and professional services providers?

# Subpart E—Miscellaneous
52.40
Does this part affect concession contracts under part 51 of this chapter?
52.41
Does the VEIA expire?
52.42
Severability.

# Authority:
54 U.S.C. 101931-101938.

# Source:
90 FR 5646, Jan. 17, 2025, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Authority and Purpose
§ 52.1
What does this part cover?
This part covers the solicitation, award, and administration of commercial services contracts and related professional services contracts. The Director solicits, awards, and administers these contracts on behalf of the Secretary of the Department of the Interior under the authority of the Act of August 25, 1916, as amended and supplemented, 54 U.S.C. 100101
et seq.,
and title VII of the National Park Service Centennial Act, 54 U.S.C. 101931-101938. All commercial services contracts and related professional services contracts must be consistent with the requirements of this part. These contracts will contain such terms and conditions as required by this part or law and as otherwise appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this part and the Visitor Experience Improvements Authority (VEIA).
§ 52.2
What is the purpose of a commercial services contract?
The National Park Service (NPS) will use commercial services contracts to expand, modernize, and improve the condition of commercial facilities and commercial services provided to visitors in a park area. Commercial services contracts are limited to those that are necessary and appropriate for public use and enjoyment of the park area in which they are located and consistent with the preservation and conservation of the resources and values of the park area.
§ 52.3
How are terms defined in this part?
Award
occurs when the Director and a selected respondent execute a commercial services contract or related professional services contract that creates legally binding obligations on the parties to the contract.
Commercial services contract
means a binding written agreement between the Director and an operator awarded under the authority of this part that authorizes the operator to provide services to visitors within a park area under specified terms and conditions.
Contract
means either a commercial services contract or a related professional services contract issued under the authority of this part. The Director may award contracts without regard to Federal laws and regulations governing procurement by Federal agencies, with the exception of laws and regulations related to Federal Government contracts governing working conditions and wage rates, including the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
), 40 U.S.C. 3141-3144, 3146, and 3147 (commonly known as the “Davis-Bacon Act”), and any civil rights provisions otherwise applicable thereto. Contracts as defined in this section are not contracts within the meaning of 41 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
(the Contract Disputes Act) and are not service or procurement contracts within the meaning of statutes, regulations, or policies that apply only to Federal service contracts or other types of Federal procurement actions.
Director
means the Director of the National Park Service (acting on behalf of the Secretary), or an authorized representative of the Director, except where a particular official is specifically identified in this part.
Operator
means an individual, corporation, or other legally recognized entity that duly holds a commercial services contract.
Professional services contract
means a binding written agreement between the Director and a professional service provider awarded under the authority of this part that authorizes the service provider to provide hospitality consulting or other services to the National Park Service related to commercial services contracts.
Professional services provider
means an individual, corporation, or other legally recognized entity that duly holds a professional services contract.
Qualified entity
means an individual, corporation, or other legally recognized entity that the Director determines has the experience and financial ability to carry out the terms of a commercial services contract or professional services contract.
Respondent
means an individual, corporation, or other legally recognized entity that submits a response for a commercial services contract.
Response
means the information an individual, corporation, or other legally recognized entity provides to the National Park Service in response to a request for proposals.
VEIA
means the authority granted to the Director under title VII of Public Law 114-289 entitled “Visitor Experience Improvements Authority” and codified at 54 U.S.C. 101931-101938.
Visitor services
means accommodations, facilities, and other services determined by the Director as necessary and appropriate for public use and enjoyment of a park area provided to park area visitors for a fee or charge by an individual or entity other than the Director. Visitor services may include, but are not limited to, lodging, campgrounds, food service, merchandising, tours, recreational activities, guiding, transportation, and equipment rental. Visitor services also include the sale of interpretive materials or the conduct of interpretive programs for a fee or charge to visitors.
§ 52.4
What types of commercial services contracts may the Director issue?
(a) Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this section, the Director may issue commercial services contracts for expanding, modernizing, and improving visitor services consistent with the VEIA. Examples of such contracts include, without limitation, management agreements and percentage lease agreements.
(b) The Director may not award commercial services contracts:
(1) For the provision of outfitter and guide services described in section 54 U.S.C. 101913(8); or
(2) To authorize the provision of facilities or services for which the Director has granted to an existing concessioner a preferential right of renewal as defined in 54 U.S.C. 101911 and 101913.
§ 52.5
What types of professional services contracts may the Director issue?
The Director may issue professional services contracts that support the National Park Service in soliciting, awarding, and managing commercial services contracts. Professional services contracts may include asset management agreements under which a service provider assists the National Park Service in overseeing and administering commercial services contracts but does not itself provide visitor services. Professional services contracts also may include contracts for the provision of other consulting services to the National Park Service such as developing requests for proposals, condition assessments, operational or financial analysis, accounting, and other related services.

# Subpart B—Solicitation, Selection, and Award Procedures
§ 52.10
How will the Director solicit responses for the award of a commercial services contract?
(a) The Director will award commercial services contracts through a competitive selection process. The Director will issue a request for proposals inviting responses for consideration by the Director. The request for proposals will describe the terms and conditions of the proposed commercial services contract and the procedures the Director will follow to negotiate and award the commercial services contract.
(b) The terms and conditions of the request for proposals and the proposed commercial services contract are not
final until the Director awards the commercial services contract.
(c) The solicitation process may include one or more phases, such as a request for qualifications followed by or in concert with a request for more detailed information through a request for proposals. The process could also include interviews with respondents and a negotiation phase.
(d) If the entity that will become the operator is not established at the time of submission of a response, the response must contain assurances satisfactory to the Director that the entity that will become the operator will be a qualified entity as of the date of the award of the commercial services contract and otherwise have the ability to carry out the commitments made in the response.
§ 52.11
Where will the Director publish notice of the availability of a request for proposals?
(a) The Director will publish notice of the availability of the request for proposals at least once in the System for Award Management (SAM) where Federal business opportunities are electronically posted or in a similar publication if SAM is no longer used. The Director may also publish notices electronically on websites, including social media, and in local or national newspapers or trade magazines.
(b) The Director will make the request for proposals available upon request to all interested persons. The Director may charge a reasonable fee for a printed request for proposals.
§ 52.12
How long will respondents have to submit a response?
The Director will define the process and the timeline for responding and entering into negotiations in the request for proposals. The Director will not consider untimely responses.
§ 52.13
How will the Director share information with potential respondents after issuing the request for proposals?
If the Director shares material information directly related to the request for proposals with one potential respondent, the Director will share the same information with all potential respondents who have advised the Director of their interest in the request for proposals. This does not apply to information that is publicly available.
§ 52.14
How will the Director evaluate responses and select the best one?
(a) The Director will apply the selection factors set forth in the request for proposals. The evaluation will include an assessment of the respondent's written submittals in response to the request for proposals and also may include information presented by the respondent during request for qualifications, interview, and negotiation phases. During this process, the Director may request written clarifications from any respondent that has submitted a timely response.
(b) The Director will use selection factors to evaluate responses that include compliance with the requirements in the request for proposals, ability to comply with the terms and conditions of the commercial services contract, demonstration that the respondent is a qualified entity, demonstrated experience and prior performance in operating similar facilities and providing similar services, financial capability, and the proposed approach and methodology to deliver the services specified. The Director may include other factors that are identified in the request for proposals.
(c) The Director must determine that the commercial services contract issued to the selected respondent will meet the objectives of expanding, modernizing, and improving the condition of commercial facilities and commercial services provided to visitors in the park area, and that such contract is both necessary and appropriate for public use and enjoyment of the park area, and consistent with the preservation and conservation of the resources and values of the park area.
§ 52.15
When will the Director reject a response?
The Director will reject any response if the Director makes any of the following determinations:
(a) The respondent is not a qualified entity.
(b) The response is not responsive to the requirements in the request for proposals. A response is not responsive
if the Director determines that it is not timely, does not meet the minimum requirements of the proposed contract, or does not provide the information required by the request for proposals.
§ 52.16
What options does the Director have in accepting or rejecting a response?
(a) If no responsive responses are submitted, the Director may cancel the solicitation. After cancellation, the Director may establish new commercial services contract requirements and issue a new request for proposals.
(b) The Director reserves the right to accept or reject any or all responses received as a result of the solicitation, to waive minor irregularities, or to negotiate with any respondent, in any manner necessary, to serve the best interests of the National Park Service.
(c) No respondent or other person or entity will obtain compensable or other legal rights as a result of an amended, extended, canceled, or resolicited request for proposals for a contract.
§ 52.17
Does this part limit the authority of the Director?
Nothing in this part may be construed as limiting the authority of the Director at any time to determine whether to solicit or award a contract, to cancel a solicitation, or to terminate a contract in accordance with its terms.
§ 52.18
When must the selected respondent execute the contract?
The selected respondent must execute the contract within the time period established by the Director. If the selected respondent fails to execute the contract in this period, the Director may select another responsive response and enter into negotiations with that respondent, or may cancel the solicitation and choose to resolicit the contract.
§ 52.19
When may the Director award the commercial services contract?
The Director may award a commercial services contract at any time after selecting the best response, the conclusion of negotiations, and execution of the contract by the respondent.
§ 52.20
How will the Director solicit and award professional services contracts?
The Director will advertise each opportunity for professional services contracts at least once in the System for Award Management (SAM) where Federal business opportunities are electronically posted or in a similar publication if SAM is no longer used. The Director may also publish notices electronically on websites, including social media, and in local or national newspapers or trade magazines. The Director will evaluate and select professional services providers that are qualified entities following the procedures described in the advertised opportunity.

# Subpart C—Contract Provisions
§ 52.25
What is the term of a commercial services contract?
A commercial services contract will generally be awarded for a set term or for a base term plus option years, with the total term not to exceed 10 years.
§ 52.26
When may the Director terminate a contract?
Contracts will contain appropriate provisions for suspension of operations and for termination by the Director for default, including, without limitation, unsatisfactory performance, or termination when necessary to achieve the purposes of the VEIA.
§ 52.27
May an operator or professional services provider receive leasehold surrender interest in capital improvements?
No. Operators and professional services providers will not receive leasehold surrender interest in capital improvements, as those terms are defined at 54 U.S.C. 101915.
§ 52.28
Are operator rates subject to approval by the Director?
(a) The Director may require prior approval of rates for services provided to visitors under a commercial services contract.
(b) Generally, the Director will approve rates for services provided to visitors based upon market demand, although the Director may specify rates or rate methods for particular services based on factors other than market demand, such as to ensure affordability to a broad segment of visitors.
§ 52.29
May operators assign or encumber commercial services contracts?
Commercial services contracts will include provisions that require the Director's approval prior to any assignment or encumbrance of the contract or any rights or interests under the contract to another operator.
§ 52.30
How may commercial services contracts be funded?
Contract funds will be provided to the operators, who will be solely responsible for maintaining and expending the funds on agreed-upon expenses. Commercial services contracts will clearly define what contract-related funds shall be considered revenue collected for the NPS and will provide for the periodic remittance of such funds to the NPS.

# Subpart D—Information and Access to Information
§ 52.35
What records must the operator and professional services provider keep and what access does the Director have to records?
Operators and professional services providers must keep any records that the Director may require for the term of the contract and for five calendar years after the termination or expiration of the contract to enable the Director to determine that all terms of the contract are or were faithfully performed. The Director, or an authorized representative of the Director, may access and examine all pertinent records, books, documents, and papers of the operator, professional services provider, and any subcontractor, parent, or affiliate of the operator or professional services provider (but with respect to parents and affiliates, only to the extent necessary to confirm the validity and performance of any representations or commitments made to the Director by a parent or affiliate of the operator or professional services provider). Further details on records maintenance and access will be set forth in and governed by the contracts themselves.
§ 52. 36
What access does the Comptroller General have to records kept by operators and professional services providers?
The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, may access and examine all pertinent records, books, documents, and papers of the operator, professional services provider, and any subcontractor, parent, or affiliate of the operator or professional services provider (but with respect to parents and affiliates, only to the extent necessary to confirm the validity and performance of any representations or commitments made to the Director by a parent or affiliate of the operator or professional services provider) going back five years from the closing date of the last fiscal year of the operator or professional service provider.

# Subpart E—Miscellaneous
§ 52.40
Does this part affect concession contracts under part 51 of this chapter?
No, nothing in this part modifies the terms or conditions of any existing concession contract or the ability of the Director to enter into concession contracts under part 51 of this chapter. The 1998 Act (as that term is defined in part 51 of this chapter) remains in effect.
§ 52.41
Does the VEIA expire?
Yes. The Director may not award a contract under the VEIA after December 16, 2025, unless extended by law. However, contracts awarded under the VEIA may continue beyond such date, subject to the terms of the particular contract.
§ 52.42
Severability.
A determination that any provision of this part is unlawful will not affect the validity of the remaining provisions.
Pt. 59

# PART 59—LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND PROGRAM OF ASSISTANCE TO STATES; POST-COMPLETION COMPLIANCE RESPONSIBILITIES
Sec.
59.1
Applicability.
59.2
Information collection.
59.3
Conversion requirements.
59.4
Residency requirements.
59.5-59.6
[Reserved]

# Authority:
Sec. 6, L
WCF Act of 1965 as amended; Pub. L. 88-578; 78 Stat. 897; 16 U.S.C. 4601-4
et seq.

# Source:
51 FR 34184, Sept. 25, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 59.1
Applicability.
These post-completion responsibilities apply to each area or facility for which Land and Water Conservation Fund (L
WCF) assistance is obtained, regardless of the extent of participation of the program in the assisted area or facility and consistent with the contractural agreement between NPS and the State. Responsibility for compliance and enforcement of these provisions rests with the State for both State and locally sponsored projects. The responsibilities cited herein are applicable to the area depicted or otherwise described on the 6(f)(3) boundary map and/or as described in other project documentation approved by the Department of the Interior. In many instances, this mutually agreed to area exceeds that actually receiving L
WCF assistance so as to assure the protection of a viable recreation entity. For leased sites assisted under L
WCF, compliance with post-completion requirements of the grant ceases following lease expiration unless the grant agreement calls for some other arrangement.
§ 59.2
Information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in § 59.3 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1024-0047. The information is being collected to determine whether to approve a project sponsor's request to convert an assisted site or facility to other than public outdoor recreation uses. The information will be used to assure that the requirements of section 6(f)(3) of the L
WCF Act would be met should the proposed conversion be implemented. Response is required in order to obtain the benefit of Department of the Interior approval.
§ 59.3
Conversion requirements.
(a)
Background and legal requirements.
Section 6(f)(3) of the L
WCF Act is the cornerstone of Federal compliance efforts to ensure that the Federal investments in L
WCF assistance are being maintained in public outdoor recreation use. This section of the Act assures that once an area has been funded with L
WCF assistance, it is continually maintained in public recreation use unless NPS approves substitution property of reasonably equivalent usefulness and location and of at least equal fair market value.
(b)
Prerequisites for conversion approval.
Requests from the project sponsor for permission to convert L
WCF assisted properties in whole or in part to other than public outdoor recreation uses must be submitted by the State Liaison Officer to the appropriate NPS Regional Director in writing. NPS will consider conversion requests if the following prerequisites have been met:
(1) All practical alternatives to the proposed conversion have been evaluated.
(2) The fair market value of the property to be converted has been established and the property proposed for substitution is of at least equal fair market value as established by an approved appraisal (prepared in accordance with uniform Federal appraisal standards) excluding the value of structures or facilities that will not serve a recreation purpose.
(3) The property proposed for replacement is of reasonably equivalent usefulness and location as that being converted. Dependent upon the situation and at the discretion of the Regional Director, the replacement property need not provide identical recreation experiences or be located at the same site, provided it is in a reasonably equivalent location. Generally, the replacement property should be administered by the same political jurisdiction as the converted property. NPS will
consider State requests to change the project sponsor when it is determined that a different political jurisdiction can better carry out the objectives of the original project agreement. Equivalent usefulness and location will be determined based on the following criteria:
(i) Property to be converted must be evaluated in order to determine what recreation needs are being fulfilled by the facilities which exist and the types of outdoor recreation resources and opportunities available. The property being proposed for substitution must then be evaluated in a similar manner to determine if it will meet recreation needs which are at least like in magnitude and impact to the user community as the converted site. This criterion is applicable in the consideration of all conversion requests with the exception of those where wetlands are proposed as replacement property. Wetland areas and interests therein which have been identified in the wetlands provisions of the Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan shall be considered to be of reasonably equivalent usefulness with the property proposed for conversion regardless of the nature of the property proposed for conversion.
(ii) Replacement property need not necessarily be directly adjacent to or close by the converted site. This policy provides the administrative flexibility to determine location recognizing that the property should meet existing public outdoor recreation needs. While generally this will involve the selection of a site serving the same community(ies) or area as the converted site, there may be exceptions. For example, if property being converted is in an area undergoing major demographic change and the area has no existing or anticipated future need for outdoor recreation, then the project sponsor should seek to locate the substitute area in another location within the jurisdiction. Should a local project sponsor be unable to replace converted property, the State would be responsible, as the primary recipient of Federal assistance, for assuring compliance with these regulations and the substitution of replacement property.
(iii) The acquisition of one parcel of land may be used in satisfaction of several approved conversions.
(4) The property proposed for substitution meets the eligibility requirements for L
WCF assisted acquisition. The replacement property must constitute or be part of a viable recreation area. Unless
each
of the following additional conditions is met, land currently in public ownership, including that which is owned by another public agency, may not be used as replacement land for land acquired as part of an L
WCF project:
(i) The land was not acquired by the sponsor or selling agency for recreation.
(ii) The land has not been dedicated or managed for recreational purposes while in public ownership.
(iii) No Federal assistance was provided in the original acquisition unless the assistance was provided under a program expressly authorized to match or supplement L
WCF assistance.
(iv) Where the project sponsor acquires the land from another public agency, the selling agency must be required by law to receive payment for the land so acquired.
In the case of development projects for which the State match was not derived from the cost of the purchase or value of a donation of the land to be converted, but from the value of the development itself, public land which has not been dedicated or managed for recreation/conservation use may be used as replacement land even if this land is transferred from one public agency to another without cost.
(5) In the case of assisted sites which are partially rather than wholly converted, the impact of the converted portion on the remainder shall be considered. If such a conversion is approved, the unconverted area must remain recreationally viable or be replaced as well.
(6) All necessary coordination with other Federal agencies has been satisfactorily accomplished including, for example, compliance with section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation Act of 1966.
(7) The guidelines for environmental evaluation have been satisfactorily
completed and considered by NPS during its review of the proposed 6(f)(3) action. In cases where the proposed conversion arises from another Federal action, final review of the State's proposal shall not occur until the NPS Regional office is assured that all environmental review requirements related to that other action have been met.
(8) State intergovernmental clearinghouse review procedures have been adhered to if the proposed conversion and substitution constitute significant changes to the original Land and Water Conservation Fund project.
(9) The proposed conversion and substitution are in accord with the Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) and/or equivalent recreation plans.
(c)
Amendments for conversion.
All conversions require amendments to the original project agreements. Therefore, amendment requests should be submitted concurrently with conversion requests or at such time as all details of the conversion have been worked out with NPS. Section 6(f)(3) project boundary maps shall be submitted with the amendment request to identify the changes to the original area caused by the proposed conversion and to establish a new project area pursuant to the substitution. Once the conversion has been approved, replacement property should be immediately acquired. Exceptions to this rule would occur only when it is not possible for replacement property to be identified prior to the State's request for a conversion. In such cases, an express commitment to satisfy section 6(f)(3) substitution requirements within a specified period, normally not to exceed one year following conversion approval, must be received from the State. This commitment will be in the form of an amendment to the grant agreement.
(d)
Obsolete facilities.
Recipients are not required to continue operation of a particular facility beyond its useful life. However, when a facility is declared obsolete, the site must nonetheless be maintained for public outdoor recreation following discontinuance of the assisted facility. Failure to so maintain is considered to be a conversion. Requests regarding changes from a L
WCF funded facility to another otherwise eligible facility at the same site that significantly contravene the original plans for the area must be made in writing to the Regional Director. NPS approval must be obtained prior to the occurrence of the change. NPS approval is not necessarily required, however, for each and every facility use change. Rather, a project area should be viewed in the context of overall use and should be monitored in this context. A change from a baseball field to a football field, for example, would not require NPS approval. A change from a swimming pool with substantial recreational development to a less intense area of limited development such as a passive park, or vice versa, would, however, require NPS review and approval. To assure that facility changes do not significantly contravene the original project agreement, NPS shall be notified by the State of
all
proposed changes in advance of their occurrence. A primary NPS consideration in the review of requests for changes in use will be the consistency of the proposal with the Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan and/or equivalent recreation plans. Changes to other than public outdoor recreation use require NPS approval and the substitution of replacement land in accordance with section 6(f)(3) of the L
WCF Act and paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
[51 FR 34184, Sept. 25, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 22747, June 15, 1987]
§ 59.4
Residency requirements.
(a)
Background.
Section 6(f)(8) of the L
WCF Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of residence, including preferential reservation or membership systems, except to the extent that reasonable differences in admission and other fees may be maintained on such basis. This prohibition applies to both regularly scheduled and special events. The general provisions regarding non-discrimination at sites assisted under Interior programs and, thereby, all other recreation facilities managed by a project sponsor, are covered in 43 CFR part 17 which implements the provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 for the Department.
(b)
Policy.
There shall be no discrimination for L
WCF assisted programs
and services on the basis of residence, except in reasonable fee differentials. Post-completion compliance responsibilities of the recipient should continue to ensure that discrimination on the basis of residency is not occurring.
(c)
Fees.
Fees charged to nonresidents cannot exceed twice that charged to residents. Where there is no charge for residents but a fee is charged to nonresidents, nonresident fees cannot exceed fees charged for residents at comparable State or local public facilities. Reservation, membership, or annual permit systems available to residents must also be available to nonresidents and the period of availability must be the same for both residents and nonresidents. Recipients are prohibited from providing residents the option of purchasing annual or daily permits while at the same time restricting nonresidents to the purchase of annual permits only. These provisions apply only to the approved 6(f)(3) areas applicable to the recipient. Nonresident fishing and hunting license fees are excluded from these requirements.
§§ 59.5-59.6
[Reserved]
Pt. 60

# PART 60—NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES
Sec.
60.1
Authorization and expansion of the National Register.
60.2
Effects of listing under Federal law.
60.3
Definitions.
60.4
Criteria for evaluation.
60.5
Nomination forms and information collection.
60.6
Nominations by the State Historic Preservation Officer under approved State Historic Preservation programs.
60.7-60.8
[Reserved]
60.9
Nominations by Federal agencies.
60.10
Concurrent State and Federal nominations.
60.11
Requests for nominations.
60.12
Nomination appeals.
60.13
Publication in the Federal Register and other NPS notification.
60.14
Changes and revisions to properties listed in the National Register.
60.15
Removing properties from the National Register.

# Authority:
National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.,
and E.O. 11593.

# Source:
46 FR 56187, Nov. 16, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.1
Authorization and expansion of the National Register.
(a) The National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 80 Stat. 915, 16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.,
as amended, authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to expand and maintain a National Register of districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects significant in American history, architecture, archeology, engineering and culture. The regulations herein set forth the procedural requirements for listing properties on the National Register.
(b) Properties are added to the National Register through the following processes.
(1) Those Acts of Congress and Executive orders which create historic areas of the National Park System administered by the National Park Service, all or portions of which may be determined to be of historic significance consistent with the intent of Congress;
(2) Properties declared by the Secretary of the Interior to be of national significance and designated as National Historic Landmarks;
(3) Nominations prepared under approved State Historic Preservation Programs, submitted by the State Historic Preservation Officer and approved by the NPS;
(4) Nominations from any person or local government (only if such property is located in a State with no approved State Historic Preservation Program) approved by the NPS and;
(5) Nominations of Federal properties prepared by Federal agencies, submitted by the Federal Preservation Officer and approved by NPS.
§ 60.2
Effects of listing under Federal law.
The National Register is an authoritative guide to be used by Federal, State, and local governments, private groups and citizens to identify the Nation's cultural resources and to indicate what properties should be considered for protection from destruction or impairment. Listing of private property on the National Register does not prohibit under Federal law or regulation any actions which may otherwise
be taken by the property owner with respect to the property.
(a) The National Register was designed to be and is administered as a planning tool. Federal agencies undertaking a project having an effect on a listed or eligible property must provide the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation a reasonable opportunity to comment pursuant to section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended. The Council has adopted procedures concerning,
inter alia,
their commenting responsibility in 36 CFR part 800. Having complied with this procedural requirement the Federal agency may adopt any course of action it believes is appropriate. While the Advisory Council comments must be taken into account and integrated into the decisionmaking process, program decisions rest with the agency implementing the undertaking.
(b) Listing in the National Register also makes property owners eligible to be considered for Federal grants-in-aid for historic preservation.
(c) If a property is listed in the National Register, certain provisions of the Tax Reform Act of 1976 as amended by the Revenue Act of 1978 and the Tax Treatment Extension Act of 1980 may apply. These provisions encourage the preservation of depreciable historic structures by allowing favorable tax treatments for rehabilitation, and discourage destruction of historic buildings by eliminating certain otherwise available Federal tax provisions both for demolition of historic structures and for new construction on the site of demolished historic buildings. Owners of historic buildings may benefit from the investment tax credit provisions of the Revenue Act of 1978. The Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 generally replaces the rehabilitation tax incentives under these laws beginning January 1, 1982 with a 25% investment tax credit for rehabilitations of historic commercial, industrial and residential buildings. This can be combined with a 15-year cost recovery period for the adjusted basis of the historic building. Historic buildings with certified rehabilitations receive additional tax savings by their exemption from any requirement to reduce the basis of the building by the amount of the credit. The denial of accelerated depreciation for a building built on the site of a demolished historic building is repealed effective January 1, 1982. The Tax Treatment Extension Act of 1980 includes provisions regarding charitable contributions for conservation purposes of partial interests in historically important land areas or structures.
(d) If a property contains surface coal resources and is listed in the National Register, certain provisions of the Surface Mining and Control Act of 1977 require consideration of a property's historic values in the determination on issuance of a surface coal mining permit.
§ 60.3
Definitions.
(a)
Building.
A building is a structure created to shelter any form of human activity, such as a house, barn, church, hotel, or similar structure. Building may refer to a historically related complex such as a courthouse and jail or a house and barn.

# Examples
Molly Brown House (Denver, CO)
Meek Mansion and Carriage House (Hayward, CA)
Huron County Courthouse and Jail (Norwalk, OH)
Fairntosh Plantation (Durham vicinity, NC)
(b)
Chief elected local official.
Chief elected local official means the mayor, county judge, county executive or otherwise titled chief elected administrative official who is the elected head of the local political jurisdiction in which the property is located.
(c)
Determination of eligibility.
A determination of eligibility is a decision by the Department of the Interior that a district, site, building, structure or object meets the National Register criteria for evaluation although the property is not formally listed in the National Register. A determination of eligibility does not make the property eligible for such benefits as grants, loans, or tax incentives that have listing on the National Register as a prerequisite.
(d)
District.
A district is a geographically definable area, urban or rural, possessing a significant concentration,
linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures, or objects united by past events or aesthetically by plan or physical development. A district may also comprise individual elements separated geographically but linked by association or history.

# Examples
Georgetown Historic District (Washington, DC)
Martin Luther King Historic District (Atlanta, GA)
Durango-Silverton Narrow-Gauge Railroad (right-of-way between Durango and Silverton, CO)
(e)
Federal Preservation Officer.
The Federal Preservation Officer is the official designated by the head of each Federal agency responsible for coordinating that agency's activities under the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, and Executive Order 11593 including nominating properties under that agency's ownership or control to the National Register.
(f)
Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places.
The Keeper is the individual who has been delegated the authority by NPS to list properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register. The Keeper may further delegate this authority as he or she deems appropriate.
(g)
Multiple Resource Format submission.
A Multiple Resource Format submission for nominating properties to the National Register is one which includes all or a defined portion of the cultural resources identified in a specified geographical area.
(h)
National Park Service (NPS).
The National Park Service is the bureau of the Department of Interior to which the Secretary of Interior has delegated the authority and responsibility for administering the National Register program.
(i)
National Register Nomination Form.
National Register Nomination Form means (1) National Register Nomination Form NPS 10-900, with accompanying continuation sheets (where necessary) Form NPS 10-900a, maps and photographs or (2) for Federal nominations, Form No. 10-306, with continuation sheets (where necessary) Form No. 10-300A, maps and photographs. Such nomination forms must be “adequately documented” and “technically and professionally correct and sufficient.” To meet these requirements the forms and accompanying maps and photographs must be completed in accord with requirements and guidance in the NPS publication, “How to Complete National Register Forms” and other NPS technical publications on this subject. Descriptions and statements of significance must be prepared in accord with standards generally accepted by academic historians, architectural historians and archeologists. The nomination form is a legal document and reference for historical, architectural, and archeological data upon which the protections for listed and eligible properties are founded. The nominating authority certifies that the nomination is adequately documented and technically and professionally correct and sufficient upon nomination.
(j)
Object.
An object is a material thing of functional, aesthetic, cultural, historical or scientific value that may be, by nature or design, movable yet related to a specific setting or environment.

# Examples
Delta Queen Steamboat (Cincinnati, OH)
Adams Memorial (Rock Creek Cemetery, Washington, DC)
Sumpter Valley Gold Dredge (Sumpter, OR)
(k)
Owner or owners.
The term owner or owners means those individuals, partnerships, corporations or public agencies holding fee simple title to property. Owner or owners does not include individuals, partnerships, corporations or public agencies holding easements or less than fee interests (including leaseholds) of any nature.
(l)
Site.
A site is the location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined, or vanished, where the location itself maintains historical or archeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure.

# Examples
Cabin Creek Battlefield (Pensacola vicinity, OK)
Mound Cemetery Mound (Chester vicinity, OH)
Mud Springs Pony Express Station Site (Dalton vicinity, NE)
(m)
State Historic Preservation Officer.
The State Historic Preservation Officer is the person who has been designated by the Governor or chief executive or by State statute in each State to administer the State Historic Preservation Program, including identifying and nominating eligible properties to the National Register and otherwise administering applications for listing historic properties in the National Register.
(n)
State Historic Preservation Program.
The State Historic Preservation Program is the program established by each State and approved by the Secretary of Interior for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, and related laws and regulations. Such program shall be approved by the Secretary before the State may nominate properties to the National Register. Any State Historic Preservation Program in effect under prior authority of law before December 12, 1980, shall be treated as an approved program until the Secretary approves a program submitted by the State for purposes of the Amendments or December 12, 1983, unless the Secretary chooses to rescind such approval because of program deficiencies.
(o)
State Review Board.
The State Review Board is a body whose members represent the professional fields of American history, architectural history, historic architecture, prehistoric and historic archeology, and other professional disciplines and may include citizen members. In States with approved State historic preservation programs the State Review Board reviews and approves National Register nominations concerning whether or not they meet the criteria for evaluation prior to their submittal to the NPS.
(p)
Structure.
A structure is a work made up of interdependent and interrelated parts in a definite pattern of organization. Constructed by man, it is often an engineering project large in scale.

# Examples
Swanton Covered Railroad Bridge (Swanton vicinity, VT)
Old Point Loma Lighthouse (San Diego, CA)
North Point Water Tower (Milwaukee, WI)
Reber Radio Telescope (Green Bay vicinity, WI)
(q)
Thematic Group Format submission.
A Thematic Group Format submission for nominating properties to the National Register is one which includes a finite group of resources related to one another in a clearly distinguishable way. They may be related to a single historic person, event, or developmental force; of one building type or use, or designed by a single architect; of a single archeological site form, or related to a particular set of archeological research problems.
(r)
To nominate.
To nominate is to propose that a district, site, building, structure, or object be listed in the National Register of Historic Places by preparing a nomination form, with accompanying maps and photographs which adequately document the property and are technically and professionally correct and sufficient.
§ 60.4
Criteria for evaluation.
The criteria applied to evaluate properties (other than areas of the National Park System and National Historic Landmarks) for the National Register are listed below. These criteria are worded in a manner to provide for a wide diversity of resources. The following criteria shall be used in evaluating properties for nomination to the National Register, by NPS in reviewing nominations, and for evaluating National Register eligibility of properties. Guidance in applying the criteria is further discussed in the “How To” publications, Standards
Guidelines sheets and Keeper's opinions of the National Register. Such materials are available upon request.
National Register criteria for evaluation.
The quality of significance in American history, architecture, archeology, engineering, and culture is present in districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects that possess integrity of location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling, and association and
(a) that are associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of our history; or
(b) that are associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or
(c) that embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction, or that represent the work of a master, or that possess high artistic values, or that represent a significant and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or
(d) that have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or history.
Criteria considerations.
Ordinarily cemeteries, birthplaces, or graves of historical figures, properties owned by religious institutions or used for religious purposes, structures that have been moved from their original locations, reconstructed historic buildings, properties primarily commemorative in nature, and properties that have achieved significance within the past 50 years shall not be considered eligible for the National Register. However, such properties will qualify if they are integral parts of districts that do meet the criteria of if they fall within the following categories:
(a) A religious property deriving primary significance from architectural or artistic distinction or historical importance; or
(b) A building or structure removed from its original location but which is significant primarily for architectural value, or which is the surviving structure most importantly associated with a historic person or event; or
(c) A birthplace or grave of a historical figure of outstanding importance if there is no appropriate site or building directly associated with his productive life.
(d) A cemetery which derives its primary significance from graves of persons of transcendent importance, from age, from distinctive design features, or from association with historic events; or
(e) A reconstructed building when accurately executed in a suitable environment and presented in a dignified manner as part of a restoration master plan, and when no other building or structure with the same association has survived; or
(f) A property primarily commemorative in intent if design, age, tradition, or symbolic value has invested it with its own exceptional significance; or
(g) A property achieving significance within the past 50 years if it is of exceptional importance.
This exception is described further in NPS “How To” #2, entitled “How to Evaluate and Nominate Potential National Register Properties That Have Achieved Significance Within the Last 50 Years” which is available from the National Register of Historic Places Division, National Park Service, United States Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240.
§ 60.5
Nomination forms and information collection.
(a) All nominations to the National Register are to be made on standard National Register forms. These forms are provided upon request to the State Historic Preservation Officer, participating Federal agencies and others by the NPS. For archival reasons, no other forms, photocopied or otherwise, will be accepted.
(b) The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507 and assigned clearance number
1024-0018.
The information is being collected as part of the nomination of properties to the National Register. This information will be used to evaluate the eligibility of properties for inclusion in the National Register under established criteria. The obligation to respond is required to obtain a benefit.
§ 60.6
Nominations by the State Historic Preservation Officer under approved State Historic Preservation programs.
(a) The State Historic Preservation Officer is responsible for identifying and nominating eligible properties to the National Register. Nomination forms are prepared under the supervision of the State Historic Preservation Officer. The State Historic Preservation Officer establishes statewide priorities for preparation and submittal of nominations for all properties meeting National Register criteria for evaluation within the State. All nominations from the State shall be submitted in accord with the State priorities, which shall be consistent with an approved State historic preservation plan.
(b) The State shall consult with local authorities in the nomination process. The State provides notice of the intent to nominate a property and solicits written comments especially on the significance of the property and whether or not it meets the National Register criteria for evaluation. The State notice also gives owners of private property an opportunity to concur in or object to listing. The notice is carried out as specified in the subsections below.
(c) As part of the nomination process, each State is required to notify in writing the property owner(s), except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, of the State's intent to bring the nomination before the State Review Board. The list of owners shall be obtained from either official land recordation records or tax records, whichever is more appropriate, within 90 days prior to the notification of intent to nominate. If in any State the land recordation or tax records is not the most appropriate list from which to obtain owners that State shall notify the Keeper in writing and request approval that an alternative source of owners may be used.
The State is responsible for notifying only those owners whose names appear on the list consulted. Where there is more than one owner on the list, each separate owner shall be notified. The State shall send the written notification at least 30 but not more than 75 days before the State Review Board meeting. Required notices may vary in some details of wording as the States prefer, but the content of notices must be approved by the National Register. The notice shall give the owner(s) at least 30 but not more than 75 days to submit written comments and concur in or object in writing to the nomination of such property. At least 30 but not more than 75 days before the State Review Board meeting, the States are also required to notify by the above mentioned National Register approved notice the applicable chief elected official of the county (or equivalent governmental unit) and municipal political jurisdiction in which the property is located. The National Register nomination shall be on file with the State Historic Preservation Program during the comment period and a copy made available by mail when requested by the public, or made available at a location of reasonable access to all affected property owners, such as a local library courthouse, or other public place, prior to the State Review Board meeting so that written comments regarding the nomination can be prepared.
(d) For a nomination with more than 50 property owners, each State is required to notify in writing at least 30 but not more than 75 days in advance of the State Review Board meeting the chief elected local officials of the county (or equivalent governmental unit) and municipal political jurisdiction in which the property or district is located. The State shall provide general notice to property owners concerning the State's intent to nominate. The general notice shall be published at least 30 days but not more than 75 days before the State Review Board meeting and provide an opportunity for the submission of written comments and provide the owners of private property or a majority of such owners for districts an opportunity to concur in or object in writing to the nomination. Such general notice must be published in one or more local newspapers of general circulation in the area of the nomination. The content of the notices shall be approved by the National Register. If such general notice is used to notify the property owners for a nomination containing more than 50 owners, it is suggested that a public information meeting be held in the immediate area prior to the State Review Board meeting. If the State wishes to individually notify all property owners, it may do so, pursuant to procedures specified in subsection 60.6(c), in which case, the State need not publish a general notice.
(e) For Multiple Resource and Thematic Group Format submission, each district, site, building, structure and object included in the submission is treated as a separate nomination for the purpose of notification and to provide owners of private property the opportunity to concur in or object in writing to the nomination in accord with this section.
(f) The commenting period following notifications can be waived only when all property owners and the chief elected local official have advised the State in writing that they agree to the waiver.
(g) Upon notification, any owner or owners of a private property who wish to object shall submit to the State Historic Preservation Officer a notarized statement certifying that the party is the sole or partial owner of the private property, as appropriate, and objects to the listing. In nominations with multiple ownership of a single private
property or of districts, the property will not be listed if a majority of the owners object to listing. Upon receipt of notarized objections respecting a district or single private property with multiple owners, it is the responsibility of the State Historic Preservation Officer to ascertain whether a majority of owners of private property have objected. If an owner whose name did not appear on the list certifies in a written notarized statement that the party is the sole or partial owner of a nominated private property such owner shall be counted by the State Historic Preservation Officer in determining whether a majority of owners has objected. Each owner of private property in a district has one vote regardless of how many properties or what part of one property that party owns and regardless of whether the property contributes to the significance of the district.
(h) If a property has been submitted to and approved by the State Review Board for inclusion in the National Register prior to the effective date of this section, the State Historic Preservation Officer need not resubmit the property to the State Review Board; but before submitting the nomination to the NPS shall afford owners of private property the opportunity to concur in or object to the property's inclusion in the Register pursuant to applicable notification procedures described above.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Completed nomination forms or the documentation proposed for submission on the nomination forms and comments concerning the significance of a property and its eligibility for the National Register are submitted to the State Review Board. The State Review Board shall review the nomination forms or documentation proposed for submission on the nomination forms and any comments concerning the property's significance and eligibility for the National Register. The State Review Board shall determine whether or not the property meets the National Register criteria for evaluation and make a recommendation to the State Historic Preservation Officer to approve or disapprove the nomination.
(k) Nominations approved by the State Review Board and comments received are then reviewed by the State Historic Preservation Officer and if he or she finds the nominations to be adequately documented and technically, professionally, and procedurally correct and sufficient and in conformance with National Register criteria for evaluation, the nominations are submitted to the Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places, National Park Service, United States Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240. All comments received by a State and notarized statements of objection to listing are submitted with a nomination.
(l) If the State Historic Preservation Officer and the State Review Board disagree on whether a property meets the National Register criteria for evaluation, the State Historic Preservation Officer, if he or she chooses, may submit the nomination with his or her opinion concerning whether or not the property meets the criteria for evaluation and the opinion of the State Review Board to the Keeper of the National Register for a final decision on the listing of the property. The opinion of the State Review Board may be the minutes of the Review Board meeting. The State Historic Preservation Officer shall submit such disputed nominations if so requested within 45 days of the State Review Board meeting by the State Review Board or the chief elected local official of the local, county or municipal political subdivision in which the property is located but need not otherwise do so. Such nominations will be substantively reviewed by the Keeper.
(m) The State Historic Preservation Officer shall also submit to the Keeper nominations if so requested under the appeals process in § 60.12.
(n) If the owner of a private property or the majority of such owners for a district or single property with multiple owners have objected to the nomination prior to the submittal of a nomination, the State Historic Preservation Officer shall submit the nomination to the Keeper only for a determination of eligibility pursuant to subsection (s) of this section.
(o) The State Historic Preservation Officer signs block 12 of the nomination form if in his or her opinion the property meets the National Register criteria for evaluation. The State Historic Preservation Officer's signature in block 12 certifies that:
(1) All procedural requirements have been met;
(2) The nomination form is adequately documented;
(3) The nomination form is technically and professionally correct and sufficient;
(4) In the opinion of the State Historic Preservation Officer, the property meets the National Register criteria for evaluation.
(p) When a State Historic Preservation Officer submits a nomination form for a property that he or she does not believe meets the National Register criteria for evaluation, the State Historic Preservation Officer signs a continuation sheet Form NPS 10-900a explaining his/her opinions on the eligibility of the property and certifying that:
(1) All procedural requirements have been met;
(2) The nomination form is adequately documented;
(3) The nomination form is technically and professionally correct and sufficient.
(q) Notice will be provided in the
Federal Register
that the nominated property is being considered for listing in the National Register of Historic Places as specified in § 60.13.
(r) Nominations will be included in the National Register within 45 days of receipt by the Keeper or designee unless the Keeper disapproves a nomination, an appeal is filed, or the owner of private property (or the majority of such owners for a district or single property with multiple owners) objects by notarized statements received by the Keeper prior to listing. Nominations which are technically or professionally inadequate will be returned for correction and resubmission. When a property does not appear to meet the National Register criteria for evaluation, the nomination will be returned with an explanation as to why the property does not meet the National Register criteria for evaluation.
(s) If the owner of private property (or the majority of such owners for a district or single property with multiple owners) has objected to the nomination by notarized statement prior to listing, the Keeper shall review the nomination and make a determination of eligibility within 45 days of receipt, unless an appeal is filed. The Keeper shall list such properties determined eligible in the National Register upon receipt of notarized statements from the owner(s) of private property that the owner(s) no longer object to listing.
(t) Any person or organization which supports or opposes the nomination of a property by a State Historic Preservation Officer may petition the Keeper during the nomination process either to accept or reject a nomination. The petitioner must state the grounds of the petition and request in writing that the Keeper substantively review the nomination. Such petitions received by the Keeper prior to the listing of a property in the National Register or a determination of its eligibility where the private owners object to listing will be considered by the Keeper and the nomination will be substantively reviewed.
(u) State Historic Preservation Officers are required to inform the property owners and the chief elected local official when properties are listed in the National Register. In the case of a nomination where there are more than 50 property owners, they may be notified of the entry in the National Register by the same general notice stated in § 60.6(d). States which notify all property owners individually of entries in the National Register need not publish a general notice.
(v) In the case of nominations where the owner of private property (or the majority of such owners for a district or single property with multiple owners) has objected and the Keeper has determined the nomination eligible for the National Register, the State Historic Preservation Officer shall notify the appropriate chief elected local official and the owner(s) of such property of this determination. The general notice may be used for properties with more than 50 owners as described in
§ 60.6(d) or the State Historic Preservation Officer may notify the owners individually.
(w) If subsequent to nomination a State makes major revisions to a nomination or renominates a property rejected by the Keeper, the State Historic Preservation Officer shall notify the affected property owner(s) and the chief elected local official of the revisions or renomination in the same manner as the original notification for the nomination, but need not resubmit the nomination to the State Review Board. Comments received and notarized statements of objection must be forwarded to the Keeper along with the revisions or renomination. The State Historic Preservation Officer also certifies by the resubmittal that the affected property owner(s) and the chief elected local official have been renotified. “Major revisions” as used herein means revisions of boundaries or important substantive revisions to the nomination which could be expected to change the ultimate outcome as to whether or not the property is listed in the National Register by the Keeper.
(x) Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the contrary, the State Historic Preservation Officer in the nomination notification process or otherwise need not make available to any person or entity (except a Federal agency planning a project, the property owner, the chief elected local official of the political jurisdiction in which the property is located, and the local historic preservation commission for certified local governments) specific information relating to the location of properties proposed to be nominated to, or listed in, the National Register if he or she determines that the disclosure of specific information would create a risk of destruction or harm to such properties.
(y) With regard to property under Federal ownership or control, completed nomination forms shall be submitted to the Federal Preservation Officer for review and comment. The Federal Preservation Officer, may approve the nomination and forward it to the Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places, National Park Service, United States Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240.
[46 FR 56187, Nov. 16, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 46308, Oct. 12, 1983]
§§ 60.7-60.8
[Reserved]
§ 60.9
Nominations by Federal agencies.
(a) The National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, requires that, with the advice of the Secretary and in cooperation with the State Historic Preservation Officer of the State involved, each Federal agency shall establish a program to locate, inventory and nominate to the Secretary all properties under the agency's ownership or control that appear to qualify for inclusion on the National Register. Section 2(a) of Executive Order 11593 provides that Federal agencies shall locate, inventory, and nominate to the Secretary of the Interior all sites, buildings, districts, and objects under their jurisdiction or control that appear to qualify for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. Additional responsibilities of Federal agencies are detailed in the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, Executive Order 11593, the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the Archeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974, and procedures developed pursuant to these authorities, and other related legislation.
(b) Nomination forms are prepared under the supervision of the Federal Preservation Officer designated by the head of a Federal agency to fulfill agency responsibilities under the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended.
(c) Completed nominations are submitted to the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer for review and comment regarding the adequacy of the nomination, the significance of the property and its eligibility for the National Register. The chief elected local officials of the county (or equivalent governmental unit) and municipal political jurisdiction in which the property is located are notified and given 45 days in which to comment. The State Historic Preservation Officer signs block 12 of the nomination form with his/her recommendation.
(d) After receiving the comments of the State Historic Preservation Officer, and chief elected local official, or if there has been no response within 45 days, the Federal Preservation Officer may approve the nomination and forward it to the Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places, National Park Service, United States Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240. The Federal Preservation Officer signs block 12 of the nomination form if in his or her opinion the property meets the National Register criteria for evaluation. The Federal Preservation Officer's signature in block 12 certifies that:
(1) All procedural requirements have been met;
(2) The nomination form is adequately documented;
(3) The nomination form is technically and professionally correct and sufficient;
(4) In the opinion of the Federal Preservation Officer, the property meets the National Register criteria for evaluation.
(e) When a Federal Preservation Officer submits a nomination form for a property that he or she does not believe meets the National Register criteria for evaluation, the Federal Preservation Officer signs a continuation sheet Form NPS 10-900a explaining his/her opinions on the eligibility of the property and certifying that:
(1) All procedural requirements have been met;
(2) The nomination form is adequately documented;
(3) The nomination form is technically and professionally correct and sufficient.
(f) The comments of the State Historic Preservation Officer and chief local official are appended to the nomination, or, if there are no comments from the State Historic Preservation Officer an explanation is attached. Concurrent nominations (see § 60.10) cannot be submitted, however, until the nomination has been considered by the State in accord with Sec. 60.6, supra. Comments received by the State concerning concurrent nominations and notarized statements of objection must be submitted with the nomination.
(g) Notice will be provided in the
Federal Register
that the nominated property is being considered for listing in the National Register of Historic Places in accord with § 60.13.
(h) Nominations will be included in the National Register within 45 days of receipt by the Keeper or designee unless the Keeper disapproves such nomination or an appeal is filed. Nominations which are technically or professionally inadequate will be returned for correction and resubmission. When a property does not appear to meet the National Register criteria for evaluation, the nomination will be returned with an explanation as to why the property does not meet the National Register criteria for evaluation.
(i) Any person or organization which supports or opposes the nomination of a property by a Federal Preservation Officer may petition the Keeper during the nomination process either to accept or reject a nomination. The petitioner must state the grounds of the petition and request in writing that the Keeper substantively review the nomination. Such petition received by the Keeper prior to the listing of a property in the National Register or a determination of its eligibility where the private owner(s) object to listing will be considered by the Keeper and the nomination will be substantively reviewed.
§ 60.10
Concurrent State and Federal nominations.
(a) State Historic Preservation Officers and Federal Preservation Officers are encouraged to cooperate in locating, inventorying, evaluating, and nominating all properties possessing historical, architectural, archeological, or cultural value. Federal agencies may nominate properties where a portion of the property is not under Federal ownership or control.
(b) When a portion of the area included in a Federal nomination is not located on land under the ownership or control of the Federal agency, but is an integral part of the cultural resource, the completed nomination form shall be sent to the State Historic Preservation Officer for notification to property
owners, to give owners of private property an opportunity to concur in or object to the nomination, to solicit written comments and for submission to the State Review Board pursuant to the procedures in § 60.6.
(c) If the State Historic Preservation Officer and the State Review Board agree that the nomination meets the National Register criteria for evaluation, the nomination is signed by the State Historic Preservation Officer and returned to the Federal agency initiating the nomination. If the State Historic Preservation Officer and the State Review Board disagree, the nomination shall be returned to the Federal agency with the opinions of the State Historic Preservation Officer and the State Review Board concerning the adequacy of the nomination and whether or not the property meets the criteria for evaluation. The opinion of the State Review Board may be the minutes of the State Review Board meeting. The State Historic Preservation Officer's signed opinion and comments shall confirm to the Federal agency that the State nomination procedures have been fulfilled including notification requirements. Any comments received by the State shall be included with the letter as shall any notarized statements objecting to the listing of private property.
(d) If the owner of any privately owned property, (or a majority of the owners of such properties within a district or single property with multiple owners) objects to such inclusion by notarized statement(s) the Federal Historic Preservation Officer shall submit the nomination to the Keeper for review and a determination of eligibility. Comments, opinions, and notarized statements of objection shall be submitted with the nomination.
(e) The State Historic Preservation Officer shall notify the non-Federal owners when a concurrent nomination is listed or determined eligible for the National Register as required in § 60.6.
§ 60.11
Requests for nominations.
(a) The State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer as appropriate shall respond in writing within 60 days to any person or organization submitting a completed National Register nomination form or requesting consideration for any previously prepared nomination form on record with the State or Federal agency. The response shall provide a technical opinion concerning whether or not the property is adequately documented and appears to meet the National Register criteria for evaluation in § 60.4. If the nomination form is determined to be inadequately documented, the nominating authority shall provide the applicant with an explanation of the reasons for that determination.
(b) If the nomination form does not appear to be adequately documented, upon receiving notification, it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide necessary additional documentation.
(c) If the nomination form appears to be adequately documented and if the property appears to meet the National Register criteria for evaluation, the State Historic Preservation Officer shall comply with the notification requirements in § 60.6 and schedule the property for presentation at the earliest possible State Review Board meeting. Scheduling shall be consistent with the State's established priorities for processing nominations. If the nomination form is adequately documented, but the property does not appear to meet National Register criteria for evaluation, the State Historic Preservation Officer need not process the nomination, unless so requested by the Keeper pursuant to § 60.12.
(d) The State Historic Preservation Officer's response shall advise the applicant of the property's position in accord with the State's priorities for processing nominations and of the approximate date the applicant can expect its consideration by the State Review Board. The State Historic Preservation Officer shall also provide notice to the applicant of the time and place of the Review Board meeting at least 30 but not more than 75 days before the meeting, as well as complying with the notification requirements in § 60.6.
(e) Upon action on a nomination by the State Review Board, the State Historic Preservation Officer shall, within 90 days, submit the nomination to the National Park Service, or, if the State
Historic Preservation Officer does not consider the property eligible for the National Register, so advise the applicant within 45 days.
(f) If the applicant substantially revises a nomination form as a result of comments by the State or Federal agency, it may be treated by the State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer as a new submittal and reprocessed in accord with the requirements in this section.
(g) The Federal Preservation Officer shall request the comments of the State Historic Preservation Officer and notify the applicant in writing within 90 days of receipt of an adequately documented nomination form as to whether the Federal agency will nominate the property. The Federal Preservation Officer shall submit an adequately documented nomination to the National Park Service unless in his or her opinion the property is not eligible for the National Register.
[48 FR 46308, Oct. 12, 1983]
§ 60.12
Nomination appeals.
(a) Any person or local government may appeal to the Keeper the failure or refusal of a nominating authority to nominate a property that the person or local government considers to meet the National Register criteria for evaluation upon decision of a nominating authority to not nominate a property for any reason when requested pursuant to § 60.11, or upon failure of a State Historic Preservation Officer to nominate a property recommended by the State Review Board. (This action differs from the procedure for appeals during the review of a nomination by the National Park Service where an individual or organization may “petition the Keeper during the nomination process,” as specified in §§ 60.6(t) and 60.9(i). Upon receipt of such petition the normal 45-day review period will be extended for 30 days beyond the date of the petition to allow the petitioner to provide additional documentation for review.)
(b) Such appeal shall include a copy of the nomination form and documentation previously submitted to the State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer, an explanation of why the applicant is submitting the appeal in accord with this section and shall include pertinent correspondence from the State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer.
(c) The Keeper will respond to the appellant and the State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer with a written explanation either denying or sustaining the appeal within 45 days of receipt. If the appeal is sustained, the Keeper will:
(1) Request the State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer to submit the nomination to the Keeper within 15 days if the nomination has completed the procedural requirements for nomination as described in §§ 60.6 or 60.9 except that concurrence of the State Review Board, State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer is not required; or
(2) If the nomination has not completed these procedural requirements, request the State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer to promptly process the nomination pursuant to §§ 60.6 or 60.9 and submit the nomination to the Keeper without delay.
(d) State Historic Preservation Officers and Federal Preservation Officers shall process and submit such nominations if so requested by the Keeper pursuant to this section. The Secretary reserves the right to list properties in the National Register or determine properties eligible for such listing on his own motion when necessary to assist in the preservation of historic resources and after notifying the owner and appropriate parties and allowing for a 30-day comment period.
(e) No person shall be considered to have exhausted administrative remedies with respect to failure to nominate a property to the National Register until he or she has complied with procedures set forth in this section. The decision of the Keeper is the final administrative action on such appeals.
[48 FR 46308, Oct. 12, 1983]
§ 60.13
Publication in the Federal Register and other NPS notification.
(a) When a nomination is received, NPS will publish notice in the
Federal Register
that the property is being considered for listing in the National
Register. A 15-day commenting period from date of publication will be provided. When necessary to assist in the preservation of historic properties this 15-day period may be shortened or waived.
(b) NPS shall notify the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer, Federal Preservation Officer, person or local government when there is no approved State program of the listing of the property in the National Register and will publish notice of the listing in the
Federal Register.
(c) In nominations where the owner of any privately owned property (or a majority of the owners of such properties within a district or single property with multiple owners) has objected and the Keeper has determined the nomination eligible for the National Register, NPS shall notify the State Historic Preservation Officer, the Federal Preservation Officer (for Federal or concurrent nominations), the person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation. NPS will publish notice of the determination of eligibility in the
Federal Register.
§ 60.14
Changes and revisions to properties listed in the National Register.
(a)
Boundary changes.
(1) A boundary alteration shall be considered as a new property nomination. All forms, criteria and procedures used in nominating a property to the National Register must be used. In the case of boundary enlargements only those owners in the newly nominated as yet unlisted area need be notified and will be counted in determining whether a majority of private owners object to listing. In the case of a diminution of a boundary, owners shall be notified as specified in § 60.15 concerning removing properties from the National Register. A professionally justified recommendation by the State Historic Preservation Officer, Federal Preservation Officer, or person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program shall be presented to NPS. During this process, the property is not taken off the National Register. If the Keeper or his or her designee finds the recommendation in accordance with the National Register criteria for evaluation, the change will be accepted. If the boundary change is not accepted, the old boundaries will remain. Boundary revisions may be appealed as provided for in §§ 60.12 and 60.15.
(2) Four justifications exist for altering a boundary: Professional error in the initial nomination, loss of historic integrity, recognition of additional significance, additional research documenting that a larger or smaller area should be listed. No enlargement of a boundary should be recommended unless the additional area possesses previously unrecognized significance in American history, architecture, archeology, engineering or culture. No diminution of a boundary should be recommended unless the properties being removed do not meet the National Register criteria for evaluation. Any proposal to alter a boundary has to be documented in detail including photographing the historic resources falling between the existing boundary and the other proposed boundary.
(b)
Relocating properties listed in the National Register.
(1) Properties listed in the National Register should be moved only when there is no feasible alternative for preservation. When a property is moved, every effort should be made to reestablish its historic orientation, immediate setting, and general environment.
(2) If it is proposed that a property listed in the National Register be moved and the State Historic Preservation Officer, Federal agency for a property under Federal ownership or control, or person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program, wishes the property to remain in the National Register during and after the move, the State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer having ownership or control or person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program, shall submit documentation to NPS prior to the move. The documentation shall discuss:
(i) The reasons for the move;
(ii) The effect on the property's historical integrity;
(iii) The new setting and general environment of the proposed site, including evidence that the proposed site does not possess historical or archeological significance that would be adversely affected by the intrusion of the property; and
(iv) Photographs showing the proposed location.
(3) Any such proposal with respect to the new location shall follow the required notification procedures, shall be approved by the State Review Board if it is a State nomination and shall continue to follow normal review procedures. The Keeper shall also follow the required notification procedures for nominations. The Keeper shall respond to a properly documented request within 45 days of receipt from the State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer, or within 90 days of receipt from a person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program, concerning whether or not the move is approved. Once the property is moved, the State Historic Preservation Officer, Federal Preservation Officer, or person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program shall submit to the Keeper for review:
(i) A letter notifying him or her of the date the property was moved;
(ii) Photographs of the property on its new site; and
(iii) Revised maps, including a U.S.G.S. map,
(iv) Acreage, and
(v) Verbal boundary description.
The Keeper shall respond to a properly documented submittal within 45 days of receipt with the final decision on whether the property will remain in the National Register. If the Keeper approves the move, the property will remain in the National Register during and after the move unless the integrity of the property is in some unforeseen manner destroyed. If the Keeper does not approve the move, the property will be automatically deleted from the National Register when moved. In cases of properties removed from the National Register, if the State, Federal agency, or person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program has neglected to obtain prior approval for the move or has evidence that previously unrecognized significance exists, or has accrued, the State, Federal agency, person or local government may resubmit a nomination for the property.
(4) In the event that a property is moved, deletion from the National Register will be automatic unless the above procedures are followed prior to the move. If the property has already been moved, it is the responsibility of the State, Federal agency or person or local government which nominated the property to notify the National Park Service. Assuming that the State, Federal agency or person or local government wishes to have the structure reentered in the National Register, it must be nominated again on new forms which should discuss:
(i) The reasons for the move;
(ii) The effect on the property's historical integrity, and
(iii) The new setting and general environment, including evidence that the new site does not possess historical or archeological significance that would be adversely affected by intrusion of the property.
In addition, new photographs, acreage, verbal boundary description and a U.S.G.S. map showing the structure at its new location must be sent along with the revised nomination. Any such nomination submitted by a State must be approved by the State Review Board.
(5) Properties moved in a manner consistent with the comments of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, in accord with its procedures (36 CFR part 800), are granted as exception to § 60.12(b). Moving of properties in accord with the Advisory Council's procedures should be dealt with individually in each memorandum of agreement. In such cases, the State Historic Preservation Officer or the Federal Preservation Officer, for properties under Federal ownership or control, shall notify the Keeper of the new location after the move including new documentation as described above.
§ 60.15
Removing properties from the National Register.
(a) Grounds for removing properties from the National Register are as follows:
(1) The property has ceased to meet the criteria for listing in the National Register because the qualities which caused it to be originally listed have been lost or destroyed, or such qualities were lost subsequent to nomination and prior to listing;
(2) Additional information shows that the property does not meet the National Register criteria for evaluation;
(3) Error in professional judgment as to whether the property meets the criteria for evaluation; or
(4) Prejudicial procedural error in the nomination or listing process. Properties removed from the National Register for procedural error shall be reconsidered for listing by the Keeper after correction of the error or errors by the State Historic Preservation Officer, Federal Preservation Officer, person or local government which originally nominated the property, or by the Keeper, as appropriate. The procedures set forth for nominations shall be followed in such reconsiderations. Any property or district removed from the National Register for procedural deficiencies in the nomination and/or listing process shall automatically be considered eligible for inclusion in the National Register without further action and will be published as such in the
Federal Register.
(b) Properties listed in the National Register prior to December 13, 1980, may only be removed from the National Register on the grounds established in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(c) Any person or organization may petition in writing for removal of a property from the National Register by setting forth the reasons the property should be removed on the grounds established in paragraph (a) of this section. With respect to nominations determined eligible for the National Register because the owners of private property object to listing, anyone may petition for reconsideration of whether or not the property meets the criteria for evaluation using these procedures. Petitions for removal are submitted to the Keeper by the State Historic Preservation Officer for State nominations, the Federal Preservation Officer for Federal nominations, and directly to the Keeper from persons or local governments where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program.
(d) Petitions submitted by persons or local governments where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program shall include a list of the owner(s). In such cases the Keeper shall notify the affected owner(s) and the chief elected local official and give them an opportunity to comment. For approved State programs, the State Historic Preservation Officer shall notify the affected owner(s) and chief elected local official and give them an opportunity to comment prior to submitting a petition for removal. The Federal Preservation Officer shall notify and obtain the comments of the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer prior to forwarding an appeal to NPS. All comments and opinions shall be submitted with the petition.
(e) The State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer shall respond in writing within 45 days of receipt to petitions for removal of property from the National Register. The response shall advise the petitioner of the State Historic Preservation Officer's or Federal Preservation Officer's views on the petition.
(f) A petitioner desiring to pursue his removal request must notify the State Historic Preservation Officer or the Federal Preservation Officer in writing within 45 days of receipt of the written views on the petition.
(g) The State Historic Preservation Officer may elect to have a property considered for removal according to the State's nomination procedures unless the petition is on procedural grounds and shall schedule it for consideration by the State Review Board as quickly as all notification requirements can be completed following procedures outlined in § 60.6, or the State Historic Preservation Officer may elect to forward the petition for removal to the Keeper with his or her comments without State Review Board consideration.
(h) Within 15 days after receipt of the petitioner's notification of intent to pursue his removal request, the State Historic Preservation Officer shall notify the petitioner in writing either that the State Review Board will consider the petition on a specified date or that the petition will be forwarded to the Keeper after notification requirements have been completed. The State Historic Preservation Officer shall forward the petitions to the Keeper for review within 15 days after notification requirements or Review Board consideration, if applicable, have been completed.
(i) Within 15 days after receipt of the petitioner notification of intent to pursue his petition, the Federal Preservation Officer shall forward the petition with his or her comments and those of the State Historic Preservation Officer to the Keeper.
(j) The Keeper shall respond to a petition for removal within 45 days of receipt, except where the Keeper must notify the owners and the chief elected local official. In such cases the Keeper shall respond within 90 days of receipt. The Keeper shall notify the petitioner and the applicable State Historic Preservation Officer, Federal Preservation Officer, or person or local government where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program, of his decision. The State Historic Preservation Officer or Federal Preservation Officer transmitting the petition shall notify the petitioner, the owner(s), and the chief elected local official in writing of the decision. The Keeper will provide such notice for petitions from persons or local governments where there is no approved State Historic Preservation Program. The general notice may be used for properties with more than 50 owners. If the general notice is used it shall be published in one or more newspapers with general circulation in the area of the nomination.
(k) The Keeper may remove a property from the National Register on his own motion on the grounds established in paragraph (a) of this section, except for those properties listed in the National Register prior to December 13, 1980, which may only be removed from the National Register on the grounds established in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. In such cases, the Keeper will notify the nominating authority, the affected owner(s) and the applicable chief elected local official and provide them an opportunity to comment. Upon removal, the Keeper will notify the nominating authority of the basis for the removal. The State Historic Preservation Officer, Federal Preservation Officer, or person or local government which nominated the property shall notify the owner(s) and the chief elected local official of the removal.
(l) No person shall be considered to have exhausted administrative remedies with respect to removal of a property from the National Register until the Keeper has denied a petition for removal pursuant to this section.
Pt. 61

# PART 61—PROCEDURES FOR STATE, TRIBAL, AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT HISTORIC PRESERVATION PROGRAMS
Sec.
61.1
Authorization.
61.2
Definitions.
61.3
Implementation of this part.
61.4
State programs.
61.5
Grants to State programs.
61.6
Certified local government programs.
61.7
Subgrants to certified local governments.
61.8
Tribal programs. [Reserved]
61.9
Grants to tribal programs. [Reserved]
61.10
Waiver.
61.11
Information collection.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.

# Source:
64 FR 11742, Mar. 9, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 61.1
Authorization.
The National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.
):
(a) Requires the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) to promulgate regulations for:
(1) Approving and overseeing State historic preservation programs;
(2) Certifying local governments to carry out the purposes of the Act;
(3) Ensuring that applicable State Historic Preservation Officers (SHPOs) allocate to certified local governments (CLGs) a share of grants that the SHPOs receive under the Act; and
(4) Assisting Indian tribes in preserving their particular “historic properties” (as defined by the Act);
(b) Directs the Secretary to administer a program of grants-in-aid to States and Indian tribes for historic preservation projects and programs that the Secretary has approved; and
(c) Requires the Secretary to make available information concerning professional standards, methods, and techniques for the preservation of “historic properties” (as defined by the Act) and the administration of historic preservation programs.
§ 61.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a) All terms that the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, defines have the same meaning in the regulations in this part that the statute provides; see especially sections 101(a)(1)(A), 101(b), 101(c)(4), 108, and 301.
(b)
Act
means the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, (16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.
).
(c)
Chief elected local official
means the elected head of a local government.
(d)
The Secretary's Standards
means only the “Standards” portions and not the “Guidelines” portions of “the Secretary of the Interior's Standards and Guidelines for Archeology and Historic Preservation.” The Secretary's Standards provide broad national principles of archeological and historic preservation practices and methods. “The Secretary of the Interior's Standards and Guidelines for Archeology and Historic Preservation” also contains “the Secretary's Guidelines” which provide broad national guidance on how to apply “the Secretary's Standards.”
(e)
State historic preservation program
or
State program
means a State government organization or program meeting the requirements that section 101(b) of the Act specifies.
§ 61.3
Implementation of this part.
(a)
National Park Service policy of management by exception.
The National Park Service (NPS) will administer the regulations in this part in such a way (and where feasible) as to:
(1) Limit the use of direct Federal management review procedures to high risk situations, to new programs, or to activities that are appropriate for the Federal Government to oversee;
(2) Presume that State, tribal, and local government historic preservation officials manage their programs in an accountable way unless situations indicate the contrary; and
(3) Rely to the maximum extent feasible on State, tribal, and local government systems of financial and program management that meet Federal standards. At the discretion of the Secretary, each State, tribal, and local government may substitute its own fiscal audit and management systems for the Secretary's comparable fiscal audit and management requirements, so long as the State, tribal, or local government system establishes and maintains accounting standards substantially similar to Federal standards and provides for independent peer review.
(b)
The Secretary's Standards.
NPS will use the Secretary's Standards as technical performance standards for matters covered by this part. NPS may also use as technical performance standards (for matters covered by this part) additional guidance that NPS identifies and provides from time to time after appropriate consultation and notice.
(c) Each State historic preservation program staff member, State Historic Preservation Review Board (Review Board) member, and certified local government (CLG) historic preservation review commission (Commission) member whom the Secretary has approved as meeting “the Secretary's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards” will retain that status, regardless of subsequent revisions to those Standards, until such time as that individual no longer works in that program, or serves on that Review Board, or serves on that Commission with which that individual was affiliated as of the date of that individual's approval.
(d) You may obtain publications and other information mentioned in this part by contacting: Heritage Preservation Services, National Center for Cultural Resource Stewardship and Partnership Programs, National Park Service, 1849 C Street NW (NC Suite 200),
Washington, D.C. 20240 or via the National Park Service Home Page for cultural programs at
http://www.cr.nps.gov.
§ 61.4
State programs.
(a) For a State to participate in the program that this part describes, the Governor must appoint and designate a State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) to administer the State historic preservation program.
(b) It is the responsibility of the SHPO to carry out the duties and activities that section 101 (b)(3) of the Act describes. In performing those duties and activities:
(1) The SHPO must carry out a historic preservation planning process that includes the development and implementation of a comprehensive statewide historic preservation plan that provides guidance for effective decision making about historic property preservation throughout the State.
(2) The SHPO, in addition to surveying and maintaining inventories of historic properties, may also obtain:
(i) Comparative data valuable in determining the National Register eligibility of properties;
(ii) Information on properties that may become eligible for the National Register of Historic Places with the passage of time; and/or
(iii) Information on the absence of historic properties for use in planning for public and private development projects.
(3) The SHPO must provide for adequate public participation in the State historic preservation program as a whole.
(i) As part of the process of recommending a property to the National Register, the SHPO must comply with the consultation and notification procedures contained in 36 CFR part 60.
(ii) The SHPO may authorize other persons or entities to fulfill the notice requirements in 36 CFR part 60 pursuant to the Secretary's written guidance.
(iii) The SHPO also may authorize the historic preservation review commission (Commission) of a certified local government (CLG) to act in place of the State Historic Preservation Review Board (Review Board) for the purpose of considering National Register nominations within its jurisdiction, provided that the Commission both meets the professional qualifications required for the Review Board when considering such nominations and otherwise follows the Secretary's written guidance.
(iv) In accordance with the Secretary's written guidance and with the consent of both the property owners in a nomination and the chief elected local official, the Review Board (or the Commission acting in its place) may consider the nomination without a face-to-face meeting.
(4) The SHPO may carry out all or any part of his or her responsibilities by contract or cooperative agreement with any qualified nonprofit organization, educational institution, or otherwise pursuant to State law. However, the SHPO may not delegate the responsibility for compliance with the Act or with grant assistance terms and conditions.
(c) The Secretary will consider individual SHPO proposals for programs that, for a specified period, include fewer duties than those section 101(b)(3) of the Act specifies, if a different approach would better serve an appropriate balance of historic property, customer or constituent, and historic preservation needs.
(d)
Procedures for review and approval of State historic preservation programs.
(1) In accordance with the Act, the Secretary will evaluate each State program for consistency with the Act periodically, but not less often than every four years. If the Secretary determines that it meets the program requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), (e) and (f) of this section, he or she will approve the State program as set forth in this section.
(2) The Secretary may use on-site and/or off-site inquiries to perform such evaluation. The Secretary will provide the SHPO with a timely report containing written findings and analyses that highlight the strengths and weaknesses of the State program.
(3)
Approval method.
(i) If the Secretary determines that a State program is consistent with the Act, the report will include notice that the State program's approved status continues.
(ii) If the Secretary determines that a State program has major aspects not consistent with the Act, the report will include notice of deficiencies along with required actions for correcting them. Unless circumstances warrant immediate action, the Secretary will provide a specified period to allow the SHPO either to correct the deficiencies or to present for Secretarial approval a justifiable plan and timetable for correcting the deficiencies. During this period, the SHPO has the opportunity to request that the Secretary reconsider any findings and required actions.
(iii) The Secretary will provide timely notice of continued approved State program status to a SHPO successfully resolving deficiencies. Once the Secretary renews a State program's approved status, he or she generally will not review the program until the next regular evaluation period. However, if the Secretary deems it necessary, he or she may conduct a review more often.
(iv) The Secretary will provide timely notice of the revocation of a program's approved status to any SHPO whose program has deficiencies that warrant immediate action or that remain uncorrected after the expiration of the period specified pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section. The Secretary will then initiate financial suspension and other actions in accordance with the Act, applicable regulatory requirements, and related guidance that the National Park Service issues.
(e) The SHPO must appoint or employ a professionally qualified staff.
(1) Except as approved pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the staff must include at a minimum, one individual meeting “the Secretary's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards” for history, one individual meeting “the Secretary's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards” for historic or prehistoric archeology, and one individual meeting “the Secretary's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards” for architectural history. “The Secretary's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards” and related guidance are part of the larger “Secretary of the Interior's Standards and Guidelines for Archeology and Historic Preservation.” The SHPO may determine that additional professional staff members representing the required or other disciplines are necessary to administer the State program in accordance with the Act.
(2) The Secretary will consider proposals from a SHPO for a minimum required staff composition that differs from the requirement that paragraph (e)(1) of this section specifies, if the proposal addresses better an appropriate balance of historic property, customer or constituent, and historic preservation needs in that State.
(3) When a staff position that paragraph (e)(1) of this section requires becomes vacant, the SHPO must fill the vacancy in a timely manner. In the interim, the SHPO must ensure that appropriately qualified individuals address technical matters. A vacancy in a required position that persists for more than six months is cause for review, comment, and appropriate action by the Secretary.
(f) Unless State law provides for a different method of appointment, the SHPO must appoint an adequate and qualified State historic preservation Review Board (Review Board).
(1) All Review Board members must have demonstrated competence, interest, or knowledge in historic preservation. A majority of Review Board members must meet “the Secretary of the Interior's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards” which are part of the larger “Secretary's Standards and Guidelines for Archeology and Historic Preservation.” The members meeting “the Secretary's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards” must include at a minimum, one individual meeting “the Secretary's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards” for history, one individual meeting “the Secretary's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards” for prehistoric archeology or historic archeology, and one individual meeting “the Secretary's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards” for architectural history. One person may meet the Standards for more than one required discipline. The other Review
Board members, if any, who comprise the majority that meets “the Secretary's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards” may represent, subject to the SHPO's selection, any of the disciplines that those “Standards” describe.
(2) The Secretary will consider proposals from a SHPO for a minimum required Review Board composition that differs from the requirement that paragraph (f)(1) of this section specifies, if the proposal addresses better an appropriate balance of historic property, customer or constituent, and historic preservation needs in that State.
(3) When a required Review Board position becomes vacant, the SHPO must fill the vacancy in a timely manner. In the interim, the SHPO must ensure that the Review Board has access to advice from appropriately qualified individuals. A lapse of more than one year in filling the vacancy is cause for review, comment, and appropriate action by the Secretary.
(4) The Review Board must meet as often as is necessary to complete its work in a timely fashion but no less often than once a year.
(5) The Review Board must adopt written procedures governing its operations consistent with the provisions of this section and related guidance that the National Park Service issues.
(6) Review Board responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Providing advice to the SHPO on the full range of Historic Preservation Fund-supported activities, that section 101 (b)(3) of the Act describes;
(ii) Reviewing and making recommendations on National Register nomination proposals;
(iii) Participating in the review of appeals to National Register nominations; and
(iv) Performing such other duties as may be appropriate.
§ 61.5
Grants to State programs.
(a) Each State with an approved State program is eligible for grants-in-aid from the Historic Preservation Fund (HPF).
(b) The National Park Service (NPS) will administer HPF matching grants-in-aid in accordance with the Act, OMB Circular A-133 and 43 CFR part 12, and related guidance that NPS issues. Failure by a State program to meet these requirements is cause for comment and appropriate action by the Secretary.
§ 61.6
Certified local government programs.
(a) Each approved State program must provide a mechanism for certification (by the State Historic Preservation Officer and the Secretary) of local governments to carry out the purposes of the Act.
(b) Each State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) must follow procedures that the Secretary approves for the certification of local governments. Each SHPO also must follow procedures for removal of certified local government (CLG) status for cause. A SHPO must submit any proposed amendment to its procedures to the Secretary for approval. The Secretary will act on each proposal in a timely fashion generally within 45 days of receipt.
(c) When a SHPO approves a local government certification request in accordance with the State program's National Park Service (NPS)-approved certification process, the SHPO must prepare a written certification agreement between the SHPO and the local government. The certification agreement must list the specific responsibilities of the local government when certified. The SHPO must submit to the Secretary the written certification agreement and any additional information as is necessary for the Secretary to certify the local government pursuant to the Act and this part. If the Secretary does not disapprove the proposed certification within 15 working days of receipt, the Secretary has certified the local government.
(d) Beyond the minimum responsibilities set out in the Act for all CLGs, the SHPO may make additional delegations of responsibility to individual CLGs. However, these delegations may not include the SHPO's overall responsibility derived from the Act or where law or regulation specifies.
(e) The SHPO must ensure that each local government satisfies the following minimum requirements as conditions for certification. Each CLG must:
(1) Enforce appropriate State or local legislation for the designation and protection of historic properties. The State procedures must define what constitutes appropriate legislation, as long as:
(i) Designation provisions in such legislation include the identification and registration of properties for protection that meet criteria established by the State or the locality for significant historic and prehistoric resources within the jurisdiction of the local government;
(ii) Protection provisions in such legislation include a local review process under State or local law for proposed demolitions of, changes to, or other action that may affect historic properties as paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section describes; and
(iii) The legislation otherwise is consistent with the Act.
(2) Establish by State or local law and maintain an adequate and qualified historic preservation review commission (Commission). All Commission members must have a demonstrated interest, competence, or knowledge in historic preservation. Unless State or local legislation provides for a different method of appointment, the chief elected local official must appoint all Commission members.
(i) The State procedures must encourage certified local governments to include individuals who meet “the Secretary's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards” among the membership of the Commission, to the extent that such individuals are available in the community.
(ii) The State procedures may specify the minimum number of Commission members who must meet “the Secretary's (Historic Preservation) Professional Qualifications Standards.” The State procedures may also specify which, if any, disciplines the Commission's membership must include from among those disciplines that the Standards describe. Membership requirements set by the State procedures for Commissions must be cognizant of the needs and functions of Commissions in the State and subject to the availability of such professionals in the community concerned.
(iii) Provided that the Commission is otherwise adequate and qualified to carry out the responsibilities delegated to it, the SHPO may certify a local government without the minimum number or types of disciplines established in State procedures, if the local government can demonstrate that it has made a reasonable effort to fill those positions, or that an alternative composition of the Commission best meets the needs of the Commission and of the local government.
(iv) The SHPO must make available to each Commission orientation materials and training designed to provide a working knowledge of the roles and operations of Federal, State, and local historic preservation programs, and historic preservation in general.
(3) Maintain a system for the survey and inventory of historic properties. The SHPO must ensure that such systems and the data that they produce are capable of integration into and are compatible with statewide inventories and (when and as appropriate) with State and local planning processes.
(4) Provide for adequate public participation in the local historic preservation program as a whole. The SHPO must provide each CLG with appropriate guidance on mechanisms to ensure adequate public participation in the local historic preservation program including the process for evaluating properties for nomination to the National Register of Historic Places.
(5) Satisfactorily perform the responsibilities delegated to it under the Act. The SHPO must monitor and evaluate the performance of each CLG according to written standards and procedures that the SHPO establishes. If a SHPO's evaluation of a CLG's performance indicates that such performance is inadequate, the SHPO must suggest in writing ways to improve performance. If, after a period of time that the SHPO stipulates, the SHPO determines that the CLG has not improved its performance sufficiently, the SHPO may recommend that the Secretary decertify the local government. If the Secretary does not object within 30 working days
of receipt, the Secretary has approved the decertification.
(f) Effects of certification include:
(1) Inclusion in the process of nominating properties to the National Register of Historic Places in accordance with sections 101 (c)(2)(A) and (c)(2)(B) of the Act. The SHPO may delegate to a CLG any of the responsibilities of the SHPO and the Review Board in processing National Register nominations as specified in 36 CFR part 60 (see also § 61.4(b)(3)), except for the authority to nominate properties directly to the National Register. A CLG may make nominations directly to NPS only when the State does not have an approved program pursuant to § 61.4.
(2) Eligibility to apply for a portion of the State's annual Historic Preservation Fund (HPF) grant award. Each State must transfer at least 10 percent of its annual HPF grant award to CLGs for historic preservation projects and programs in accordance with the Act and as § 61.7 specifies.
(g) The District of Columbia is exempt from the requirements of this section because there are no subordinated local governments in the District. If any other jurisdiction that section 301(2) of the Act defines as a State believes that its political subdivisions lack authorities similar to those of local governments in other States, and hence cannot satisfy the requirements for local government certification, it may apply to the Secretary for exemption from the requirements of this section.
(h)
Procedures for direct certification by the Secretary where there is no approved State program pursuant to § 61.4.
To the extent feasible, the Secretary will ensure that there is consistency and continuity in the CLG program of a State that does not have an approved State program.
(1) Where there is no approved State program, a local government wishing to become certified must apply directly to the Secretary.
(2) The application must demonstrate that the local government meets the specifications for certification set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.
(3) The Secretary will review certification applications under this paragraph (h) and take action in a timely fashion generally within 90 days of receipt.
§ 61.7
Subgrants to certified local governments.
(a) Each SHPO must transfer at least 10 percent of its annual Historic Preservation Fund (HPF) grant award to CLGs as subgrants for historic preservation projects and programs in accordance with the Act. In any year that the annual HPF State grant appropriation exceeds $65,000,000, SHPOs must transfer one half of the amount over $65,000,000 to CLGs according to procedures that the Secretary will establish.
(b) Each CLG is eligible to receive funds from the 10 percent (or greater) CLG share of the State's total annual HPF grant award. However, the SHPO need not award funds to all CLGs.
(c) Each SHPO must maintain and follow a procedure that the Secretary approves for the use and distribution of funds from the State's annual HPF grant award to CLGs to ensure that no CLG receives a disproportionate share of the allocation. The procedure will provide a clear basis for the funding decisions. The SHPO must submit any proposed amendment to its procedure to the Secretary for approval. The Secretary will respond to such a proposal in a timely fashion generally within 45 days of receipt.
(d) Each SHPO must notify annually each CLG of its opportunity to apply for HPF funding as well as what is entailed in the application and project selection process.
(e) Each CLG receiving an HPF grant award from the CLG share is a subgrantee of the State. The SHPO must ensure that each CLG adheres to all applicable grant conditions and government-wide and program specific requirements that the National Park Service issues. The SHPO may require specific uses of funds subgranted to CLGs. CLGs may not apply subgranted HPF monies as matching share for any other Federal grant.
(f) Where there is no approved State program pursuant to § 61.4, the Secretary will determine the method for allocating funds to CLGs in that State in accordance with the procedures set forth for the State in this section. To
the extent feasible, the Secretary will ensure consistency and continuity in the funding allocation policy of the CLG program for a State that does not have an approved historic preservation program.
§ 61.8
Tribal programs. [Reserved]
§ 61.9
Grants to tribal programs. [Reserved]
§ 61.10
Waiver.
The Secretary may waive any of the requirements of the rules in this part that are not mandated by statute or by other applicable regulations if the Secretary finds, in writing, that the historic preservation program would benefit from such waiver and the waiver would not compromise the purposes, conditions, and requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended.
§ 61.11
Information collection.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under 44 U.S.C. 3507
et seq.,
has approved the collection of information contained in this part. OMB has assigned clearance number 1024-0038 to this collection of information. The National Park Service (NPS) collects this information as part of the process for reviewing the procedures and programs of State and local governments participating in the national historic preservation program and the Historic Preservation Fund grant program. NPS will use the information to evaluate those programs and procedures for consistency with the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, and compliance with government-wide grant requirements. The obligation to respond is required to obtain a benefit under these programs. Note that a Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. NPS provides no assurance of confidentiality to respondents with the exception of locational information concerning some properties that government historic preservation property inventories include. Pursuant to section 304 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, NPS tightly controls release of information when such release could have the potential of damaging those qualities which make a property historic.
(b) We estimate the public reporting burden for the collection of this information to average 14.06 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to Ms. Diane M. Cooke, Information Collection Officer, National Park Service, 1849 C Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20240 and to the Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Attention: Desk Officer for the Department of the Interior (1024-0038), Washington, D.C. 20503.
Pt. 62

# PART 62—NATIONAL NATURAL LANDMARKS PROGRAM
Sec.
62.1
Purpose.
62.2
Definitions.
62.3
Effects of designation.
62.4
Natural landmark designation and recognition process.
62.5
Natural landmark criteria.
62.6
Natural landmark monitoring.
62.7
Natural landmark modifications.
62.8
Natural landmark designation removal.
62.9
General provisions.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1a-5, 461
et seq.,
463, 1908.

# Source:
64 FR 25717, May 12, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 62.1
Purpose.
The procedures in this part set forth the processes and criteria for the identification, evaluation, designation and monitoring of national natural landmarks.
(a) The National Natural Landmarks Program focuses attention on areas of exceptional natural value to the nation as a whole rather than to one particular State or locality. The program recognizes areas preserved by Federal, State and local agencies as well as private organizations and individuals and
encourages the owners of national natural landmarks to voluntarily observe preservation precepts.
(b) The National Natural Landmarks Program identifies and preserves natural areas that best illustrate the biological and geological character of the United States, enhances the scientific and educational values of preserved areas, strengthens public appreciation of natural history, and fosters a greater concern for the conservation of the nation's natural heritage.
§ 62.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part:
National Natural Landmark
is an area designated by the Secretary of the Interior as being of national significance to the United States because it is an outstanding example(s) of major biological and geological features found within the boundaries of the United States or its Territories or on the Outer Continental Shelf.
National Registry of Natural Landmarks
is the official listing of all designated national natural landmarks.
National significance
describes an area that is one of the best examples of a biological community or geological feature within a natural region of the United States, including terrestrial communities, landforms, geological features and processes, habitats of native plant and animal species, or fossil evidence of the development of life.
Natural region
is a distinct physiographic province having similar geologic history, structures, and landforms. The basic physiographic characteristics of a natural region influence its vegetation, climate, soils, and animal life. Examples include the Atlantic Coastal Plain, Great Basin, and Brooks Range natural regions.
Owner
means the individual(s), corporation(s), or partnership(s) holding fee simple title to property, or the head of the public agency or subordinate employee of the public agency to whom such authority was delegated and who is responsible for administering publicly owned land. Owner does not include individuals, partnerships, corporations, or public agencies holding easements or less than fee interests (including leaseholds) of any form. A Native American tribe that is the beneficial fee simple owner of lands, with the United States as trustee, will be considered as owner of private property for the purposes of this part. Similarly, individual member(s) of a Native American tribe who are beneficial owner(s) of property, allottee(s) held in trust by the United States, will be considered as owner(s) of private property for the purposes of this part.
Potential national natural landmark
means an area that, based on recommendation or initial comparison with other areas in the same natural region, seems to merit further study of its merits for possible national natural landmark designation.
Prejudicial procedural error
is one that reasonably may be considered to have affected the outcome of the designation process.
Representative
refers to any public or private individual, agency, or organization that is performing actions related to the identification, evaluation, designation or monitoring of national natural landmarks on behalf of or in cooperation with the National Park Service (NPS), either under a contractual agreement or as a volunteer.
Scientist
refers to an individual whose combination of academic training and professional field experience in the natural region qualifies him/her to identify and comparatively evaluate natural areas at the regional or national level.
§ 62.3
Effects of designation.
(a) Designation of an area by the Secretary as a national natural landmark is not a land withdrawal, does not change the ownership of an area, and does not dictate activity. However, Federal agencies consider the unique properties of designated national natural landmarks and of areas that meet the criteria for national significance in their planning and impact analysis (see § 62.6(f)), and there may be State or local planning or land use implications. Designation as a national natural landmark does not require or mandate under Federal law any further State or local planning, zoning or other land-use action or decision. Owners who agree to have their lands designated as a national natural landmark
do not give up under Federal law any legal rights and privileges of ownership or use of the area. The Department does not gain any property interests in these lands.
(b) Benefits of national natural landmark designation include the positive recognition and appreciation of nationally significant resources and the ability of public agencies and private individuals and organizations to make more informed development and planning decisions early in regional planning processes. In addition, some private owners of commercially operated national natural landmarks that are open to public visitation may choose to recognize and emphasize the national significance of the areas by providing descriptive information to the public. Under section 170(h) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, some owners of national natural landmarks may be eligible to claim a charitable contribution deduction on their Federal income tax for qualified interests in their natural landmark property donated for a qualified conservation purpose to a qualified conservation organization.
(c) The Secretary will provide an annual report to the Congress on damaged or threatened designated national natural landmarks (see § 62.6(b)). The Secretary will also report to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation any designated national natural landmarks that may be irreparably lost or destroyed by surface mining activity (see § 62.6(e)).
§ 62.4
Natural landmark designation and recognition process.
(a)
Identification.
Potential national natural landmarks are identified in the following manner.
(1)
Natural region studies.
The NPS conducts inventories of the characteristic biological and geological features in each natural region to provide a scientific basis for identifying potential national natural landmarks. The NPS is responsible for the completion of these studies, which are generally done by qualified scientists under contract. A study provides a classification and description of biological and geological features in that natural region and an annotated list of areas that illustrate those features. During a study, the NPS or any representative of the NPS may enter onto land only after receiving written permission from the owner(s) of that land, except when the land is publicly owned land and otherwise open to the public.
(2)
Other entities.
(i) Any public or private entity may suggest an area for study and possible national natural landmark designation. The entities include:
(A) Federal agency programs that conduct inventories in order to identify areas of special interest, for example, essential wildlife habitat, research natural areas, and areas of critical environmental concern; and
(B) State natural area programs that systematically and comprehensively classify, identify, locate and assess the protective status of the biological and geological features located in a State.
(ii) If an individual, agency or organization that suggests an area for national natural landmark consideration is not the owner of the area, written permission of the owner(s) is required to enter onto the PNNL to gather information, except when the land is publicly owned and otherwise open to the public.
(3) After receiving the suggestions from a natural region study and suggestions from other sources, the NPS determines which PNNL merit further study for possible national natural landmark designation. This determination is based on comparison with existing national natural landmarks in the natural region, the national natural landmark criteria (see § 62.5) and other information.
(b)
First Notification.
(1) Before a potential national natural landmark is evaluated by scientists as described in paragraph (c) of this section, the NPS notifies the owner(s) in writing, except as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(i) This notice advises the owner(s) that the PNNL is being considered for study for possible national natural landmark designation and provides information on the National Natural Landmarks Program, including an explanation of the effects of national natural landmark designation as described in § 62.3.
(ii) The notice also provides the owner with available information on the area and its tentatively identified significance, solicits the owner's comments on the area, including any information on current or anticipated land use or activities that may affect the area's natural values, integrity, or other matters of concern, and informs the owner of the source of the suggestion for consideration.
(iii) The notice also requests owner permission to enter the property, unless the area is otherwise open to the public, so the NPS or its representative can conduct an on-site evaluation of the PNNL as described under paragraph (c) of this section, and advises the owner of the procedures the NPS will follow in considering the PNNL for possible designation.
(2) Before a potential national natural landmark having 50 or more owners is evaluated by scientists as described in paragraph (c) of this section, the NPS provides general notice to property owners. This general notice is published in one or more local newspapers of general circulation in the area in which the potential national natural landmark is located. The notice provides the same information listed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) During an on-site evaluation as described in paragraph (c) of this section, the NPS or any representative of the NPS will not enter onto land without permission from the owner(s), except when the land is publicly owned and otherwise open to the public. The NPS may complete evaluations of PNNL by using other information, including information that was previously gathered by other Federal or State agencies or gained from other scientific studies. The NPS notifies owners if areas are evaluated from existing information not requiring land entry.
(4) The described procedures for providing written notification to owners and receiving responses from owners about the first notification are the responsibility of the NPS and cannot be delegated to any representative of the NPS.
(c)
Evaluation.
(1) The NPS uses the national natural landmark criteria in § 62.5 to evaluate the potential natural landmark. Potential national natural landmarks are evaluated on a natural region basis; i.e., similar areas that represent a particular type of feature located in the same natural region are compared to identify examples that are most illustrative and have the most intact, undisturbed integrity.
(2) Evaluations are done by qualified scientists who are familiar with the natural region and its types of biological and geological features. Evaluators make a detailed description of the area, including a proposed boundary map, and assess its regional standing using the national natural landmark criteria (see § 62.5) and any additional information provided by the NPS. Evaluation reports must have been completed or updated within the previous 2 years in order to be considered by the NPS.
(3) Completed evaluation reports are reviewed by no fewer than three peer reviewers, who are scientists familiar with the biological or geological features of the area or natural region. These reviewers provide the NPS with information on the scientific merit and strength of supportive documentation in the evaluation report. On the basis of evaluation report(s) and the findings of the peer reviewers, the NPS makes a determination that:
(i) The PNNL does or does not appear to qualify for national natural landmark designation; or
(ii) Additional information is required before a decision can be made about the status of the PNNL.
(4) When a PNNL does not seem to qualify for national natural landmark designation, the NPS notifies the owner(s) as prescribed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(d)
Second Notification.
(1) When the Director determines that an area meets the criteria for national significance, the NPS notifies the owner(s) in writing, except as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(i) The notice references the rules in this part, advises the owners of the procedures the NPS follows and of the effects of national natural landmark designation as described in § 62.3, provides the owner(s) with a copy of the evaluation report, and provides the
owner(s) with the opportunity to comment. The list of owners must be obtained from official land or tax records, whichever is most appropriate, within 90 days before issuing the second notification.
(ii) If in any State the land or tax records are not helpful, the NPS can seek alternative sources to identify the owners.
(iii) The NPS is responsible for notifying only owners whose names appear on the list.
(2) If an area has more than 50 owners, the NPS provides a general notice to the property owners. NPS will publish a general notice in one or more local newspapers of general circulation in the region in which the area is located. A copy of the evaluation report is made available on request. In addition, the NPS may conduct a public information meeting, if widespread local public interest warrants it or if requested by the executive of the local governmental jurisdiction in which the area is located.
(3) In addition, NPS notifies appropriate authorities, organizations and individuals. The notices reference these rules and advise the recipient of the proposed action, of the procedures the NPS follows, and of the effects of national natural landmark designation as described in § 62.3. Notice of the proposed action is published also in the
Federal Register.
NPS will notify:
(i) The executive of the local governmental jurisdiction in which the area (PNNL) is located;
(ii) The governor of the State;
(iii) Other appropriate State officials;
(iv) Senators and members of Congress who represent the district in which the area is located;
(v) Native American tribal governments and native villages and corporations in the region; and
(vi) Other interested authorities, organizations and individuals as deemed appropriate.
(4) All notified entities, including non-owners, have 60 days to provide comments before NPS decides whether the area meets the criteria for national significance. To assist in the evaluation of an area, comments should, among other factors, discuss the area's features and integrity. Information is also welcome on current or anticipated land use or threats that could effect the area. Any party may request a reasonable extension of the comment period when additional time is required to study and comment on a landmark proposal. The Director may grant these requests if he or she determines they are in the public interest. All comments received are considered in the national natural landmark designation process.
(5) Upon individual or general notification, any owner of private property within a PNNL who wishes to object to national natural landmark designation must submit a notarized statement to the Director to certify that he or she is the sole or partial owner of record and he or she objects to the designation. These statements will be submitted during the 60-day comment period. Upon receipt of objections to the designation of a PNNL consisting of multiple parcels of land, the NPS must determine how much of it consists of owners who object to designation. If an owner whose name is not on the ownership list developed by the NPS certifies in a notarized statement that he or she is the sole or partial owner of the area, NPS will take into account his or her views about designation. In circumstances where a single parcel of land within a PNNL has more than one fee simple owner, an objection to designation of that property must be submitted by a majority of the owners.
(6) All described procedures for the notification of owners and receiving responses from owners in the second notification process are the responsibility of the NPS and cannot be delegated to any representative of the NPS.
(e)
Significance determination.
(1) NPS will review all documentation including, but not limited to, evaluation reports, peer reviews, and received comments. If NPS determines that a PNNL does not meet the criteria for national significance (see § 62.5), the NPS will notify the owner(s) in writing that their land is no longer under consideration for national natural landmark designation. If PNNL are owned by 50 or more parties, the NPS will publish a general notice as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. In addition, the NPS will notify in writing officials,
individuals and organizations notified under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(2) When the NPS determines that a PNNL meets the criteria for national significance, the NPS determines whether any private property owners submitted valid written objection to designation.
(f)
Areas meeting criteria.
When the Director of NPS determines by all available information that a PNNL meets the criteria for national significance, but some private property owners submitted written objections to the proposed national natural landmark designation, the NPS maintains all this information about the area and which shall be available as part of the environmental analysis for any major federal action for purposes of NEPA which impacts the NNL or these other lands. Notice of this action is provided by the NPS to the owners as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section and to officials, individuals and organizations notified under paragraph (d)(3) of this section. If some but not all of the property owners within a PNNL object to designation, the NPS will exclude the objecting properties and proceed with the process only if enough area remains of non-objecting properties to allow sufficient representation of the significant natural features.
(g)
National Park System Advisory Board.
(1) The Director of the NPS reviews the documentation of each area that meets the criteria for national significance. When the Director determines that the requirements of this part were met and that enough non-objecting valid private property owners exist to encompass an adequate portion of the nationally significant features, the Director submits the information on the area (PNNL) to the National Park System Advisory Board. The board reviews the information and recommends whether or not the land with consenting owners qualifies for national natural landmark designation.
(2) Notice of Advisory Board meetings to review national natural landmark nominations and meeting agendas are provided at least 60 days in advance of the meeting by publication in the
Federal Register.
The NPS also mails copies of the notice directly to consenting owners of areas that are to be considered at each meeting. Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments and recommendations that will be presented to the board. Interested parties may also attend the board meeting and upon request may address the board concerning an area's national significance.
(h)
Submission to the Secretary.
The Director submits the recommendation of the Advisory Board and materials that the Director developed to the Secretary for consideration of the nominated area for national natural landmark designation.
(i)
Designation.
The Secretary reviews the materials that the Director submitted and any other documentation and makes a decision on national natural landmark designation. Areas that the Secretary designates as national natural landmarks are added to the National Registry of Natural Landmarks.
(j)
Third notification.
When the Secretary designates an area as a national natural landmark, the Secretary notifies in writing the landmark owner(s) of areas with fewer than 50 owners. A general notice of designated areas with 50 or more owners is published in one or more local newspapers of general circulation in the area. The Secretary also notifies the executive of the local governmental jurisdiction in which the landmark is located, Native American tribal governments and native villages and corporations in the area, the governor of the State, the congressional members who represent the district and State in which the landmark is located, and other interested authorities, organizations and individuals as deemed appropriate. The NPS prepares the notifications and is responsible for their distribution. Notices of new designations are also published in the
Federal Register.
(k)
Presentation of plaque and certificate.
(1) After the Secretary designates an area as a national natural landmark, the NPS may provide each owner who so requests with a certificate signed by the Secretary of the Interior and the Director of the NPS at no cost to the owner(s). This certificate recognizes the owner's interest in protecting and managing the area in a
manner that prevents the loss or deterioration of the natural values on which landmark designation is based.
(2) If appropriate, NPS may also provide without charge a bronze plaque for display in or near the national natural landmark. Upon request, and to the extent NPS resources permit, the NPS may help arrange and participate in a presentation ceremony. In accepting a plaque or certificate, owners give up none of the rights and privileges of ownership or use of the landmark and the Department of the Interior does not acquire any interest in the designated property. After a presentation, the plaque remains the property of NPS. If the landmark designation is removed in accordance with the procedures in § 62.8, NPS may reclaim the plaque.
§ 62.5
Natural landmark criteria.
(a)
Introduction.
(1)
National significance
describes an area that is one of the best examples of a biological or geological feature known to be characteristic of a given natural region. Such features include terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems; geologic structures, exposures and landforms that record active geologic processes or portions of earth history; and fossil evidence of biological evolution. Because the general character of natural diversity is regionally distinct and correlated with broad patterns of physiography, many types of natural features are entirely inside one of the 33 physiographic provinces of the nation, as defined by Fenneman (Physiographic Divisions of the United States, 1928) and modified as needed by the NPS.
(2) Because no uniform, nationally applicable classification scheme for biological communities or geological features is accepted and used by the majority of organizations involved in natural-area inventories, a classification system for each inventory of a natural region was developed to identify the types of regionally characteristic natural features sought for representation on the National Registry of Natural Landmarks. Most types represent the scale of distinct biological communities or individual geological, paleontological, or physiographic features, most of which can be mapped at the Earth's surface at 1:24,000 scale or are traceable in the subsurface. In some cases, the NPS may further evaluate only a significant segment of a given natural feature, where the segment is biologically or geologically representative and where the entire feature is so large as to be impracticable for natural landmark consideration (e.g., a mountain range). Almost two-thirds of all national natural landmarks range from about 10 to 5,000 acres, but some are larger or smaller because of the wide variety of natural features recognized by the National Natural Landmarks Program.
(b)
Criteria.
NPS uses the following criteria to evaluate the relative quality of areas as examples of regionally characteristic natural features:
(1)
Primary criteria.
Primary criteria for a specific type of natural feature are the main basis for selection and are described in the following table:
Criterion
Description
Example
Illustrative character
Area exhibits a combination of well-developed components that are recognized in the appropriate scientific literature as characteristic of a particular type of natural feature. Should be unusually illustrative, rather than merely statistically representative
Alpine glacier with classic shape, unusual number of glaciological structures like crevasses, and well-developed bordering moraine sequences.
Present condition
Area has been less disturbed by humans than other areas
Large beech maple forest, only a small portion of which has been logged.
(2)
Secondary criteria.
Secondary criteria are provided for additional consideration, if two or more similar area cannot be ranked using the primary criteria. Secondary criteria are described in the following table:
Criterion
Description
Example
Diversity
In addition to its primary natural feature, area contains high quality examples of other biological and/or geological features or processes
Composite volcano that also illustrates geothermal phenomena.
Rarity
In addition to its primary natural feature, area contains rare geological or paleontological feature or biological community or provides high quality habitat for one or more rare, threatened, or endangered species
Badlands, including strata that contain rare fossils.
Value for Science and Education
Area contains known or potential information as a result of its association with significant scientific discovery, concept, or exceptionally extensive and long term record of on-site research and therefore offers unusual opportunities for public interpretation of the natural history of the United States
Dunes landscape where process of ecological succession was noted for first time.
§ 62.6
Natural landmark monitoring.
(a)
Owner contact.
The Field Offices of the NPS maintain periodic contacts with the owners of designated national natural landmarks to determine whether the landmarks retain the values that qualified them for landmark designation and to update administrative records on the areas.
(b)
Section
8
Report.
(1) The Secretary, through the NPS, prepares an annual report to the Congress on all designated national natural landmarks with known or anticipated damage or threats to one or more of the resources that made them nationally significant. This report is mandated by Section 8 of the National Park System General Authorities Act of 1970, as amended, (16 U.S.C. 1a-5).
(2) A landmark is included in this report if it has lost or is in imminent danger of losing all or part of its natural character to such a degree that one or more of the values that made it nationally significant are or will be irreversibly damaged or destroyed. In assessing the status of a landmark, NPS considers the condition of the landmark at the time of designation, including any changes that have occurred and any threats that could impact it in the future.
(3) Section 8 also requires the Secretary to make recommendations to the Congress on qualified areas for consideration as additions to the National Park System. No legal mandate requires that the Congress take further action about national natural landmarks listed as damaged or threatened or about areas that are recommended for possible future additions to the National Park System.
(4) NPS Regional Offices are responsible for monitoring the condition of, and for completing status reports on, all designated national natural landmarks in their regions. In some cases, the NPS may arrange with outside individuals, agencies or organizations to monitor the status of selected national natural landmarks. NPS or its representative usually monitors national natural landmark condition and status during a visit.
(c)
Monitoring.
(1) The NPS or its representative notifies the owner(s) of a national natural landmark of his or her pending visit to the area to determine its status and condition, and informs the owner(s) of the purposes of monitoring and its relation to the Secretary's annual report on threatened or damaged landmarks.
(2) While monitoring conditions of designated national natural landmarks, neither NPS nor its representative will enter onto private property or onto public lands that are not otherwise open to the public without first obtaining permission from the owner(s) or administrator(s). The NPS may monitor landmark condition without entering onto lands where required permission has not been granted by using other existing information, including telephone conversations with the owner(s) or manager(s) of the area, written materials provided by the owner or manager, or information previously developed by other Federal or State agencies or other scientific studies. The NPS provides owners with copies of monitoring reports on their property, which will include the name and affiliation of the individual(s) who completed the report.
(d)
Section 8 report preparation.
(1) After completion of landmark monitoring, the NPS Regional Offices forward their findings and recommendations to the NPS Washington Office. The NPS Washington Office reviews the Regional Office findings and recommendations and prepares a draft report listing only the national natural landmarks with significant known or anticipated damage or threats to the integrity of one or more of the resources that made the area nationally significant.
(2) Pertinent portions of this draft report, including any executive summary, are provided to the owner(s) or administrator(s) of national natural landmarks listed as is feasible, as well as to other interested authorities, organizations and individuals. All individuals have 30 days to provide written comments to the NPS on the draft report. Comments may include additional information on the condition of landmarks or on the nature or imminence of reported damage or threats to these landmarks. Owners are also asked to indicate whether they would like to receive a copy of the final report, as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(3) The NPS reviews all comments on the draft report and prepares a final report, which the Director transmits to the Secretary for submission to the Congress. Upon release of the final report, the NPS will provide a copy of the report to the owner(s) of landmarks who are listed in the report and have requested copies and to other interested authorities, organizations and individuals.
(e)
Mining in the Parks Act.
If the NPS determines that an entire or partial national natural landmark may be irreparably lost or destroyed by surface mining activity, including exploration for or removal or production of minerals or materials, NPS notifies the person that is conducting the activity and prepares a report that identifies the basis for the finding that the activity may cause irreparable loss or destruction. The NPS also notifies the owner(s) of the national natural landmark in writing of its finding. The NPS submits to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation the report and a request for advice about alternative measures that may be taken by the United States to mitigate or abate the activity. The authority for this action is contained in Section 9 of the Mining in the Parks Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 1908).
(f)
National Environmental Policy Act.
Federal agencies should consider the existence and location of designated national natural landmarks, and of areas found to meet the criteria for national significance, in assessing the effects of their activities on the environment under section 102(2)(c) of the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4321). The NPS is responsible for providing requested information about the National Natural Landmarks Program for these assessments.
§ 62.7
Natural landmark modifications.
(a)
Determination of need for modifications.
After designation, the modification of the boundaries of a natural landmark, and/or revision of information about it, may be appropriate. For example, because of new information or changes in the condition of an NNL, the boundary may have to be reduced or expanded or information about the NNL may have to be revised. Additional study may reveal that the area has nationally significant values that had not been previously documented. The NPS determines that landmark modifications are necessary through administration of the program. In addition, the NPS may receive suggestions for landmark modifications from other Federal agencies, State natural area programs, and other public and private organizations or individuals. The NPS determines the validity of these suggestions by applying the natural landmark criteria or by conducting additional study.
(b)
Boundary expansion.
(1) Three justifications exist for enlarging the boundary of a national natural landmark: better documentation of the extent of nationally significant features, professional error in the original designation, or additional landowners with nationally significant features on their property desiring the designation.
(2) If the NPS determines that an expansion of the boundary of the national natural landmark is appropriate, it
will use the designation process outlined in § 62.4(b) through (j). If a boundary is expanded, only the owners in the newly considered but as yet not designated portion of the area are notified and asked if they object to designation.
(c)
Boundary reduction.
Two justifications exist for reducing the boundary of a national natural landmark: Loss of integrity of the natural features or professional error in the original designation. If the NPS determines that a reduction in the national natural landmark boundary is indicated, the designation removal process outlined in § 62.8 is used.
(d)
Change in description of values.
If the NPS determines that a change in the description of the national natural landmark's nationally significant values is warranted, the NPS prepares the recommended changes and the Director submits the changes and all supportive documentation to the National Park System Advisory Board. The Advisory Board reviews the information submitted by the Director and makes recommendations to the Secretary. The Secretary reviews the supportive documentation and the recommendations of the board, and may approve changes in the description of a landmark's nationally significant values.
(e)
Minor technical corrections.
Minor technical corrections to a national natural landmark boundary and other administrative changes in landmark documentation not covered under paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section may be approved by the Director without a review by the Advisory Board or the approval by the Secretary. Minor technical boundary corrections are defined as those that involve a change in less than five percent of the total area of the national natural landmark. The NPS notifies owners of proposed minor technical boundary corrections or other administrative changes in documentation, as described in this paragraph (e). Based upon owner response to this notification, the NPS determines whether the proposed change is a minor technical correction to landmark documentation that can be made administratively or whether the procedures outlined in § 62.4(d) through (j) must be followed.
§ 62.8
Natural landmark designation removal.
(a)
Criteria for removal.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, national natural landmark designation is removed from an area:
(i) When it can be shown that an error in professional judgment was made such that the site did not meet the criteria for national significance at the time of designation;
(ii) When the values which originally qualified it for designation have been lost or destroyed; or
(iii) When applicable designation procedures were not followed because of prejudicial failure.
(2) Any affected owner of a designated national natural landmark may initiate the removal by submitting to the Director a request for removal of designation, stating the grounds for this removal and specifying the error in professional judgment, loss of natural values or prejudicial procedural error. A prejudicial procedural error is one that reasonably may be considered to have affected the outcome of the designation process.
(3) Within 60 days of receiving a removal request, the NPS notifies the party submitting the request of whether the NPS considers the documentation sufficient to consider removal of the natural landmark designation.
(b)
Review of removal information.
The NPS reviews the information outlining the grounds for removal. When necessary, an on-site evaluation of the area may be made, as outlined in § 62.4(c). Based on all available information, the NPS determines whether the area no longer merits designation as a national natural landmark.
(c)
Notifications.
When NPS has determined that area no longer merits designation as a national natural landmark, the NPS notifies the owner(s) and other interested parties as specified in § 62.4(d)(1)-(3). Notice of the proposed removal is also published in the
Federal Register.
The notified individuals may comment within 60 days of the date of the notice before a recommendation for removal is submitted to the Secretary. All comments received will be considered in the review and in the decision to remove the national natural landmark designation.
(d)
Removal from the registry.
(1) The Director reviews the information about a recommended removal from the Registry and determines whether the procedural requirements in this section have been met. If the Director confirms the findings, he or she submits a recommendation for removal to the National Park System Advisory Board. The Advisory Board reviews the submitted information and recommends the removal from or retention of the area in the registry.
(2) The recommendations of the Advisory Board and the Director are submitted by the Director to the Secretary for his or her consideration. If the Secretary concurs, he or she directs the removal of the landmark from the National Registry of Natural Landmarks. Any area from which designation is withdrawn solely because of procedural error as described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section continues to meet the criteria for national significance.
(e)
Notification of removal from the registry.
When the Secretary removes a landmark from the National Registry of Natural Landmarks, the Secretary will notify the national natural landmark owner(s), the executive of the local government jurisdiction in which the area is located, Native American tribal governments and native villages and corporations in the area, the governor of the State, Congressional members who represent the Congressional District and State in which the area is located, and other interested authorities, organizations, and individuals, as outlined in § 62.4(d)(1), (2) and (3). The NPS is responsible for preparing and distributing the written notices. The NPS periodically publishes notice(s) of removal in the
Federal Register.
The NPS may reclaim the natural landmark plaque when a landmark is removed from the National Registry of Natural Landmarks.
(f)
Previously designated landmarks.
(1) NPS will notify owners of national natural landmarks designated before the effective date of these regulations to give them an opportunity within 90 days of the notice to request the removal of a national natural landmark designation from their property by writing to the Director. If owners do not respond within 90 days of the notification, the national natural landmark designations of their properties will be retained.
(2) When only some owners of a national natural landmark in multiple ownership request the removal of a national natural landmark designation from their portions, the NPS determines whether, after removal of these portions, a sufficient acreage of the national natural landmark remains to demonstrate the original nationally significant features without undue compromise. If so, the boundaries of the national natural landmark are adjusted to remove the properties of owners who object to the designation. If not, the entire national natural landmark designation is removed and the area is removed from the National Registry of Natural Landmarks.
(3) Any removals of existing national natural landmark designations and related recommended boundary adjustments, must be presented by the Director to the National Park System Advisory Board for review before being presented to the Secretary who formally removes a national natural landmark from the national registry or approves changes in the national natural landmark boundary. Areas from which the designation has been removed may be reconsidered for designation under these regulations if ownership or other circumstances change.
§ 62.9
General provisions.
(a)
Agreements.
The NPS may enter into contracts, memoranda of agreement, cooperative agreements, or other types of agreements with other Federal agencies, States, counties, local communities, private organizations, owners, Native American tribal governments, or other interested individuals or groups to assist in administering the National Natural Landmarks Program. The agreements may include but are not limited to provisions about identification, evaluation, monitoring or protecting national natural landmarks.
(b)
Information dissemination.
The NPS may conduct educational and scientific activities to disseminate information on national natural landmarks, the National Natural Landmarks Program, and the benefits derived from
systematic surveys of significant natural features to the general public and to interested local, State and Federal agencies and private groups. Dissemination of information on ecologically or geologically fragile or sensitive areas may be restricted when release of the information may endanger or harm the sensitive resources.
(c)
Procedural requirements.
Any individual, agency, or organization acting as a representative of the NPS in the identification, evaluation, monitoring or protection of national natural landmarks is required to follow this part.
(d)
Additional program information.
Further guidance on the operation of the National Natural Landmarks Program, as based on this part, may be found in other program documents that are available from the NPS.
(e)
Administrative recourse.
Any person has the right to insist that NPS take into account all the provisions in this part for national natural landmark designation or removal.
Pt. 63

# PART 63—DETERMINATIONS OF ELIGIBILITY FOR INCLUSION IN THE NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES
Sec.
63.1
Purpose and authorities.
63.2
Determination of eligibility process.
63.3
Procedures to be applied when the agency and the State Historic Preservation Officer agree a property is eligible.
63.4
Other properties on which determinations of eligibility may be made by the Secretary of the Interior.
63.5
Federal Register publication of properties determined eligible.
63.6
Review and nomination of properties determined eligible.

# Authority:
Sec. 2(k), Historic Sites Act of 1935, 16 U.S.C. 462(K) (1970 ed); sec. 101(a)(1), National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 470(a)(1) (1970 ed); secs. 3(b) and 4(f), E.O. 11593; sec. 2 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1950 (34 Stat. 1262).

# Source:
42 FR 47661, Sept. 21, 1977, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 45 FR 28716, Apr. 30, 1980, and further redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981.
§ 63.1
Purpose and authorities.
(a) These regulations have been developed to assist Federal agencies in identifying and evaluating the eligibility of properties for inclusion in the National Register. The regulations explain how to request determinations of eligibility under section 2(b) of Executive Order 11593 and the regulations of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (36 CFR part 800) for implementation of sections 1(3) and 2(b) of Executive Order 11593 and the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended Federal agencies request determinations of eligibility in considering historic properties on lands under their jurisdiction or control or on lands to be affected by proposed actions.
§ 63.2
Determination of eligibility process.
The Department of the Interior will respond within 45 days of receipt of a documented request for a determination of eligibility from a Federal agency when it is submitted in accordance with the following regulations and is accompanied by documentation that clearly portrays the nature and significance of the property.
(a) The agency shall consult the State Historic Preservation Officer as the first step in identifying historic properties for information concerning:
(1) Properties listed in the National Register.
(2) Properties in the process of nomination to the National Register.
(3) Properties determined eligible by the Secretary of the Interior for listing in the National Register.
(4) Any other available information that would assist in identifying properties in the area affected by the proposed action.
(b) If the State Historic Preservation Officer has inadequate information to document the presence or absence of historic properties in the project area, the Federal agency should refer to the Department of the Interior's criteria for the identification of historic properties and the guidelines for level of documentation to accompany requests for determinations of eligibility for inclusion in the National Register published as a notice in the
Federal Register.
(c) The agency shall, in consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer, apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation contained in 36
CFR 60.6 to all potentially eligible properties that may be affected by the proposed action. If a property appears to meet the Criteria and the State Historic Preservation Officer agrees, the agency should follow the procedures in § 63.3. If there is a question whether the Criteria are met, the agency shall complete the procedures in § 63.3(d). A question on whether a property meets the Criteria exists when the agency and the State Historic Preservation Officer disagree or when the agency determines that a question exists. The Department of the Interior will provide general and specific advice concerning the identification of historic properties and will bring to the attention of a Federal agency any information received from the public regarding potential historic properties in the area affected by its plans or projects.
(d) The agency shall submit a letter of request for a determination of eligibility with a description, statement of significance, photographs, and a map, or a statement in accord with § 63.3 below, if applicable, directly to the Keeper of the National Register, National Park Service, Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240. If available, the opinion of the State Historic Preservation Officer on the eligibility of the property should also be forwarded with the request.
(e) The Keeper, National Register, will respond in writing to the agency's request within 45 days of receipt of a documented request submitted in accord with § 63.2(d) of these procedures. If the opinion of the State Historic Preservation Officer is not included with the request, the Keeper of the National Register will provide to the State Historic Preservation Officer a copy of the request and will ask for his opinion on the property. If the Keeper does not receive the State Historic Preservation Officer's response within three weeks of the State Historic Preservation Officer's receipt of a letter from the Keeper requesting an opinion, the Keeper will proceed with the determination and will inform the agency that the State Historic Preservation Officer did not give an opinion. If the Keeper of the National Register determines that documentation submitted with the request is not sufficient to make a professional evaluation of the significance of the property, he will advise the agency in writing of the additional information needed. The Keeper of the National Register will respond to the agency's request within 45 days of receipt of documentation on the property requested by the Keeper.
§ 63.3
Procedures to be applied when the Agency and the State Historic Preservation Officer agree a property is eligible.
If during the consultation described in § 63.2(c), both the agency and the State Historic Preservation Officer agree that a property meets the Criteria, the Federal agency or the State Historic Preservation Officer shall forward to the Keeper of the National Register (a) a letter signed by the agency stating that the agency and the State Historic Preservation Officer agree that the property is eligible for inclusion in the National Register, and (b) a statement signed by the State Historic Preservation Officer that in his opinion the property is eligible for the National Register. Either the letter or the statement must contain substantive information on the property, including a description, specific boundaries, its significance under National Register Criteria, and an explanation of why the property is eligible for listing in the National Register. The Keeper of the National Register shall give written notice of his determination to both the agency and the State Historic Preservation Officer within 10 working days of receipt. If the property has not been accurately identified and evaluated, the Keeper will inform the agency and the State Historic Preservation Officer within 10 working days and will recommend that the agency follow the process set forth at § 63.2. Notwithstanding such recommendation, the Federal agency or the Keeper of the National Register may consider the property eligible for the purpose of obtaining the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation's comments. Documentation concerning properties determined eligible for the National Register shall be kept on file by the agency and the State Historic Preservation Officer.
§ 63.4
Other properties on which determinations of eligibility may be made by the Secretary of the Interior.
(a) The Keeper of the National Register will make determinations of eligibility on properties nominated by Federal agencies under section 2(a) of Executive Order 11593 prior to returning the nominations for such properties to the agency for technical or professional revision or because of procedural requirements. Such determinations of eligibility will be made only if sufficient information exists to establish the significance of the property and its eligibility for the National Register
(b) Any property or district removed from the National Register for procedural deficiencies in the nomination and/or listing process shall automatically be considered eligible for inclusion in the National Register without further action and will be published as such in the
Federal Register.
(c) If necessary to assist in the protection of historic resources, the Keeper, upon consultation with the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer and concerned Federal agency, if any, may determine properties to be eligible for listing in the National Register under the Criteria established by 36 CFR part 60 and shall publish such determinations in the
Federal Register.
Such determinations may be made without a specific request from the Federal agency or, in effect, may reverse findings on eligibility made by a Federal agency and State Historic Preservation Officer. Such determinations will be made after an investigation and an onsite inspection of the property in question.
§ 63.5
Federal Register publication of properties determined eligible.
In addition to written notice to the Federal agency and the State Historic Preservation Officer, public notice of properties determined eligible for the National Register will be published in the
Federal Register
at regular intervals and in a cumulative annual edition usually issued in February. Determinations in accord with § 63.3 will be identified with an asterisk.
§ 63.6
Review and nomination of properties determined eligible.
The Keeper of the National Register will conduct an annual review of the condition of properties determined eligible for the National Register. The Keeper of the National Register will obtain from the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation information on decisions made concerning eligible properties in accord with memorandum of agreement under the Council's “Procedures for the Protection of Historic and Cultural Properties” (36 CFR part 800). If there is no memorandum of agreement or if no provision has been made in a memorandum of agreement for nomination of an eligible property and if the property retains the characteristics that made it eligible for the National Register, the Keeper of the National Register will take the following steps:
(a) For a property owned by a Federal agency, or under the jurisdiction or control of the agency to the extent that the agency substantially exercises the attributes of ownership, the Keeper of the National Register will request the Federal agency to nominate the property to the National Register within six months.
(b) If the property is not under Federal jurisdiction or control, the Keeper of the National Register will request that the State Historic Preservation Office nominate the property to the National Register within six months.
(c) If the Keeper of the National Register determines that a property has lost the characteristics that made it eligible for the National Register, he will inform the State Historic Preservation Officer and the Federal agency and remove the property from the list of eligible properties.
Pt. 64

# PART 64—GRANTS AND ALLOCATIONS FOR RECREATION AND CONSERVATION USE OF ABANDONED RAILROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Sec.
64.1
Purpose.
64.2
Definitions.
64.3
Applicability and authority.
64.4
Scope.
64.5
Eligible projects.
64.6
Application procedures.
64.7
Project selection and funding procedures.
64.8
Project selection criteria.
64.9
Project costs (State and local projects).
64.10
Matching share.
64.11
Project performance.
64.12
Standards for grantee financial management systems.
64.13
Performance reports.
64.14
Project inspections.
64.15
Financial reporting requirements and reimbursements.
64.16
Retention and custodial requirements for records.
64.17
Project termination and settlement procedures.
64.18
Retention and use.

# Authority:
Sec. 809(B)(2) and (3), 90 Stat. 145, Pub. L. 94-210; Sec. 2 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1950 (34 Stat. 1262).

# Source:
42 FR 54806, Oct. 11, 1977, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 45 FR 780, Jan. 3, 1980, and further redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981.
§ 64.1
Purpose.
The purpose of these guidelines is to prescribe policies and procedures for administering the funding of projects involving the conversion of abandoned railroad rights-of-way to recreation and conservation uses. Because of the limited funding available, it is the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation's intent to select a few projects which effectively demonstrate the conversion of abandoned railroad rights-of-way for recreation and conservation purposes in a timely manner.
§ 64.2
Definitions.
(a)
Abandoned Railroad Rights-of-Way.
An abandoned railroad right-of-way is the real property used for or formerly used for the operation of railroad trains by a common carrier railroad, upon which the railroad company has, or will cease operations and sell, or otherwise dispose of the company's interest in the real property.
(b)
Project Applicant.
Federal, State, or local governmental agencies.
§ 64.3
Applicability and authority.
The policies and procedures contained herein are applicable to the making of grants to State and local governments and to the making of allocations to Federal agencies under the provisions of title VIII, section 809(b) (2) and (3) of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Pub. L. 94-210) (90 Stat. 145). The Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation is responsible for providing financial assistance in accordance with section 809(b) (2) and (3). The Secretary of the Interior's responsibility has been delegated to the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation.
§ 64.4
Scope.
(a) Funding assistance authorized by section 809(b)(2) shall be provided to State and local government entities to enable them to acquire and develop abandoned railroad rights-of-way for recreation and conservation purposes and to plan for such acquisition and development. As provided for by law, grants shall be made for not more than 90 percent of the cost of the particular project for which funds are sought.
(b) Allocations authorized by section 809(b)(3) shall be made to Federal agencies to enable them to acquire abandoned railroad rights-of-way. Such allocations shall be made for an amount up to the price paid to the owner of the real property proposed for acquisition plus expenses incidental to acquisition such as title work, surveys, appraisals and relocation.
§ 64.5
Eligible projects.
(a) Abandoned railroad projects will be for recreation and/or conservation purposes including the acquisition of the rights-of-way involved and will be sponsored by a project applicant who has authority to carry out public recreation or conservation programs. Eligible project elements for State and local governmental entities may include:
(1) The acquisition of fee or less than fee interests including long term leases of not less than 25 years and easements which will secure for the project applicant the right to develop use the property for public recreation and/or conservation purposes.
(2) The development of facilities which are necessary for making rights-of-way usable for public recreation and conservation purposes.
(b) Allocations made to Federal agencies will be made for the acquisition of lands or interests in lands, including
incidental acquisition expenses, located in existing areas where such acquisition is authorized by law and the land is usable for public recreation and conservation purposes.
(c) Abandoned railroad rights-of-way projects proposed by State and local governmental entities and Federal agencies shall be in accordance with the State comprehensive outdoor recreation plan for the State in which the project is located.
§ 64.6
Application procedures.
State and local units of government applying for grants under this program will comply with the regulations, policies, guidelines, and requirements of OMB Circular No. A-95 (Evaluation, Review and Coordination of Federal and Federally Assisted Programs and Projects), Federal Management Circulars 74-4 (Cost Principles Applicable to Grants and Contracts with State and Local Governments) and OMB Circular No. A-102 (Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants-in-Aid to State and local governments).
(a)
Preapplications.
A preapplication will be used to initially screen and select those projects for which a final application may be submitted for assistance. The preapplication will include:
(1) A Standard Form 424 (may be obtained from applicable Regional Offices of the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation).
(2) A map showing the location of the property to be acquired and/or developed and its relation to surrounding land uses including other recreation/conservation resources.
(3) A program narrative statement.
(i) Where acquisition is involved the number of acres and real property interest to be acquired. Attach a copy of the abandonment notice.
(ii) The type of recreational/conservation use planned for the project site including the type of development to be included in the project (if a site plan is available it should be submitted).
(iii) A statement indicating separately the estimated acquisition and development costs.
(iv) A time schedule for completing the acquisition and development.
(v) A brief discussion of how the project embodies the selection criteria outlined in § 64.8.
(4) Indicate any known problems that will occur in obtaining clear title to the right-of-way.
(5) Because of the limited funds available applicants are encouraged to provide an alternative plan indicating a viable segment of the overall project which could possibly be funded at a lower amount in lieu of the complete project.
(b)
Applications.
For those State and local projects selected the applicant shall submit the standard application provided for in Attachment M of OMB Circular A-102. An application package developed for this program will be available from the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation Regional Offices. The following application requirements will apply (information submitted with the preapplication will not be required again):
(1)
A-95 Clearinghouse Review.
The applicant will obtain and include in the application, State and areawide clearinghouse comments in accordance with OMB Circular A-95.
(2)
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (Pub. L. 91-190).
The Bureau of Outdoor Recreation will review the environmental information developed by the Interstate Commerce Commission relative to the abandonment to determine if additional information is required to adequately assess the environmental impact of the project and determine the need for an environmental impact statement. Where necessary the applicant will provide additional information from which the Bureau can assess the environmental impact. The format for such information will be provided by the Bureau.
(3)
National Historic Preservation Act of 1969 and Executive Order 11593.
The applicant shall provide the State's Historic Preservation Officer with a copy of the project proposal and allow him 30 days in which to comment on the effect of the proposed project. Such comments will indicate whether the project will have any effect on a site in, or eligible for nomination to the National Register of Historic Places. The comments of the SHPO will be included with the application.
(4)
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-234).
Applicants will be required to purchase flood insurance for acquisition or development of insurable improvements located in a flood plain area identified by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development as an area which has special flood hazards.
(5)
Corps of Engineers Permits Requirements.
For development projects requiring a Corps of Engineers permit under section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 and/or section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, applicants will include evidence in the application that action has been initiated to obtain such permit.
(6)
Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973.
The applicant, through the submission of environmental information, and in consultation with the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation Regional Office will indicate any known project conflict with section 7 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973.
(7)
Plans and Maps.
Each application will include copies of State, county, or city maps showing the geographic location of the project and its relation to surrounding land uses including other recreation/conservation resources. Where development is included in the project, a site plan of the proposed improvements will be provided along with a breakdown of the estimated development costs. For the acquisition, the application will include a schedule listing the parcels to be acquired, estimated linear mileage and acreage of each, the estimated value of each parcel and the estimated date of acquisition.
(8) In addition to the narrative required by part IV of the standard application, the following information will be provided:
(i) The type of recreation/conservation activity intended for the project site.
(ii) The time schedule for completing the project and plans for operation and maintenance; and
(iii) A brief discussion of how the project embodies the selection criteria outlined in § 64.8.
(c)
Content of the Proposal by Federal Agencies.
Each proposal should include the following minimum information (preapplication not required):
(1) Identification and description of the property proposed for acquisition.
(2) A statement indicating the recreational and/or conservation use planned for the acquired rights-of-way and the relationship of such use to land now administered by the Federal agency proposing acquisition.
(3) A map showing the location of the property in relation to land now administered by the Federal agency proposing acquisition.
(4) The real property interest proposed for acquisition.
(5) An environmental assessment of the acquisition and subsequent development, if proposed.
(6) A citation of the statutory or other authority under which the land would be acquired and a discussion of how the proposed acquisition is in accord with the authority for acquisition.
(7) The funds being requested for the project including a summary of the estimated cost of the land and costs incidental to acquisition.
(8) A discussion of how acquisition of the rights-of-way and subsequent development embodies the selection criteria outlined in § 64.8.
(d)
Preapplication.
(1) Projects sponsored by State, local, or Federal applicants shall be submitted to the appropriate Bureau of Outdoor Recreation Regional Office.
(2) Projects will be considered for funding on a quarterly basis until available funds have been obligated to approved projects. The first project submission quarter will begin with the first of the fiscal year. Funds not utilized in one quarter will be available for the next. Once all funds have been obligated, projects will not be accepted until additional appropriations become available.
§ 64.7
Project selection and funding procedures.
(a) The Bureau of Outdoor Recreation Regional Office will review all preapplications and Federal proposals to insure application completeness and eligibility. A copy of eligible preapplications or Federal proposals and supporting information and data will be submitted to the Washington Office of BOR for final review and selection. An information copy of each
project preapplication and proposal will be submitted to the State Liaison Officer designated to coordinate Land and Water Conservation Fund activities.
(b) The Washington Office of the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation will evaluate all projects submitted by the Regional Offices. Final selection of projects to be funded shall be by the Director of the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation.
(c) State and local projects selected for funding will be approved and funds obligated by the appropriate Regional Director. Funds will not be obligated until the Bureau has met with the applicant to discuss the terms, conditions, and procedures required by the grant.
(d) Federal agency sponsored projects will be funded by transfer of funds from the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation to the sponsoring agency up to the amount of the project cost as shown in the agency's approved application.
[42 FR 54806, Oct. 11, 1977. Redesignated at 45 FR 780, Jan. 3, 1980, and 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981, as amended at 60 FR 55791, Nov. 3, 1995]
§ 64.8
Project selection criteria.
Those projects which best meet the following criteria will be selected to receive assistance:
(a) Projects which have cleared abandonment procedures and for which sufficient control and tenure of land can be assured, in order that the project can be accomplished shortly after project approval.
(b) Projects which are located or originate in Standard Metropolitan Statistical Areas.
(c) The degree to which the project results in a facility which demonstrates maximum beneficial public use of the property acquired. (For example, the diversity of recreation/conservation opportunities provided.)
(d) The ease of accessibility to large numbers of potential users.
(e) The effectiveness of the project in enhancing existing Federal, State, or local recreation/conservation resources. (For example, the ability of the project to tie together existing recreation/conservation resources.)
(f) Whether use of the right-of-way for recreation/conservation purposes has been identified in existing State, Federal, or local plans.
(g) The degree to which the project advances new ideas in recreation/conservation use and promotes nonmotorized forms of transportation such as commuting by bicycle.
(h) The recreation/conservation potential of the environment traversed by the right-of-way.
(i) The energy conservation potential of using the right-of-way for recreation and/or commuting.
(j) The urgency of the acquisition as reflected by the plans of the owner of record to sell the property to persons other than the project sponsor.
(k) The degree to which Federal, State or local land use controls will protect the recreation and conservation values of the right-of-way from encroachment by conflicting uses of surrounding land.
(l) State and local projects involving the development of abandoned railroad rights-of-way which do not include the acquisition of the rights-of-way will be given lower funding priority than projects involving both acquisition and development.
§ 64.9
Project costs (State and local projects).
To be eligible, acquisition and development costs must be incurred after the date of project approval and during the project period. The project period will be indicated in the project application. Waivers will be granted to proceed with the acquisition prior to project approval if the applicant can show there is a need for immediate action. Development costs are first incurred at the start of actual physical work on the project site. Acquisition costs are incurred on the date when the applicant makes full payment or accepts the deed or other appropriate conveyance. Project-related planning costs outlined in § 64.9(a)(3), may be incurred prior to project approval. The date from which they were incurred must be indicated in the project application.
(a) The types of project costs that are eligible for funding under this program are:
(1) Acquisition costs will be assisted on the basis of the price paid or the appraised fair market value, whichever is less. Costs incurred pursuant to the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, appraisal costs and other reasonable incidental costs associated with the acquisition.
(2) Construction costs associated with developing the right-of-way for recreation use.
(3) Project-related planning required for the acquisition, development and use of the abandoned rights-of-way including master planning, the preparation of development plans and specifications and surveys.
(4) Legal costs, audit costs, inspection fees, and project administration costs.
(b) Cost overruns will not be eligible for reimbursement. This means that no additional funding will be extended once a project is approved. Any cost overrun incurred on a project must be funded by the grantee.
(c) Principles and standards for determining costs applicable to State and local grants are found in Federal Management Circular 74-4 and part 670 of the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation Manual.
§ 64.10
Matching share.
The State or local applicant's matching share may consist of cash, or in-kind contributions consistent with guidelines set forth in Attachment F of OMB Circular A-102.
§ 64.11
Project performance.
The State or local applicant shall be responsible for insuring the project is carried through to stages of completion acceptable to the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation with reasonable promptness. Financial assistance may be terminated upon determination by the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation that satisfactory progress has not been maintained.
(a)
Acquisition Procedures.
All acquisition must conform to the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, Pub. L. 91-646, as set forth in the Bureau of Outdoor recreation Manual, part 645. Real property must be appraised before the initiation of negotiations, and the property owner given a statement of just compensation for his property. In no event can the amount established as just compensation be less than the fair market value established by the approved appraisal.
(1)
Appraisals.
The State or local applicant should secure at least one appraisal of the appropriate type by a qualified professional appraiser for each parcel to be acquired. Standards for appraisals shall be consistent with the current Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition, published by the Land Acquisition Conference and as set forth in Bureau of Outdoor Recreation Manual, paragraph 675.2.5.
(2)
Appraisal Review.
The appraisal will be reviewed and approved by a qualified staff or fee appraiser prior to the initiation of negotiations. The Bureau reserves the right to review all appraisal documentation prior to or after the acquisition.
(3)
Record Retention.
All documentation supporting the acquisition of land and improvements, or interests therein, must be kept available for examination by duly authorized representatives of the Bureau, the Department of the Interior and the General Accounting Office. All such records shall be retained and be available for inspection for a period of three years after final payment by the Federal Government.
(b)
Development Procedures.
Development work may be accomplished by contract or by force account. Allowable construction costs cover all necessary construction activities, from site preparation to completion of the facility.
(1)
Construction by Force Account.
Labor costs charged to a project for force account work will be based on payrolls documented and approved in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices of the State or local agency. Payrolls must be supported by time and attendance or equivalent records for individual employees. Salaries and wages of employee chargeable to more than one cost objective will be supported by appropriate time distribution records. The method used should produce an equitable distribution of time and effort. Costs for equipment owned by the participant may be
charged against the project based on an equipment use rate developed by the participant in accordance with guidelines provided by the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation. Other costs such as material costs will be charged to a project as outlined in OMB Circular A-102 and the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation Manual, part 670.
(2)
Construction by Contract
—(i)
Bids and Awards.
Competitive open bidding shall be required for contracts in excess of $10,000 in accordance with Attachment O of OMB Circular A-102.
(ii)
Equal Employment Opportunity.
All construction contracts awarded by recipients and their contractors, or subgrantees having a value of more than $10,000 shall contain a provision requiring compliance with Executive Order No. 11246, entitled “Equal Employment Opportunity” as supplemented in Department of Labor Regulations (41 CFR part 60). Equal employment contract compliance requirements for “Hometown” or “Imposed ” Plan areas will be followed.
(iii) The State or local applicant will comply with all other procurement standards set forth in Attachment O of OMB Circular A-102.
(3)
Construction Planning Services.
The applicant is responsible for:
(i) Providing all engineering services necessary for all design and construction of Fund-assisted projects.
(ii) Providing an internal technical review of all construction plans and specifications.
(iii) Insuring that construction plans and specifications meet applicable health and safety standards of the State.
(iv) The Bureau reserves the right to require the submission of plans and specifications for any development project prior to project approval.
(v) All construction plans, specifications, contracts, and change orders shall be retained by the participant for a period of three years after final payment on a project is made by the Bureau, or for a longer period of time if so requested by the Bureau.
(4) All facilities developed will be designed to comply with the “American Standard Specifications for Making Buildings and Facilities Accessible to, and usable by the Physically Handicapped” Number A117.1-1961, as modified (41 CFR 101-17.703). The applicant will be responsible for conducting inspections to insure compliance with these specifications by the contractor.
[42 FR 54806, Oct. 11, 1977; 42 FR 57462, Nov. 3, 1977. Redesignated at 45 FR 780, Jan. 3, 1980, and 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981]
§ 64.12
Standards for grantee financial management systems.
The grantees' Financial Management Systems shall meet the minimum standards set forth in OMB Circular A-102, Attachment G.
§ 64.13
Performance reports.
Performance reports shall be submitted quarterly for all active projects. The performance reports shall briefly present the following:
(a) The status of the work required under the project scope.
(b) Other pertinent information including, when appropriate, time schedule delays and other similar problems encountered and their expected impact on the project, etc.
§ 64.14
Project inspections.
All State and local projects will receive a final inspection by the Bureau. Final inspections will be conducted prior to final payment of Federal funds. Progress inspections will be conducted as deemed necessary by the Bureau. Preapproval inspections will also be conducted prior to project selection at the discretion of the appropriate Bureau Regional Office.
§ 64.15
Financial reporting requirements and reimbursements.
Payments to applicants will either be by reimbursement by Treasury check or advance by Treasury check.
(a)
Reimbursement by Treasury Check.
The Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement (OMB Circular A-102, Attachment H) is the standard form to be used for requesting reimbursement for acquisition and development. Requests for reimbursement shall be submitted by “the grantee” not more frequently than monthly. The requests for reimbursement shall be submitted by the grantee in an original and three copies to the appropriate Regional Office. The Regions will forward to the Division of
Budget and Finance in Washington, DC, the original and two copies.
(b)
Advance by Treasury Check.
The Request for Advance or Reimbursement (OMB Circular A-102, Attachment H) is the standard form for all requests for advance. An advance by Treasury check is a payment made by Treasury check to a grantee upon its request, or through the use of a predetermined payment schedule. Advances shall be limited to the minimum amounts needed and shall be timed to be in accord with only the actual cash requirements of the grantee in carrying out the purpose of the approved project. Advances shall be limited to one month's cash requirements. The request for advance shall be submitted by the grantee in an original and three copies to the appropriate Regional Office. The Region will forward to the Division of Budget and Finance in Washington, D.C., the original and two copies.
Grantees must submit an “Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs” monthly showing expenditures made the previous month from the funds advanced.
Upon Bureau acceptance of the expenditures involved, these reports shall be used as the basis for liquidating obligations, reducing the advance account, and making charges to the appropriate cost account.
(c)
Report of Federal Cash Transactions (OMB Circular A-102, Attachment H).
When funds are advanced with Treasury checks, the grantee shall submit a report to monitor the cash advance. Grantees shall submit the original and three copies no later than 15 working days following the end of each quarter.
§ 64.16
Retention and custodial requirements for records.
(a) Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and other records pertinent to a grant program shall be retained for a period of three years after final payment. The records shall be retained beyond the three-year period if audit findings have not been resolved.
(b) The Secretary of the Interior and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the State and local governments and their subgrantees which are pertinent to a specific project for the purpose of making audit, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts.
§ 64.17
Project termination and settlement procedures.
Project Termination and Settlement Procedures will be in accord with Bureau of Outdoor Recreation Manual, chapter 675.8.
§ 64.18
Retention and use.
Property acquired or developed by State and local governments with section 809(b) assistance will be available to the general public and retained for recreation/conservation use. The acquiring agency will cause to have placed in the legal title to the property a restriction which precludes its conversion to other than public recreation/conservation use without the consent of the Secretary of the Interior. The Secretary shall not permit conversion to any use that would preclude future reactivation of rail transportation on such right-of-way.
Pt. 65

# PART 65—NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARKS PROGRAM
Sec.
65.1
Purpose and authority.
65.2
Effects of designation.
65.3
Definitions.
65.4
National Historic Landmark criteria.
65.5
Designation of National Historic Landmarks.
65.6
Recognition of National Historic Landmarks.
65.7
Monitoring National Historic Landmarks.
65.8
Alteration of National Historic Landmark boundaries.
65.9
Withdrawal of National Historic Landmark designation.
65.10
Appeals for designation.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 461
et seq.;
16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.

# Source:
48 FR 4655, Feb. 2, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 65.1
Purpose and authority.
The purpose of the National Historic Landmarks Program is to identify and designate National Historic Landmarks, and encourage the long range preservation of nationally significant
properties that illustrate or commemorate the history and prehistory of the United States. These regulations set forth the criteria for establishing national significance and the procedures used by the Department of the Interior for conducting the National Historic Landmarks Program.
(a) In the Historic Sites Act of 1935 (45 Stat. 666, 16 U.S.C. 461
et seq.
) the Congress declared that it is a national policy to preserve for public use historic sites, buildings and objects of national significance for the inspiration and benefit of the people of the United States and
(b) To implement the policy, the Act authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to perform the following duties and functions, among others:
(1) To make a survey of historic and archeological sites, buildings and objects for the purpose of determining which possess exceptional value as commemorating or illustrating the history of the United States;
(2) To make necessary investigations and researches in the United States relating to particular sites, buildings or objects to obtain true and accurate historical and archeological facts and information concerning the same; and
(3) To erect and maintain tablets to mark or commemorate historic or prehistoric places and events of national historical or archeological significance.
(c) The National Park Service (NPS) administers the National Historic Landmarks Program on behalf of the Secretary.
§ 65.2
Effects of designation.
(a) The purpose of the National Historic Landmarks Program is to focus attention on properties of exceptional value to the nation as a whole rather than to a particular State or locality. The program recognizes and promotes the preservation efforts of Federal, State and local agencies, as well as of private organizations and individuals and encourages the owners of landmark properties to observe preservation precepts.
(b) Properties designated as National Historic Landmarks are listed in the National Register of Historic Places upon designation as National Historic Landmarks. Listing of private property on the National Register does not prohibit under Federal law or regulations any actions which may otherwise be taken by the property owner with respect to the property.
(c) Specific effects of designation are:
(1) The National Register was designed to be and is administered as a planning tool. Federal agencies undertaking a project having an effect on a listed or eligible property must provide the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation a reasonable opportunity to comment pursuant to section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended. The Advisory Council has adopted procedures concerning,
inter alia,
their commenting responsibility in 36 CFR part 800.
(2) Section 110(f) of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, requires that before approval of any Federal undertaking which may directly and adversely affect any National Historic Landmark, the head of the responsible Federal agency shall, to the maximum extent possible, undertake such planning and actions as may be necessary to minimize harm to such landmark, and shall afford the Advisory Council a reasonable opportunity to comment on the undertaking.
(3) Listing in the National Register makes property owners eligible to be considered for Federal grants-in-aid and loan guarantees (when implemented) for historic preservation.
(4) If a property is listed in the National Register, certain special Federal income tax provisions may apply to the owners of the property pursuant to section 2124 of the Tax Reform Act of 1976, the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 and the Tax Treatment Extension Act of 1980.
(5) If a property contains surface coal resources and is listed in the National Register, certain provisions of the Surface Mining and Control Act of 1977 require consideration of a property's historic values in determining issuance of a surface coal mining permit.
(6) Section 8 of the National Park System General Authorities Act of 1970, as amended (90 Stat. 1940, 16 U.S.C. 1-5), directs the Secretary to prepare an annual report to Congress which identifies all National Historic
Landmarks that exhibit known or anticipated damage or threats to the integrity of their resources. In addition, National Historic Landmarks may be studied by NPS for possible recommendation to Congress for inclusion in the National Park System.
(7) Section 9 of the Mining in the National Parks Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 1342, 16 U.S.C. 1980) directs the Secretary of the Interior to submit to the Advisory Council a report on any surface mining activity which the Secretary has determined may destroy a National Historic Landmark in whole or in part, and to request the advisory Council's advice on alternative measures to mitigate or abate such activity.
§ 65.3
Definitions.
As used in this rule:
(a)
Advisory Council
means the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, established by the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.).
Address: Executive Director, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, 1522 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20005.
(b)
Chief elected local official
means the mayor, county judge or otherwise titled chief elected administrative official who is the elected head of the local political jurisdiction in which the property is located.
(c)
Advisory Board
means the National Park System Advisory Board which is a body of authorities in several fields of knowledge appointed by the Secretary under authority of the Historic Sites Act of 1935, as amended.
(d)
District
means a geographically definable area, urban or rural, that possesses a significant concentration, linkage or continuity of sites, buildings, structures or objects united by past events or aesthetically by plan or physical development. A district may also comprise individual elements separated geographically but linked by association or history.
(e)
Endangered property
means a historic property which is or is about to be subjected to a major impact that will destroy or seriously damage the resources which make it eligible for National Historic Landmark designation.
(f)
Federal Preservation Officer
means the official designated by the head of each Federal agency responsible for coordinating that agency's activities under the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, including nominating properties under that agency's ownership or control to the National Register.
(g)
Keeper
means the Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places.
(h)
Landmark
means National Historic Landmark and is a district, site, building, structure or object, in public or private ownership, judged by the Secretary to possess national significance in American history, archeology, architecture, engineering and culture, and so designated by him.
(i)
National Register
means the National Register of Historic Places, which is a register of districts, sites, buildings, structures and objects significant in American history, architecture, archeology, engineering and culture, maintained by the Secretary. (Section 2(b) of the Historic Sites Act of 1935 (49 Stat. 666, 16 U.S.C. 461) and section 101(a)(1) of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (80 Stat. 915; 16 U.S.C. 470), as amended.) (Address: Chief, Interagency Resource Management Division, 440 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20243.)
(j)
National Historic Landmarks Program
means the program which identifies, designates, recognizes, lists, and monitors National Historic Landmarks conducted by the Secretary through the National Park Service. (Address: Chief, History Division, National Park Service, Washington, DC 20240; addresses of other participating divisions found throughout these regulations.)
(k)
Object
means a material thing of functional, aesthetic, cultural, historical or scientific value that may be, by nature or design, movable yet related to a specific setting or environment.
(l)
Owner
or
owners
means those individuals, partnerships, corporations or public agencies holding fee simple title to property. “Owner” or “owners” does not include individuals, partnerships, corporations or public agencies holding easements or less than fee interests (including leaseholds) of any nature.
(m)
Property
means a site, building, object, structure or a collection of the above which form a district.
(n)
Site
means the location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined or vanished, where the location itself maintains historical or archeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure.
(o)
State official
means the person who has been designated in each State to administer the State Historic Preservation Program.
(p)
Structure
means a work made by human beings and composed of interdependent and interrelated parts in a definite pattern of organization.
[48 FR 4655, Feb. 2, 1983, as amended at 62 FR 30235, June 3, 1997]
§ 65.4
National Historic Landmark criteria.
The criteria applied to evaluate properties for possible designation as National Historic Landmarks or possible determination of eligibility for National Historic Landmark designation are listed below. These criteria shall be used by NPS in the preparation, review and evaluation of National Historic Landmark studies. They shall be used by the Advisory Board in reviewing National Historic Landmark studies and preparing recommendations to the Secretary. Properties shall be designated National Historic Landmarks only if they are nationally significant. Although assessments of national significance should reflect both public perceptions and professional judgments, the evaluations of properties being considered for landmark designation are undertaken by professionals, including historians, architectural historians, archeologists and anthropologists familiar with the broad range of the nation's resources and historical themes. The criteria applied by these specialists to potential landmarks do not define significance nor set a rigid standard for quality. Rather, the criteria establish the qualitative framework in which a comparative professional analysis of national significance can occur. The final decision on whether a property possesses national significance is made by the Secretary on the basis of documentation including the comments and recommendations of the public who participate in the designation process.
(a) Specific Criteria of National Significance: The quality of national significance is ascribed to districts, sites, buildings, structures and objects that possess exceptional value or quality in illustrating or interpreting the heritage of the United States in history, architecture, archeology, engineering and culture and that possess a high degree of integrity of location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling and association, and:
(1) That are associated with events that have made a significant contribution to, and are identified with, or that outstandingly represent, the broad national patterns of United States history and from which an understanding and appreciation of those patterns may be gained; or
(2) That are associated importantly with the lives of persons nationally significant in the history of the United States; or
(3) That represent some great idea or ideal of the American people; or
(4) That embody the distinguishing characteristics of an architectural type specimen exceptionally valuable for a study of a period, style or method of construction, or that represent a significant, distinctive and exceptional entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or
(5) That are composed of integral parts of the environment not sufficiently significant by reason of historical association or artistic merit to warrant individual recognition but collectively compose an entity of exceptional historical or artistic significance, or outstandingly commemorate or illustrate a way of life or culture; or
(6) That have yielded or may be likely to yield information of major scientific importance by revealing new cultures, or by shedding light upon periods of occupation over large areas of the United States. Such sites are those which have yielded, or which may reasonably be expected to yield, data affecting theories, concepts and ideas to a major degree.
(b) Ordinarily, cemeteries, birthplaces, graves of historical figures,
properties owned by religious institutions or used for religious purposes, structures that have been moved from their original locations, reconstructed historic buildings and properties that have achieved significance within the past 50 years are not eligible for designation. Such properties, however, will qualify if they fall within the following categories:
(1) A religious property deriving its primary national significance from architectural or artistic distinction or historical importance; or
(2) A building or structure removed from its original location but which is nationally significant primarily for its architectural merit, or for association with persons or events of transcendent importance in the nation's history and the association consequential; or
(3) A site of a building or structure no longer standing but the person or event associated with it is of transcendent importance in the nation's history and the association consequential; or
(4) A birthplace, grave or burial if it is of a historical figure of transcendent national significance and no other appropriate site, building or structure directly associated with the productive life of that person exists; or
(5) A cemetery that derives its primary national significance from graves of persons of transcendent importance, or from an exceptionally distinctive design or from an exceptionally significant event; or
(6) A reconstructed building or ensemble of buildings of extraordinary national significance when accurately executed in a suitable environment and presented in a dignified manner as part of a restoration master plan, and when no other buildings or structures with the same association have survived; or
(7) A property primarily commemorative in intent if design, age, tradition, or symbolic value has invested it with its own national historical significance; or
(8) A property achieving national significance within the past 50 years if it is of extraordinary national importance.
§ 65.5
Designation of National Historic Landmarks.
Potential National Historic Landmarks are identified primarily by means of theme studies and in some instances by special studies. Nominations and recommendations made by the appropriate State officials, Federal Preservation Officers and other interested parties will be considered in scheduling and conducting studies.
(a)
Theme studies.
NPS defines and systematically conducts organized theme studies which encompass the major aspects of American history. The theme studies provide a contextual framework to evaluate the relative significance of historic properties and determine which properties meet National Historic Landmark criteria. Theme studies will be announced in advance through direct notice to appropriate State officials, Federal Preservation Officers and other interested parties and by notice in the
Federal Register.
Within the established thematic framework, NPS will schedule and conduct National Historic Landmark theme studies according to the following priorities. Themes which meet more of these priorities ordinarily will be studied before those which meet fewer of the priorities:
(1) Theme studies not yet begun as identified in “History and Prehistory in the National Park System,” 1982.
(2) Theme studies in serious need of revision.
(3) Theme studies which relate to a significant number of properties listed in the National Register bearing opinions of State Historic Preservation Officers and Federal Preservation Officers that such properties are of potential national significance. (Only those recommendations which NPS determines are likely to meet the landmarks criteria will be enumerated in determining whether a significant number exists in a theme study.)
(4) Themes which reflect the broad planning needs of NPS and other Federal agencies and for which the funds to conduct the study are made available from sources other than the regularly programmed funds of the National Historic Landmarks Program.
(b)
Special Studies.
NPS will conduct special studies for historic properties
outside of active theme studies according to the following priorities:
(1) Studies authorized by Congress or mandated by Executive Order will receive the highest priority.
(2) Properties which NPS determines are endangered and potentially meet the National Historic Landmarks criteria, whether or not the theme in which they are significant has been studied.
(3) Properties listed in the National Register bearing State or Federal agency recommendations of potential national significance where NPS concurs in the evaluation and the property is significant in a theme already studied.
(c)(1) When a property is selected for study to determine its potential for designation as a National Historic Landmark, NPS will notify in writing, except as provided below, (i) the owner(s), (ii) the chief elected local official, (iii) the appropriate State official, (iv) the Members of Congress who represent the district and State in which the property is located, and, (v) if the property is on an Indian reservation, the chief executive officer of the Indian tribe, that it will be studied to determine its potential for designation as a National Historic Landmark. This notice will provide information on the National Historic Landmarks Program, the designation process and the effects of designation.
(2) When the property has more than 50 owners, NPS will notify in writing (i) the chief elected local official, (ii) the appropriate State official, (iii) the Members of Congress who represent the district and State in which the property is located, and, (iv) if the property is on an Indian reservation, the chief executive officer of the Indian tribe, and (v) provide general notice to the property owners. This general notice will be published in one or more local newspapers of general circulation in the area in which the potential National Historic Landmark is located and will provide information on the National Historic Landmarks Program, the designation process and the effects of designation. The researcher will visit each property selected for study unless it is determined that an onsite investigation is not necessary. In the case of districts with more than 50 owners NPS may conduct a public information meeting if widespread public interest so warrants or on request by the chief elected local official.
(3) Properties for which a study was conducted before the effective date of these regulations are not subject to the requirements of paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section.
(4) The results of each study will be incorporated into a report which will contain at least
(i) A precise description of the property studied; and
(ii) An analysis of the significance of the property and its relationship to the National Historic Landmark criteria.
(d)(1) Properties appearing to qualify for designation as National Historic Landmarks will be presented to the Advisory Board for evaluation except as specified in paragraph (h) of this section.
(2) Before the Advisory Board's review of a property, NPS will provide written notice of this review, except as provided below, and a copy of the study report to (i) the owner(s) of record; (ii) the appropriate State official; (iii) the chief elected local official; (iv) the Members of Congress who represent the district and State in which the property is located; and, (v) if the property is located on an Indian reservation, the chief executive officer of the Indian tribe. The list of owners shall be obtained from official land or tax record, whichever is most appropriate, within 90 days prior to the notification of intent to submit to the Advisory Board. If in any State the land or tax record is not the appropriate list an alternative source of owners may be used. NPS is responsible for notifying only those owners whose names appear on the list. Where there is more than one owner on the list each separate owner shall be notified.
(3) In the case of a property with more than 50 owners, NPS will notify, in writing, (i) the appropriate State official; (ii) the chief elected local official; (iii) the Members of Congress who represent the district and State in which the property is located; (iv) if the property is located on an Indian reservation, the chief executive officer of the Indian tribe; and, (v) will provide general notice to the property owners.
The general notice will be published in one or more local newspapers of general circulation in the area in which the property is located. A copy of the study report will be made available on request. Notice of Advisory Board review will also be published in the
Federal Register.
(4) Notice of Advisory Board review will be given at least 60 days in advance of the Advisory Board meeting. The notice will state date, time and location of the meeting; solicit written comments and recommendations on the study report; provide information on the National Historic Landmarks Program, the designation process and the effects of designation and provide the owners of private property not more than 60 days in which to concur in or object in writing to the designation. Notice of Advisory Board meetings and the agenda will also be published in the
Federal Register.
Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments and recommendations which will be presented to the Advisory Board. Interested parties may also attend the Advisory Board meeting and upon request will be given an opportunity to address the Board concerning a property's significance, integrity and proposed boundaries.
(5) Upon notification, any owner of private property who wishes to object shall submit to the Chief, History Division, a notarized statement that the party is the sole or partial owner of record of the property, as appropriate, and objects to the designations. Such notice shall be submitted during the 60-day commenting period. Upon receipt of notarized objections respecting a district or an individual property with multiple ownership it is the responsibility of NPS to ascertain whether a majority of owners have so objected. If an owner whose name did not appear on the list certifies in a written notarized statement that the party is the sole or partial owner of a nominated private property such owner shall be counted by NPS in determining whether a majority of owners has objected. Each owner of private property in a district has one vote regardless of how many properties or what part of one property that party owns and regardless of whether the property contributes to the significance of the district.
(6) The commenting period following notification can be waived only when all property owners and the chief elected local official have agreed in writing to the waiver.
(e)(1) The Advisory Board evaluates such factors as a property's significance, integrity, proposed boundaries and the professional adequacy of the study. If the Board finds that these conditions are met, it may recommend to the Secretary that a property be designated or declared eligible for designation as a National Historic Landmark. If one or more of the conditions are not met, the Board may recommend that the property not be designated a landmark or that consideration of it be deferred for further study, as appropriate. In making its recommendation, the Board shall state, if possible, whether or not it finds that the criteria of the landmarks program have been met. A simple majority is required to make a recommendation of designation. The Board's recommendations are advisory.
(2) Studies submitted to the Advisory Board (or the Consulting Committee previously under the Heritage Conservation and Recreation Service) before the effective date of these regulations need not be resubmitted to the Advisory Board. In such instances, if a property appears to qualify for designation, NPS will provide notice and a copy of the study report to the parties as specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section and will provide at least 30 days in which to submit written comments and to provide an opportunity for owners to concur in or object to the designation.
(3) The Director reviews the study report and the Advisory Board recommendations, certifies that the procedural requirements set forth in this section have been met and transmits the study reports, the recommendations of the Advisory Board, his recommendations and any other recommendations and comments received pertaining to the properties to the Secretary.
(f) The Secretary reviews the nominations, recommendations and any comments and, based on the criteria
set forth herein, makes a decision on National Historic Landmark designation. Properties that are designated National Historic Landmarks are entered in the National Register of Historic Places, if not already so listed.
(1) If the private owner or, with respect to districts or individual properties with multiple ownership, the majority of such owners have objected to the designation by notarized statements, the Secretary shall not make a National Historic Landmark designation but shall review the nomination and make a determination of its eligibility for National Historic Landmark designation.
(2) The Secretary may thereafter designate such properties as National Historic Landmarks only upon receipt of notarized statements from the private owner (or majority of private owners in the event of a district or a single property with multiple ownership) that they do not object to the designation.
(3) The Keeper may list in the National Register properties considered for National Historic Landmark designation which do not meet the National Historic Landmark criteria but which do meet the National Register criteria for evaluation in 36 CFR part 60 or determine such properties eligible for the National Register if the private owners or majority of such owners in the case of districts object to designation. A property determined eligible for National Historic Landmark designation is determined eligible for the National Register.
(g) Notice of National Historic Landmark designation, National Register listing, or a determination of eligibility will be sent in the same manner as specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section. For properties which are determined eligible the Advisory Council will also be notified. Notice will be published in the
Federal Register.
(h)(1) The Secretary may designate a National Historic Landmark without Advisory Board review through accelerated procedures described in this section when necessary to assist in the preservation of a nationally significant property endangered by a threat of imminent damage or destruction.
(2) NPS will conduct the study and prepare a study report as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(3) If a property appears to qualify for designation, the National Park Service will provide notice and a copy of the study report to the parties specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) and will allow at least 30 days for the submittal of written comments and to provide owners of private property an opportunity to concur in or object to designation as provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section except that the commenting period may be less than 60 days.
(4) The Director will review the study report and any comments, will certify that procedural requirements have been met, and will transmit the study report, his and any other recommendations and comments pertaining to the property to the Secretary.
(5) The Secretary will review the nomination and recommendations and any comments and, based on the criteria set forth herein, make a decision on National Historic Landmark designation or a determination of eligibility for designation if the private owners or a majority of such owners of historic districts object.
(6) Notice of National Historic Landmark designation or a determination of eligibility will be sent to the same parties specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section.
§ 65.6
Recognition of National Historic Landmarks.
(a) Following designation of a property by the Secretary as a National Historic Landmark, the owner(s) will receive a certificate of designation. In the case of a district, the certificate will be delivered to the chief elected local official or other local official, or to the chief officer of a private organization involved with the preservation of the district, or the chief officer of an organization representing the owners of the district, as appropriate.
(b) NPS will invite the owner of each designated National Historic Landmark to accept, free of charge, a landmark plaque. In the case of a district, the chief elected local official or other local official, or the chief officer of an
organization involved in the preservation of the district, or chief officer of an organization representing the owners of the district, as appropriate, may accept the plaque on behalf of the owners. A plaque will be presented to properties where the appropriate recipient(s) (from those listed above) agrees to display it publicly and appropriately.
(c) The appropriate recipient(s) may accept the plaque at any time after designation of the National Historic Landmark. In so doing owners give up none of the rights and privileges of ownership or use of the landmark property nor does the Department of the Interior acquire any interest in property so designated.
(d) NPS will provide one standard certificate and plaque for each designated National Historic Landmark. The certificate and plaque remain the property of NPS. Should the National Historic Landmark designation at any time be withdrawn, in accordance with the procedures specified in § 65.9 of these rules, or should the certificate and plaque not be publicly or appropriately displayed, the certificate and the plaque, if issued, will be reclaimed by NPS.
(e) Upon request, and if feasible, NPS will help arrange and participate in a presentation ceremony.
§ 65.7
Monitoring National Historic Landmarks.
(a) NPS maintains a continuing relationship with the owners of National Historic Landmarks. Periodic visits, contacts with State Historic Preservation Officers, and other appropriate means will be used to determine whether landmarks retain their integrity, to advise owners concerning accepted preservation standards and techniques and to update administrative records on the properties.
(b) Reports of monitoring activities form the basis for the annual report submitted to Congress by the Secretary of the Interior, as mandated by section 8, National Park System General Authorities Act of 1970, as amended (90 Stat. 1940, 16 U.S.C. 1a-5). The Secretary's annual report will identify those National Historic Landmarks which exhibit known or anticipated damage or threats to their integrity. In evaluating National Historic Landmarks for listing in the report, the seriousness and imminence of the damage or threat are considered, as well as the integrity of the landmark at the time of designation taking into account the criteria in § 65.4.
(c) As mandated in section 9, Mining in the National Parks Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 1342, 16 U.S.C. 1980), whenever the Secretary of the Interior finds that a National Historic Landmark may be irreparably lost or destroyed in whole or in part by any surface mining activity, including exploration for, removal or production of minerals or materials, the Secretary shall (1) notify the person conducting such activity of that finding;
(2) Submit a report thereon, including the basis for his finding that such activity may cause irreparable loss or destruction of a National Historic Landmark, to the Advisory Council; and
(3) Request from the Council advice as to alternative measures that may be taken by the United States to mitigate or abate such activity.
(d) Monitoring activities described in this section, including the preparation of the mandated reports to Congress and the Advisory Council are carried out by NPS regional offices under the direction of the Preservation Assistance Division, NPS [Address: Chief, Resource Assistance Division, National Park Service, 440 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20243] in consultation with the History Division, NPS.
§ 65.8
Alteration of National Historic Landmark boundaries.
(a)
Two justifications exist for enlarging the boundary of a National Historic Landmark:
Documentation of previously unrecognized significance or professional error in the original designation. Enlargement of a boundary will be approved only when the area proposed for addition to the National Historic Landmark possesses or contributes directly to the characteristics for which the landmark was designated.
(b)
Two justifications exist for reducing the boundary of a National Historic
Landmark:
Loss of integrity or professional error in the original designation. Reduction of a boundary will be approved only when the area to be deleted from the National Historic Landmark does not possess or has lost the characteristics for which the landmark was designated.
(c) A proposal for enlargement or reduction of a National Historic Landmark boundary may be submitted to or can originate with the History Division, NPS. NPS may restudy the National Historic Landmark and subsequently make a proposal, if appropriate, in the same manner as specified in § 65.5 (c) through (h). In the case of boundary enlargements only those owners in the newly nominated but as yet undesignated area will be notified and will be counted in determining whether a majority of private owners object to listing.
(d)(1) When a boundary is proposed for a National Historic Landmark for which no specific boundary was identified at the time of designation, NPS shall provide notice, in writing, of the proposed boundary to (i) the owner(s); (ii) the appropriate State official; (iii) the chief elected local official; (iv) the Members of Congress who represent the district and State in which the landmark is located, and (v) if the property is located on an Indian reservation, the chief executive officer of the Indian tribe, and shall allow not less than 30 nor more than 60 days for submitting written comments on the proposal. In the case of a landmark with more than 50 owners, the general notice specified in § 65.5(d)(3) will be used. In the case of National Historic Landmark districts for which no boundaries have been established, proposed boundaries shall be published in the
Federal Register
for comment and be submitted to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and not less than 30 nor more than 60 days shall be provided for the submittal of written comments on the proposed boundaries.
(2) The proposed boundary and any comments received thereon shall be submitted to the Associated Director for National Register Programs, NPS, who may approve the boundary without reference to the Advisory Board or the Secretary.
(3) NPS will provide written notice of the approved boundary to the same parties specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and by publication in the
Federal Register.
(4) Management of the activities described in paragraphs (d)(1), (2), and (3) of this section is handled by the National Register of Historic Places, NPS, [Address: National Register of Historic Places, National Park Service, Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240].
(e) A technical correction to a boundary may be approved by the Chief, History Division, without Advisory Board review or Secretarial approval. NPS will provide notice, in writing, of any technical correction in a boundary to the same parties specified in (d)(1).
§ 65.9
Withdrawal of National Historic Landmark designation.
(a) National Historic Landmarks will be considered for withdrawal of designation only at the request of the owner or upon the initiative of the Secretary.
(b) Four justifications exist for the withdrawal of National Historic Landmark designation:
(1) The property has ceased to meet the criteria for designation because the qualities which caused it to be originally designated have been lost or destroyed, or such qualities were lost subsequent to nomination, but before designation;
(2) Additional information shows conclusively that the property does not possess sufficient significance to meet the National Historic Landmark criteria;
(3) Professional error in the designation; and
(4) Prejudicial procedural error in the designation process.
(c) Properties designated as National Historic Landmarks before December 13, 1980, can be dedesignated only on the grounds established in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(d) The owner may appeal to have a property dedesignated by submitting a request for dedesignation and stating
the grounds for the appeal as established in subsection (a) to the Chief, History Division, National Park Service, Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240. An appellant will receive a response within 60 days as to whether NPS considers the documentation sufficient to initiate a restudy of the landmark.
(e) The Secretary may initiate a restudy of a National Historic Landmark and subsequently a proposal for withdrawal of the landmark designation as appropriate in the same manner as a new designation as specified in § 65.5 (c) through (h). Proposals will not be submitted to the Advisory Board if the grounds for removal are procedural, although the Board will be informed of such proposals.
(f)(1) The property will remain listed in the National Register if the Keeper determines that it meets the National Register criteria for evaluation in 36 CFR 60.4, except if the property is redesignated on procedural grounds.
(2) Any property from which designation is withdrawn because of a procedural error in the designation process shall automatically be considered eligible for inclusion in the National Register as a National Historic Landmark without further action and will be published as such in the
Federal Register.
(g)(1) The National Park Service will provide written notice of the withdrawal of a National Historic Landmark designation and the status of the National Register listing, and a copy of the report on which those actions are based to (i) the owner(s); (ii) the appropriate State official; (iii) the chief elected local official; (iv) the Members of Congress who represent the district and State in which the landmark is located; and (v) if the landmark is located on an Indian reservation, the chief executive officer of the Indian tribe. In the case of a landmark with more than 50 owners, the general notice specified in § 65.5(d)(3) will be used.
(2) Notice of withdrawal of designation and related National Register listing and determinations of eligibility will be published periodically in the
Federal Register.
(h) Upon withdrawal of a National Historic Landmark designation, NPS will reclaim the certificate and plaque, if any, issued for that landmark.
(i) An owner shall not be considered as having exhausted administrative remedies with respect to dedesignation of a National Historic Landmark until after submitting an appeal and receiving a response from NPS in accord with these procedures.
§ 65.10
Appeals for designation.
(a) Any applicant seeking to have a property designated a National Historic Landmark may appeal, stating the grounds for appeal, directly to the Director, National Park Service, Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240, under the following circumstances:
Where the applicant—
(1) Disagrees with the initial decision of NPS that the property is not likely to meet the criteria of the National Historic Landmarks Program and will not be submitted to the Advisory Board; or
(2) Disagrees with the decision of the Secretary that the property does not meet the criteria of the National Historic Landmarks Program.
(b) The Director will respond to the appellant within 60 days. After reviewing the appeal the Director may:
(1) Deny the appeal;
(2) Direct that a National Historic Landmark nomination be prepared and processed according to the regulations if this has not yet occurred; or
(3) Resubmit the nomination to the Secretary for reconsideration and final decision.
(c) Any person or organization which supports or opposes the consideration of a property for National Historic Landmark designation may submit an appeal to the Director, NPS, during the designation process either supporting or opposing the designation. Such appeals received by the Director before the study of the property or before its submission to the National Park System Advisory Board will be considered by the Director, the Advisory Board and the Secretary, as appropriate, in the designation process.
(d) No person shall be considered to have exhausted administrative remedies with respect to failure to designate a property a National Historic
Landmark until he or she has complied with the procedures set forth in this section.
Pt. 67

# PART 67—HISTORIC PRESERVATION CERTIFICATIONS UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
Sec.
67.1
Program authority and function.
67.2
Definitions.
67.3
Introduction to certifications of significance and rehabilitation and information collection.
67.4
Certifications of historic significance.
67.5
Standards for evaluating significance within registered historic districts.
67.6
Certifications of rehabilitation.
67.7
Standards for rehabilitation.
67.8
Certifications of statutes.
67.9
Certifications of State or local historic districts.
67.10
Appeals.
67.11
Fees for processing certification requests.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 470a(a)(1)(A); 26 U.S.C. 47 and 170(h).

# Source:
54 FR 6771, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 67 appear at 76 FR 30541, May 26, 2011.
§ 67.1
Program authority and function.
(a) Section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code designates the Secretary as the authority for the issuance of certifications of historic district statutes and of State and local historic districts, certifications of significance, and certifications of rehabilitation in connection with certain tax incentives involving historic preservation. These certification responsibilities have been delegated to the National Park Service (NPS); the following office issues those certifications: National Park Service, Washington Area Service Office, Technical Preservation Services, Heritage Preservation Services (WASO), 1849 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20240.
(b) NPS WASO establishes program direction and considers appeals of certification denials. It is the responsibility of owners wishing certifications to provide sufficient documentation to the Secretary to make certification decisions. These procedures, upon their effective date, are applicable to future and pending certification requests, except as otherwise provided herein.
(c) States receiving Historic Preservation Fund grants from the Department participate in the review of requests for certification, through recommendations to the Secretary by the State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO). The SHPO acts on behalf of the State in this capacity and, therefore, the NPS is not responsible for any actions, errors or omissions of the SHPO.
(1) Requests for certifications and approvals of proposed rehabilitation work are sent by an owner first to the appropriate SHPO for review. State comments are recorded on National Park Service Review Sheets (NPS Forms 10-168 (d) and (e)) and are carefully considered by the Secretary before a certification decision is made. Recommendations of States with approved State programs are generally followed, but by law, all certification decisions are made by the Secretary, based upon professional review of the application and related information. The decision of the Secretary may differ from the recommendation of the SHPO.
(2) A State may choose not to participate in the review of certification requests. States not wishing to participate in the comment process should notify the Secretary in writing of this fact. Owners from such nonparticipating States may request certifications by sending their applications directly to the appropriate NPS WASO listed above. In all other situations, certification requests are sent first to the appropriate SHPO.
(d) The Internal Revenue Service is responsible for all procedures, legal determinations, and rules and regulations concerning the tax consequences of the historic preservation provisions described in this part. Any certification made by the Secretary pursuant to this part shall not be considered as binding upon the Internal Revenue Service or the Secretary of the Treasury with respect to tax consequences under the Internal Revenue Code. For example, certifications made by the Secretary do not constitute determinations that a structure is of the type subject to the allowance for depreciation under section 167 of the Code.
[54 FR 6771, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 76 FR 30541, May 26, 2011]
§ 67.2
Definitions.
As used in these regulations:
Certified Historic Structure
means a building (and its structural components) which is of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation provided in section 167 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 which is either:
(a) Individually listed in the National Register; or
(b) Located in a registered historic district and certified by the Secretary as being of historic significance to the district.
Portions of larger buildings, such as single condominium apartment units, are no independently considered certified historic structures. Rowhouses, even with abutting or party walls, are considered as separate buildings. For purposes of the certification decisions set forth in this part, a certified historic structure encompasses the historic building and its site, landscape features, and environment, generally referred to herein as a “property” as defined below. The NPS decision on listing a property in the National Register of Historic Places, including boundary determinations, does not limit the scope of review of the rehabilitation project for tax certification purposes. Such review will include the entire historic property as it existed prior to rehabilitation and any related new construction. For purposes of the charitable contribution provisions only, a certified historic structure need not be depreciable to qualify; may be a structure other than a building; and may also be a remnant of a building such as a facade, if that is all that remains. For purposes of the other rehabilitation tax credits under section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code, any property located in a registered historic district is considered a certified historic structure so that other rehabilitation tax credits are not available; exemption from this provision can generally occur only if the Secretary has determined, prior to the rehabilitation of the property, that it is not of historic significance to the district.
Certified Rehabilitation
means any rehabilitation of a certified historic structure which the Secretary has certified to the Secretary of the Treasury as being consistent with the historic character of the certified historic structure and, where applicable, with the district in which such structure is located.
Duly Authorized Representative
means a State or locality's Chief Elected Official or his or her representative who is authorized to apply for certification of State/local statutes and historic districts.
Historic District
means a geographically definable area, urban or rural, that possesses a significant concentration, linkage or continuity of sites, buildings, structures or objects united historically or aesthetically by plan or physical development. A district may also comprise individual elements separated geographically during the period of significance but linked by association or function.
Inspection
means a visit by an authorized representative of the Secretary or a SHPO to a certified historic structure for the purposes of reviewing and evaluating the significance of the structure and the ongoing or completed rehabilitation work.
National Register of Historic Places
means the National Register of districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects significant in American history, architecture, archeology, engineering, and culture that the Secretary is authorized to expand and maintain pursuant to section 101(a)(1) of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended. The procedures of the National Register appear in 36 CFR part 60
et seq.
Owner
means a person, partnership, corporation, or public agency holding a fee-simple interest in a property or any other person or entity recognized by the Internal Revenue Code for purposes of the applicable tax benefits.
Property
means a building and its site and landscape features.
Registered Historic District
means any district listed in the National Register or any district which is:
(a) Designated under a State or local statute which has been certified by the Secretary as containing criteria which will substantially achieve the purpose of preserving and rehabilitating buildings of significance to the district, and
(b) Certified by the Secretary as meeting substantially all of the requirements for the listing of districts in the National Register.
Rehabilitation
means the process of returning a building or buildings to a state of utility, through repair or alteration, which makes possible an efficient use while preserving those portions and features of the building and its site and environment which are significant to its historic, architectural, and cultural values as determined by the Secretary.
Standards for Rehabilitation
means the Secretary's Standards for Rehabilitation set forth in section 67.7 hereof.
State Historic Preservation Officer
means the official within each State designated by the Governor or a State statute to act as liaison for purposes of administering historic preservation programs within that State.
State or Local Statute
means a law of a State or local government designating, or providing a method for the designation of, a historic district or districts.
[54 FR 6771, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 62 FR 30235, June 3, 1997]
§ 67.3
Introduction to certifications of significance and rehabilitation and information collection.
(a) Who may apply:
(1) Ordinarily, only the fee simple owner of the property in question may apply for the certifications described in §§ 67.4 and 67.6 hereof. If an application for an evaluation of significance or rehabilitation project is made by someone other than the fee simple owner, however, the application must be accompanied by a written statement from the fee simple owner indicating that he or she is aware of the application and has no objection to the request for certification.
(2) Upon request of a SHPO the Secretary may determine whether or not a particular property located within a registered historic district qualifies as a certified historic structure. The Secretary shall do so, however, only after notifying the fee simple owner of record of the request, informing such owner of the possible tax consequences of such a decision, and permitting the property owner a 30-day time period to submit written comments to the Secretary prior to decision. Such time period for comment may be waived by the fee simple owner.
(3) The Secretary may undertake the certifications described in §§ 67.4 and 67.6 on his own initiative after notifying the fee simple owner and the SHPO and allowing a comment period as specified in § 67.3(a)(2).
(4) Owners of properties which appear to meet National Register criteria but are yet listed in the National Register or which are located within potential historic districts may request preliminary determinations from the Secretary as to whether such properties may qualify as certified historic structures when and if the properties or the potential historic districts in which they are located are listed in the National Register. Preliminary determinations may also be requested for properties outside the period or area of significance of registered historic districts as specified in § 67.5(c). Procedures for obtaining these determinations shall be the same as those described in § 67.4. Such determinations are preliminary only and are not binding on the Secretary. Preliminary determinations of significance will become final as of the date of the listing of the individual property or district in the National Register. For properties outside the period or area of significance of a registered historic district, preliminary determinations of significance will become final, except as provided below, when the district documentation on file with the NPS is formally amended. If during review of a request for certification of rehabilitation, it is determined that the property does not contribute to the significance of the district because of changes which occurred after the preliminary determination of significance was made, certified historic structure designation will be denied.
(5) Owners of properties not yet designated certified historic structures may obtain determinations from the Secretary on whether or not rehabilitation proposals meet the Secretary's Standards for Rehabilitation. Such determinations will be made only when the owner has requested a preliminary determination of the significance of
the property as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section and such request for determination has been acted upon by the NPS. Final certifications of rehabilitation will be issued only to owners of certified historic structures. Procedures for obtaining these determinations shall be the same as those described in sec. 67.6.
(b) How to apply:
(1) Requests for certifications of historic significance and of rehabilitation shall be made on Historic Preservation Certification Applications (NPS Form No. 10-168). Normally, two copies of the application are required; one to be retained by the SHPO and the other to be forwarded to the NPS. The information collection requirements contained in the application and in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507 and assigned clearance number 1024-0009. Part 1 of the application shall be used in requesting a certification of historic significance or nonsignificance and preliminary determinations, while part 2 of the application shall be used in requesting an evaluation of a proposed rehabilitation project or, in conjunction with a Request for Certification of Completed Work, a certification of a completed rehabilitation project. Information contained in the application is required to obtain a benefit. Public reporting burden for this form is estimated to average 2.5 hours per response including the time for reviewing instructions, gathering and maintaining data, and completing and reviewing the form. Direct comments regarding this burden estimate or any aspect of this form may be made to the Chief, Administrative Services Division, National Park Service, P.O. Box 37127, Washington, DC 20013-7127 and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project Number 1024-0009, Washington, DC 20503.
(2) Application forms are available from NPS WASO or the SHPOs.
(3) Requests for certifications, preliminary determinations, and approvals of proposed rehabilitation projects shall be sent to the SHPO in participating States. Requests in nonparticipating States shall be sent directly to the appropriate NPS WASO.
(4) Generally reviews of certification requests are concluded within 60 days of receipt of a complete, adequately documented application, as defined § 67.4 and § 67.6 (30 days at the State level and 30 days at the Federal level). Where a State has chosen not to participate in the review process, review by the NPS generally is concluded within 60 days of receipt of a complete, adequately documented application. Where adequate documentation is not provided, the owner will be notified of the additional information needed to undertake or complete review. The time periods in this part are based on the receipt of a complete application; they will be adhered to as closely as possible and are defined as calendar days. They are not, however, considered to be mandatory, and the failure to complete review within the designated periods does not waive or alter any certification requirement.
(5) Approval of applications and amendments to applications is conveyed only in writing by duly authorized officials of the NPS acting on behalf of the Secretary. Decisions with respect to certifications are made on the basis of the descriptions contained in the application form and other available information. In the event of any discrepancy between the application form and other, supplementary material submitted with it (such as architectural plans, drawings, specifications, etc.), the applicant shall be requested to resolve the discrepancy in writing. In the event the discrepancy is not resolved, the description in the application form shall take precedence. Falsification of factual representations in the application is subject to criminal sanctions of up to $10,000 in fines or imprisonment for up to five years pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001.
(6) It is the owner's responsibility to notify the Secretary if application reviews are not completed within the time periods specified above. The Secretary in turn will consult with the appropriate office to ensure that the review is completed in as timely manner as possible in the circumstances.
(7) Although certifications of significance and rehabilitation are discussed separately below, owners must submit
part 1 of the Historic Preservation Certification Application prior to, or with, part 2. Part 2 of the application will not be processed until an adequately documented part 1 is on file and acted upon unless the property is already a certified historic structure. Reviews of rehabilitation projects will also not be undertaken if the owner has objected to the listing of the property in the National Register.
§ 67.4
Certifications of historic significance.
(a) Requests for certifications of historic significance should be made by the owner to determine—
(1) That a property located within a registered historic district is of historic significance to such district; or
(2) That a property located within a registered historic district is not of historic significance to such district; or
(3) That a property not yet on the National Register appears to meet National Register criteria; or
(4) That a property located within a potential historic district appears to contribute to the significance of such district.
(b) To determine whether or not a property is individually listed or is part of a district in the National Register, the owner may consult the listing of National Register properties in the
Federal Register
(found in most large libraries), or contact the appropriate SHPO for current information.
(c) If a property is located within the boundaries of a registered historic district and the owner wishes the Secretary to certify whether the property contributes or does not contribute to the historic significance of the district or if the owner is requesting a preliminary determination of significance in accordance with § 67.3(a)(4), the owner must complete part 1 of the Historic Preservation Certification Application according to instructions accompanying the application. Such documentation includes but is not limited to:
(1) Name and mailing address of owner;
(2) Name and address of property;
(3) Name of historic district;
(4) Current photographs of property; photographs of the building and its site and landscape features prior to alteration if rehabilitation has been completed; photograph(s) showing the property along with adjacent properties and structures on the street; and photographs of interior features and spaces adequate to document significance;
(5) Brief description of appearance including alterations, distinctive features and spaces, and date(s) of construction;
(6) Brief statement of significance summarizing how the property does or does not reflect the values that give the district its distinctive historical and visual character, and explaining any significance attached to the property itself (i.e., unusual building techniques, important event that took place there, etc.).
(7) Sketch map clearly delineating property's location within the district; and
(8) Signature of fee simple owner requesting or concurring in a request for evaluation.
(d) If a property is individually listed in the National Register, it is generally considered a certified historic structure and no further certification is required. More specific considerations in this regard are as follows:
(1) If the property is individually listed in the National Register and the owner believes it has lost the characteristics which caused it to be nominated and therefore wishes it delisted, the owner should refer to the delisting procedures outlined in 36 CFR part 60.
(2) Some properties individually listed in the National Register include more than one building. In such cases, the owner must submit a single part 1 application, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, which includes descriptions of all the buildings within the listing. The Secretary will utilize the Standards for Evaluating Significance within Registered Historic Districts (§ 67.5) for the purpose of determining which of the buildings included within the listing are of historic significance to the property. The requirements of this paragraph are applicable to certification requests received by the SHPOs (and the NPS WASO in the case of nonparticipating States only)
upon the effective date of these regulations.
(e) Properties containing more than one building where the buildings are judged by the Secretary to have been functionally related historically to serve an overall purpose, such as a mill complex or a residence and carriage house, will be treated as a single certified historic structure, whether the property is individually listed in the National Register or is located within a registered historic district, when rehabilitated as part of an overall project. Buildings that are functionally related historically are those which have functioned together to serve an overall purpose during the property's period of significance. In the case of a property within a registered historic district which contains more than one building where the buildings are judged to be functionally related historically, an evaluation will be made to determine whether the component buildings contribute to the historic significance of the property and whether the property contributes to the significance of the historic district as in § 67.4(i). For questions concerning demolition of separate structures as part of an overall rehabilitation project, see § 67.6.
(f) Applications for preliminary determinations for individual listing must show how the property individually meets the National Register Criteria for Evaluation. An application for a property located in a potential historic district must document how the district meets the criteria and how the property contributes to the significance of that district. An application for a preliminary determination for a property in a registered historic district which is outside the period or area of significance in the district documentation on file with the NPS must document and justify the expanded significance of the district and how the property contributes to the significance of the district or document the individual significance of the property. Applications must contain substantially the same level of documentation as National Register nominations, as specified in 36 CFR part 60 and National Register Bulletin 16, “Guidelines for Completing National Register of Historic Places Forms” (available from SHPOs and NPS WASO). Applications must also include written assurance from the SHPO that the district nomination is being revised to expand its significance or, for certified districts, written assurance from the duly authorized representative that the district documentation is being revised to expand its significance, or that the SHPO is planning to nominate the property or the district. Owners should understand that confirmation of intent to nominate by a SHPO does not constitute listing in the National Register, nor does it constitute a certification of significance as required by law for Federal tax incentives. Owners should further understand that they are proceeding at their own risk. If the property or district is not listed in the National Register for procedural, substantive or other reasons; if the district documentation is not formally amended; or if the significance of the property has been lost as a result of alterations or damage, these preliminary determinations of significance will not become final. The SHPO must nominate the property or the district or the SHPO for National Register districts and the duly authorized representative in the case of certified districts must submit documentation and have it approved by the NPS to amend the National Register nomination or certified district or the property or district must be listed before the preliminary certification of significance can become final.
(g) For purposes of the other rehabilitation tax credits under section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code, properties within registered historic districts are presumed to contribute to the significance of such districts unless certified as nonsignificant by the Secretary. Owners of non-historic properties within registered historic districts, therefore, must obtain a certification of nonsignificance in order to qualify for those investment tax credits. If an owner begins or completes a substantial rehabilitation (as defined by the Internal Revenue Service) of a property in a registered historic district without knowledge of requirements for certification of nonsignificance, he or she may request certification that the
property was not of historic significance to the district prior to substantial rehabilitation in the same manner as stated in paragraph (c) of this section. The owner should be aware, however, that the taxpayer must certify to the Secretary of the Treasury that, at the beginning of such substantial rehabilitation, he or she in good faith was not aware of the certification requirement by the Secretary of the Interior.
(h) The Secretary discourages the moving of historic buildings from their original sites. However, if a building is to be moved as part of a rehabilitation for which certification is sought, the owner must follow different procedures depending on whether the building is individually listed in the National Register or is within a registered historic district. When a building is moved, every effort should be made to re-establish its historic orientation, immediate setting, and general environment. Moving a building may result in removal of the property from the National Register or, for buildings within a registered historic district, denial or revocation of a certification of significance; consequently, a moved building may, in certain circumstances, be ineligible for rehabilitation certification.
(1) Documentation must be submitted that demonstrates:
(i) The effect of the move on the building's integrity and appearance (any proposed demolition, proposed changes in foundations, etc.);
(ii) Photographs of the site and general environment of the proposed site;
(iii) Evidence that the proposed site does not possess historical significance that would be adversely affected by the moved building;
(iv) The effect of the move on the distinctive historical and visual character of the district, where applicable; and
(v) The method to be used for moving the building.
(2) For buildings individually listed in the National Register, the procedures contained in 36 CFR part 60 must be followed prior to the move, or the building will be removed from the National Register, will not be considered a certified historic structure, and will have to be renominated for listing. The owner may submit a part 1 application in order to receive a preliminary determination from the NPS of whether a move will cause the property to be removed from the National Register. However, preliminary approval of such a part 1 application does not satisfy the requirements of 36 CFR part 60. The SHPO must follow the remaining procedures in that regulation so that the NPS can determine that the moved building will remain listed in the National Register and retain its status as a certified historic structure.
(3) If an owner moves (or proposes to move) a building into a registered historic district or moves (or proposes to move) a building elsewhere within a registered historic district, a part 1 application containing the required information described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section must be submitted. The building to be moved will be evaluated to determine if it contributes to the historic significance of the district both before and after the move as in § 67.4(i).
(i) Properties within registered historic districts will be evaluated to determine if they contribute to the historic significance of the district by application of the Secretary's Standards for Evaluating Significance within Registered Historic Districts as set forth in § 67.5.
(j) Once the significance of a property located within a registered historic district or a potential historic district has been determined by the Secretary, written notification will be sent to the owner and the SHPO in the form of a certification of significance or nonsignificance.
(k) Owners shall report to the Secretary through the SHPO any substantial damage, alteration or changes to a property that occurs after issuance of a certification of significance and prior to a final certification of rehabilitation. The Secretary may withdraw a certification of significance, upon thirty days notice to the owner, if a property has been damaged, altered or changed effective as of the date of the occurrence. The property may also be removed from the National Register, in accordance with the procedures in 36 CFR part 60. A revocation of certification of significance pursuant to this part may be appealed under § 67.10. For damage, alteration or changes caused
by unacceptable rehabilitation work, see § 67.6(f).
[54 FR 6771, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 76 FR 30541, May 26, 2011]
§ 67.5
Standards for evaluating significance within registered historic districts.
(a) Properties located within registered historic districts are reviewed by the Secretary to determine if they contribute to the historic significance of the district by applying the following Standards for Evaluating Significance within Registered Historic Districts.
(1) A building contributing to the historic significance of a district is one which by location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling and association adds to the district's sense of time and place and historical development.
(2) A building not contributing to the historic significance of a district is one which does not add to the district's sense of time and place and historical development; or one where the location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling and association have been so altered or have so deteriorated that the overall integrity of the building has been irretrievably lost.
(3) Ordinarily buildings that have been built within the past 50 years shall not be considered to contribute to the significance of a district unless a strong justification concerning their historical or architectural merit is given or the historical attributes of the district are considered to be less than 50 years old.
(b) A condemnation order may be presented as evidence of physical deterioration of a building but will not of itself be considered sufficient evidence to warrant certification of nonsignificance for loss of integrity. In certain cases it may be necessary for the owner to submit a structural engineer's report to help substantiate physical deterioration and/or structural damage. Guidance on preparing a structural engineer's report is available from the appropriate SHPO or NPS WASO.
(c) Some properties listed in the National Register, primarily districts, are resources whose concentration or continuity possesses greater historical significance than many of their individual component buildings and structures. These usually are documented as a group rather than individually. Accordingly, this type of National Register documentation is not conclusive for the purposes of this part and must be supplemented with information on the significance of the specific property. Certifications of significance and nonsignificance will be made on the basis of the application documentation, existing National Register documentation, and other available information as needed. The Keeper may amend the National Register documentation by issuing a supplementary record if the application material warrants such an amendment. If a certification request is received for a property which is not yet listed on the National Register or which is outside a district's established period or area of significance, a preliminary determination of significance will be issued only if the request includes adequate documentation and if there is written assurance from the SHPO that the SHPO plans to nominate the property or district or that the district nomination in question is being revised to expand its significance or for certified districts, written assurance from the duly authorized representative that the district documentation is being revised to expand the significance. Certifications will become final when the property or district is listed or when the district documentation is officially amended unless the significance of the property has been lost as a result of alteration or damage. For procedures on amending listings to the National Register and additional information on the use of National Register documentation and the supplementary record which is contained in National Register Bulletin 19, “Policies and Procedures for Processing National Register Nominations,” consult the appropriate SHPO or NPS WASO.
(d) Where rehabilitation credits are sought, certifications of significance will be made on the appearance and condition of the property before rehabilitation was begun.
(e) If a nonhistoric surface material obscures a facade, it may be necessary for the owner to remove a portion of
the surface material prior to requesting certification so that a determination of significance or nonsignificance can be made. After the material has been removed, if the obscured facade has retained substantial historic integrity and the property otherwise contributes to the historic district, it will be determined to be a certified historic structure. However, if the obscuring material remains when a determination of nonsignificance is requested under § 67.4(a)(2), the property will be presumed to contribute to the historic significance of the district, if otherwise qualified, and, therefore, not eligible for the other tax credits under section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(f) Additional guidance on certifications of historic significance is available from SHPOs and NPS WASO.
§ 67.6
Certifications of rehabilitation.
(a) Owners who want rehabilitation projects for certified historic structures to be certified by the Secretary as being consistent with the historic character of the structure, and, where applicable, the district in which the structure is located, thus qualifying as a certified rehabilitation, shall comply with the procedures listed below. A fee, as described in § 67.11, for reviewing all proposed, ongoing, or completed rehabilitation work is charged by the Secretary. No certification decisions will be issued on any application until the appropriate remittance is received.
(1) To initiate review of a rehabilitation project for certification purposes, an owner must complete part 2 of the Historic Preservation Certification Application according to instructions accompanying the application. These instructions explain in detail the documentation required for certification of a rehabilitation project. The application may describe a proposed rehabilitation project, a project in progress, or a completed project. In all cases, documentation, including photographs adequate to document the appearance of the structure(s), both on the exterior and on the interior, and its site and environment prior to rehabilitation must accompany the application. The social security or taxpayer identification number(s) of all owners must be provided in the application. Other documentation, such as window surveys or cleaning specifications, may be required by reviewing officials to evaluate certain rehabilitation projects. Plans for any attached, adjacent, or related new construction must also accompany the application. Where necessary documentation is not provided, review and evaluation may not be completed and a denial of certification will be issued on the basis of lack of information. Owners are strongly encouraged to submit part 2 of the application prior to undertaking any rehabilitation work. Owners who undertake rehabilitation projects without prior approval from the Secretary do so strictly at their own risk. Because the circumstances of each rehabilitation project are unique to the particular certified historic structure involved, certifications that may have been granted to other rehabilitations are not specifically applicable and may not be relied on by owners as applicable to other projects.
(2) A project does not become a certified rehabilitation until it is completed and so designated by the NPS. A determination that the completed rehabilitation of a property not yet designated a certified historic structure meets the Secretary's Standards for Rehabilitation does not constitute a certification of rehabilitation. When requesting certification of a completed rehabilitation project, the owner shall submit a Request for Certification of Completed Work (NPS Form 10-168c) and provide the project completion date and a signed statement that the completed rehabilitation project meets the Secretary's Standards for Rehabilitation and is consistent with the work described in part 2 of the Historic Preservation Certification Application. Also required in requesting certification of a completed rehabilitation project are costs attributed to the rehabilitation, photographs adequate to document the completed rehabilitation, and the social security or taxpayer identification number(s) of all owners.
(b) A rehabilitation project for certification purposes encompasses all work on the interior and exterior of the certified historic structure(s) and
its site and environment, as determined by the Secretary, as well as related demolition, new construction or rehabilitation work which may affect the historic qualities, integrity or site, landscape features, and environment of the certified historic structure(s). More specific considerations in this regard are as follows:
(1) All elements of the rehabilitation project must meet the Secretary's ten Standards for Rehabilitation (§ 67.7); portions of the rehabilitation project not in conformance with the Standards may not be exempted. In general, an owner undertaking a rehabilitation project will not be held responsible for prior rehabilitation work not part of the current project, or rehabilitation work that was undertaken by previous owners or third parties.
(2) However, if the Secretary considers or has reason to consider that a project submitted for certification does not include the entire rehabilitation project subject to review hereunder, the Secretary may choose to deny a rehabilitation certification or to withhold a decision on such a certification until such time as the Internal Revenue Service, through a private letter ruling, has determined, pursuant to these regulations and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and income tax regulations, the proper scope of the rehabilitation project to be reviewed by the Secretary. Factors to be taken into account by the Secretary and the Internal Revenue Service in this regard include, but are not limited to, the facts and circumstance of each application and (i) whether previous demolition, construction or rehabilitation work irrespective of ownership or control at the time was in fact undertaken as part of the rehabilitation project for which certification is sought, and (ii) whether property conveyances, reconfigurations, ostensible ownership transfers or other transactions were transactions which purportedly limit the scope of a rehabilitation project for the purpose of review by the Secretary without substantially altering beneficial ownership or control of the property. The fact that a property may still qualify as a certified historic structure after having undergone inappropriate rehabilitation, construction or demolition work does not preclude the Secretary or the Internal Revenue Service from determining that such inappropriate work is part of the rehabilitation project to be reviewed by the Secretary.
(3) Conformance to the Standards will be determined on the basis of the application documentation and other available information by evaluating the property as it existed prior to the commencement of the rehabilitation project, regardless of when the property becomes or became a certified historic structure.
(4) For rehabilitation projects involving more than one certified historic structure where the structures are judged by the Secretary to have been functionally related historically to serve an overall purpose, such as a mill complex or a residence and carriage house, rehabilitation certification will be issued on the merits of the overall project rather than for each structure or individual component. For rehabilitation projects where there is no historic functional relationship among the structures, the certification decision will be made for each separate certified historic structure regardless of how they are grouped for ownership or development purposes.
(5) Demolition of a building as part of a rehabilitation project involving multiple buildings may result in denial of certification of the rehabilitation. In projects where there is no historic functional relationship among the structures being rehabilitated, related new construction which physically expands one certified historic structure undergoing rehabilitation and, therefore, directly causes the demolition of an adjacent structure will generally result in denial of certification of the rehabilitation unless a determination has been made that the building to be demolished is not a certified historic structure as in § 67.4(a). In rehabilitation projects where the structures have been determined to be functionally related historically, demolition of a component may be approved, in limited circumstances, when:
(i) The component is outside the period of significance of the property, or
(ii) The component is so deteriorated or altered that its integrity has been irretrievably lost; or
(iii) The component is a secondary one that generally lacks historic, engineering, or architectural significance or does not occupy a major portion of the site and persuasive evidence is present to show that retention of the component is not technically or economically feasible.
(6) In situations involving rehabilitation of a certified historic structure in a historic district, the Secretary will review the rehabilitation project first as it affects the certified historic structure and second as it affects the district and make a certification decision accordingly.
(7) In the event that an owner of a portion of a certified historic structure requests certification for a rehabilitation project related only to that portion, but there is or was a larger related rehabilitation project(s) occurring with respect to the certified historic structure, the Secretary's decision on the requested certification will be based on review of the overall rehabilitation project(s) for the certified historic structure.
(8) For rehabilitation projects which are to be completed in phases over the alternate 60-month period allowed in section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code, the initial part 2 application and supporting architectural plans and specifications should identify the project as a 60-month phased project and describe the number and order of the phases and the general scope of the overall rehabilitation project. If the initial part 2 application clearly identifies the project as a phased rehabilitation, the NPS will consider the project in all its phases as a single rehabilitation. If complete information on the rehabilitation work of the later phases is not described in the initial part 2 application, it may be submitted at a later date but must be clearly identified as a later phase of a 60-month phased project that was previously submitted for review. Owners are cautioned that work undertaken in a later phase of a 60-month phased project that does not meet the Standards for Rehabilitation, whether or not submitted for review, will result in a denial of certification of the entire rehabilitation with the tax consequences of such a denial to be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury. Separate certifications for portions of phased rehabilitation projects will not be issued. Rather the owner will be directed to comply with Internal Revenue Service regulations governing late certifications contained in 26 CFR 1.48-12.
(c) Upon receipt of the complete application describing the rehabilitation project, the Secretary shall determine if the project is consistent with the Standards for Rehabilitation. If the project does not meet the Standards for Rehabilitation, the owner shall be advised of that fact in writing and, where possible, will be advised of necessary revisions to meet such Standards. For additional procedures regarding rehabilitation projects determined not to meet the Standards for Rehabilitation, see § 67.6(f).
(d) Once a proposed or ongoing project has been approved, substantive changes in the work as described in the application must be brought promptly to the attention of the Secretary by written statement through the SHPO to ensure continued conformance to the Standards; such changes should be made using a Historic Preservation Certification Application Continuation/Amendment Sheet (NPS Form 10-168b). The Secretary will notify the owner and the SHPO in writing whether the revised project continues to meet the Standards. Oral approvals of revisions are not authorized or valid.
(e) Completed projects may be inspected by an authorized representative of the Secretary to determine if the work meets the Standards for Rehabilitation. The Secretary reserves the right to make inspections at any time up to five years after completion of the rehabilitation and to revoke a certification, after giving the owner 30 days to comment on the matter, if it is determined that the rehabilitation project was not undertaken as represented by the owner in his or her application and supporting documentation, or the owner, upon obtaining certification, undertook further unapproved project work inconsistent with
the Secretary's Standards for Rehabilitation. The tax consequences of a revocation of certification will be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(f) If a proposed, ongoing, or completed rehabilitation project does not meet the Standards for Rehabilitation, an explanatory letter will be sent to the owner with a copy to the SHPO. A rehabilitated property not in conformance with the Standards for Rehabilitation and which is determined to have lost those qualities which caused it to be nominated to the National Register, will be removed from the National Register in accord with Department of the Interior regulations 36 CFR part 60. Similarly, if a property has lost those qualities which caused it to be designated a certified historic structure, it will be certified as noncontributing (see § 67.4 and § 67.5). In either case, the delisting or certification of nonsignificance is considered effective as of the date of issue and is not considered to be retroactive. In these situations, the Internal Revenue Service will be notified of the substantial alterations. The tax consequences of a denial of certification will be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.
§ 67.7
Standards for rehabilitation.
(a) The following Standards for Rehabilitation are the criteria used to determine if a rehabilitation project qualifies as a certified rehabilitation. The intent of the Standards is to assist the long-term preservation of a property's significance through the preservation of historic materials and features. The Standards pertain to historic buildings of all materials, construction types, sizes, and occupancy and encompass the exterior and the interior of historic buildings. The Standards also encompass related landscape features and the building's site and environment, as well as attached, adjacent, or related new construction. To be certified, a rehabilitation project must be determined by the Secretary to be consistent with the historic character of the structure(s) and, where applicable, the district in which it is located.
(b) The following Standards are to be applied to specific rehabilitation projects in a reasonable manner, taking into consideration economic and technical feasibility. (The application of these Standards to rehabilitation projects is to be the same as under the previous version so that a project previously acceptable would continue to be acceptable under these Standards.)
(1) A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a new use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the building and its site and environment.
(2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
(3) Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time, place, and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development, such as adding conjectural features or architectural elements from other buildings, shall not be undertaken.
(4) Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
(5) Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize a historic property shall be preserved.
(6) Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color, texture, and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.
(7) Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause damage to historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means possible.
(8) Significant archeological resources affected by a project shall be protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures shall be undertaken.
(9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property and its environment.
(10) New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
(c) The quality of materials and craftsmanship used in a rehabilitation project must be commensurate with the quality of materials and craftsmanship of the historic building in question. Certain treatments, if improperly applied, or certain materials by their physical properties, may cause or accelerate physical deterioration of historic buildings. Inappropriate physical treatments include, but are not limited to: improper repointing techniques; improper exterior masonry cleaning methods; or improper introduction of insulation where damage to historic fabric would result. In almost all situations, use of these materials and treatments will result in denial of certification. Similarly, exterior additions that duplicate the form, material, and detailing of the structure to the extent that they compromise the historic character of the structure will result in denial of certification. For further information on appropriate and inappropriate rehabilitation treatments, owners are to consult the Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings published by the NPS. “Preservation Briefs” and additional technical information to help property owners formulate plans for the rehabilitation, preservation, and continued use of historic properties consistent with the intent of the Secretary's Standards for Rehabilitation are available from the SHPOs and NPS WASO. Owners are responsible for procuring this material as part of property planning for a certified rehabilitation.
(d) In certain limited cases, it may be necessary to dismantle and rebuild portions of a certified historic structure to stabilize and repair weakened structural members and systems. In such cases, the Secretary will consider such extreme intervention as part of a certified rehabilitation if:
(1) The necessity for dismantling is justified in supporting documentation;
(2) Significant architectural features and overall design are retained; and
(3) Adequate historic materials are retained to maintain the architectural and historic integrity of the overall structure.
Section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 exempts certified historic structures from meeting the physical test for retention of external walls and internal structural framework specified therein for other rehabilitated buildings. Nevertheless, owners are cautioned that the Standards for Rehabilitation require retention of distinguishing historic materials of external and internal walls as well as structural systems. In limited instances, rehabilitations involving removal of existing external walls,
i.e.,
external walls that detract from the historic character of the structure such as in the case of a nonsignificant later addition or walls that have lost their structural integrity due to deterioration, may be certified as meeting the Standards for Rehabilitation.
(e) Prior approval of a project by Federal, State, and local agencies and organizations does not ensure certification by the Secretary for Federal tax purposes. The Secretary's Standards for Rehabilitation take precedence over other regulations and codes in determining whether the rehabilitation project is consistent with the historic character of the property and, where applicable, the district in which it is located.
(f) The qualities of a property and its environment which qualify it as a certified historic structure are determined taking into account all available information, including information derived from the physical and architectural attributes of the building; such determinations are not limited to information contained in National Register or related documentation.
§ 67.8
Certifications of statutes.
(a) State or local statutes which will be certified by the Secretary. For the
purpose of this regulation, a State or local statute is a law of the State or local government designating, or providing a method for the designation of, a historic district or districts. This includes any by-laws or ordinances that contain information necessary for the certification of the statute. A statute must contain criteria which will substantially achieve the purpose of preserving and rehabilitating properties of historic significance to the district. To be certified by the Secretary, the statute generally must provide for a duly designated review body, such as a review board or commission, with power to review proposed alterations to structures of historic significance within the boundaries of the district or districts designated under the statute except those owned by governmental entities which, by law, are not under the jurisdiction of the review body.
(b) When the certification of State statutes will have an impact on districts in specific localities, the Secretary encourages State governments to notify and consult with appropriate local officials prior to submitting a request for certification of the statute.
(c) State enabling legislation which authorizes local governments to designate, or provides local governments with a method to designate, a historic district or districts will not be certified unless accompanied by local statutes that implement the purposes of the State law. Adequate State statutes which designate specific historic districts and do not require specific implementing local statutes will be certified. If the State enabling legislation contains provisions which do not meet the intent of the law, local statutes designated under the authority of the enabling legislation will not be certified. When State enabling legislation exists, it must be certified before any local statutes enacted under its authority can be certified.
(d) Who may apply. Requests for certification of State or local statutes may be made only by the Chief Elected Official of the government which enacted the statute or his or her authorized representative. The applicant shall certify in writing that he or she is authorized by the appropriate State or local governing body to apply for certification.
(e) Statute certification process. Requests for certification of State or local statutes shall be made as follows:
(1) The request shall be made in writing from the duly authorized representative certifying that he or she is authorized to apply for certification. The request should include the name or title of a person to contact for further information and his or her address and telephone number. The authorized representative is responsible for providing historic district documentation for review and certification prior to the first certification of significance in a district unless another responsible person is indicated including his or her address and telephone number. The request shall also include a copy of the statute(s) for which certification is requested, including any by-laws or ordinances that contain information necessary for the certification of the statute. Local governments shall also submit a copy of the State enabling legislation, if any, authorizing the designation of historic districts.
(2) Requests shall be sent to the SHPO in participating States and directly to appropriate NPS WASO in nonparticipating States.
(3) The Secretary shall review the statute(s) and assess whether the statute(s) and any by-laws or ordinances that contain information necessary for the certification of the statute contain criteria which will substantially achieve the purposes of preserving and rehabilitating properties of historic significance to the district(s) based upon the standards set out above in § 67.8(a). The SHPO shall be given a 30-day opportunity to comment upon the request. Comments received from the SHPO within this time period will be considered by the Secretary in the review process. If the statute(s) contain such provisions and if this and other provisions in the statute will substantially achieve the purpose of preserving and rehabilitating properties of historic significance to the district, the Secretary will certify the statute(s).
(4) The Secretary generally provides written notification within 30 days of receipt by the NPS to the duly authorized representative and to the SHPO
when certification of the statute is given or denied. If certification is denied, the notification will provide an explanation of the reason(s) for such denial.
(f) Amendment or repeal of statute(s). State or local governments, as appropriate, must notify the Secretary in the event that certified statutes are repealed, whereupon the certification of the statute (and any districts designated thereunder) will be withdrawn by the Secretary. If a certified statute is amended, the duly authorized representative shall submit the amendment(s) to the Secretary, with a copy to the SHPO, for review in accordance with the procedures outlined above. Written notification of the Secretary's decision as to whether the amended statute continues to meet these criteria will be sent to the duly authorized representative and the SHPO within 60 days of receipt.
(g) The Secretary may withdraw certification of a statute (and any districts designated thereunder) on his own initiative if it is repeal or amended to be inconsistent with certification requirements after providing the duly authorized representative and the SHPO 30 days in which to comment prior to the withdrawal of certification.
§ 67.9
Certifications of State or local historic districts.
(a) The particular State or local historic district must also be certified by the Secretary as substantially meeting National Register criteria, thereby qualifying it as a registered historic district, before the Secretary will process requests for certification of individual properties within a district or districts established under a certified statute.
(b) The provision described herein will not apply to properties within a State or local district until the district has been certified, even if the statute creating the district has been certified by the Secretary.
(c) The Secretary considers the duly authorized representative requesting certification of a statute to be the official responsible for submitting district documentation for certification. If another person is to assume responsibility for the district documentation, the letter requesting statute certification shall indicate that person's name, address, and telephone number. The Secretary considers the authorizing statement of the duly authorized representative to indicate that the jurisdiction involved wishes not only that the statute in question be certified but also wishes all historic districts designated by the statute to be certified unless otherwise indicated.
(d) Requests shall be sent to the SHPO in participating States and directly to the appropriate NPS WASO in nonparticipating States. The SHPO shall be given a 30-day opportunity to comment upon an adequately documented request. Comments received from the SHPO within this time period will be considered by the Secretary in the review process. The guidelines in National Register Bulletin 16, “Guidelines for Completing National Register of Historic Places Forms,” provide information on how to document historic districts for the National Register. Each request should include the following documentation:
(1) A description of the general physical or historical qualities which make this a district; and explanation for the choice of boundaries for the district; descriptions of typical architectural styles and types of buildings in the district.
(2) A concise statement of why the district has significance, including an explanation of the areas and periods of significance, and why it meets National Register criteria for listing (see 36 CFR part 60); the relevant criteria should be identified (A, B, C, and D).
(3) A definition of what types of properties contribute and do not contribute to the significance of the district as well as an estimate of the percentage of properties within the district that do not contribute to its significance.
(4) A map showing all district properties with, if possible, identification of contributing and noncontributing properties; the map should clearly show the district's boundaries.
(5) Photographs of typical areas in the district as well as major types of contributing and noncontributing properties; all photographs should be keyed to the map.
(e) Districts designated by certified State or local statutes shall be evaluated using the National Register criteria (36 CFR part 60) within 30 days of the receipt of the required documentation by the Secretary. Written notification of the Secretary's decision will be sent to the duly authorized representative or to the person designated as responsible for the district documentation.
(f) Certification of statutes and districts does not constitute certification of significance of individual properties within the district or of rehabilitation projects by the Secretary.
(g) Districts certified by the Secretary as substantially meeting the requirements for listing will be determined eligible for listing in the National Register at the time of certification and will be published as such in the
Federal Register.
(h) Documentation on additional districts designated under a State or local statute the has been certified by the Secretary should be submitted to the Secretary for certification following the same procedures and including the same information outlined in the section above.
(i) State or local governments, as appropriate, shall notify the Secretary if a certified district designation is amended (including boundary changes) or repealed. If a certified district designation is amended, the duly authorized representative shall submit documentation describing the change(s) and, if the district has been increased in size, information on the new areas as outlined in § 67.9. A revised statement of significance for the district as a whole shall also be included to reflect any changes in overall significance as a result of the addition or deletion of areas. Review procedures shall follow those outlined in § 67.9 (d) and (e). The Secretary will withdraw certification of repealed or inappropriately amended certified district designations, thereby disqualifying them as registered historic districts.
(j) The Secretary may withdraw certification of a district on his own initiative if it ceases to meet the National Register Criteria for Evaluation after providing the duly authorized representative and the SHPO 30 days in which to comment prior to withdrawal of certification.
(k) The Secretary urges State and local review boards of commissions to become familiar with the Standards used by the Secretary of the Interior for certifying the rehabilitation of historic properties and to consider their adoption for local design review.
§ 67.10
Appeals.
(a) The owner or a duly authorized representative may appeal any of the certifications or denials of certification made under this part or any decisions made under § 67.6(f).
(1) Appeals must:
(i) Be in writing; e.g. letter, fax, or e-mail;
(ii) Be addressed to the Chief Appeals Officer, Cultural Resources, National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20240;
(iii) Be received by NPS within 30 days of receipt by the owner or a duly authorized representative of the decision which is the subject of the appeal; and
(iv) Include all information the owner wishes the Chief Appeals Officer to consider in deciding the appeal.
(2) The appellant may request a meeting to discuss the appeal.
(3) NPS will notify the SHPO that an appeal is pending.
(4) The Chief Appeals Officer will consider the record of the decision in question, any further written submissions by the owner, and other available information and will provide the appellant a written decision as promptly as circumstances permit.
(5) Appeals under this section constitute an administrative review of the decision appealed from and are not conducted as an adjudicative proceeding.
(b) The denial of a preliminary determination of significance for an individual property may not be appealed by the owner because the denial itself does not exhaust the administrative remedy that is available. The owner instead must seek recourse by undertaking the usual nomination process (36 CFR part 60).
(c) In considering such appeals or administrative reviews, the Chief Appeals
Officer shall take in account alleged errors in professional judgment or alleged prejudicial procedural errors by NPS officials. The Chief Appeals Officer's decision may:
(1) Reverse the appealed decision;
(2) Affirm the appealed decision;
(3) Resubmit the matter to WASO for further consideration; or
(4) Where appropriate, withhold a decision until issuance of a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to § 67.6(b)(2).
The Chief Appeals Officer may base his decision in whole or part on matters or factors not discussed in the decision appealed from. The Chief Appeals Officer is authorized to issue the certifications discussed in this part only if he considers that the requested certification meets the applicable statutory standard upon application of the Standards set forth herein or he considers that prejudicial procedural error by a Federal official legally compels issuance of the requested certification.
(d) The decision of the Chief Appeals Officer shall be the final administrative decision on the appeal. No person shall be considered to have exhausted his or her administrative remedies with respect to the certifications or decisions described in this part until the Chief Appeals Officer has issued a final administrative decision pursuant to this section.
[54 FR 6771, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 76 FR 30541, May 26, 2011]
§ 67.11
Fees for processing certification requests.
(a) Fees are charged for reviewing certification requests according to the schedule and instructions provided in public notices in the
Federal Register
by NPS.
(b) No payment should be made until requested by the NPS. A certification decision will not be issued on an application until the appropriate remittance is received.
(c) Fees are nonrefundable.
[76 FR 30541, May 26, 2011]
Pt. 68

# PART 68—THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR'S STANDARDS FOR THE TREATMENT OF HISTORIC PROPERTIES
Sec.
68.1
Intent.
68.2
Definitions.
68.3
Standards.

# Authority:
The National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.
); sec. 2124 of the Tax Reform Act of 1976, 90 Stat. 1918; E.O. 11593, 3 CFR part 75 (1971); sec. 2 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1262).

# Source:
60 FR 35843, July 12, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 68.1
Intent.
The intent of this part is to set forth standards for the treatment of historic properties containing standards for preservation, rehabilitation, restoration and reconstruction. These standards apply to all proposed grant-in-aid development projects assisted through the National Historic Preservation Fund. 36 CFR part 67 focuses on “certified historic structures” as defined by the IRS Code of 1986. Those regulations are used in the Preservation Tax Incentives Program. 36 CFR part 67 should continue to be used when property owners are seeking certification for Federal tax benefits.
§ 68.2
Definitions.
The standards for the treatment of historic properties will be used by the National Park Service and State historic preservation officers and their staff members in planning, undertaking and supervising grant-assisted projects for preservation, rehabilitation, restoration and reconstruction. For the purposes of this part:
(a)
Preservation
means the act or process of applying measures necessary to sustain the existing form, integrity and materials of an historic property. Work, including preliminary measures to protect and stabilize the property, generally focuses upon the ongoing maintenance and repair of historic materials and features rather than extensive replacement and new construction. New exterior additions are not within the scope of this treatment; however, the limited and sensitive upgrading of
mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems and other code-required work to make properties functional is appropriate within a preservation project.
(b)
Rehabilitation
means the act or process of making possible an efficient compatible use for a property through repair, alterations and additions while preserving those portions or features that convey its historical, cultural or architectural values.
(c)
Restoration
means the act or process of accurately depicting the form, features and character of a property as it appeared at a particular period of time by means of the removal of features from other periods in its history and reconstruction of missing features from the restoration period. The limited and sensitive upgrading of mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems and other code-required work to make properties functional is appropriate within a restoration project.
(d)
Reconstruction
means the act or process of depicting, by means of new construction, the form, features and detailing of a non-surviving site, landscape, building, structure or object for the purpose of replicating its appearance at a specific period of time and in its historic location.
§ 68.3
Standards.
One set of standards—preservation, rehabilitation, restoration or reconstruction—will apply to a property undergoing treatment, depending upon the property's significance, existing physical condition, the extent of documentation available and interpretive goals, when applicable. The standards will be applied taking into consideration the economic and technical feasibility of each project.
(a)
Preservation.
(1) A property will be used as it was historically, or be given a new use that maximizes the retention of distinctive materials, features, spaces and spatial relationships. Where a treatment and use have not been identified, a property will be protected and, if necessary, stabilized until additional work may be undertaken.
(2) The historic character of a property will be retained and preserved. The replacement of intact or repairable historic materials or alteration of features, spaces and spatial relationships that characterize a property will be avoided.
(3) Each property will be recognized as a physical record of its time, place and use. Work needed to stabilize, consolidate and conserve existing historic materials and features will be physically and visually compatible, identifiable upon close inspection and properly documented for future research.
(4) Changes to a property that have acquired historic significance in their own right will be retained and preserved.
(5) Distinctive materials, features, finishes and construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property will be preserved.
(6) The existing condition of historic features will be evaluated to determine the appropriate level of intervention needed. Where the severity of deterioration requires repair or limited replacement of a distinctive feature, the new material will match the old in composition, design, color and texture.
(7) Chemical or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be undertaken using the gentlest means possible. Treatments that cause damage to historic materials will not be used.
(8) Archeological resources will be protected and preserved in place. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures will be undertaken.
(b)
Rehabilitation.
(1) A property will be used as it was historically or be given a new use that requires minimal change to its distinctive materials, features, spaces and spatial relationships.
(2) The historic character of a property will be retained and preserved. The removal of distinctive materials or alteration of features, spaces and spatial relationships that characterize a property will be avoided.
(3) Each property will be recognized as a physical record of its time, place and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development, such as adding conjectural features or elements from other historic properties, will not be undertaken.
(4) Changes to a property that have acquired historic significance in their own right will be retained and preserved.
(5) Distinctive materials, features, finishes and construction techniques or
examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property will be preserved.
(6) Deteriorated historic features will be repaired rather than replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature will match the old in design, color, texture and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features will be substantiated by documentary and physical evidence.
(7) Chemical or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be undertaken using the gentlest means possible. Treatments that cause damage to historic materials will not be used.
(8) Archeological resources will be protected and preserved in place. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures will be undertaken.
(9) New additions, exterior alterations or related new construction will not destroy historic materials, features and spatial relationships that characterize the property. The new work will be differentiated from the old and will be compatible with the historic materials, features, size, scale and proportion, and massing to protect the integrity of the property and its environment.
(10) New additions and adjacent or related new construction will be undertaken in such a manner that, if removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
(c)
Restoration.
(1) A property will be used as it was historically or be given a new use that interprets the property and its restoration period.
(2) Materials and features from the restoration period will be retained and preserved. The removal of materials or alteration of features, spaces and spatial relationships that characterize the period will not be undertaken.
(3) Each property will be recognized as a physical record of its time, place and use. Work needed to stabilize, consolidate and conserve materials and features from the restoration period will be physically and visually compatible, identifiable upon close inspection and properly documented for future research.
(4) Materials, features, spaces and finishes that characterize other historical periods will be documented prior to their alteration or removal.
(5) Distinctive materials, features, finishes and construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize the restoration period will be preserved.
(6) Deteriorated features from the restoration period will be repaired rather than replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature will match the old in design, color, texture and, where possible, materials.
(7) Replacement of missing features from the restoration period will be substantiated by documentary and physical evidence. A false sense of history will not be created by adding conjectural features, features from other properties, or by combining features that never existed together historically.
(8) Chemical or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be undertaken using the gentlest means possible. Treatments that cause damage to historic materials will not be used.
(9) Archeological resources affected by a project will be protected and preserved in place. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures will be undertaken.
(10) Designs that were never executed historically will not be constructed.
(d)
Reconstruction.
(1) Reconstruction will be used to depict vanished or non-surviving portions of a property when documentary and physical evidence is available to permit accurate reconstruction with minimal conjecture and such reconstruction is essential to the public understanding of the property.
(2) Reconstruction of a landscape, building, structure or object in its historic location will be preceded by a thorough archeological investigation to identify and evaluate those features and artifacts that are essential to an accurate reconstruction. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures will be undertaken.
(3) Reconstruction will include measures to preserve any remaining historic materials, features, and spatial relationships.
(4) Reconstruction will be based on the accurate duplication of historic
features and elements substantiated by documentary or physical evidence rather than on conjectural designs or the availability of different features from other historic properties. A reconstructed property will re-create the appearance of the non-surviving historic property in materials, design, color and texture.
(5) A reconstruction will be clearly identified as a contemporary re-creation.
(6) Designs that were never executed historically will not be constructed.
Pt. 71

# PART 71—RECREATION FEES
Sec.
71.1
Application.
71.2
Types of Federal recreation fees.
71.3
Designation.
71.4
Posting.
71.5
Golden Eagle Passport.
71.6
Golden Age Passport.
71.7
Entrance fees for single-visit permits.
71.8
Validation and display of entrance permits.
71.9
Establishment of recreation use fees.
71.10
Special recreation permits and special recreation permit fees.
71.11
Collection of Federal recreation fees.
71.12
Enforcement.
71.13
Exceptions, exclusions, and exemptions.
71.14
Public notification.
71.15
The Golden Eagle Insignia.

# Authority:
Sec. 4, Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C.A. 4601-6a (Supp., 1974)), as amended by Pub. L. 93-303; and sec. 3, Act of July 11, 1972, 86 Stat. 461; sec. 2 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1262).

# Source:
39 FR 33217, Sept. 16, 1974, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 44 FR 7143, Feb. 6, 1979, and 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981; correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981.
§ 71.1
Application.
This part is promulgated pursuant to section 4, Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, 16 U.S.C.A. 4601-6a (Supp., 1974), and section 3, Act of July 11, 1972, 86 Stat. 461. Any Federal recreation fee charged by any bureau of the Department of the Interior shall be charged according to criteria set forth in this part.
§ 71.2
Types of Federal recreation fees.
There shall be three types of Federal recreation fees:
(a) Entrance fees, charged either on an annual or single-visit basis, for admission to any Designated Entrance Fee Area;
(b) Daily recreation use fees for the use of specialized sites, facilities, equipment or services furnished at Federal expense; and
(c) Special recreation permit fees for specialized recreation uses, such as, but not limited to, group activities, recreation events, and the use of motorized recreation vehicles.
§ 71.3
Designation.
(a) An area or closely related group of areas shall be designated as an area at which entrance fees shall be charged (hereinafter “Designated Entrance Fee Area”) if the following conditions are found to exist concurrently:
(1) The area is a unit of the National Park System administered by the Department of the Interior;
(2) The area is administered primarily for scenic, scientific, historical, cultural, or recreation purposes;
(3) The area has recreation facilities or services provided at Federal expense; and
(4) The nature of the area is such that entrance fee collection is administratively and economically practical.
(b) Any specialized site, facility, equipment or service related to outdoor recreation (hereinafter “facility”) shall be designated as a facility for which a recreation use fee shall be charged (hereinafter “Designated Recreation Use Facility”) if:
(1) For each Designated Recreation Use Facility, at least one of the following criteria is satisfied:
(i) A substantial Federal investment has been made in the facility,
(ii) The facility requires regular maintenance,
(iii) The facility is characterized by the presence of personnel, or
(iv) The facility is utilized for the personal benefit of the user for a fixed period of time; and,
(2) For each Designated Recreation Use Facility, all of the following criteria are satisfied:
(i) The facility is developed, administered, or provided by any bureau of the Department of the Interior,
(ii) The facility is provided at Federal expense, and
(iii) The nature of the facility is such that fee collection is administratively and economically practical.
(3) In no event shall any of the following, whether used singly or in any combination, be designated as facilities for which recreation use fees shall be charged: Drinking water, wayside exhibits, roads, overlook sites, visitors' centers, scenic drives, toilet facilities, picnic tables, and boat ramps. The first sentence of this paragraph does not apply to boat launching facilities with specialized facilities or services, such as mechanical or hydraulic boat lifts or facilities. Such boat launching facilities shall be designated as facilities for which recreation use fees shall be charged,
Provided,
They satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section.
(4) In no event shall a campground, which satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section, be designated as a facility for which recreation use fees shall be charged unless the campground has all of the following: Tent or trailer spaces, drinking water, access road, refuse containers, toilet facilities, personal fee collection, reasonable visitor protection, and simple devices for containing a campfire where campfires are permitted. A campground may be designated for recreation use fee collection whether the above enumerated amenities are provided for individual or group use.
(c) Any specialized recreation use including, but not limited to, group activities, recreation events, or the use of motorized recreation vehicles, shall qualify as a use for which a special recreation permit fee may be charged (hereinafter “Special Recreation Permit Use”) if such use occurs in areas under the jurisdiction of any bureau of the Department of the Interior.
§ 71.4
Posting.
(a) The administering bureaus of the Department of the Interior shall provide for the posting of the following designation sign at entrances to Designated Entrance Fee Areas and at appropriate locations in areas with Designated Recreation Use Facilities in such a manner that the visiting public will be clearly notified that Federal recreation fees are charged. The designation sign shall:
(1) Be constructed of enameled steel, coated aluminum, silk screen reflective materials attached to wood or metal, or other permanent materials;
(2) Consist of the basic elements, proportion, and color as indicated below:
(i) The representation of an American Golden Eagle (colored gold) and a family group (colored midnight blue) enclosed within a circle (colored white with a midnight blue border) framed by a rounded triangle (colored gold with a midnight blue border).
(A) The color midnight blue shall be Pantone Matching System 282; the color gold shall be Pantone Matching System 130;
(B) The rounded triangle shall be 18 inches in vertical height at all Designated Entrance Fee Areas, except that at those areas accessible only on foot, the rounded triangle may be 9 inches vertical height;
(ii) The words “U.S. Fee Area” as indicated below.
EC26OC91.005
(b) Clear notice shall be posted by any bureau issuing special recreation permits at its area headquarters having administrative jurisdiction over the area in which the use authorized by such a permit is to occur, that fees are charged for such permits. In addition, any specialized recreation use authorized by permit shall, if reasonably feasible, be posted with the designation sign described in paragraph (a) of this section at the site of use at the time of use.
(c) Proportionally sized replicas of the designation sign described in paragraph (a) of this section may be used in conjunction with other signs erected by any bureau of the Department of the Interior which direct the public to
Designated Entrance Fee Areas, Designated Recreation Use Facilities, or Special Recreation Permit Uses.
(d) No entrance fee for admission to any Designated Entrance Fee Area or recreation use fee for the use of any Designated Recreation Use Facility shall be collected unless such area or facility is posted in accordance with this section. No fee for any Special Recreation Permit Use shall be collected unless clear notice that such a fee is charged is posted at the area headquarters of the bureau issuing such permit in which the use authorized by the permit is to occur.
§ 71.5
Golden Eagle Passport.
(a) The Golden Eagle Passport is an annual permit, valid on a calendar-year basis, for admission to any Designated Entrance Fee Area. The charge for the Golden Eagle Passport shall be $10. The annual Golden Eagle Passport shall be nontransferable and the unlawful use thereof shall be punishable in the manner described in § 71.12 of this part.
(b) The Golden Eagle Passport shall admit the permittee and any persons accompany him in a single, private, noncommercial vehicle, or alternatively, the permittee and his spouse, children, and parents accompanying him where entry to the area is by any means other than private, noncommercial vehicle, to Designated Entrance Fee Areas. Golden Eagle Passport coverage does not include a permittee and his spouse, children, or parents entering a Designated Entrance Fee Area in two separate, private, noncommercial vehicles. In this case, only the vehicle with the permittee shall be covered by the Passport. The persons in the second vehicle shall be subject to the single-visit entrance fee requirement.
(1) “Private, noncommercial vehicle,” for the purpose of this part, shall include any passenger car, station wagon, pickup camper truck, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle which is used for private recreation purposes.
(2) “Accompanying,” for the purpose of this section, shall be defined as coming immediately with (at the same time) and entering together with (in physical proximity).
(c) The annual Golden Eagle Passport does not authorize the use of any Designated Recreation Use Facility for which a recreation use fee is charged or any Special Recreation Permit Use for which a special recreation permit fee is charged.
(d) The annual Golden Eagle Passport shall be for sale at all Designated Entrance Fee Areas of the National Park Service, at the National Park Service headquarters, Washington, D.C., and at the Park Service field offices.
§ 71.6
Golden Age Passport.
(a) Issuance of the Golden Age Passport:
(1) Golden Age Passports will be issued by appropriate Federal personnel (hereinafter “Issuing Officer”) at National Park Service headquarters, Washington, D.C., and at field offices designated by the heads of the bureaus administering Designated Entrance Fee Areas and Designated Recreation Use Facilities.
(2) The Golden Age Passport will be issued free of charge upon the presentation of identification or information which attests to the fact that the applicant is a person 62 years of age or older and a citizen of the United States, or if not a citizen, domiciled therein. To satisfy the age requirement such identification may include, but is not limited to a State driver's license or birth certificate. To satisfy the citizenship requirement, such identification may include, but is not limited to, a birth certificate or a voter registration card issued by a State or Territory, or a political subdivision thereof, of the United States.
(3) For the purpose of this section, an applicant should be regarded as being “domiciled” in the United States if he has a fixed and permanent residence in the United States or its Territories to which he has the intention of returning whenever he is absent. Accordingly, an alien may be domiciled in the United States if he maintains a fixed and permanent residence therein to which he has the intention of returning whenever he is absent. An alien who temporarily travels or works in the United States, even for a period of years, shall not be regarded as domiciled therein if that alien has no intention of permanently maintaining his residence in the United States.
(4) The Golden Age Passport, commencing with the issuance of the 1975 Golden Age Passports, shall be a lifetime permit valid for the life of the permittee.
(5) Any applicant meeting the age and other requirements described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section not having in his possession any identification or information evidencing his qualification for a Golden Age Passport may be issued such a Passport on the basis of the affidavit below, if such an affidavit is signed in front of the Issuing Officer.
Passport No __________
Date __________
To the Secretary of the Interior:
I do hereby swear or affirm that I am 62 years of age or older, that I am a citizen of the United States or that I am domiciled therein and that I am duly entitled to be issued free of charge one Golden Age Passport pursuant to the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, 16 U.S.C. A.460
l
-6a (Supp., 1974), as amended by Pub. L. 93-303.
Signature
Street
Town, City, State
Issuing Officer
(6) The Passport must be applied for in person and signed in front of the Issuing Officer or otherwise it will be treated as invalid.
(7) The Golden Age Passport shall be nontransferable and the unlawful use thereof shall be punishable in the manner described in § 71.12 of this part.
(b) The Golden Age Passport shall admit the permittee and any persons accompanying him in a single, private, noncommercial vehicle, or alternatively, the permittee and his spouse and children accompanying him where entry to the areas is by means other than private, noncommercial vehicle to Designated Entrance Fee Areas. Golden Age Passport coverage does not include a permittee and his spouse or children entering a Designated Entrance Fee Area in two separate, private, noncommercial vehicles. In this case, only the vehicle with the permittee shall be covered by the Passport. The persons in the second vehicle shall be subject to the single-visit entrance fee requirement.
(1) “Private, noncommercial vehicle,” for the purposes of this subsection, shall be defined the same as in § 71.5(b)(1).
(2) “Accompanying,” for the purpose of this subsection, shall be defined the same as in § 71.5(b)(2).
(c) Any Golden Age Passport permittee shall be entitled upon presentation of the Passport to utilize Designated Recreation Use Facilities at a rate of 50 percent of the established recreation use fees.
(d) The Golden Age Passport does not authorize any specialized recreation use for which a special recreation permit fee is changed.
§ 71.7
Entrance fees for single-visit permits.
(a) Entrance fees for single-visit permits shall be selected by the National Park Service from within the range of fees listed below, provided that such fees are established in accordance with the following criteria:
(1) The direct and indirect cost to the Government;
(2) The benefit to the recipient;
(3) The public policy or interest served;
(4) The comparable recreation fees charged by other Federal and non-Federal public agencies within the service area of the management unit at which the fee is charged;
(5) The economic and administrative feasibility of fee collection; and,
(6) Other pertinent factors.
(b) There shall be two types of single-visit entrance fees charged at Designated Entrance Fee Areas for those persons not covered by either Golden Eagle or Golden Age Passports.
(1) The fee for a single-visit permit applicable to those persons entering by private, noncommercial vehicle shall be no more than $3 per vehicle. The single-visit permit shall admit the permittee and all persons accompanying him in said vehicle. The single-visit permit shall be valid only at the one Designated Entrance Fee Area for which it was purchased. “Accompanying,” for the purpose of this section, shall mean entering together with the permittee while being transported by the same private, noncommercial vehicle which the permittee occupies.
(2) The fee for a single-visit permit applicable to those persons entering by
any means other than private, noncommercial vehicle shall be no more than $1.50 per person and shall be valid at the one Designated Entrance Fee Area for which it is paid.
(c) Any of the permits provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be valid at the Designated Entrance Fee Area for which it was purchased during the same calendar day of purchase. In addition, at overnight use areas, the single-visit permit shall be valid as long as the permittee and those covered by his permit remain within the boundaries of the Designated Entrance Fee Area, beginning from the first day of entry until the day of departure; except that on the same day that the entrance fee is paid, the permittee and those covered by the permit may leave and reenter without payment of additional fees.
[39 FR 33217, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 41 FR 22563, June 4, 1976. Redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981, and correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981]
§ 71.8
Validation and display of entrance permits.
(a) Every annual and lifetime permit shall be validated by the signature of its bearer on the face of the permit at the time of its receipt.
(b) All annual, lifetime and single-visit permits shall be nontransferable.
(c) Every permit shall be kept on the person of its owner, and shall be exhibited on the request of any authorized representative of the administering bureau.
§ 71.9
Establishment of recreation use fees.
(a) Recreation use fees shall be established by all outdoor recreation administering agencies of the Department of the Interior in accordance with the following criteria:
(1) The direct and indirect cost to the government,
(2) The benefit to the recipient,
(3) The public policy or interest served,
(4) The comparable recreation fees charged by other Federal agencies, non-Federal public agencies and the private sector located within the service area of the management unit at which the fee is charged,
(5) The economic and administrative feasibility of fee collection, and
(6) Other pertinent factors.
(b) With the approval of the Secretary of the Interior recreation use fees may be established for other types of facilities in addition to those which are listed below.
(c) Types of recreation facilities for which use fees may be charged:
Tent, trailer and recreation vehicle sites
1
1
Provided, That in no event shall there be a charge for the use of any campsite and adjacent related facilities unless the campground in which the site is located has all of the following: Tent or trailer spaces, drinking water, access road, refuse containers, toilet facilities, personal collection of the fee by an employee or agent of the bureau operating the facility, reasonable visitor protection, and simple devices for containing a campfire (where campfires are permitted).
Group camping sites
1 2
2
The administering agency may establish a group use rate in lieu of the above “Group Camping Sites” recreation use fee in accordance with the criteria set out in this section provided such rate is not less than $3.00 per day per group. Such a group use rate may constitute either a special recreation permit fee or a recreation use fee as determined by the administering agency.
Specialized boat launching facilities and services
3
3
Use fees for boat ramps are prohibited. However, in the case of boat launching facilities with specialized facilities or services, such as mechanical or hydraulic lifts, reasonable fees may be assessed in accordance with the criteria set out in a paragraph (a) of this section.
Lockers
Boat storage and handling
Elevators
Ferries and other means of transportation
Bathhouses
Swimming pools
Overnight shelters
Guided tours
Electrical hook-ups
Vehicle and trailer storage
Rental of nonmotorized boats
Rental of motorized boats
Rental of hunting blinds
Reservation services
Specialized sites (highly developed)
[45 FR 43168, June 26, 1980. Redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981, and correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981]
§ 71.10
Special recreation permits and special recreation permit fees.
(a) Special recreation permits may be required in accordance with procedures established by the administering bureaus for specialized recreation uses, such as, but not limited to, group activities, recreation events, and the use of motorized recreation vehicles. In any instance where such a permit is required, the following conditions must be satisfied:
(1) The use complies with pertinent State and Federal laws and regulations on public health, safety, air quality, and water quality;
(2) The use will not adversely impact archeological, historic or primitive values and is not in conflict with existing resource management programs and objectives;
(3) The necessary clean-up and restoration is made for any damage to resources or facilities; and
(4) The use is restricted, to the extent practicable, to an area where minimal impact is imposed on the environmental, cultural or natural resource values.
(b) Fees for special recreation permits shall be established by all outdoor recreation bureaus of the Department of the Interior issuing such permits in accordance with the following criteria:
(1) The direct and indirect cost to the Government;
(2) The benefit to the recipient;
(3) The public policy or interest served;
(4) The comparable recreation fees charged by other Federal and non-Federal public agencies within the service area of the management unit at which the fee is charged;
(5) The economic and administrative feasibility of fee collection; and
(6) Other pertinent factors.
§ 71.11
Collection of Federal recreation fees.
The bureaus of the Department of the Interior administering outdoor recreation programs shall provide for the collection of entrance fees at the place of admission to Designated Entrance Fee Areas; they shall provide for the collection of recreation use fees and/or special recreation permit fees at the place of use or at a location reasonably convenient for the public and the bureaus.
§ 71.12
Enforcement.
Persons authorized by the heads of the appropriate bureaus to enforce these regulations may arrest any person who violates these rules and regulations within areas under the administration or authority of such bureau head with a warrant or, if the offense is committed in his presence, without a warrant. Any violations of the rules and regulations issued in this part, except those in § 71.15, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $100.
§ 71.13
Exceptions, exclusions, and exemptions.
In the application of the provisions of this part, the following exceptions, exclusions, and exemptions shall apply:
(a) Nothing contained herein shall authorize Federal hunting or fishing licenses or fees;
(b) No entrance fee shall be charged for travel by private noncommercial vehicle over any National Parkway, or any road or highway established as part of the National Federal-Aid System, which is commonly used by the public as a means of travel between two places, either or both of which are outside the Designated Entrance Fee Area;
(c) No entrance fee shall be charged for travel by private noncommercial vehicle over any road or highway to any land in which such person has any property right if such land is within any Designated Entrance Fee Area.
(d) No Federal recreation fee shall be charged for commercial or other activities not related to recreation, including, but not limited to, organized tours or outings conducted for educational or scientific purposes related to the resources of the area visited by bona fide institutions established for these purposes. Applicants for waiver of fees on this basis will be required to provide documentation of their official recognition as educational or scientific institutions by Federal, State or local government bodies and will also be required to provide a statement as to the purposes of the visit proposed. The use of any recreation facilities for which a
fee waiver is requested must relate directly to scientific or educational purposes of the visit and may not be primarily for recreational purposes. No Federal recreation fee shall be charged any hospital inmate actively involved in medical treatment or therapy in the area visited.
(e) No entrance fee shall be charged any person conducting State, local, or Federal government business.
(f) No entrance fee shall be charged at any entrance to Great Smoky Mountains National Park unless such fees are charged at main highway and thoroughfare entrances.
(g) No entrance fees shall be charged for persons who have not reached their 16th birthday.
(h) Until July 12, 1975, no entrance fee shall be charged a foreign visitor to the United States seeking admission to any Designated Entrance Fee Area upon presentation of a valid passport.
(i) No entrance fees shall be charged persons having a right of access to lands or waters within a Designated Entrance Fee Area for hunting or fishing privileges under a specific provision of law or treaty.
[39 FR 33217, Sept. 16, 1974; 39 FR 36114, Oct. 8, 1974. Redesignated at 44 FR 7143, Feb. 6, 1979, and 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981, and correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981]
§ 71.14
Public notification.
The administering bureaus shall notify the public of the specific Federal recreation fees which will be charged at areas and for facilities and uses under their jurisdiction. Such notification shall be accomplished by the posting of fee information in accordance with § 71.4 and the inclusion of such information in publications distributed at each area or facility. Public announcements, press releases and any other suitable means may also be used to provide such notification.
§ 71.15
The Golden Eagle Insignia.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) The term “The Golden Eagle Insignia” (hereinafter “Insignia”) as used in this section, means the words “The Golden Eagle” and the representation of an American Golden Eagle (colored gold) and a family group (colored midnight blue) enclosed within a circle (colored white with a midnight blue border) framed by a rounded triangle (colored gold with a midnight blue border) which was originated by the Department of the Interior as the official symbol for Federal recreation fee areas.
(2) The term “Secretary” as used in this section, means the Secretary of the Interior or any person designated to act for him in any matter to which this section refers.
(3) The term “commercial use,” as used in this section, refers to any use, including the reproduction, manufacture, importation, or distribution, of the Insignia the primary purpose of which is to make a profit.
(4) The term “public service use,” as used in this section, refers to any use, including the reproduction, manufacture, importation, or distribution, of the Insignia the primary purpose of which is to contribute to the public's information and education about the Federal recreation fee program.
(5) The term “official use” refers to uses of the Insignia pursuant to §§ 71.4, 71.5, 71.6, 71.8, 71.10, and 71.14, including, but not limited to, the posting of areas, facilities, and uses with the designation sign described in § 71.4(a), and the design of Golden Eagle and Golden Age Passports, and uses of the Insignia by other Federal agencies.
(6) The Golden Eagle program refers to the Federal outdoor recreation fee program, which provides for the designation of entrance fee areas, recreation use facilities, special recreation permit uses, the issuance of Golden Eagle and Golden Age Passports, and the collection and enforcement of fees at Federal areas and facilities and for specialized recreation uses established by the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, 16 U.S.C.A. 4601-6a (Supp., 1974), as amended.
(b)
Licenses for commercial and public service use.
(1) Any person, business, or organization (hereinafter called the applicant) wishing a license for commercial or public service use of the Insignia must make written application to the Secretary stating:
(i) The nature and scope of the intended use.
(ii) The applicant's name and address.
(iii) The nature of the applicant's business or activities, and the relationship between the intended use and said business or activities.
(2) The Secretary, in determining whether to grant a license for the commercial use of the Insignia, will consider the following criteria:
(i) Whether the intended use will be an enhancement of the Golden Eagle program which would complement the program as it is administered by Federal recreation agencies and departments.
(ii) Whether the intended use is likely to cause confusion, or to cause mistake, or to deceive the general public by creating the impression that the use is official.
(iii) Whether the intended use is injurious to the integrity of the concept of the Insignia.
(iv) Whether the intended use is capable of generating enough royalty fee revenue to justify the administrative costs of licensing.
(3) The Secretary, in determining whether to grant a license for the public service use of the Insignia, will consider the following criteria:
(i) Whether the intended use will be an enhancement of the Golden Eagle program which would complement the program as it is administered by Federal recreation agencies and departments.
(ii) Whether the intended use is injurious to the integrity of the concept of the Insignia.
(4) Any license granted by the Secretary for commercial use of the Insignia is subject to the following terms and conditions:
(i) The license is nontransferable.
(ii) All proposed uses of the Insignia must be approved by the Secretary prior to manufacture, importation, or reproduction by the licensee. The Insignia shall not be used in conjunction with substances inherently dangerous to the public.
(iii) The license shall contain equal employment opportunity provisions in compliance with Executive Order 11246, 30 FR 12319 (1965), as amended, and regulations issued pursuant thereto (41 CFR Ch. 60) unless the royalty fees to be paid under the license are not expected to exceed $10,000.
(iv) The license shall be subject to revocation by the Secretary at any time that he finds that: (
a
) The criteria under which the license was granted are not being fulfilled; or (
b
) there has been a violation of the terms and conditions of the license.
(5) Any license granted by the Secretary for public service use of the Insignia is subject to the following terms and conditions:
(i) The license is nontransferable.
(ii) All proposed uses of the Insignia must be approved by the Secretary prior to manufacture, importation, reproduction, or distribution by the licensee.
(iii) The license shall be subject to revocation by the Secretary at any time that he finds that: (
a
) The criteria under which the license was granted are not being fulfilled; or (
b
) there has been a violation of the terms and conditions of the license.
(c)
Unauthorized use of the Insignia.
(1) Unauthorized use of the Insignia is all use except: The licensed commercial use or public service use of the Insignia; official use of the Insignia; and any lawful use of the Insignia, similar emblem, sign or words which antedates the Act of July 11, 1972, 86 Stat. 459.
(2) Whoever makes unauthorized use of the Insignia or any facsimile thereof, in such a manner as is likely to cause confusion, or to cause mistake or to deceive the public by creating the impression that the use is official, shall be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned not more than 6 months or both.
(3) Any unauthorized use of the Insignia may be enjoined at the suit of the Attorney General upon complaint by the Secretary.
(d)
Royalty fees for commercial and public service use.
(1) Royalty fees for licensed commercial use of the Insignia shall be established at reasonable rates by contract between the licensee and the Secretary.
(2) Royalty fees for licensed public service use of the Insignia shall be waived by the Secretary.
(e)
Abandonment of the Golden Eagle Insignia.
The rights of the United States in the Golden Eagle Insignia shall terminate if the use of the Insignia is abandoned by the Secretary.
Nonuse for a continued period of 2 years shall constitute abandonment.
Pt. 72

# PART 72—URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
72.1
Purpose of regulations.
72.2
Legislative authority.
72.3
Definitions.
72.4-72.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Local Recovery Action Program
72.10
General requirements.
72.11
Action program components.
72.12
Assessment of needs, problems and issues.
72.13
Action plan.
72.14
[Reserved]
72.15
Preliminary Action Program.
72.16
Preliminary Action Program requirements.
72.17
Preliminary Action Program—commitments to be included.
72.18-72.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Grants for Recovery Action Program Development, Rehabilitation and Innovation
72.30
General requirements.
72.31
[Reserved]
72.32
Funding and matching share.
72.33
Timing and duration of projects.
72.34-72.35
[Reserved]
72.36
Land ownership, control and conversion.
72.37
Pass-through funding.
72.38-72.39
[Reserved]
72.40
Historic properties.
72.41
Demolition and replacement of existing recreation properties.
72.42
Expansion and new development.
72.43
Fundable elements: Recovery Action Program grants.
72.44
Fundable elements: Rehabilitation and Innovation grant common elements.
72.45
Fundable elements: Innovation grants.
72.46
Citizen participation requirements.
72.47
[Reserved]
72.48
Federal coordination.
72.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Grant Selection, Approval and Administration
72.50
Grant selection criteria.
72.51
A-95 clearinghouse requirements.
72.52
Recovery Action Program grant applications.
72.53
Preapplication process for Rehabilitation and Innovation grants.
72.54
Rehabilitation and Innovation grants—full application process.
72.55
[Reserved]
72.56
Grant program compliance requirements.
72.57-72.59
[Reserved]
72.60
Grant administrative procedures.
72.61
[Reserved]
72.62
Amendments to approved grants.
72.63
Grant payments.
72.64
[Reserved]
72.65
Other requirements.

# Subpart E—Post-Completion Compliance Responsibilities
72.70
Applicability.
72.71
Information collection.
72.72
Conversion requirements.
72.73
Residency requirements.
72.74-72.75
[Reserved]
Appendix A to Part 72—Criteria for Eligibility
Appendix B to Part 72—List of Eligible Jurisdictions

# Authority:
Title X, National Parks and Recreation Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95-625 (16 U.S.C. 2501-2514); sec. 2 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1262).

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
45 FR 71718, Oct. 29, 1980, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981, and correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981.
§ 72.1
Purpose of regulations.
The purpose of this rule is to set forth guidelines for awarding and administering the three types of grants available through the UPARR program. The three types of grants available are: Rehabilitation, Innovation and Recovery Action Program. The objectives of this rule are to: (1) Explain the policies to be followed for awarding grants; (2) list the requirements and criteria to be met for each type of grant and discretionary eligibility; (3) discuss fundable uses and limitations; (4) explain how proposals will be selected and funded; and (5) describe the application process and administrative procedures for awarding grants.
§ 72.2
Legislative authority.
The policies and procedures of this rule are created to implement the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery
Act of 1978, Title X of the National Parks and Recreation Act of 1978, Public Law 95-625, 16 U.S.C. 2501-2514. The Act provides Federal grants to economically hard-pressed communities specifically for the rehabilitation of critically needed recreation areas and facilities, and for the development of improved recreation services this program is authorized for a period of five years.
§ 72.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Applicant Jurisdiction:
The general purpose local government making the actual funding request or in receipt of UPARR funding assistance. This term applies whether the unit is an eligible or discretionary applicant.
Appropriation:
The yearly funding level made available by Congress to implement the UPARR Act.
Assistance:
Funds made available by the Service to a grantee in support of a public recreation project.
Direct Expenditures or Direct Costs:
Those expenditures or costs that can be associated with a specific project.
Director:
The Director of the National Park Service Conservation and Recreation Service or any other officer or employee of the Service to whom is delegated the authority involved.
Discretionary Applicants:
General purpose local governments in Standard Metropolitan Statistical Areas as defined by the Census but not included in the list of eligible applicants developed and published in accord with Sec. 1005 of the UPARR Act.
Federal Management Circular 74-4 (FMC 74-4):
FMC 74-4 establishes principles and standards for determining (administrative) costs applicable to grants and contracts with State and local governments.
General Purpose Local Government:
Any city, county, town, township, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State, including the District of Columbia, and insular areas.
Grant:
The act of providing a specific sum of money for the development of a specific project, consistent with the terms of a signed agreement; also the amount of money requested or awarded.
Grantee:
The general purpose local government receiving a UPARR grant for its given use, or for authorized pass-through to another appropriate public or private non-profit agency.
NPS:
National Park Service Conservation and Recreation Service.
Historic Property:
Such a property is one listed in, or determined eligible to be listed in the National Register of Historic Places.
In-kind Contributions:
In-kind contributions represent the value of non-cash contributions provided by: (1) the grantee, (2) other public agencies and institutions, and (3) private organizations and individuals. In-kind contributions may consist of the value of donated or loaned equipment or supplies, or contributed services directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to the project, and can be used as part of the grantee's non-Federal matching share.
Innovation Grants:
Matching grants to local governments to cover costs of personnel, facilities, equipment, supplies, or services designed to demonstrate innovative, and cost-effective or service-effective ways to augment park and recreation opportunities at the neighborhood level; and to address common problems related to facility operations and improved delivery of recreation service, excluding routine operation and maintenance activities.
Insular Areas:
Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Mariana Islands.
Maintenance:
All commonly accepted practices necessary to keep recreation areas and facilities operating in a state of good repair, and to protect them from deterioration resulting from normal wear and tear.
OMB Circular A-95 (A-95):
Establishes procedures for the evaluation, review and coordination of Federal and federally assisted programs and projects. This circular defines project notification and review procedures governing Federal grant agencies, State, metropolitan and areawide clearinghouses.
OMB Circular A-102 (A-102):
Circular A-102 provides the standard for establishing consistency and uniformity among Federal agencies in the administration of grants to States, localities and federally recognized Indian tribes.
Participant:
The grantee, or other agency or organization requesting and/or receiving assistance.
Pass-through:
The transfer of funds at the discretion of the applicant jurisdiction, to independent, general or special purpose local governments, private non-profit agencies (including incorporated community or neighborhood groups), or county or regional park authorities, who offer recreation opportunities to the general population within the jurisdictional boundaries of the applicant jurisdiction.
Pass-through recipient:
Synonymous with subgrantee.
Private Non-profit Agency:
A reputable community-based, non-profit organization, corporation, or association organized for purposes of providing recreation, conservation, education or other community services directly to urban residents; on a neighborhood or communitywide basis, through voluntary donations, voluntary labor, or public or private grants.
Project:
A single site-specific area or service-specific program proposed or approved for funding.
Project Costs:
All necessary charges made by a grantee in accomplishing the objectives of a project, during the grant period.
Property:
Site and/or facility.
Proposal:
An application for UPARR assistance which may contain one or more projects.
Recovery Action Program:
A local park and recreation Recovery Action Program (plan) required under section 1007 of the UPARR Act, which contains expressions of continuing local commitment to objectives, priorities and implementation strategies for overall park and recreation system planning, rehabilitation, service, operation and maintenance.
Recreation Areas and Facilities:
Parks, buildings, sites, or other indoor or outdoor facilities which are dedicated to recreation purposes and administered by public or private non-profit agencies to serve the recreation needs of community residents. These facilities must be open to the public and readily accessible to residential neighborhoods. They may include multiple-use community centers which have recreation as one of their primary purposes, but major sports areas, exhibition areas, and conference halls used primarily for commercial sports, spectator, or display activities are excluded from UPARR assistance.
Rehabilitation Grants:
Matching capital grants to local governments for the purpose of rebuilding, remodeling, expanding, or developing existing outdoor or indoor recreation areas and facilities; including improvements in park landscapes, buildings, and support facilities; excluding routine maintenance and upkeep activities.
Secretary:
The Secretary of the Interior.
SMSA:
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area as defined by the Bureau of the Census.
Special Purpose Local Government:
Any local or regional special district, public-purpose corporation or other limited political subdivision of a State: including but not limited to, park authorities; park, conservation, water or sanitary districts; and school districts.
Sponsor:
See Participant.
State:
Any State of the United States, or any instrumentality of a State approved by the Governor; the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and insular areas.
Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP):
A State recreation plan required by the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act.
Subgrantee:
A general or special purpose local government, private non-profit agency, county or regional park authority requesting or in receipt of UPARR funding under an applicant jurisdiction.
UPARR:
Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978 or Program.
§§ 72.4-72.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Local Recovery Action Programs

# Source:
45 FR 15457, Mar. 10, 1980, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981, and correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981.
§ 72.10
General requirements.
Any eligible jurisdiction or discretionary applicant desiring to apply for a grant must develop, submit and have
approved a local Action Program. The Action Program must be submitted to the appropriate National Park Service Regional Office where it will be evaluated and approved. This is a necessary requirement which must precede the awarding of any rehabilitation or innovation grant. Until January 1, 1981, this requirement may be satisfied with an approved Preliminary Action Program. The Preliminary Action Program must include a firm commitment by the local government to complete and adopt a full Action Program within one year of approval of the Preliminary Action Program. After January 1, 1981, no rehabilitation or innovation grant will be awarded without an approved Recovery Action Program on file with the appropriate Regional Office. Communities are required to submit four (4) copies of the Action Program. Regional Offices and their States are:

# Northeast Region
Federal Office Bldg. Room 9310, 600 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19106.
Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, and the District of Columbia.

# Southeast Region
75 Spring Street, Atlanta, Georgia 30303.
Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, and the Virgin Islands.

# Lake Central Region
Federal Building, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48107.
Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin.

# Mid-Continent Region
Denver Federal Center, P.O. Box 25387, Denver, Colorado 80225.
Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming.

# Pacific Southwest Region
450 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, California 94102.
American Samoa, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, and Nevada.

# Northwest Region
Federal Building, 914 Second Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98174.
Idaho, Oregon and Washington.

# South Central Region
5000 Marble Avenue, N.E., Albuquerque, New Mexico 87110.
Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.

# Alaska Area Office
1011 East Tudor, Suite 297, Anchorage, Alaska 99503.
(Sec. 1007(a) and (b) of Title X National Parks and Recreation Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95-625, (16 U.S.C. 2506); sec. 2 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1262))
[45 FR 54335, Aug. 15, 1980. Redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981; and correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981]
§ 72.11
Action program components.
The local government will submit an Action Program which documents the recreation needs of the community together with action plans to meet those identified needs. This Action Program will indicate how the park and recreation system will be revitalized and maintained. While the emphasis of the Action Program will be placed on the rehabilitation of deteriorating facilities, it also will describe how the rehabilitation effort is linked to the overall goals, priorities and strategies of the park and recreation system. The local government must develop the Action Program consistent with and linked to the objectives, needs, plans, and institutional arrangements of the community. The Action Program must present evidence of its consistency with the community's long-range goals and plans as expressed in its comprehensive plans and other documents. The Action Program consists of two sections which are the Assessment and the Action Plan.
§ 72.12
Assessment of needs, problems and issues.
The Action Program should begin with an Assessment describing the existing park and recreation system; issues and problems; goals and objectives. The Assessment should summarize the entire system including: Operation and maintenance; employment and training; programs and services; rehabilitation of existing facilities; and the need for new facilities. The Assessment should also describe how the park and recreation system relates to other
public and private services. The Assessment consists of six parts which are as follows:
(a)
Context.
The context should provide:
(1) A short description of the local jurisdiction including: population; economy; geographical location; type of government; how the park department fits into the government structure; how the planning for parks and recreation is achieved; and the relationship to the community's comprehensive planning effort.
(2) A brief descriptive overview of the park and recreation system which includes a discussion of: The populations being served both within and outside of the jurisdiction; the types of services being provided; the degree to which the system is available and accessible to the populations intended to be served; and projected changes in system use.
(3) A discussion of the elements of planning, financing, programming, operation and maintenance, acquisition and development, and other factors common to park and recreation systems and other community services and prospects for future coordination.
(4) A discussion of the approaches and mechanisms used for citizen participation.
(b)
Physical Issues.
Summary information should be provided on existing facilities including:
(1) Types of facilities and the distribution of acreage and uses at different locations;
(2) Integration of park and recreation planning and facility use with other service agencies such as schools, transportation and housing;
(3) Special facilities for the handicapped or elderly as well as facilities which work to mainstream special populations;
(4) Heavily used non-public or quasi-public facilities;
(5) Facilities of historical and architectural significance which provide recreation and are managed by the park system;
(6) Dependence upon nearby recreation resources outside the local jurisdictions, including public and private resources;
(7) Deficiencies and existing facilities and the needs of the community for new facility development, expansion and/or closure of facilities and the effects of such activities.
(c)
Rehabilitation Issues.
Summary information should be provided on the need for rehabilitation of facilities. This should include:
(1) Geographic areas needing rehabilitation;
(2) Types of sites and properties for rehabilitation;
(3) Importance of rehabilitation in specific geographic areas; and
(4) Value of rehabilitation over replacement through new facility development.
(d)
Service Issues.
Summary information on existing services should outline activities and needs in the following areas:
(1) The type, extent and intended beneficiaries of recreation services;
(2) Special programs for the handicapped, elderly, minorities and mainstreaming programs for special populations;
(3) Relationship between and coordination with public and significant non-public programs and private sector groups;
(4) Extent to which park and recreation services relate to other community services including joint programs with schools, social service organizations, historic preservation groups, libraries, or community education facilities;
(5) Coordination with Federal, State (SCORP), regional, county and other jurisdictional plans and activities having direct and indirect impacts on parks and recreation.
(e)
Management Issues.
Management issues deal with operation of the park and recreation system. Information should summarize the needs and issues of:
(1) Process for developing procedures and policies;
(2) Staffing levels including full-time, seasonal and service personnel, and use of volunteers;
(3) Use of contractual services for recreation programming;
(4) Equipment maintenance and replacement policies; and
(5) Budgeting process, funding cycles and budgets for the past three years
and methods of budgeting (such as zero based or performance budgeting).
(f)
Conclusions, Implications and Issues.
This section should state major conclusions of the discussions in previous sections, summarize the major problems and highlight the implications for actions needed to address the problems which have been outlined in the issues sections.
§ 72.13
Action plan.
The purpose of the Assessment is to provide background and justification for an Action Plan. The Action Plan, which is the essential core of the Action Program, must be a clear statement of the community's specific objectives, priorities and implementation strategies in relation to the intent of the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Program and the local government's overall recreation system goals. The Action Plan should be carefully tailored to the comprehensive community goals and directly responsive to the needs and problems identified in § 72.12. Citizen involvement in the development of the Action Plan is required and may include surveys, hearings, meetings, and/or consultation as appropriate. This involvement is essential in the development of goals, objectives and the setting of project priorities.
(a)
Goals for the System.
This section should set forth the overall goals and specific objectives for the system. Goals will clearly relate to the needs and issues identified in the Assessment and must be projected for at least the five-year life of the Action Program. The goals should be consistent with and, where appropriate, included in the general planning goals of the local government. Where local governments have developed, adopted and are utilizing an overall park and recreation plan, the goals of that plan may be appropriate for this requirement. Goals should be the basis for priorities, schedules and implementation strategies stated in the plan.
(b)
Strategies to Address National and Local Concerns.
This section should include a description of local strategies for recreation system recovery. A “strategy” defines the total approach to remedying system deficiencies and provides a rationale for priorities reflected in implementation schedules. Strategies should be devised which address the following national concerns:
(1) Ways in which park and recreation plans contribute to, and will be interrelated with, the local government's community development and urban revitalization efforts;
(2) The degree to which park and recreation plans serve citizens who reside in economically-distressed areas of the community and will improve access to park and recreation facilities and programs for minority groups, low- and moderate-income populations, and the handicapped;
(3) The extent to which the Action Program and its plan component will relate employment opportunities for minorities, youth and low- and moderate-income residents;
(4) How the plan seeks to obtain the widest range of beneficial uses of the natural environment and enhances and protects the natural environment;
(5) How park and recreation resources will be targeted in neighborhoods where other neighborhood revitalization efforts are occurring;
(6) How the plan seeks to restore outstanding or unique structures, landscapes, or similar features in parks of historical or architectural significance;
(7) Local commitments to innovative and cost-effective programs and projects on the neighborhood level which augment recovery of park and recreation systems;
(8) How the plan will be intergrated with other Federally assisted projects to maximize recreation opportunities;
(9) How the plan will convert for recreation use, derelict and other public lands not designated for recreation; and
(10) Inducements to encourage the private sector to provide neighborhood park and recreation facilities and programs.
(11) How the plan will seek to preserve, restore and develop waterfront areas for recreation and open space.
If any of the above concerns are not of significance within a locality preparing the Recovery Action Program due to lack of the physical attributes described in the above eleven (11) items, the Action Plan should indicate why
such strategies are not appropriate. Most communities will also have their own special concerns and should develop strategies to address them. These should accompany the strategies discussed above and provide a focus for specific recommendations.
(c)
Recommendations.
Recommendations for improvement of the park and recreation system should be discussed. Each recommendation or group of recommendations should be accompanied by a discussion of the techniques the local government will use to implement the recommendations. Reference should be made to how the recommendations relate to deficiencies, needs, and opportunities identified in previous sections of the Action Program. A brief physical development plan for the entire park and recreation system should be included. This can be accomplished with a map which indicates where existing facilities and activities occur as well as where future developments are to occur. Particular reference shall be made to populations served and indicated deficiencies.
(d)
Program Priorities and Implementation Schedule.
A statement of system priorities and a schedule for implementation shall be included. These priorities, together with justifying objectives and strategies for implementation shall be presented. Priorities presented will be an important factor in the evaluation and approval of requests for UPARR funding. Active and continued citizen participation is necessary throughout the process. Specific projects to be undertaken and the programs to be improved, expanded, introduced, or eliminated through rehabilitation, physical, service, management, and coordination actions should be discussed. A clear assignment of agency responsibility and an estimate of the costs of implementation should accompany these priorities.
(e)
Evaluation and Updating of Action Program.
This section should outline a specific program for annual monitoring, evaluating, and updating of the complete Action Program, including both improvements needed in the Assessment and the Action Plan. Citizen involvement is essential in the evaluation and monitoring of the Action Program. Copies of approved Action Programs must be readily available to the public to insure adequate opportunities for citizen review and comment.
§ 72.14
[Reserved]
§ 72.15
Preliminary Action Program.
During an initial interim period, the Action Program requirements, as described in §§ 72.11, 72.12 and 72.13 may be satisfied by local governments' submission of a Preliminary Action Program. The initial interim period shall end on January 1, 1981. Communities are required to submit four (4) copies of the Preliminary Action Program.
(Sec. 1007(a) and (b) of Title X National Parks and Recreation Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95-625, (16 U.S.C. 2506); sec. 2 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1950 (34 Stat. 1262))
[45 FR 54335, Aug. 15, 1980. Redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981, and correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981]
§ 72.16
Preliminary Action Program requirements.
The following information must be submitted:
(a)
Evidence of physical deficiencies.
A general description of the problems confronted by the local government in bringing its facilities up to an adequate level of quality, the basis for the determination that certain facilities are deficient, and the general level of deficient facilities found within the jurisdictions. Maps and other graphics should be used to indicate where the deficiencies are located, particularly in reference to the populations to be served.
(b)
Level of resource support.
A summary of the public funds, including State and Federal, being spent by the jurisdiction on parks and recreation. A generalized description of the level of non-governmental support (neighborhood, voluntary and business) shall also be given.
(c)
Adoption of goals.
The existing park and recreation goals adopted by the governing body of the jurisdiction are to be included. Emphasis should be placed on what the local government is seeking to achieve in its parks and recreation systems, including the population it is attempting to serve, the facilities and services offered, and the
providers (public agency or private sector).
(d)
Statement of priorities and implementation strategies.
Description of the priorities set by the local government as related to the deficiencies outlined above, and the strategies used to allocate available resources over time. Included should be a brief discussion of the relationship of the Preliminary Action Program to other related community development, historic preservation and urban revitalization efforts underway in the jurisdiction.
(e)
Evidence of public participation.
A description of the means by which citizens and public officials will be included early in the decision process for project selection, the setting of priorities and schedules, and the development of implementation strategies. Existing public participation efforts within the jurisdiction should be used.
§ 72.17
Preliminary Action Program—commitments to be included.
Local governments may submit a Preliminary Action Program during the initial interim period in lieu of a full Action Program. The Preliminary Action Program must include a firm commitment by the local government to complete and adopt a full Action Program by October 1, 1980. This commitment must include a schedule for the development of the full Recovery Action Program. The schedule should outline the activities which will be undertaken, the anticipated time frame for the development and completion of these activities, and the resources of people, money and support services necessary for the development and completion of the Recovery Action Program. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions concerning the use of the Preliminary Action Program, local governments are encouraged to prepare, adopt and submit as soon as possible a full Action Program which complies with the provisions of §§ 72.11, 72.12, and 72.13. Local governments which have already made a commitment to park and recreation systems by establishing ongoing planning, rehabilitation, service, operation and maintenance programs may use these as a starting point for meeting Action Program requirements.
§§ 72.18-72.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Grants for Recovery Action Program Development, Rehabilitation and Innovation

# Source:
45 FR 71719, Oct. 29, 1980, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981, and correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981.
§ 72.30
General requirements.
Applicants must have an approved Recovery Action Program on file with the appropriate NPS Regional Office prior to applying for Rehabilitation or Innovation grants. Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals must be based on priorities identified in the applicant jurisdiction's Recovery Action Program. Once NPS has indicated that a Rehabilitation or Innovation proposal is fundable, the applicant must meet all documentation requirements imposed by OMB Circulars A-102, A-95 and FMC 74-4. Regional offices of NPS will provide technical assistance to grantees in complying with these requirements.
§ 72.31
[Reserved]
§ 72.32
Funding and matching share.
(a)
Recovery Action Program Grant Matching.
Up to 50 percent matching grants are authorized for the preparation of Recovery Action Programs (RAP). State, local and private in-kind donations of assistance (salaries, supplies, printing, etc.) for the preparation of a RAP may be used as all or part of the 50 percent local match. Such in-kind contributions for the UPARR Program may not be used as the matching share for other federally-assisted programs. In addition, Section 1009 of the Act provides that reasonable local costs of Recovery Action Program development may be used as part of a local match for Innovation or Rehabilitation grants only when the applicant has not received a Recovery Action Program grant. Reasonable costs means costs for supplies, salaries, etc., which are not excessive in relation to the normal market value within a geographic area. These costs must be well documented and included in the preapplication for the proposal in which they are to be used as a match.
The match can only be used once, and allowed only after the RAP Has been approved by the respective NPS Regional Office.
(b)
Rehabilitation and Innovation grant matching.
The program provides for a 70 percent Federal match for rehabilitating existing recreation facilities and areas. Seventy percent matching funds are also authorized to local governments for innovation grants which will address systemwide coordination, management and community resource problems through innovative and cost-effective approaches.
(c)
Sources of Matching Share
—(1)
State Incentive.
As an incentive for State involvement in the recovery or urban recreation systems, the Federal government will match, dollar for dollar, State contributions to the local share of an Innovation or Rehabilitation grant; up to 15 percent of the approved grant. The Federal share will not exceed 85 percent of the approved grant. The Director shall also encourage States and private interests to contribute to the non-Federal share of project costs. State and local government shares may be derived from any State or local government source of revenue.
(2)
Cash.
State, local and private funds may be used as the non-Federal share of project costs. In addition, two types of Federal funds may be used as part of a local match: General Revenue Sharing (Treasury Department) and Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program funds (Department of Housing and Urban Development) [See also § 72.56(b)]. Section 1009 of the UPARR Act prohibits use of any other type of Federal grant to match UPARR grants.
(3)
Non-Cash
—(i)
Material goods.
NPS encourages in-kind contributions including real property, buildings or building materials, and equipment to applicants by the State, other public agencies, private organizations or individuals. The value of the contributions may be used as all or part of the matching share of project costs, but must be appraised and approved by the Service prior to grant approval. Details regarding these types of donations are covered in OMB Circular A-102. In-kind contributions for the UPARR Program may not be used as the matching share for other Federally-assisted programs.
(ii)
Services.
Any type of service or assistance which relates directly to a grant and the provision of a recreation opportunity, can be used as a matching share; e.g., technical and planning services, construction labor, playground supervision or management services.
§ 72.33
Timing and duration of projects.
(a) Construction components of projects must be initiated during the first full construction season following grant approval. The time for completing construction components of either Rehabilitation or Innovation proposals will be limited to three years or three construction seasons, whichever is greater, unless in the opinion of the Director an extension of time not to exceed a designated period will assure that completion of the grant objectives will be cost-effective within funding currently available, in accord with established goals of the UPARR Program, and of benefit to the federal government. Any component of an Innovation proposal which is to provide services or programs, must be started within one year from grant approval. The grant project term and expiration date for Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals will be established by NPS at the time of grant approval.
(b) When an applicant wishes to complete a project in a number of stages, the applicant may request UPARR assistance for all the stages in a single application or proposal. In such cases, the three year limit on construction still applies. If an applicant wishes to request funding for only a single stage at time, each stage must be structured in such a manner that it will increase the recreation utility of the property, or provide direct recreation opportunities, independent of subsequent stages. Funding of one stage of a multi-staged proposal in no way implies that subsequent stages will also be funded.
(c) Supplemental grants to existing innovation grants may be approved by the Director.
[45 FR 71719, Oct. 29, 1980. Redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981, and correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981, and amended at 47 FR 15137, Apr. 8, 1982; 48 FR 3971, Jan. 28, 1983]
§§ 72.34-72.35
[Reserved]
§ 72.36
Land ownership, control and conversion.
Section 1010 of the Act provides that no property improved or developed with assistance through the program shall, without the approval of the Director, be converted to other than public recreation use. Therefore, any applicant or sub-grantee must demonstrate, at the time of grant approval, that it has adequate tenure and control of the land or facilities for which UPARR assistance is proposed, either through outright ownership or lease.
(a) Lands or facilities that are not under adequate tenure or control will not be considered for UPARR assistance. If the land is not owned by the applicant or sub-grantee, then a non-revocable lease of at least 25 years, or a non-revocable lease providing ample time to amortize the total costs of the proposed activity, must be in effect at the time of grant approval. The lease cannot be revocable at will be the lessor. The costs of acquisition or leasing of land or facilities are not eligible for assistance under the provisions of the Act, section 1014.
(b) The conversion or replacement of properties assisted through UPARR to non-recreation use must be in accord with the current local Recovery Action Program, and approved by the Director. Requests for permission to convert UPARR-assisted properties must be submitted to the Director in writing. The replacement property must assure the provision of adequate recreation properties and opportunities of reasonable equivalent location and recreation usefulness. For leased property which is developed or improved with UPARR funds, the grantee, as a condition of the receipt of these funds, must specify in a manner agreed to by the Director, in advance of the conversion, how the converted property will be replaced once the lease expires.
(c) UPARR Program funds may be used to rehabilitate facilities built or develop with LWCF assistance only after a determination is made by NPS that the facility has been maintained in accordance with the LWCF Program.
(d) Applicants must certify that any property acquired after January 2, 1971, and to be improved or enhanced by UPARR assistance, was acquired in conformance with Pub. L. 91-646, the Uniform Relocation and Land Acquisition Policies Act (See 41 CFR parts 114-50).
§ 72.37
Pass-through funding.
Section 1006(a)(1) of the Act states that at the discretion of the applicant jurisdiction, and if consistent with an approved application, Rehabilitation and Innovation grants may be transferred in whole or in part to independent special purpose local governments, private non-profit agencies (including incorporated community or neighborhood groups) or city, county, or regional park authorities, provided that assisted recreation areas owned or managed by them offer recreation opportunities to the general public within the boundaries of the applicant's jurisdiction. No UPARR funds may be passed through for Recovery Action Program grants. The decision on whether or not to pass money through to non-profit organizations or governmental units is made by the applicant jurisdiction which is responsible for the grant; not NPS. Organizations, agencies or governmental units seeking funding assistance on a pass-through basis must work with an applicant jurisdiction in the preparation of the UPARR application, and the applicant jurisdiction will be responsible for the submission of the application. The applicant jurisdiction has full responsibility and liability for funds passed through to subgrantees. In the event of default by the pass-through recipient, the applicant jurisdiction must assume responsibility for ensuring that all provisions of the grant agreement are carried out, including the continued delivery of recreation services resulting from the grant. The pass-through of funds may constitute the entire grant
proposal submitted by an applicant jurisdiction, or may be only a portion of it.
(a)
Applicant responsibilities.
The applicant jurisdiction possesses full responsibility and liability for funds passed-through to subgrantees. It should take precautions to ensure that pass-through agencies can reasonably be expected to comply with grant requirements.
(1)
Application requirements.
The applicant jurisdiction is responsible for actual preparation and submission of both the pre- and final grant applications. Organizations, agencies or governmental units seeking funding assistance on a pass-through basis must work with the applicant jurisdiction. The applicant jurisdiction may request any or all of the necessary documentation from the subgrantee. It is essential that applicants take precautions to pass-through grants only to reliable and capable agencies or organizations that can reasonably be expected to comply with grant and project requirements.
(2)
Recommended pass-through recipient standards.
Because the grantee has full responsibility for the pass-through grant, the grantee should ensure that subgrantees meet the following minimum standards.
(i) Demonstrate a history of providing recreation services to the distressed community. The history of providing recreation services must be commensurate with the amount of UPARR assistance requested. A pass-through subgrantee may be a non-profit or neighborhood organization which has provided other social services to the community, or a newly formed, but reliable and capable group which can reasonably be expected to comply with grant and project requirements.
(ii) Take responsibility for the same application, administration and compliance responsibilities as that of the applicant jurisdiction.
(iii) Certify that property improved or developed with UPARR funds will remain dedicated to public recreation use.
(iv) Work through and with the applicant jurisdiction.
(v) Demonstrate that the existing, or soon to be developed, recreation property which it owns or operates is accessible to residents of targeted distressed areas.
(vi) Demonstrate adequate tenure and control of the property to be rehabilitated or used for innovation, through lease or ownership.
(vii) Establish a contractual agreement with the applicant juisdiction which is binding and enforceable to assure that the applicant jurisdiction can adequately meet its contractual obligations under the grant.
(viii) Be empowered to contract or otherwise conduct the activities to be supported as a result of the grant.
(ix) Not discriminate on the basis of residence except in reasonable fee differentials.
(x) Be generally recognized as a provider of service to urban residents.
(xi) Have adequate financial resources, the necessary experience, organization, technical qualifications and facilities; or a firm commitment, arrangement, or ability to obtain such.
(xii) Have an adequate financial management system which provides efficient and effective accountability and control of all property, funds, and assets sufficient to meet grantee needs and grantee audit requirements.
(xiii) Private non-profit agencies or corporations should also be properly incorporated as a non-profit organization with an elected and autonomous board which meets regularly.
(b)
Pass-through property and fee limitations.
Rehabilitation or Innovation assistance on property not in public ownership, operated by a private non-profit organization through a pass-through grant, will be limited to that portion of the property which directly provides recreation services. Such recreation services must be available to the public on a non-membership, non-fee, or reasonable fee basis, and during reasonable prime time. If a fee is charged or is required for the services resulting through the Rehabilitation or Innovation grant, the fee should be comparable to prevailing local rates for similar services. Charges for recreation services will only be permitted if they do not unfairly jeopardize participation in the recreation service by the disadvantaged population.
§§ 72.38-72.39
[Reserved]
§ 72.40
Historic properties.
Properties listed in or determined eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places must be treated in accordance with the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation procedures described in 36 CFR 800, “Protection of Historic and Cultural Properties.” Applicants must identify such properties in the preapplication if they are situated at a UPARR grant site.
§ 72.41
Demolition and replacement of existing recreation properties.
Demolition will only be supported when rehabilitation is not feasible or prudent. In the case of demolition, the demolition costs should not exceed 75% of the proposed cost for replacement. The applicant must present a cost analysis (well documented case) for demolition and replacement versus rehabilitation. When assistance for demolition is requested, the applicant must also indicate how the replacement will increase the site's recreation utility, and how the useable life of the property will be increased.
§ 72.42
Expansion and new development.
(a)
Expansion.
Because the UPARR Program is targeted to distressed areas, every assurance should be made that if any expansion takes place, existing recreation facilities are up to building standards and the following general requirements are met.
(1) The general category of sites/facilities or programs involved must be an identified priority in the jurisdiction's Recovery Action Program.
(2) The results of the expansion must not substantially increase the personnel or maintenance costs of the applicant jurisdiction's overall recreation system unless expansion of the system has been addressed as a priority in the jurisdiction's Recovery Action Program, and the RAP strategies specifying how the funds for increased personnel or maintenance costs associated with the expansion will be obtained. The preapplication narrative must describe the extent of increased personnel and maintenance for the project(s) included in the proposal, if any, and methods of financing them.
(3) The expansion must increase the extent, volume, scope, or quality of recreation opportunities to residents of distressed neighborhoods.
(b)
New development.
For purposes of this program, new development is defined as the developing for changing of relatively unimproved property which has not previously been developed for recreation. This includes the creation of new parks and facilities.
(1)
Rehabilitation.
New development will not be assisted under a rehabilitation grant.
(2)
Innovation.
New development may be allowed under an Innovation grant when it is directly related to a specific innovative idea or technique, increases the utility of a property and/or service program, and increases recreation opportunities for users in the target area.
§ 72.43
Fundable elements: Recovery Action Program grants.
Reasonable and documented costs necessary for preparing a Recovery Action Program may be reimbursed by UPARR funds from a 50 percent matching grant. These costs may include expenses for professional services; local public meetings; data collection and analysis; preparation, editing and printing of appropriate reports, plans, maps, charts and other documents forming a part of the plan; and supporting costs, supplies and other approved costs. Costs incurred prior to the approval of a Recovery Action Program grant will not be eligible for reimbursement or cost sharing.
§ 72.44
Fundable elements: Rehabilitation and Innovation grant common elements.
(a) All Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals must be based on priorities identified in the applicant jurisdiction's local Recovery Action Program. An applicant may apply for UPARR assistance only in an amount which, together with other available public and private resources, is adequate to complete the work approved by the grant agreement. The applicant must document the availability and source of these resources at the time of preapplication for UPARR assistance.
Fundable elements in both Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals may include: materials and labor, site planning, architectural and engineering fees, and other costs for activities necessary to complete the approved project. Reasonable architectural and engineering fees essential to the preparation of a proposal application, incurred within a period 9 months prior to preapplication submission to NPS, are reimbursable. Architectural and engineering fees prior to the 9 month period will not be eligible for reimbursement or cost sharing. Other costs incurred prior to approval of any UPARR grant, and fees to consultants for preparation of UPARR grant applications are not reimbursable. No more than 5 percent of the total grant cost may be used by the grantee or pass-through sub-grantee for grant administrative costs. The remaining funds must be made available for projects. Any costs incurred for travel outside the local applicant jurisdiction will not be reimbursable without prior approval from NPS.
(1)
Local intent.
Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals which provide recreation to residents within a distressed local neighborhood area will be given higher priority. Proposals which have a primary intent to attract or to provide recreation for visitors from outside the applicant jurisdiction, or proposals whose primary objective is the enhancement of the area's economy through the attraction of visitors to the jurisdiction, will not be considered. Innovation proposals which transport residents from distressed neighborhoods to recreation opportunities outside the local jurisdiction, may be considered eligible for funding.
(2)
Conservation and energy.
Proposals which foster the conservation of energy and natural resources are encouraged; e.g. improvements in accessibility which reduce the need of automobile transportation, efficient use of electrical or other power sources, and water conservation.
(3)
Multiple site requests.
Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals may request funding for neighborhood-oriented recreation facilities or services which affect the entire recreation system of the applicant jurisdiction, several specific sites or areas, or a single site or area. Innovation proposals which affect multiple facilities or services must be oriented to a single purpose, or one basic innovative category or approach.
(4)
Support facilities.
The rehabilitation of support facilities for any grant project will be eligible for funding only when such facilities are well defined, are included as part of an overall rehabilitation effort, and provide direct recreation opportunities and benefits to the population being served. Rehabilitation grants may cover costs of remodeling, expanding or developing (see § 72.42) existing outdoor or indoor recreation areas and facilities, including improvements in park landscapes and buildings. Assistance for the rehabilitation of multi-service facilities must be prorated to those elements within the proposal necessary for the provision of recreation opportunities.
(5)
Elements excluded from funding.
The Act excludes UPARR assistance for major sport arenas, exhibition areas and conference halls used primarily for commercial sports, spectator, or display activities; routine maintenance and upkeep supplies or activities; and for the acquisition of land or interests in land.
§ 72.45
Fundable elements: Innovation grants.
(a) Innovation grants may cover costs related to improved delivery of recreation services (including personnel, training, facilities, recreation equipment and supplies), except those which pertain to routine operation and maintenance not directly related to the provision of recreation opportunities. All equipment and supply requests in Innovation proposals will be reviewed to assure that they will substantially contribute to the recreation services intended under the specific grant. The intent of Innovation grants is to test new ideas, concepts and approaches aimed at improving facility design, operations or programming in the delivery of neighborhood recreation services. They should also contribute to a systems approach to recreation by linking recreation services with other critical community programs; such as transportation, housing,
and health programs. The UPARR Program will competitively choose the best quality Innovation proposals with nationwide demonstration potential, and which serve people who most need the new recreation services. An innovative community recreation project may be a service, a process, an organizational arrangement or a technique. The innovation should demonstrate a concept that is untried, unique, and/or advances the state of the art for recreation. Ideas from successful Innovation proposals will be disseminated nationwide through annual progress reports to Congress, as required in section 1015(b) of the Act, and through the ongoing technical assistance efforts of NPS. Information seminars, workshops and other techniques may also be used to provide the greatest possible exposure of these ideas for use in other communities. Because the legislation limits the yearly funds available for Innovation grants (not more than 10% of funds authorized), the majority of Innovation grants should ideally be monetarily smaller awards aimed at leveraging public and private community support and providing activities with high demonstration value, rather than large-scale development or expansion projects. The long-range intent of funding innovative proposals is to support and demonstrate a great variety of ideas during the five year implementation of the UPARR Program. For this reason, only one or two proposals having a similar emphasis or approach will be funded. Proposed Innovation projects which have been demonstrated before or are currently being operated in other cities, may be considered for UPARR assistance if the application identifies and addresses the question of the special nature or circumstances surrounding the new project.
(1)
Program services.
Innovation grant costs may include those costs which relate to: demonstrations of the improved multiple-use of public buildings e.g., schools, community centers, libraries; unique program expansions or increases in services; purchase of recreation services on a contractual basis; increased access to recreation areas; and cost-effective management techniques.
(2)
Adaptive reuse.
In addition to providing services for areas or facilities already in recreation use, Innovation grants may provide funding for the adaptive reuse of areas or facilities not currently in recreation use, or those where mixed community use occurs. Physical rehabilitation of facilities not currently in recreation use (whether public or private) may be funded as part of an Innovation proposal, and would be classified as adaptive reuse. An example would be conversion of an abandoned building to a unique community recreation center. When only a portion of the area or facility will be used for recreation, only that portion will be eligible for UPARR funding.
(3)
Supplies.
Funds may be used to purchase expendable supplies and equipment which relate directly to an Innovation proposal, such as sports equipment, arts and crafts supplies, chairs and tables if needed for an activity, and essential emergency or safety equipment. General office supplies and furniture not used exclusively to provide recreation services as a part of the proposal, or not an inherent component of the proposal, will not be reimbursable.
(4)
Coordination.
Local costs incurred for coordinating any grant proposal activities and programs with other public, non-profit or private community services may be reimbursable.
(5)
Personnel.
Eligible personnel costs for Innovation proposals will be limited to salaries and benefits of those employees directly engaged in the provision of recreation services or formulation of new techniques. Volunteer services may be furnished by professional and technical personnel, consultants, and other skilled and unskilled labor. Each hour of committed volunteer service may be counted toward the local matching share of funds, if the service provided is an integral part of an approved proposal.
(6)
Special populations.
A proposal which will provide recreation opportunities primarily for a specific demographic group, such as the elderly, youth or handicapped, may be funded. However, the recreation provided must be open to the public, incorporate some activities for the general population, and address needs as identified in the
local Recovery Action Program. Services for special populations, such as transportation to recreation facilities, may also be funded.
(b)
Basic types of Innovation proposals.
Types of Innovation proposals which can be funded are suggested by, but not limited to, the following types:
(1) The unique integration of recreation with other community services; such as transportation, public housing and public safety; either to expand or update current services, or to link programs within the social service structure of a neighborhood, or between neighborhoods.
(2) New management and cost-saving or service-efficient approaches for improving the delivery of recreation services should be fundamental to all Innovation and Rehabilitation proposals, and may also be the prime focus of an Innovation proposal. Extending hours of operation, increasing the variety of recreation programs, contracting with commercial or private non-profit agencies to supply specific recreation services, or assisting citizens in designing and operating their own programs, are examples of management approaches.
(3) New approaches to facility design which emphasize user needs and preferences and promote efficient operation and energy conservation.
(4) New fiscal techniques to generate revenue for continuing operation and maintenance, such as tax credits.
(5) Techniques for improving transportation and access to recreation opportunities.
(6) Techniques to facilitate private, non-profit, and community involvement in providing recreation opportunities.
(7) Improved use of land resources; such as utilizing abandoned railroads and highway rights-of-way, waterfronts, street spaces, or derelict land for recreation.
(8) Adaptive reuse or multiple use of public or private facilities and areas. (Private areas or facilities utilized must be opened to the public.)
(9) Techniques to prevent or reduce crime, abuse and vandalism; such as better design, non-destructible building materials, or use of community volunteers to supervise areas.
(10) Communications and public awareness of recreation opportunities, including education in leisure services; but excluding research.
§ 72.46
Citizen participation requirements.
(a)
Recovery Action Program Grants.
Citizen participation is required for developing and implementing a Recovery Action Program (§ 72, Subpart B), but is not required in the process of preparing a local Recovery Action Program grant application.
(b)
Rehabilitation and Innovation grant.
The applicant shall provide citizens with an adequate opportunity to participate in the development of a Rehabilitation and/or Innovation proposal and in implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the activities supported through the grants. The applicant shall also encourage the submission of views and proposals, particularly by residents of blighted neighborhoods and citizens with low and moderate incomes. The applicant is encouraged to utilize a variety of approaches to ensure public involvement. Nothing in these requirements, however, shall be construed to restrict the legal responsibility and authority of the applicant for the execution of its Recovery Action Program, and the development of its UPARR applications.
§ 72.47
[Reserved]
§ 72.48
Federal coordination.
Applicants requesting UPARR assistance under one of the three grant categories shall investigate the possibilities of administrative and/or funding coordination with other Federal programs. Higher priority is given to proposals which relate to a comprehensive neighborhood revitalization strategy, including, but not limited to programs such as the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Neighborhood Self-Help program.
§ 72.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Grant Selection, Approval and Administration

# Source:
45 FR 71723, Oct. 29, 1980, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 46 FR 34329,
July 1, 1981; correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981.
§ 72.50
Grant selection criteria.
(a)
Recovery Action Program grant selection criteria.
The following criteria will be used in evaluating Recovery Action Program grant applications and in deciding priorities for funding:
(1) Degree of need for funds to develop a Recovery Action Program and an ongoing planning process, including the size and complexity of the community's problems, deficiencies in existing planning, and in the capability of the community to initiate and sustain continuing planning efforts.
(2) Degree of the community's commitment to systematic planning, including financial, personnel and time resources already devoted to planning or committed for the future.
(3) Extent to which current park and recreation planning is integrated with overall community planning or would be better integrated as a result of the grant, including use of other Federal or State funds for related planning purposes.
(4) Appropriateness and efficiency of the planning program's work elements (scope, timing, methodology, staffing and costs) in relation to the basic requirements for Recovery Action Programs contained in subpart B, §§ 72.10 through 72.18 (45 FR 15456).
(b)
Rehabilitation Grant Selection Criteria.
The following criteria will be used to evaluate and rank Rehabilitation proposals:
(1) The Federal UPARR investment per person served by the entire system; relationship between the size of the community and the amount of grant funds requested. Highest priority will be given to proposals with lower per capita costs in relation to recreation benefits provided.
(2) Providing neighborhood recreation needs. Higher priority will be given to proposals serving close-to-home recreation needs, lower priority to those serving area or jurisdiction-wide needs.
(3) Condition of existing recreation properties to be rehabilitated, including the urgency of rehabilitation and the need to maintain existing services.
(4) Improvement in the quality and quantity of recreation services as a result of rehabilitation, including improvements at specific sites and overall enhancement of the recreation system.
(5) Improvement of recreation service to minority and low to moderate income residents, special populations, and distressed neighborhoods.
(6) Proposal's consistency with local government objectives and priorities for overall community revitalization.
(7) Neighborhood employment opportunities created.
(8) State participation in the proposal, including financial and technical assistance.
(9) Private participation by both the non-profit and for-profit sectors in the proposal, including contributions of financial assistance.
(10) Jurisdiction's commitment to implementing its overall Recovery Action Program.
(c)
Innovation Grant Selection Criteria.
The following criteria will be used to evaluate and rank Innovation proposals:
(1) Degree to which the proposal provides a new, unique or more effective means of delivering a recreation service that can serve as a model for other communities.
(2) Degree of citizen involvement in proposal conceptualization and implementation.
(3) Degree to which the proposal may lead to a positive, systemic change in how park and recreation services are provided. Extent to which the proposal creates opportunities for new partnerships between the people affected, private interests within the community, and public agencies (e.g., Mayor's Office, Recreation Department, Board of Education, Planning Department, social service agencies).
(4) Degree of commitment of community and proposal participants to continue the long term program objectives, including commitments to continue funding after the requested Federal grant money is no longer available. Extent of private resources committed to providing funds or in-kind services for continuing operation and maintenance of projects.
(5) Degree to which proposal managers use the Federal funds to leverage
greater public or private investments (in the form of services and materials, as well as dollars).
(6) Degree to which the proposal provides potential coordination with other community, State and Federal programs of community development and those providing recreation to the target population (e.g., public and private non-profit, education programs, CETA for employment, HUD programs).
(7) Extent of improvement in the quality and quantity of recreation services as a result of the Innovation project.
(8) Degree to which the proposal ties in with goals, priorities and implementation strategies expressed in the local park and recreation Recovery Action Program.
(9) Degree to which the proposal leads to a transfer of a recreation role traditionally performed by a public entity, to quasi-public or private non-profit interests. This degree means the degree to which the private sector can take full responsibility, supplement, or fill the gaps in public recreation services, management or operation; either through a transfer of funding responsibility, or an exchange of technique or method approaches which may prove to be more effective under the private sector. This should in no way alter the public sector responsibility to continue to provide and/or monitor good quality recreation facilities and services.
(10) Degree to which a proposal benefits disadvantaged community populations and/or those areas within a distressed community which have the greatest recreation deficiencies.

# Note:
Innovation proposals for the adaptive reuse of non-recreation areas or structures, through rehabilitation for recreation should also address rehabilitation selection criteria, particularly the criteria covering Federal investment per person served and the degree to which the proposal would serve close to home recreation needs.
§ 72.51
A-95 clearinghouse requirements.
Notice of intent to submit any application for UPARR funding must be forwarded by the applicant, no later than 60 days prior to submission of a grant application, to the State clearinghouse and appropriate metropolitan or areawide clearinghouses, in accordance with OMB Circular A-95 and Interior Department Manual part 511. If a jurisdiction wishes to compress the A-95 timetable, it must receive approval of the clearinghouse. Appropriate A-95 notifications must be submitted for all three types of UPARR grants at both preapplication and full application stages. Standard Form 424 is to be used for these notices unless otherwise specified by the clearinghouse. Comments from clearinghouses, if available, must be included with the preapplication. All A-95 comments will become part of the required application and proposal file which will be retained by NPS. A-95 requirements for Recovery Action Programs and grants are discussed in § 72.52.
§ 72.52
Recovery Action Program grant applications.
The application procedure for Recovery Action Program grants differs from the procedure for Rehabilitation and Innovation grants. Ranking and selection for funding of Recovery Action Program grants will be initiated on the basis of a full application, preparation of which will be assisted through meetings with NPS regional staff.
(a)
Preapplication Conference.
In the preparation of a Recovery Action Program grant application, applicants are encouraged to discuss with NPS regional personnel, or State personnel, when an agreement between NPS and the State covers such action, the adequacy of the proposal in meeting the requirements for a Recovery Action Program. Prior to formal submission, the Recovery Action Program grant application should be reviewed with the appropriate NPS Regional Office.
(b)
Submission of Applications.
In addition to Standard Form 424 on Federal Assistance notification, applicants for Recovery Action Program grants shall submit the following documents and required attachments to NPS Regional Offices:
(1) OMB Form 80-RO190, completed as prescribed by OMB Circular A-102. (Application for Federal assistance, for non-construction programs).
(2) Grant agreement form.
(3) Narrative statements which will be used in evaluating grant applications in relationship to the selection
criteria as defined in § 72.50(a), including:
(i) The need for the planning grant.
(ii) The jurisdiction's existing or proposed commitments to developing a full Recovery Action Program and an ongoing planning process.
(iii) The relationship of the planning program to overall community plans and programs.
(iv) Appropriateness of the proposed planning program's scope, timing and methodology in relation to UPARR planning requirements and the community's identified planning needs.
(v) Dollars and work years to be devoted to development of each element in the proposed Recovery Action Program, including some indications of the qualifications of staff members who will work on the program.
(vi) If appropriate, a discussion of work elements to be contracted out to other government agencies, private consultants or private non-profit agencies, including the reasons for contracting work elements instead of doing the work within the community's own planning agencies.
(4) Applications for RAP grants need a full 60 day A-95 clearinghouse review. Clearinghouse comments for RAP grants must then be submitted to NPS. Final RAP's also must be submitted to clearinghouses, in accordance with OMB Circular A-95.
§ 72.53
Preapplication process for Rehabilitation and Innovation grants.
To reduce the amount of time and documentation needed for a full application, and to foster the competitive aspects of the UPARR program, a preapplication procedure is used.
(a) The preapplication must provide information adequate to guide proposal selection. Grants will be awarded in accordance with the availability of funds. Funding for an approved grant will not be increased from subsequent yearly appropriations.
(b) Applicants are encouraged to discuss their proposals with their NPS Regional Office to determine basic fundability and competitiveness prior to submitting a preapplication.
(c) If a State is assisting the applicant in preapplication preparation, providing a source of matching share, or giving technical assistance, the State may assist in submission of the preapplication to the appropriate NPS Regional Office with the applicant's prior approval. The amount, source and assurance of State assistance for a matching share must be specified in the preapplication.
(d) The following procedural guidelines shall apply to submission and approval of Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals.
(1) Preapplications shall be submitted to the appropriate NPS Regional Office by the chief executive officer of the applicant jurisdiction. The preapplication must include those items as set forth in the
Preapplication Handbook,
available from any NPS Regional Office. In addition to the narrative on selection criteria, all preapplications for Rehabilitation proposals must include a short description stating; (i) the problem addressed by the proposal, including existing conditions, (ii) the reason for the problem or why the condition exists, and (iii) the proposed solution to the problem and what corrective measures will be used.
(2) An applicant may have no more than one Innovation and one Rehabilitation proposal under consideration in any one funding cycle.
(3) Any existing and/or proposed fees or charges for recreation opportunities or services provided through a UPARR grant, whether for public, private or non-profit activities, must be identified in the preapplication.
(4) Discretionary applicants must submit a narrative statement, signed by the chief executive of the applicant jurisdiction, which explains and quantifies the degree of physical and economic distress in the community. Statistics and discussion on distress shall address, but need not be limited to, the criteria used to select eligible jurisdictions contained in Appendix A of this part. A discretionary narrative statement must be included in each preapplication.
(5) All submitted grant preapplications will be reviewed by NPS Regional Offices to assure that they meet all minimum legal and technical standards before being certified as eligible for competition. Proposals not meeting minimum standards will
be returned to the applicant. Periodically, all certified proposals will be evaluated in the Regional Offices before being submitted to Washington, where they will be judged by national panels whose member are knowledgeable in recreation and urban revitalization. Innovation and Rehabilitation proposals will be judged by separate panels.
(6) Following review and ranking by the panels, the Director will approve tentative grant offers for those proposals which may be funded. Successful applicants will be notified by the NPS Regional Offices, and completion of the formal application process will take place. The formal application process must be completed within 120 days of notification of the tentative grant offer, or the tentative grant offer may be withdrawn. Final approval of a grant and obligation of funds will occur when all application requirements have been met and the appropriate documents are on file. No costs may be incurred or reimbursed, except incurred architectural and engineering fees indicated in § 72.44, until NPS approval of the grant agreement.
(7) Unfunded proposals may require modifications to improve their competitiveness. Applicants with such proposals will be advised by NPS of suggested modifications, if any, to increase their chances for funding in future grant rounds.
(8) If an applicant wishes a proposal to remain in competition, it may be considered for two additional funding cycles, with or without minor modifications, before it is returned to the applicant. Major modifications of scope and/or total funding request will require complete resubmission of a proposal as a new preapplication. Applicants who wish to change the scope and/or total funds requested for a proposal which is already in competition, must submit a written request for withdrawal of the previous proposal before submitting a new proposal in the same competition.
(9) The Director reserves the right to withdraw a grant offer if it is determined that any preapplication contains misstatements or misrepresentations of fact, or problems identified which cannot be resolved.
§ 72.54
Rehabilitation and Innovation grants—full application process.
Once a Rehabilitation or Innovation proposal has received a tentative grant offer, applicants will be responsible for compliance with all applicable Federal laws and regulations listed in OMB Circular A-102, including those specific Acts and Executive Orders listed in § 72.56 of these regulations. The applicant must also complete all documentation and other requirements specified by OMB circulars A-102, and A-95 within 120 days. Regional Offices of NPS will provide technical assistance to grantees in complying with these requirements. A grant will not be approved until the applicant is in compliance with the above requirements.
§ 72.55
[Reserved]
§ 72.56
Grant program compliance requirements.
(a) Once a proposal has received a grant offer, applicants will be responsible for compliance with all applicable Federal laws and regulations, including, but not limited to:
Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-480)
Clean Air Act and Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Copeland Anti-kickback Act
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-205)
Executive Order 11246, Equal Employment Opportunity
Executive Order 11593, Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment
Executive Order 11625, Arrangements for Developing and Coordinating a National Program for Minority Business Enterprise
Executive Order 11988, Floodplains Management
Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands
Executive Order 12088, Federal compliance with Pollution Control Standards
Executive Order 12185, Conservation of Petroleum and Natural Gas
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-234)
Historical and Archeological Data Preservation Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-291) 36 CFR 66
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (Pub. L. 91-190)
National Historic Preservation Act (Pub. L. 89-665)
Nondiscrimination section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 USC 5301) as amended.
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Action Act of 1973
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Executive Order 11764
Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 USC 3601) as amended, Executive Order 11063 (27 FR 11527)
Uniform Relocation Assistance
Land Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-646)
(b) Applicants using General Revenue Sharing or Community Development Block Grant monies as a matching share must check with the responsible Federal agencies, i.e. Treasury or HUD to determine if the Davis-Bacon Act is applicable. (HUD regulations 24 CFR part 570 [CDBG]. Treasury regulations 31 CFR part 51, State and Local Fiscal Assistance Amendments of 1976 [P.L. 94-488], General Revenue Sharing program.) Questions concerning other CDBG requirements should be addressed to the HUD Area Office serving the UPARR applicant jurisdiction.
§§ 72.57-72.59
[Reserved]
§ 72.60
Grant administrative procedures.
(a)
Admininstrative Requirements for Recipients of UPARR Assistance.
For all grants under this Program, the administrative requirements are the attachments listed in the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-102 (as revised).
(b)
Accounts, Audit, Inspection.
Adequate financial records must be maintained by the applicant to support all expenditures or costs covered by a Recovery Action Program, Rehabilitation or Innovation project, as specified in Federal Management Circular (FMC) 74-4 and OMB Circular A-102.
(c)
Additional conditions.
The Director may, with respect to any grant, impose additional conditions prior to, or at the time of grant approval, when in his or her judgement these conditions are necessary to assure or protect advancement of the grant purposes, the interests of public health or safety, or the conservation of grant funds. Extra requirements may be imposed on high-risk grantees who have records of default on prior Federal grants.
(d)
Remedies for Noncompliance.
In appropriate circumstances, the Director may suspend or recoup the financial assistance provided under UPARR, upon the formal finding that the Grantee is in violation of the terms of the grant or the provisions of these regulations.
§ 72.61
[Reserved]
§ 72.62
Amendments to approved grants.
Changes which alter the scope of any approved UPARR competitive grant must be submitted to and approved by NPS. Once a grant offer is made, based upon the preapplication, no increases in the amount of UPARR funding specified in the original proposal will be considered. Such changes should be the basis of a new proposal or application.
§ 72.63
Grant payments.
The Director shall make payments to a grantee of all, or a portion of any grant award, either in advance or by way of reimbursement. Advance payments on approved Rehabilitation or Innovation grants will be in an amount not to exceed 20% of the total grant cost [section 1006(2) of the Act].
§ 72.64
[Reserved]
§ 72.65
Other requirements.
(a)
Requirements for Operation and Maintenance.
Grantees are required to keep all UPARR assisted properties in reasonable repair to prevent undue deterioration, and to encourage public use during reasonable hours and times of the year, according to the type of facility and intended uses.
(b)
Non-discrimination.
There shall be no discrimination for UPARR assisted programs or services on the basis of residence, except in reasonable fee differentials.
(c)
Sunset Reports.
In compliance with the sunset and reporting provision of the Act, section 1015(b), an annual report will be prepared on the achievements of the Innovation grant program, with emphasis on the nationwide implications of successful innovation projects. A final report on the overall impact of the UPARR Program will be prepared within 90 days of the expiration of the authority. Additional project information may be requested from applicants to facilitate the preparation of such reports.

# Subpart E—Post-Completion Compliance Responsibilities

# Source:
51 FR 34186, Sept. 25, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 72.70
Applicability.
These post-completion responsibilities apply to each area or facility for which Urban Park and Recreation Recovery (UPARR) program assistance is obtained, regardless of the extent of participation of the program in the assisted area or facility. Responsibility for compliance with these provisions rests with the grant recipient. The responsibilities cited herein are applicable to the 1010 area depicted or otherwise described in the 1010 boundary map and/or as described in other project documentation approved by the Department of the Interior. In many instances, this area exceeds that actually receiving UPARR assistance so as to assure the protection of a viable recreation entity. For leased sites assisted under UPARR, compliance with post-completion requirements of the grant following lease expiration is dictated by the terms of the project agreement.
§ 72.71
Information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in § 72.72 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1024-0048. The information is being collected to determine whether to approve a grant recipient's request to convert an assisted site or facility to other than public recreation uses. The information will be used to assure that the requirements of section 1010 of the UPARR Act would be met should the proposed conversion be implemented. Response is required in order to obtain the benefit of Department of the Interior approval.
§ 72.72
Conversion requirements.
(a)
Background and legal requirements.
The UPARR program has made funds available for the renovation and rehabilitation of numerous urban parks and recreation facilities. In many cases, the UPARR funds were used only in a portion of a site or facility or were only a small percentage of the funds required to renovate or rehabilitate a property. Nevertheless, all recipients of funds for renovation and rehabilitation projects are obligated by the terms of the grant agreement to continually maintain the site or facility for public recreation use regardless of the percent of UPARR funds expended relative to the project and the facility as a whole. This provision is contained in the UPARR Program Administration Guideline (NPS-37) and is also referenced in § 72.36. In accordance with section 1010 of the UPARR Act, no property improved or developed with UPARR assistance shall, without the approval of NPS, be converted to other than public recreation uses. A conversion will only be approved if it is found to be in accord with the current local park and recreation Recovery Action Program and/or equivalent recreation plans and only upon such conditions as deemed necessary to assure the provision of adequate recreation properties and opportunities of reasonably equivalent location and usefulness. Section 1010 is designed to ensure that areas or facilities receiving UPARR grant assistance are continually maintained in recreation use and available to the general public.
(b)
Prerequisites for conversion approval.
Requests for permission to convert UPARR assisted properties in whole or in part to other than public recreation uses must be submitted by the recipient to the appropriate NPS Regional Director in writing. NPS will only consider conversion requests if the following prerequisites have been met:
(1) All practical alternatives to the proposed conversion have been evaluated.
(2) The proposed conversion and substitution are in accord with the current Recovery Action Program and/or equivalent recreation plans.
(3) The proposal assures the provision of adequate recreation properties and opportunities of reasonably equivalent usefulness and location. Dependent upon the situation and at the discretion of NPS, the replacement property need not provide identical recreation experiences or be located at the same
site, provided it is in a reasonably equivalent location. It must, however, be administered by the same political jurisdiction as the converted property. Equivalent usefulness and location will be determined based on the following criteria:
(i) Property to be converted must be evaluated in order to determine what recreation needs are being fulfilled by the facilities which exist and the types of recreation resources and opportunities available. The property being proposed for substitution must then be evaluated in a similar manner to determine if it will meet recreation needs which are at least like in magnitude and impact to the user community as the converted site.
(ii) Replacement property need not necessarily be directly adjacent to or close by the converted site. This policy provides the administrative flexibility to determine location recognizing that the property should meet existing public recreation needs. While generally this will involve the selection of a site serving the same community(ies) or area as the converted site, there may be exceptions. For example, if property being converted is in an area undergoing major demographic change and the area has no existing or anticipated future need for recreation facilities, then the project sponsor should seek to locate the substitute area in another location within the jurisdiction.
(4) In the case of assisted sites which are partially rather than wholly converted, the impact of the converted portion on the remainder shall be considered. If such a conversion is approved, the unconverted area must remain recreationally viable or be replaced as well.
(5) The guidelines for environmental evaluation have been satisfactorily completed and considered by NPS during its review of the proposed 1010 action. In cases where the proposed conversion arises from another Federal action, final review of the proposal shall not occur until NPS is assured that all environmental review requirements related to that other action have been met.
(6) State intergovernmental clearinghouse review procedures have been adhered to if the proposed conversion and substitution constitute significant changes to the original grant.
(c)
Amendments for conversion.
All conversions require amendments to the original grant agreement. Amendment requests should be submitted concurrently with conversion requests or at such time as all details of the conversion have been worked out with NPS. Section 1010 project boundary maps shall be submitted with the amendment request to identify the changes to the original area caused by the proposed conversion and to establish a new project area pursuant to the substitution. Once the conversion has been approved, replacement property should be immediately acquired. Exceptions to this rule would occur only when it is not possible for replacement property to be identified prior to the request for the conversion. It will, however, be NPS policy to avoid such a situation if at all possible and to agree only if warranted by exceptional circumstances. In such cases, express commitment to satisfy section 1010 substitution requirements within a specified period, normally not to exceed one year following conversion approval, must be received from the local government agency in the form of a grant amendment.
(d)
Obsolete facilities.
Recipients are not required to continue operation of a particular facility beyond its useful life. However, when a facility is declared obsolete, the site must nonetheless be maintained in public recreation use following discontinuance of the assisted facility. Failure to so maintain is considered to be a conversion. Requests regarding changes from a UPARR funded facility to another otherwise eligible facility at the same site that significantly contravene the original plans for the area must be made in writing to the Regional Director. NPS approval must be obtained prior to the occurrence of the change. NPS approval is not necessarily required, however, for each and every facility use change. Rather, a project area should be viewed in the context of overall use and should be monitored in this context. A change from UPARR-developed tennis courts to basketball courts, for example, would not require NPS approval. A change from a swimming pool
to a less intense area of limited development such as picnic facilities, or vice versa, would, however, require NPS review and approval. To assure that facility changes do not significantly contravene the original project agreement, NPS shall be notified by the recipient of
all
proposed changes in advance of their occurrence. A primary NPS consideration in the review of requests for changes in use will be the consistency of the proposal with the Recovery Action Program and/or equivalent recreation plans. Changes to other than public recreation use require NPS approval and the substitution of replacement land in accordance with section 1010 of the UPARR Act and paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
§ 72.73
Residency requirements.
(a)
Background.
UPARR policy prohibits discrimination on the basis of residence (refer to § 72.65(b)) including preferential reservation or membership systems on properties improved with UPARR assistance. This prohibition applies to both regularly scheduled and special events. The general provisions regarding non-discrimination at sites assisted under Interior programs and, thereby, all other recreation facilities managed by the recipient, are covered in 43 CFR part 17 which implements the provisions of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 for the Department.
(b)
Policy.
There shall be no discrimination for UPARR assisted programs or services on the basis of residence, except in reasonable fee differentials. Post-completion compliance responsibilities of the recipient should continue to ensure that discrimination on the basis of residency is not occurring.
(c)
Fees.
For parks or recreation properties or programs funded with UPARR assistance, fees charged to nonresidents cannot exceed twice that charged to residents. Where there is no charge for residents but a fee is charged to nonresidents, the nonresident fees cannot exceed fees charged at comparable State or local public facilities having fee systems. These fee provisions apply only to the approved 1010 areas applicable to the recipient. Reservation, membership, or annual permit systems available to residents must also be available to nonresidents and the period of availability must be the same for both residents and nonresidents. Recipients are prohibited from providing residents the option of purchasing annual or daily permits while at the same time restricting nonresidents to the purchase of annual permits only.
§§ 72.74-72.75
[Reserved]
Pt. 72, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 72—Criteria for Eligibility
Jurisdictions were considered for eligibility if they were functioning general purpose local governments in one of three categories:
1. Central cities of Standard Metropolitan Statistical Areas in either 1970 or 1976 (1970 data derived from U.S. Bureau of the Census, Census of Population: 1970, 1976 data derived from U.S. Bureau of the Census, 1976 Revenue Sharing Estimates File).
2. Cities and townships with Populations of 40,000 or more in either 1970 or 1976 (1970 data derived from U.S. Bureau of the Census, Census of Population: 1970, 1976 data derived from U.S. Bureau of the Census, 1976 Revenue Sharing Estimates File).
3. Counties with populations of 250,000 or more in either 1970 or 1976 (1970 data derived from U.S. Bureau of the Census, Census of Population: 1970; 1976 data derived from 1976 Revenue Sharing Estimates File).
Indicators (variables) of distress and need were selected to determine eligibility for the program and were chosen for timeliness, reliability, and relevance to the Act. Certain variables were not used due to duplication, others because they were not available for all jurisdictions, and some because they were unrelated to the purposes of the Act. (Section 1002 of the Act states that the Congress finds that (a) the quality of life in urban areas is closely related to the availability of fully functional park and recreation systems including land, facilities, and service programs; (b) residents of cities need close-to-home recreational opportunities that are adequate to specialized urban demands, with parks and facilities properly located, developed, and well maintained; (c) the greatest recreational deficiencies with respect to land, facilities, and programs are found in many large cities, especially at the neighborhood level; (d) inadequate financing of urban recreation programs due to fiscal difficulties in many large cities has led to the deterioration of facilities, nonavailability of recreation services, and an inability to adapt
recreational programs to changing circumstances; and (e) there is no existing Federal assistance program which fully addresses the needs for physical rehabilitation and revitalization of these park and recreation systems.)
The National Park Service asked the Bureau of the Census to assist in the analysis of national data in order to ensure that reliable, timely and applicable indicators of distress were used in determining eligibility for the program. NPS received comments from a number of interested individuals on what they considered, in their best judgment, to be the criteria that should be used in the program. NPS also received numerous position papers from national interest groups on what they thought were suitable indicators for the program. NPS then began a narrowing process intended to select the most appropriate criteria for eligibility in the program.
Listed below are the six variables selected for eligibility criteria:

# Population Per Square Mile
This variable is commonly termed population density, and it is defined as the number of persons per square mile of land. It provides an indication of the extent to which an area is urbanized. Highly urbanized areas are most lacking in land set aside for recreation and park facilities and are experiencing difficulty in maintaining existing facilities. Highly dense areas tend to have the greatest need for assistance in revitalization of their neighborhood park and recreation facilities. Therefore, jurisdictions having high values for density would be favored by this variable, based on 1975 data of the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

# Net Change in Per Capita Income 1969-75
Per capita income is the estimated average amount of total money income per person. It is derived by dividing the total income of a particular group by the total population in that group. Comparison of change in per capita income between urban jurisdictions provides an indication of each jurisdiction's economic growth. If the income of a city is growing more slowly than another city, the city with slower growth is in a relatively weaker economic position. As cited in the “Report on the Fiscal Impact of the Economic Stimulus Package on 48 Large Urban Governments (1978),” income growth is a determinant of taxable wealth and level of economic activity, and indicates a jurisdiction's capability to finance its own recreation and other projects. This measure of financial capacity is related to the Act which stipulates that the Secretary of the Interior consider factors related to economic distress. Therefore, jurisdictions with either negative or low relative growth in per capita income would be favored by this variable, based on 1976 data of the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

# Percent Unemployed, 1977
Percent unemployed, commonly termed the unemployment rate is defined as the number of people unemployed as a percent of the civilian labor force. The unemployment data are the product of a Federal/State cooperative program in which State Employment Security agencies prepare labor force and unemployment estimates using concepts, definitions, and technical procedures established by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The
National Urban Recreation Study
found that recreation and leisure time opportunities are most limited for the economically disadvantaged, including the unemployed. The 17 field studies of the
National Urban Recreation Study
reveal that low-income neighborhoods have less program diversity, little, if any, commercial recreation opportunities, and fewer year-round programs than higher income neighborhoods. Consideration of this variable is consistent with the mandate of the Act which requires that criteria be considered related to physical and economic distress. Therefore, this variable would tend to favor jurisdictions having high unemployment rates.

# Percent of Households Without Automobiles Available, 1970
Automobile availability, as defined by the Bureau of the Census, represents the number of passenger automobiles, including station wagons, which are owned or regularly used by any member of the household and which are ordinarily kept at home. Taxicabs, pickups, or larger trucks were not counted. Lack of automobile availability is closely related to lack of recreation opportunity. The Recreation Access Study (U.S. Department of Transportation, 1975) found that access to a diversity of recreation opportunities is generally assured for those who have automobiles and are willing to travel reasonable distances, but such opportunities are often severely limited for people without cars. In addition, the 17 field studies of the
National Urban Recreation Study
concluded that most recreation opportunities for those without access to a personal auto is limited to immediate neighborhoods or place of residence. This variable is relevant to the Act in that the transportation disadvantaged households are the group that has the greatest need for expanded opportunities to enjoy their close to home resources.
Therefore, jurisdictions having a high proportion of households without automobiles would be favored by this variable, based on 1970 data of the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

# Total Population Under 18 Years of Age, and 60 Years and Over, 1970
This variable identifies those persons most likely to be the most frequent users of public park and recreation facilities. While many senior citizens have adequate incomes, they tend to be considerably less affluent and less mobile than the general population. Younger and older children also need public recreation facilities, especially in highly urbanized areas, where recreation facilities are most lacking. This variable was selected to favor areas with greater concentrations of the dependent population where need for recreation would be the greatest, and where rehabilitation of existing facilities the most pressing, in accordance with the Act. The variable was used in its absolute rate to give an indication of the size of the client populations in each jurisdiction, based on 1970 data of the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

# Percent Persons With Income Below 125 Percent Poverty Level, 1970
In 1970, percent of population below poverty level was calculated by the Bureau of the Census as the proportion of the total population which reported income below the poverty level. This variable is the most current available indicator of poverty status for the jurisdictions in question. To accommodate the needs of economically disadvantaged people whose incomes are somewhat above the poverty level, such as those employed part-time, or those in very low-paid jobs, persons with incomes up to 125% of poverty are included in this variable. The poor and near-poor have the greatest need for public recreation opportunities and services in proximity to their homes. This variable is also related to that part of the Act which stipulates that the Secretary of the Interior consider “deficiencies in access to neighborhood recreation facilities, particularly for . . . low- and moderate-income residents,” and the extent to which park and recreation recovery efforts would provide employment opportunities for low- and moderate-income residents. Rehabilitation of parks is a relatively labor intensive activity having the potential for providing short-term jobs with low-skill requirements. Persons with poverty level incomes tend to lack skills and jobs. Therefore, this variable was selected to favor jurisdictions having a large percentage of its population in poverty. The poverty level of income is based on an index developed by the Social Security Administration in 1964 and subsequently modified by a Federal Interagency Committee. In 1969, the poverty thresholds ranged from $1,487 for a female unrelated individual 65 years old and over living on a farm to $6,116 for a nonfarm family with a male head and with seven or more persons. The average poverty threshold for a nonfarm family of four headed by a male was $3,745.

# Determination of Eligibility
The method used to combine the variables had four steps. First, all values for each of the six variables were expressed in common or standard units. Second, for each jurisdiction, the standardized values for the six variables were added to produce a score. Third, the scores were ranked from high values (most eligible) to low values (least eligible). Fourth jurisdictions having scores above the median score for all jurisdictions were designated “eligible.”

# County Eligibility
The Administration stated before the Senate Subcommittee on Parks and Recreation on June 27, 1978, that it would ensure fair consideration of urban counties for eligibility under the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Program. The Administration has kept this commitment by subjecting urban county data to the same eligibility standards as cities and including urban counties which meet those standards on the eligibility list. All urban counties with a population over 250,000 were considered under the same criteria (indicators of distress and need) as the city counterparts. Counties within and SMSA not on the eligibility list may compete for assistance as discretionary applicants.
The history of the Administration's UPARR proposal clearly indicates that this program is part of an overall national urban policy. Therefore, in accordance with the legislative mandate, project selection criteria will require that county projects be justified in terms of direct service to identifiable urban neighborhoods (residential areas), and that there must be evidence of cooperation between a county and its major city.

# Discretionary Grants
Section 1005(b) of the Bill states that at the Secretary's discretion, up to 15 percent of the program funds annually may be granted to local governments which do not meet eligibility criteria, but are located in Standard Metropolitan Statistical Areas, provided that these grants to general purpose governments are in accord with the intent of the program. These governments may apply for grants under the program regardless of whether or not they are included on the list of eligible jurisdictions.
[44 FR 58091, Oct. 9, 1979. Redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981, and correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981]
Pt. 72, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 72—List of Eligible Jurisdictions
The following are those jurisdictions eligible for the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Program:

# Cities Eligible for the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Program
Akron, Ohio
Albany, Georgia
Albany, New York
Alexandria, Louisiana
Alhambra, California
Allentown, Pennsylvania
Altoona, Pennsylvania
Aguadilla, Puerto Rico
Anniston, Alabama
Arecibo, Puerto Rico
Asbury Park, New Jersey
Asheville, North Carolina
Athens, Georgia
Atlanta, Georgia
Atlantic City, New Jersey
Auburn, Maine
Augusta, Georgia
Babylon Township, New York
Baldwin Park, California
Baltimore, Maryland
Baton Rouge, Louisiana
Battle Creek, Michigan
Bayamon, Puerto Rico
Bay City, Michigan
Bayonne, New Jersey
Bellflower, California
Bellingham, Washington
Berkeley, California
Biloxi, Mississippi
Binghamton, New York
Birmingham, Alabama
Bloomfield, New Jersey
Bloomington, Indiana
Boston, Massachusetts
Bradenton, Florida
Bridgeport, Connecticut
Bridgeton, New Jersey
Bristol, Tennessee
Brockton, Massachusetts
Brookline Township, Massachusetts
Brownsville, Texas
Buffalo, New York
Caguas, Puerto Rico
Cambridge, Massachusetts
Camden, New Jersey
Canton, Ohio
Carolina, Puerto Rico
Carson, California
Cayey, Puerto Rico
Charleston, South Carolina
Charlottesville, Virginia
Chattanooga, Tennessee
Chester, Pennsylvania
Chicago, Illinois
Chicago Heights, Illinois
Chicopee, Massachusetts
Chula Vista, California
Cicero, Illinois
Cincinnati, Ohio
Clarksville, Tennessee
Cleveland, Ohio
Cocoa, Florida
Columbia, South Carolina
Columbus, Georgia
Columbus, Ohio
Compton, California
Corpus Christi, Texas
Covington, Kentucky
Danville, Illinois
Danville, Virginia
Dayton, Ohio
Daytona Beach, Florida
Denison, Texas
Denver, Colorado
Detroit, Michigan
District of Columbia
Dothan, Alabama
Duluth, Minnesota
Durham, North Carolina
East Chicago, Indiana
East Lansing, Michigan
East Orange, New Jersey
East Providence, Rhode Island
East St. Louis, Illinois
Easton, Pennsylvania
Edinburg, Texas
El Monte, California
El Paso, Texas
Elizabeth, New Jersey
Elmira, New York
Erie, Pennsylvania
Evanston, Illinois
Evansville, Indiana
Everett, Massachusetts
Everett, Washington
Fall River, Massachusetts
Fayetteville, North Carolina
Fitchburg, Massachusetts
Flint, Michigan
Florence, Alabama
Ft. Myers, Florida
Freeport, New York
Fresno, California
Gadsden, Alabama
Gainesville, Florida
Galveston, Texas
Gary, Indiana
Gastonia, North Carolina
Grand Rapids, Michigan
Granite City, Illinois
Greenville, Mississippi
Greenville, South Carolina
Guayama, Puerto Rico
Guaynabo, Puerto Rico
Gulfport, Mississippi
Hamilton, Ohio
Harlingen, Texas
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
Hartford, Connecticut
Hattiesburg, Mississippi
Haverhill, Massachusetts
Hawthorne, California
Hazelton, Pennsylvania
Hemstead Township, New York
Hialeah, Florida
High Point, North Carolina
Hoboken, New Jersey
Holyoke, Massachusetts
Hopkinsville, Kentucky
Humacao, Puerto Rico
Huntington, West Virginia
Indianapolis, Indiana
Inglewood, California
Irvington, New Jersey
Jackson, Michigan
Jackson, Mississippi
Jackson, Tennessee
Jacksonville, Florida
Jersey City, New Jersey
Johnson City, Tennessee
Johnstown, Pennsylvania
Joplin, Missouri
Juana Diaz, Puerto Rico
Kalamazoo, Michigan
Kankakee, Illinois
Kansas City, Kansas
Kansas City, Missouri
Kenner, Louisiana
Kenosha, Wisconsin
Killeen, Texas
Knoxville, Tennessee
Kokomo, Indiana
La Crosse, Wisconsin
Lafayette, Louisiana
Lake Charles, Louisiana
Lakeland, Florida
Lakewood, Ohio
Lancaster, Pennsylvania
Lansing, Michigan
Laredo, Texas
Las Cruces, New Mexico
Lawrence, Massachusetts
Lawton, Oklahoma
Lewiston, Maine
Lima, Ohio
Lompoc, California
Long Beach, California
Long Branch, New Jersey
Los Angeles, California
Louisville, Kentucky
Lowell, Massachusetts
Lynchburg, Virginia
Lynn, Massachusetts
Lynwood, California
Macon, Georgia
Maiden, Massachusetts
Manchester, New Hampshire
Mansfield, Ohio
Marietta, Ohio
Marion, Indiana
Marshall, Texas
Mayaguez, Puerto Rico
McAllen, Texas
Medford, Massachusetts
Melbourne, Florida
Memphis, Tennessee
Meriden, Connecticut
Meridian, Mississippi
Miami, Florida
Miami Beach, Florida
Middletown, Ohio
Millville, New Jersey
Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Minneapolis, Minnesota
Mobile, Alabama
Modesto, California
Monroe, Louisiana
Montgomery, Alabama
Moss Point, Mississippi
Mount Vernon, New York
Muncie, Indiana
Muskegon, Michigan
Muskegon Heights, Michigan
Muskogee, Oklahoma
National City, California
New Bedford, Massachusetts
New Britain, Connecticut
New Brunswick, New Jersey
New Haven, Connecticut
New London, Connecticut
New Orleans, Louisiana
New Rochelle, New York
New York, New York
Newark, New Jersey
Newark, Ohio
Newport News, Virginia
Niagara Falls, New York
Norfolk, Virginia
North Bergen Township, New Jersey
North Chicago, Illinois
Norwalk, California
Norwich, Connecticut
Oak Park, Illinois
Oakland, California
Oceanside, California
Ogden, Utah
Omaha, Nebraska
Ontario, California
Orange, Texas
Orlando, Florida
Oshkosh, Wisconsin
Oxnard, California
Panama City, Florida
Parkersburg, West Virginia
Pasco, Washington
Passaic, New Jersey
Paterson, New Jersey
Pawtucket, Rhode Island
Pensacola, Florida
Perth Amboy, New Jersey
Petersburg, Virginia
Pharr, Texas
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Phoenix, Arizona
Pico Rivera, California
Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Pittsfield, Massachusetts
Plainfield, New Jersey
Pomona, California
Ponce, Puerto Rico
Pontiac, Michigan
Port Arthur, Texas
Portland, Maine
Portland, Oregon
Portsmouth, Virginia
Poughkeepsie, New York
Pritchard, Alabama
Providence, Rhode Island
Provo, Utah
Pueblo, Colorado
Quincy, Illinois
Quincy, Massachusetts
Rantoul, Illinois
Reading, Pennsylvania
Revere, Massachusetts
Richmond, California
Richmond, Indiana
Richmond, Virginia
Roanoke, Virginia
Rochester, New York
Rome, New York
Rosemead, California
Sacramento, California
Saginaw, Michigan
St. Joseph, Missouri
St. Louis, Missouri
St. Paul, Minnesota
St. Petersburg, Florida
Salem, Massachusetts
Salinas, California
San Antonio, Texas
San Benito, Texas
San Bernardino, California
San Diego, California
San Francisco, California
San Juan, Puerto Rico
Santa Ana, California
Santa Cruz, California
Santa Fe, New Mexico
Santa Maria, California
Santa Monica, California
Sarasota, Florida
Savannah, Georgia
Schenectady, New York
Scranton, Pennsylvania
Seaside, California
Seattle, Washington
Shreveport, Louisiana
Somerville, Massachusetts
South Gate, California
Spartanburg, South Carolina
Spokane, Washington
Springfield, Massachusetts
Springfield, Ohio
Springfield, Oregon
Steubenville, Ohio
Stockton, California
Suffolk, Virginia
Superior, Wisconsin
Syracuse, New York
Tacoma, Washington
Tampa, Florida
Taunton, Massachusetts
Terre Haute, Indiana
Texarkana, Arkansas
Texarkana, Texas
Titusville, Florida
Toa Baja, Puerto Rico
Toledo, Ohio
Trenton, New Jersey
Troy, New York
Trujillo Alto, Puerto Rico
Tucson, Arizona
Tuscaloosa, Alabama
Union City, New Jersey
Upper Darby Township, Pennsylvania
Urbana, Illinois
Utica, New Jersey
Vega Baja, Puerto Rico
Vineland, New Jersey
Waco, Texas
Waltham, Massachusetts
Warren, Ohio
Waterbury, Connecticut
West Haven, Connecticut
West New York, New Jersey
West Palm Beach, Florida
Wheeling, West Virginia
Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania
Williamsport, Pennsylvania
Wilmington, Delaware
Wilmington, North Carolina
Winston-Salem, North Carolina
Winter Haven, Florida
Woonsocket, Rhode Island
Worcester, Massachusetts
Wyandotte, Michigan
Yakima, Washington
Yauco, Puerto Rico
Yonkers, New York
York, Pennsylvania
Youngstown, Ohio

# Counties Eligible for the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Program
Alameda Co., California
Allegheny Co., Pennsylvania
Bernalillo Co., New Mexico
Bexar Co., Texas
Bristol Co., Massachusetts
Camden Co., New Jersey
Charleston Co., South Carolina
Cook Co., Illinois
Cuyahoga Co., Ohio
Dade Co., Florida
El Paso Co., Texas
Erie Co., New York
Essex Co., Massachusetts
Essex Co., New Jersey
Franklin Co., Ohio
Fresno Co., California
Fulton Co., Georgia
Hamilton Co., Ohio
Hamilton Co., Tennessee
Hampden Co., Massachusetts
Hillsborough Co., Florida
Hudson Co., New Jersey
Jackson Co., Missouri
Jefferson Co., Alabama
Kern Co., California
Los Angeles Co., California
Lucas Co., Ohio
Luzerne Co., Pennsylvania
Mahoning Co., Ohio
Maricopa Co., Arizona
Middlesex Co., Massachusetts
Milwaukee Co., Wisconsin
Mobile Co., Alabama
Nassau Co., New York
Nueces Co., Texas
Oneida Co., New York
Onondaga Co., New York
Orange Co., Florida
Passaic Co., New Jersey
Pinellas Co., Florida
Plymouth Co., Massachusetts
Polk Co., Florida
Riverside Co., California
St. Clair Co., Illinois
San Bernardino Co., California
San Diego Co., California
San Joaquin Co., California
Shelby Co., Tennessee
Sonoma Co., California
Suffolk Co., New York
Wayne Co., Michigan
Worcester Co., Massachusetts
[44 FR 58091, Oct. 9, 1979. Redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981, and correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981, and amended at 47 FR 15137, Apr. 8, 1982]
Pt. 73

# PART 73—WORLD HERITAGE CONVENTION
Sec.
73.1
Purpose.
73.3
Definitions.
73.5
Authority.
73.7
World Heritage Nomination process.
73.9
World Heritage criteria.
73.11
Federal Interagency Panel for World Heritage.
73.13
Protection of U.S. World Heritage properties.
73.15
International World Heritage activities.
73.17
Public information and education activities.

# Authority:
94 Stat. 3000; 16 U.S.C. 470 a-1, a-2, d.

# Source:
47 FR 23397, May 27, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 73.1
Purpose.
The purpose of these rules is to set forth the policies and procedures that the Department of the Interior, through the National Park Service (NPS), uses to direct and coordinate U.S. participation in the Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, which was ratified by the Senate on October 26, 1973. The rules describe the procedures used to implement the Convention under the National Historic Preservation Act Amendments of 1980. The purpose of the World Heritage Convention is to enhance worldwide understanding and appreciation of heritage conservation, and to recognize and preserve natural and cultural properties throughout the world that have outstanding universal value to mankind.
§ 73.3
Definitions.
Cultural Heritage
—Article 1 of the Convention defines “Cultural Heritage” as:
Monuments: architectural works, works of monumental sculpture and painting, elements or structures of an archaeological nature, inscriptions, cave dwellings, and combinations of features, which are of outstanding universal value from the point of view of history, art, or science;
Groups of buildings: groups of separate or connected buildings which, because of their architecture, their homogeneity or their place in the landscape, are of outstanding universal value from the point of view of history, art, or science; and
Sites: works of man or the combined works of nature and of man, and areas including archaeological sites which are of outstanding universal value from the historical, aesthetic, ethnological, or anthropological points of view.
Natural Heritage
—Article 2 of the Convention defines “Natural Heritage” as:
Natural features, consisting of physical and biological formations or groups of such
formations, which are of outstanding universal value from the aesthetic or scientific point of view;
Geological and physiographical formations and precisely delineated areas which constitute the habitat of threatened species of animals and plants of outstanding universal value from the point of view of science or conservation; and
Natural sites or precisely delineated natural areas of outstanding universal value from the point of view of science, conservation, or natural beauty.
Intergovernmental Committee for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage,
or
World Heritage Committee,
means the Committee established by Article 8 of the Convention and assisted by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). It is composed of 21 nations participating in the Convention, and is responsible for implementing the Convention at the international level. Countries represented on the Committee are elected by participating nations and serve for three sessions of the UNESCO General Conference (six years). The Committee establishes criteria which properties must satisfy for inclusion on the World Heritage List, sets policy and procedures, and approves properties for inclusion on the World Heritage List.
World Heritage Convention,
or
Convention,
means the Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, ratified by the U.S. Senate on October 26, 1973.
World Heritage List,
means the List established by Article 11 of the Convention which includes those cultural and natural properties judged to possess outstanding universal value for mankind.
UNESCO,
means the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, which provides staff support for the Convention and its implementation.
Assistant Secretary,
means the Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks, U.S. Department of the Interior, or the designee authorized to carry out the Assistant Secretary's responsibilities.
Department,
means the U.S. Department of the Interior.
Federal Interagency Panel for World Heritage,
or
Panel,
means the Panel consisting of representatives from the Office of the Assistant Secretary, the National Park Service, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service within the Department of the Interior; the President's Council on Environmental Quality; the Smithsonian Institution; the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation; the Department of Commerce; and the Department of State.
Owner,
means the individual(s) or organization(s) of record that own private land that is being nominated for World Heritage status, or the head of the public agency, or subordinate to whom such authority has been delegated, responsible for administering public land that is being nominated for World Heritage status.
Owner concurrence,
means the concurrence of all owners of any property interest that is part of the World Heritage nomination.
[47 FR 23397, May 27, 1982, as amended at 62 FR 30235, June 3, 1997]
§ 73.5
Authority.
The policies and procedures contained herein are based on the authority of the Secretary of the Interior under title IV of the National Historic Preservation Act Amendments of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-515; 94 Stat. 3000; 16 U.S.C. 470a-1, a-2) which directs the Secretary to ensure and direct U.S. participation in the Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, approved by the U.S. Senate on October 26, 1973, in cooperation with the Secretary of State, the Smithsonian Institution, and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
§ 73.7
World Heritage nomination process.
(a)
What is the U.S. World Heritage nomination process?
(1) The Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks (“Assistant Secretary”) is the designated official who conducts the United States World Heritage Program and periodically nominates properties to the World Heritage List on behalf of the United States. The National Park Service (NPS) provides staff support to the Assistant Secretary.
(2) The Assistant Secretary initiates the process for identifying candidate properties for the World Heritage List
and subsequently preparing, evaluating, and approving U.S. nominations for them by publishing a First Notice in the
Federal Register.
This notice includes a list of candidate sites (formally known as the Indicative Inventory of Potential Future U.S. World Heritage nominations) and requests that public and private sources recommend properties for nomination.
(3) The Assistant Secretary, with advice from the Federal Interagency Panel for World Heritage (“Panel”), may propose for possible nomination a limited number of properties from the Indicative Inventory.
(4) Property owners, in cooperation with NPS, voluntarily prepare a detailed nomination document for their property that has been proposed for nomination. The Panel reviews the accuracy and completeness of draft nominations, and makes recommendations on them to the Assistant Secretary.
(5) The Assistant Secretary decides whether to nominate any of the proposed properties and transmits approved United States nominations, through the Department of State, to the World Heritage Committee to be considered for addition to the World Heritage List.
(b)
What requirements must a U.S. property meet to be considered for nomination to the World Heritage List?
A property in the United States must satisfy the following requirements established by law and one or more of the World Heritage Criteria before the Assistant Secretary can consider it for World Heritage nomination:
(1) The property must be nationally significant. For the purposes of this section, a property qualifies as “nationally significant” if it is:
(i) A property that the Secretary of the Interior has designated as a National Historic Landmark (36 CFR part 65) or a National Natural Landmark (36 CFR part 62) under provisions of the 1935 Historic Sites Act (Public Law 74-292; 49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461
et seq.
);
(ii) An area the United States Congress has established as nationally significant; or
(iii) An area the President has proclaimed as a National Monument under the Antiquities Act of 1906 (16 U.S.C. 433).
(2) The property's owner(s) must concur in writing to the nomination.
(i) If a unit of United States government (Federal, State, and/or local) owns or controls the property, a letter from the owner(s) demonstrates concurrence.
(ii) If private parties own or control the property, they must provide the protection agreement outlined in § 73.13(c).
(iii) All owners must concur before the Assistant Secretary can include their property within a World Heritage nomination. For example, a responsible Federal management official can concur for the unit, but cannot concur for any non-Federal property interest within the boundaries of the unit. NPS will seek the concurrence of those who own or control any non-Federal property interest if we determine that the property interest is integral to the entire property's outstanding universal values.
(3) The nomination document must include evidence of such legal protections as may be necessary to ensure the preservation of the property and its environment. Section 73.13 identifies the distinct protection requirements for public and private properties.
(c)
How does the U.S. World Heritage nomination process begin?
The Assistant Secretary, through the NPS, will periodically publish a First Notice in the
Federal Register
to begin the U.S. World Heritage nomination process. This notice, among other things:
(1) Sets forth the schedule and procedures for identifying proposed U.S. nominations to the World Heritage List. It includes specific deadlines for receipt of suggestions and comments, and for preparing and approving nomination documents for properties proposed as U.S. nominations;
(2) Includes the Indicative Inventory of Potential Future U.S. World Heritage Nominations (Indicative Inventory), solicits recommendations on which properties on it should be nominated, and requests suggestions of properties that should be considered for addition to it; and
(3) Identifies any special requirements that properties must satisfy to be considered for nomination.
(d)
What is the Indicative Inventory and how is it used?
(1) The World Heritage Convention (Article 11) requests each signatory nation to submit a list of candidate sites for the World Heritage List. These lists are also known as tentative lists, or Indicative Inventories. The NPS compiles and maintains the U.S. Indicative Inventory, which is formally known as the Indicative Inventory of Potential Future U.S. World Heritage Nominations. It is a list of cultural and natural properties located in the United States that, based on preliminary examination, appear to qualify for the World Heritage List and that the United States may consider for nomination to the List.
(2) Inclusion of a property on the Indicative Inventory does not confer World Heritage status on it, but merely indicates that the Assistant Secretary may further examine the property for possible nomination. The Assistant Secretary selects proposed nominations from among the potential future nominations included on the Indicative Inventory. Thus, the Assistant Secretary uses the Indicative Inventory as the basis for selecting United States nominations, and it provides a comparative framework within which to judge the outstanding universal value of a property. Any agency, organization, or individual may recommend additional properties, with accompanying documentation, for inclusion on the Indicative Inventory. Ordinarily, a property must have been listed on the Indicative Inventory before the Assistant Secretary can consider it for nomination.
(3) The Assistant Secretary, in cooperation with the Panel and other sources as appropriate, decides whether to include a recommended property on the Indicative Inventory. If a property is included, NPS will list it the next time we publish the Indicative Inventory in the
Federal Register.
The Assistant Secretary periodically transmits a copy of the Indicative Inventory, including documentation on each property's location and significance, to the World Heritage Committee for use in evaluation of nominations.
(e)
How are U.S. World Heritage nominations proposed?
(1) After the First Notice's comment period expires, NPS compiles all suggestions and comments. The Assistant Secretary then reviews the comments and suggestions and works in cooperation with the Federal Interagency Panel for World Heritage to decide whether to identify any properties as proposed U.S. nominations. In addition to how well the property satisfies the World Heritage criteria (§ 73.9) and the legislative requirements outlined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Assistant Secretary may consider:
(i) How well the particular type of property (i.e., theme or region) is represented on the World Heritage List;
(ii) The balance between cultural and natural properties already on the List and those under consideration;
(iii) Opportunities that the property affords for public visitation, interpretation, and education;
(iv) Potential threats to the property's integrity or its current state of preservation; and
(v) Other relevant factors, including public interest and awareness of the property.
(2) Selection as a proposed nomination indicates that a property appears to qualify for World Heritage status and that the Assistant Secretary will encourage the preparation of a complete nomination document for the property.
(f)
Who is notified when U.S. World Heritage nominations are proposed?
(1) The Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks publishes notice of decisions on proposed U.S. nominations in the
Federal Register
(Second Notice). If any properties are identified as proposed nominations, the Assistant Secretary also notifies the following parties in writing:
(i) The owner(s) of lands or interests of land that are to be included in the nomination; and
(ii) The House Resources Committee and the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
(2) The Second Notice advises the recipients of the proposed action, references these rules, and sets forth the process for preparing a nomination. NPS also prepares and issues a press release on the proposed nomination.
(g)
How is a U.S. World Heritage Nomination prepared?
NPS coordinates arrangements for the preparation of a complete nomination document for each proposed property. If you are a property owner(s), you, in cooperation with NPS, are responsible for preparing the draft nomination and for gathering documentation in support of it. NPS oversees the preparation of the nomination and ensures that it follows the procedures contained in these rules and the format and procedural guidelines established by the World Heritage Committee. Each nomination is prepared according to the schedule set forth in the First Notice.
(h)
How is a draft U.S. World Heritage nomination evaluated?
The draft nomination document serves as the basis for the Assistant Secretary's decision to nominate the property to the World Heritage Committee. NPS coordinates the review and evaluation of draft World Heritage nominations. We distribute copies to all members of the Federal Interagency Panel for World Heritage and request comments regarding the significance of the property and the adequacy of the draft nomination. Afterward, we compile the recommendations and comments received from the members of the Panel.
(i)
How is a U.S. World Heritage nomination approved and submitted?
(1) The Assistant Secretary, based on personal evaluation and the recommendations from the Panel, may nominate a property that appears to meet the World Heritage criteria to the World Heritage Committee on behalf of the United States. The Assistant Secretary sends an approved nomination document, through the Department of State, to the World Heritage Committee. The nomination document should be transmitted so that the World Heritage Committee receives it before the deadline established for any given year.
(2) Nomination by the United States does not place a property on the World Heritage List. The World Heritage Committee must consider and approve the nomination, usually at a meeting during the year following its nomination, before it is inscribed as a World Heritage Site.
(j)
Who is notified when a U.S. property has been nominated to the World Heritage List?
(1) Upon approving a nomination, the Assistant Secretary notifies the following parties in writing (Third Notice):
(i) The owner(s) of land or interests in land that are included in the nomination;
(ii) The House Resources Committee; and
(iii) The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
(2) The Assistant Secretary also publishes notice of the United States World Heritage nomination in the
Federal Register.
In addition, NPS issues a press release on the nomination.
[66 FR 57880, Nov. 19, 2001]
§ 73.9
World Heritage criteria.
(a)
What are the World Heritage criteria and how are they applied?
The World Heritage Committee uses the following criteria to evaluate cultural and natural properties nominated to the World Heritage List. To qualify for addition to the World Heritage List, sites must meet one or more of the criteria. For information on how to apply the criteria, you should consult their annotated text in the Operational Guidelines for the World Heritage Convention. The Operational Guidelines are published periodically by the World Heritage Centre. You may obtain copies of the World Heritage Convention, the Operational Guidelines, and other program information upon request to the Office of International Affairs of the National Park Service, 1849 C Street, NW., Room 2242, Washington, DC 20240. The World Heritage Convention and the Operational Guidelines are also posted on the World Heritage Centre's Web site at
www.unesco.org/whc.
(b)
What are the cultural criteria?
The criteria for the inclusion of cultural properties in the World Heritage List should always be seen in relation to one another and should be considered in the context of the definition set out in Article 1 of the Convention. A monument, group of buildings or site—as defined in Article 1 of the Convention—which is nominated for inclusion in the World Heritage List will be considered to be of outstanding universal value for the purpose of the Convention when the Committee finds that it meets one
or more of the following criteria and the test of authenticity:
(1) Each property nominated should therefore:
(i) Represent a masterpiece of human creative genius; or
(ii) Exhibit an important interchange of human values, over a span of time or within a cultural area of the world, on developments in architecture or technology, monumental arts, town-planning or landscape design; or
(iii) Bear a unique or at least exceptional testimony to a cultural tradition or to a civilization which is living or which has disappeared; or
(iv) Be an outstanding example of a type of building or architectural or technological ensemble or landscape which illustrates a significant stage(s) in human history; or
(v) Be an outstanding example of a traditional human settlement or land-use which is representative of a culture (or cultures), especially when it has become vulnerable under the impact of irreversible change; or
(vi) Be directly or tangibly associated with events or living traditions, with ideas, or with beliefs, with artistic and literary works of outstanding universal significance (the Committee considers that this criterion should justify inclusion in the List only in exceptional circumstances and in conjunction with other criteria cultural or natural).
(2) In addition to the criteria in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(vi) of this section, the sites should also meet the test of authenticity in design, material, workmanship or setting and in the case of cultural landscapes their distinctive character and components (the Committee stressed that reconstruction is only acceptable if it is carried out on the basis of complete and detailed documentation on the original and to no extent on conjecture) and have adequate legal and/or contractual and/or traditional protection and management mechanisms to ensure the conservation of the nominated cultural properties or cultural landscapes.
(c)
What are the natural criteria?
A natural heritage property—as defined in Article 2 of the Convention—which is submitted for inclusion in the World Heritage List will be considered to be of outstanding universal value for the purposes of the Convention when the Committee finds that it meets one or more of the following criteria specified by the Operational Guidelines and fulfills the conditions of integrity:
(1) Sites nominated should therefore:
(i) Be outstanding examples representing major stages of earth's history, including the record of life, significant on-going geological processes in the development of landforms, or significant geomorphic or physiographic features; or
(ii) Be outstanding examples representing significant on-going ecological and biological processes in the evolution and development of terrestrial, fresh water, coastal and marine ecosystems and communities of plants and animals; or
(iii) Contain superlative natural phenomena or areas of exceptional natural beauty and aesthetic importance; or
(iv) Contain the most important and significant natural habitats for in-situ conservation of biological diversity, including those containing threatened species of outstanding universal value from the point of view of science or conservation.
(2) In addition to the criteria in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this section, the sites should also fulfill the following conditions of integrity:
(i) The sites described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section should contain all or most of the key interrelated and interdependent elements in their natural relationships.
(ii) The sites described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section should have sufficient size and contain the necessary elements to demonstrate the key aspects of processes that are essential for the long-term conservation of the ecosystems and the biological diversity they contain.
(iii) The sites described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section should be of outstanding aesthetic value and include areas that are essential for maintaining the beauty of the site.
(iv) The sites described in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section should contain habitats for maintaining the most diverse fauna and flora characteristic of the biogeographic province and ecosystems under consideration.
(3) The sites should have a management plan. When a site does not have a management plan at the time when it is nominated for the consideration of the World Heritage Committee, the State Party concerned should indicate when such a plan will become available and how it proposes to mobilize the resources required for the preparation and implementation of the plan. The State Party should also provide other document(s) (e.g. operational plans) which will guide the management of the site until such time when a management plan is finalized.
[66 FR 57881, Nov. 19, 2001]
§ 73.11
Federal Interagency Panel for World Heritage.
(a)
Responsibilities.
The Federal Interagency Panel for World Heritage is established to advise the Department of the Interior on implementation of the World Heritage Convention. Among other things, the panel assists in the following activities:
(1) The development of policy and procedures for effectively implementing the Convention in the U.S.;
(2) The evaluation of draft U.S. nomination documents;
(3) The making of recommendations for approval of U.S. nominations;
(4) The dissemination of information on the Convention within other Federal agencies; and
(5) The promotion of increased awareness and understanding of the importance of heritage conservation.
(b)
Composition.
(1) The Federal Interagency Panel for World Heritage is composed of representatives, named by their respective agencies, from the following agencies and offices:
(i) The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks, U.S. Department of the Interior;
(ii) The National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior;
(iii) The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Department of the Interior;
(iv) The President's Council on Environmental Quality;
(v) The Smithsonian Institution;
(vi) The Advisory Council on Historic Preservation;
(vii) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce; and
(viii) The Department of State.
(2) Additional representatives from other Federal agencies with mandates and expertise in heritage conservation may be requested to participate in the Panel from time to time.
(3) The Assistant Secretary, or his/her designee, chairs the Panel, and sets its agenda and schedule. The NPS provides staff support to the Panel.
§ 73.13
Protection of U.S. World Heritage properties.
(a)
Requirements.
(1) Article 5 of the Convention mandates that each participating nation shall take, insofar as possible, the appropriate legal, scientific, technical, administrative, and financial measures necessary for the identification, protection, conservation, preservation, and rehabilitation of properties of outstanding universal value; and
(2) Title IV of Pub. L. 96-515 requires that no non-Federal property may be nominated to the World Heritage List unless its owner concurs in writing to such nomination. The nomination document for each property must include evidence of such legal protections as may be necessary to ensure preservation of the property and its environment, including, for example, restrictive covenants, easements, and other forms of protection (16 U.S.C. 470a-1).
(b)
Protection Measures for Public Properties.
For properties owned or controlled by Federal, State, and/or local governments, the following items satisfy the protection requirements outlined in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Written concurrence by the owner prior to nomination;
(2) The nomination document must include reference to:
(i) All legislation establishing or preserving the area; and
(ii) All existing and proposed administrative measures, including management plans, that would ensure continued satisfactory maintenance of the property and its environment; and
(3) A written statement by the owner(s) that such protection measures satisfy the requirements outlined in (a) above.
(c)
Protection Measures for Private Properties.
For properties owned or controlled by private organizations or individuals, the following items satisfy the protection requirements outlined in (a) of this section.
(1) A written covenant executed by the owner(s) prohibiting, in perpetuity, any use that is not consistent with, or which threatens or damages the property's universally significant values, or other trust or legal arrangement that has that effect; and
(2) The opinion of counsel on the legal status and enforcement of such a prohibition, including, but not limited to, enforceability by the Federal government or by interested third parties.
In addition, if the owner(s) is willing, a right of first refusal may be given for acquisition of the property, along with a guaranteed source of funding and appropriate management framework, in the event of any proposed sale, succession, voluntary or involuntary transfer, or in the unlikely event that the requirements outlined above prove to be inadequate to ensure the preservation of the property's outstanding universal value. The protection measures for each private property being considered for possible nomination to the World Heritage List will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to ensure that the requirements set forth above fulfill the mandate of Pub. L. 96-515.
§ 73.15
International World Heritage activities.
(a) The Assistant Secretary, and other officials as appropriate, may represent the U.S. at meetings of the World Heritage Committee, the Bureau of the World Heritage Committee, or other international organizations or agencies which have activities that relate to World Heritage.
(b) In furtherance of Article 6 of the Convention and to the extent that resources permit, the Department will encourage and provide international assistance to other nations in activities relating to the identification, protection, conservation, and preservation of cultural and natural properties. The Secretary, or his designee, may develop and make available to other nations and international organizations training in, and information concerning, professional methods and techniques for the preservation of historic and natural properties (16 U.S.C. 470d; 16 U.S.C. 1537).
(c) NPS staff, in conjunction with the Federal Interagency Panel for World Heritage, provide support for the Assistant Secretary's international activities, including the preparation of documentation, briefing papers, and position statements.
(d) The Assistant Secretary responds, on behalf of the U.S., to requests from the World Heritage Committee, international heritage conservation organizations, or other nations regarding U.S. participation in the World Heritage Convention.
§ 73.17
Public information and education activities.
(a) To the extent that time and resources permit, owners of U.S. properties approved for inclusion on the World Heritage List are encouraged to publicize the status of the property, through appropriate signs, plaques, brochures, public dedication ceremonies, and interpretive displays or programs.
(b) The Department, through the NPS, may provide guidance to owners of U.S. World Heritage properties in developing publicity, educational, and/or interpretive programs.
(c) The NPS is responsible for developing and distributing general information materials on the World Heritage Convention, including brochures, slideshows, lectures, or other presentations in order to strengthen appreciation and understanding of the importance of World Heritage as set forth in Article 27 of the Convention.
PARTS 74-77 [RESERVED]
Pt. 78

# PART 78—WAIVER OF FEDERAL AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES UNDER SECTION 110 OF THE NATIONAL HISTORIC PRESERVATION ACT
Sec.
78.1
Authorization.
78.2
Definitions.
78.3
Federal Agency decision to waive responsibilities.
78.4
Federal Agency notice.
78.5
Review by the Secretary of the Interior.

# Authority:
National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 470
et. seq.

# Source:
50 FR 7590, Feb. 25, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 78.1
Authorization.
Section 110 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (“Act”), sets forth certain responsibilities of Federal agencies in carrying out the purposes of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966. Subsection 110(j) authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to promulgate regulations under which the requirements in section 110 may be waived in whole or in part in the event of a major natural disaster or an imminent threat to the national security. Waiver of responsibilities under section 110 does not affect an agency's section 106 responsibilities for taking into account the effects of emergency activities on properties included in or eligible for the National Register of Historic Places and for affording the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation an opportunity to comment on such activities.
§ 78.2
Definitions.
Federal Agency Head
means the highest administrative official of a Federal agency, or designee.
Imminent Threat to the National Security
means the imminence of any natural, technological, or other occurrence which, in determination of a Federal Agency Head, because of its size or intent, seriously degrades or threatens the national security of the United States such that an emergency action would be impeded if the Federal Agency were to concurrently meet its historic preservation responsibilities under section 110 of the National Historic Preservation Act, as amended.
Major Natural Disaster
means any hurricane, tornado, storm, flood, high water, tidal wave, earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, snowstorm, fire, explosion, or other catastrophe, in any part of the United States which, in the determination of a Federal Agency Head, causes damage of sufficient severity and magnitude such that an emergency action is necessary to the preservation of human life or property, and that such emergency action would be impeded if the Federal Agency were to concurrently meet its historic preservation responsibilities under section 110 of the National Historic Preservation Act, as amended.
[50 FR 7590, Feb. 25, 1985, as amended at 62 FR 30235, June 3, 1997]
§ 78.3
Federal Agency decision to waive responsibilities.
(a) When a Federal Agency Head determines, under extraordinary circumstances, that there is an imminent threat of a major natural disaster or an imminent threat to the national security such that an emergency action is necessary to the preservation of human life or property, and that such emergency action would be impeded if the Federal Agency were to concurrently meet its historic preservation responsibilities under section 110 of the Act, that Federal Agency Head may immediately waive all or part of those responsibilities, subject to the procedures set forth herein and provided that the agency head implements such measures or procedures as are possible in the circumstances to avoid or minimize harm to historic properties.
(b) Waiver under § 78.3(a) shall not exceed the period of time during which the emergency circumstances necessitating the waiver exist.
(c) In no event shall a Federal Agency Head delay an emergency action necessary to the preservation of human life or property for the purpose of complying with the requirements in section 110 of the Act.
§ 78.4
Federal Agency notice.
(a) Federal Agency Heads making use of the waiver authority shall, within 12 days of the effective date of the waiver, notify the Secretary of the Interior, in writing, identifying:
(1) The major natural disaster or imminent threat to the national security necessitating the waiver and the emergency action taken;
(2) The period of effect of the waiver;
(3) Which provisions of section 110 have been waived;
(4) The geographic area to which the waiver applies; and
(5) The measures and procedures used to avoid or minimize harm to historic
properties under the conditions necessitating the waiver.
(b) Information copies of the notice under § 78.4(a) shall be forwarded by the Federal Agency Head to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation and the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer.
§ 78.5
Review by the Secretary of the Interior.
(a) If the Secretary considers that all or part of the agency's decision as outlined under § 78.4(a) is inconsistent with the intent of the Act or these regulations for use of the waiver under extraordinary circumstances, the Secretary shall notify the Agency Head and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget within 5 days of receipt of the Federal Agency notice under § 78.4(a) of termination of the waiver, or make appropriate recommendations for modifications of the waiver's use. Termination of a waiver by the Secretary is final.
(b) If the waiver is still in effect at the time the Federal Agency Head receives recommendations from the Secretary, the Agency Head shall consider the recommendations and any comments received from the Advisory Council and the State Historic Preservation Officer before deciding whether to continue, withdraw, or modify the waiver. The Federal Agency Head shall respond to recommendations received from the Secretary either accepting or rejecting those recommendations, and, where recommendations are rejected, explaining the reasons for such a decision. Information copies of such response shall be forwarded by the Federal Agency Head to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation and the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer.
(c) If the waiver is no longer in effect at the time the Federal Agency Head receives recommendations from the Secretary or comments from the Advisory Council or the State Historic Preservation Officer, the Federal Agency Head should consider such recommendations and comments in similar future emergencies.
Pt. 79

# PART 79—CURATION OF FEDERALLY OWNED OR ADMINISTERED ARCHEOLOGICAL COLLECTIONS

# Subpart A—Administrative Provisions
Sec.
79.1
Purpose.
79.2
Authority.
79.3
Applicability.
79.4
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Archeological Collections Management
79.5
Management and preservation of collections.
79.6
Methods to secure curatorial services.
79.7
Methods to fund curatorial services.
79.8
Terms and conditions to include in contracts, memoranda and agreements for curatorial services.
79.9
Standards to determine when a repository possesses the capability to provide adequate long-term curatorial services.

# Subpart C—Public Access to and Use of Collections
79.10
Use of collections.

# Subpart D—Inspections and Inventories of Collections
79.11
Conduct of inspections and inventories.

# Subpart E—Disposition of Particular Material Remains
79.12
Determining which particular material remains are eligible for disposal.
79.13
Acceptable methods for disposition of particular material remains.
79.14
[Reserved]
79.15
Final determination of disposition of particular material remains.
79.16
Objecting to a determination of disposition of particular material remains.
79.17
Timing of disposition.
79.18
Administrative record of disposition.
Appendix A to Part 79—Example of a Deed of Gift
Appendix B to Part 79—Example of a Memorandum of Understanding for Curatorial Services for a Federally-Owned Collection
Appendix C to Part 79—Example of a Short-Term Loan Agreement for a Federally-Owned Collection

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 470aa-mm, 54 U.S.C. 300101
et seq.

# Source:
55 FR 37630, Sept. 12, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Administrative Provisions
§ 79.1
Purpose.
(a) The regulations in this part establish definitions, standards, procedures and guidelines to be followed by Federal agencies to preserve collections of prehistoric and historic material remains, and associated records, recovered under the authority of the Antiquities Act (54 U.S.C. 320301-320303), the Reservoir Salvage Act(54 U.S.C. 312501-312508), section 110 of the National Historic Preservation Act (54 U.S.C. 306101-306114) or the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470
aa-mm
). They establish:
(1) Procedures and guidelines to manage and preserve collections;
(2) Terms and conditions for Federal agencies to include in contracts, memoranda, agreements or other written instruments with repositories for curatorial services;
(3) Standards to determine when a repository has the capability to provide long-term curatorial services; and
(4) Guidelines to provide access to, loan and otherwise use collections.
(b) The regulations in this part contain three appendices that provide additional guidance for use by the Federal Agency Official.
(1) Appendix A to these regulations contains an example of an agreement between a Federal agency and a non- Federal owner of material remains who is donating the remains to the Federal agency.
(2) Appendix B to these regulations contains an example of a memorandum of understanding between a Federal agency and a repository for long-term curatorial services for a federally-owned collection.
(3) Appendix C to these regulations contains an example of an agreement between a repository and a third party for a short-term loan of a federally-owned collection (or a part thereof).
(4) The three appendices are meant to illustrate how such agreements might appear. They should be revised according to the:
(i) Needs of the Federal agency and any non-Federal owner;
(ii) Nature and content of the collection; and
(iii) Type of contract, memorandum, agreement or other written instrument being used.
(5) When a repository has preexisting standard forms (e.g., a short-term loan form) that are consistent with the regulations in this part, those forms may be used in lieu of developing new ones.
[55 FR 37630, Sept. 12, 1990; 55 FR 41639, Oct. 12, 1990, as amended at 87 FR 22457, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 79.2
Authority.
(a) The regulations in this part are promulgated under 54 U.S.C. 302107 which requires that the Secretary of the Interior issue regulations ensuring that significant prehistoric and historic artifacts and associated records are deposited in an institution with adequate long-term curatorial capabilities. This requirement applies to artifacts and associated records subject to the National Historic Preservation Act (54 U.S.C. 300101
et seq.
), the Reservoir Salvage Act (54 U.S.C. 312501-312508), and the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470aa-mm).
(b) In addition, the regulations in this part are promulgated pursuant to section 5 of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470
dd
) which gives the Secretary of the Interior discretionary authority to promulgate regulations for the:
(1) Exchange, where appropriate, between suitable universities, museums or other scientific or educational institutions, of archeological resources recovered from public and Indian lands under that Act; and
(2) Ultimate disposition of archeological resources recovered under that Act (16 U.S.C. 470
aa-mm
), the Antiquities Act (54 U.S.C. 320301-320303) or the Reservoir Salvage Act (54 U.S.C. 312501-312508).
(3) It further states that any exchange or ultimate disposition of resources excavated or removed from Indian lands shall be subject to the consent of the Indian or Indian tribe that owns or has jurisdiction over such lands.
[55 FR 37630, Sept. 12, 1990; 55 FR 41639, Oct. 12, 1990, as amended at 87 FR 22457, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 79.3
Applicability.
(a) Except as otherwise stated in this section, the regulations in this part apply to collections, as defined in § 79.4 of this part, that are excavated or removed under the authority of the Antiquities Act (54 U.S.C. 320301-320303), the Reservoir Salvage Act (54 U.S.C. 312501-312508), section 110 of the National Historic Preservation Act (54 U.S.C. 306101-306114) or the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470aa-mm). Such collections generally include those that are the result of a prehistoric or historic resource survey, excavation or other study conducted in connection with a Federal action, assistance, license, or permit. Such collections include those that are owned by the United States and for which a Federal agency has practical management authority, either directly or indirectly, as a result of that ownership; and those collections that are not owned by the United States but that are managed or controlled by a Federal agency pursuant to the laws cited in this paragraph (a).
(b) The regulations in this part apply to preexisting and new collections that meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. However, the regulations shall not be applied in a manner that would supersede or breach material terms and conditions in any contract, grant, license, permit, memorandum, or agreement entered into by or on behalf of a Federal agency prior to the effective date of this regulation.
(c) Collections that are excavated or removed pursuant to the Antiquities Act (16 U.S.C. 431-433) remain subject to that Act, the Act's implementing rule (43 CFR part 3), and the terms and conditions of the pertinent Antiquities Act permit or other approval.
(d) Collections that are excavated or removed pursuant to the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470
aa-mm
) remain subject to that Act, the Act's implementing rules (43 CFR part 7, 36 CFR part 296, 18 CFR part 1312, and 32 CFR part 229), and the terms and conditions of the pertinent Archaeological Resources Protection Act permit or other approval.
(e) Any repository that is providing curatorial services for a collection subject to the regulations in this part must possess the capability to provide adequate long-term curatorial services, as set forth in § 79.9 of this part, to safeguard and preserve the associated records and any material remains that are deposited in the repository.
[55 FR 37630, Sept. 12, 1990; 55 FR 41639, Oct. 12, 1990, as amended at 87 FR 22457, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 79.4
Definitions.
As used for purposes of this part:
Associated records
means original records (or copies thereof) that are prepared, assembled and document efforts to locate, evaluate, record, study, preserve or recover a prehistoric or historic resource. Some records such as field notes, artifact inventories and oral histories may be originals that are prepared as a result of the field work, analysis, and report preparation. Other records such as deeds, survey plats, historical maps and diaries may be copies of original public or archival documents that are assembled and studied as a result of historical research. Classes of associated records (and illustrative examples) that may be in a collection include, but are not limited to:
(1) Records relating to the identification, evaluation, documentation, study, preservation, or recovery of a resource (such as site forms, field notes, drawings, maps, photographs, slides, negatives, films, video and audio cassette tapes, oral histories, artifact inventories, laboratory reports, computer cards and tapes, computer disks and diskettes, printouts of computerized data, manuscripts, reports, and accession, catalog, and inventory records);
(2) Records relating to the identification of a resource using remote sensing methods and equipment (such as satellite and aerial photography and imagery, side scan sonar, magnetometers, subbottom profilers, radar, and fathometers);
(3) Public records essential to understanding the resource (such as deeds, survey plats, military and census records, birth, marriage and death certificates, immigration and naturalization papers, tax forms and reports);
(4) Archival records essential to understanding the resource (such as historical maps, drawings and photographs, manuscripts, architectural and landscape plans, correspondence, diaries, ledgers, catalogs, and receipts); and
(5) Administrative records relating to the survey, excavation, or other study of the resource (such as scopes of work, requests for proposals, research proposals, contracts, antiquities permits, reports, documents relating to compliance with section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470f), and National Register of Historic Places nomination and determination of eligibility forms).
Collection
means material remains that are excavated or removed during a survey, excavation, or other study of a prehistoric or historic resource, and associated records that are prepared or assembled in connection with the survey, excavation, or other study.
Curatorial services
means managing and preserving a collection according to professional museum and archival practices, including, but not limited to:
(1) Inventorying, accessioning, labeling, and cataloging a collection;
(2) Identifying, evaluating, and documenting a collection;
(3) Storing and maintaining a collection using appropriate methods and containers, and under appropriate environmental conditions and physically secure controls;
(4) Periodically inspecting a collection and taking such actions as may be necessary to preserve it;
(5) Providing access and facilities to study a collection; and
(6) Handling, cleaning, stabilizing, and conserving a collection in such a manner to preserve it.
Departmental Consulting Archeologist
means the individual serving as the agent of the Secretary of the Interior in overseeing and coordinating the Department's archeological activities.
Federal Agency Official
means any officer, employee or agent officially representing the secretary of the department or the head of any other agency or instrumentality of the United States having primary management authority over a collection that is subject to this part.
Indian lands
has the same meaning as in § -.3(e) of uniform regulations 43 CFR part 7, 36 CFR part 296, 18 CFR part 1312, and 32 CFR part 229.
Indian tribe
has the same meaning as in § -.3(f) of uniform regulations 43 CFR part 7, 36 CFR part 296, 18 CFR part 1312, and 32 CFR part 229.
Material remains
means artifacts, objects, specimens, and other physical evidence that are excavated or removed in connection with efforts to locate, evaluate, document, study, preserve or recover a prehistoric or historic resource. Classes of material remains (and illustrative examples) that may be in a collection include, but are not limited to:
(1) Components of structures and features (such as houses, mills, piers, fortifications, raceways, earthworks, and mounds);
(2) Intact or fragmentary artifacts of human manufacture (such as tools, weapons, pottery, basketry, and textiles);
(3) Intact or fragmentary natural objects used by humans (such as rock crystals, feathers, and pigments);
(4) By-products, waste products or debris resulting from the manufacture or use of man-made or natural materials (such as slag, dumps, cores and debitage);
(5) Organic material (such as vegetable and animal remains, and coprolites);
(6) Human remains (such as bone, teeth, mummified flesh, burials, and cremations);
(7) Components of petroglyphs, pictographs, intaglios, or other works of artistic or symbolic representation;
(8) Components of shipwrecks (such as pieces of the ship's hull, rigging, armaments, apparel, tackle, contents, and cargo);
(9) Environmental and chronometric specimens (such as pollen, seeds, wood, shell, bone, charcoal, tree core samples, soil, sediment cores, obsidian, volcanic ash, and baked clay); and
(10) Paleontological specimens that are found in direct physical relationship with a prehistoric or historic resource.
Personal property
has the same meaning as in 41 CFR 100-43.001-14. Collections, equipment (
e.g.,
a specimen cabinet or exhibit case), materials and supplies are classes of personal property.
Provenience information
means recorded data about the physical location of an object as it was found during a survey, excavation, or other study of a prehistoric or historic resource.
Public lands
has the same meaning as in § -.3(d) of uniform regulations 43 CFR part 7, 36 CFR part 296, 18 CFR part 1312, and 32 CFR part 229.
Qualified museum professional
means a person who possesses knowledge, experience and demonstrable competence in museum methods and techniques appropriate to the nature and content of the collection under the person's management and care, and commensurate with the person's duties and responsibilities. Standards that may be used, as appropriate, for classifying positions and for evaluating a person's qualifications include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) The Office of Personnel Management's “Position Classification Standards for Positions under the General Schedule Classification System” (U.S. Government Printing Office, stock No. 906—028-00000-0 (1981)) are used by Federal agencies to determine appropriate occupational series and grade levels for positions in the Federal service. Occupational series most commonly associated with museum work are the museum curator series (GS/GM-1015) and the museum technician and specialist series (GS/GM-1016). Other scientific and professional series that may have collateral museum duties include, but are not limited to, the archivist series (GS/GM-1420), the archeologist series (GS/GM-193), the anthropologist series (GS/GM-190), and the historian series (GS/GM-170). In general, grades GS-9 and below are assistants and trainees while grades GS-11 and above are professionals at the full performance level. Grades GS-11 and above are determined according to the level of independent professional responsibility, degree of specialization and scholarship, and the nature, variety, complexity, type, and scope of the work.
(2) The Office of Personnel Management's “Qualification Standards for Positions under the General Schedule (Handbook X-118)” (U.S. Government Printing Office, stock No. 906-030-00000-4 (1986)) establish educational, experience and training requirements for employment with the Federal Government under the various occupational series. A graduate degree in museum science or applicable subject matter, or equivalent training and experience, and three years of professional experience are required for museum positions at grades GS-11 and above.
(3) The “Secretary of the Interior's Standards and Guidelines for Archeology and Historic Preservation” (48 FR 44716, Sept. 29, 1983) provide technical advice about archeological and historic preservation activities and methods for use by Federal, State, and local Governments and others. One section presents qualification standards for a number of historic preservation professions. While no standards are presented for collections managers, museum curators or technicians, standards are presented for other professions (
i.e.,
historians, archeologists, architectural historians, architects, and historic architects) that may have collateral museum duties.
(4) Copies of the Office of Personnel Management's standards, including subscriptions for subsequent updates, may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. Copies may be inspected at the Office of Personnel Management's Library, 1900 E Street NW, Washington, DC, at any regional or area office of the Office of Personnel Management, at any Federal Job Information Center, and at any personnel office of any Federal agency. Copies of the “Secretary of the Interior's Standards and Guidelines for Archeology and Historic Preservation” are available at no charge from the Interagency Resources Division, National Park Service, P.O. Box 37127, Washington, DC 20013-7127.
Religious remains
means material remains that the Federal Agency Official has determined are of traditional religious or sacred importance to an Indian tribe or other group because of customary use in religious rituals or spiritual activities. The Federal Agency Official makes this determination in
consultation with appropriate Indian tribes or other groups.
Repository
means a facility such as a museum, archeological center, laboratory, or storage facility managed by a university, college, museum, other educational or scientific institution, a Federal, State, or local Government agency or Indian tribe that can provide professional, systematic, and accountable curatorial services on a long-term basis.
Repository Official
means any officer, employee or agent officially representing the repository that is providing curatorial services for a collection that is subject to this part.
Tribal Official
means the chief executive officer or any officer, employee or agent officially representing the Indian tribe.
[87 FR 22457, Apr. 15, 2022]

# Subpart B—Archeological Collections Management
§ 79.5
Management and preservation of collections.
The Federal Agency Official is responsible for the long-term management and preservation of preexisting and new collections subject to this part. Such collections shall be placed in a repository with adequate long-term curatorial capabilities, as set forth in § 79.9 of this part, appropriate to the nature and content of the collections.
(a)
Preexisting collections.
The Federal Agency Official is responsible for ensuring that preexisting collections, meaning those collections that are placed in repositories prior to the effective date of this rule, are being properly managed and preserved. The Federal Agency Official shall identify such repositories, and review and evaluate the curatorial services that are being provided to preexisting collections. When the Federal Agency Official determines that such a repository does not have the capability to provide adequate long-term curatorial services, as set forth in § 79.9 of this part, the Federal Agency Official may either:
(1) Enter into or amend an existing contract, memorandum, agreement or other appropriate written instrument for curatorial services for the purpose of:
(i) Identifying specific actions that shall be taken by the repository, the Federal agency or other appropriate party to eliminate the inadequacies;
(ii) Specifying a reasonable period of time and a schedule within which the actions shall be completed; and
(iii) Specifying any necessary funds or services that shall be provided by the repository, the Federal agency or other appropriate party to complete the actions; or
(2) Remove the collections from the repository and deposit them in another repository that can provide such services in accordance with the regulations in this part. Prior to moving any collection that is from Indian lands, the Federal Agency Official must obtain the written consent of the Indian landowner and the Indian tribe having jurisdiction over the lands.
(b)
New collections.
The Federal Agency Official shall deposit a collection in a repository upon determining that:
(1) The repository has the capability to provide adequate long-term curatorial services, as set forth in § 79.9 of this part;
(2) The repository's facilities, written curatorial policies and operating procedures are consistent with the regulations in this part;
(3) The repository has certified, in writing, that the collection shall be cared for, maintained and made accessible in accordance with the regulations in this part and any terms and conditions that are specified by the Federal Agency Official;
(4) When the collection is from Indian lands, written consent to the disposition has been obtained from the Indian landowner and the Indian tribe having jurisdiction over the lands; and
(5) The initial processing of the material remains (including appropriate cleaning, sorting, labeling, cataloging, stabilizing and packaging) has been completed, and associated records have been prepared and organized in accordance with the repository's processing and documentation procedures.
(c)
Retention of records by Federal agencies.
The Federal Agency Official shall maintain administrative records
on the disposition of each collection including, but not limited to:
(1) The name and location of the repository where the collection is deposited;
(2) A copy of the contract, memorandum, agreement or other appropriate written instrument, and any subsequent amendments, between the Federal agency, the repository and any other party for curatorial services;
(3) A catalog list of the contents of the collection that is deposited in the repository;
(4) A list of any other Federal personal property that is furnished to the repository as a part of the contract, memorandum, agreement or other appropriate written instrument for curatorial services;
(5) Copies of reports documenting inspections, inventories and investigations of loss, damage or destruction that are conducted pursuant to § 79.11 of this part; and
(6) Any subsequent permanent transfer of the collection (or a part thereof) to another repository.
§ 79.6
Methods to secure curatorial services.
(a) Federal agencies may secure curatorial services using a variety of methods, subject to Federal procurement and property management statutes, regulations, and any agency-specific statutes and regulations on the management of museum collections. Methods that may be used by Federal agencies to secure curatorial services include, but are not limited to:
(1) Placing the collection in a repository that is owned, leased or otherwise operated by the Federal agency;
(2) Entering into a contract or purchase order with a repository for curatorial services;
(3) Entering into a cooperative agreement, a memorandum of understanding, a memorandum of agreement or other agreement, as appropriate, with a State, local or Indian tribal repository, a university, museum or other scientific or educational institution that operates or manages a repository, for curatorial services;
(4) Entering into an interagency agreement with another Federal agency for curatorial services;
(5) Transferring the collection to another Federal agency for preservation; and
(6) For archeological activities permitted on public or Indian lands under the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470
aa-mm
), the Antiquities Act (16 U.S.C. 431-433) or other authority, requiring the archeological permittee to provide for curatorial services as a condition to the issuance of the archeological permit.
(b)
Guidelines for selecting a repository.
(1) When possible, the collection should be deposited in a repository that:
(i) Is in the State of origin;
(ii) Stores and maintains other collections from the same site or project location; or
(iii) Houses collections from a similar geographic region or cultural area.
(2) The collection should not be subdivided and stored at more than a single repository unless such subdivision is necessary to meet special storage, conservation or research needs.
(3) Except when non-federally-owned material remains are retained and disposed of by the owner, material remains and associated records should be deposited in the same repository to maintain the integrity and research value of the collection.
(c)
Sources for technical assistance.
The Federal Agency Official should consult with persons having expertise in the management and preservation of collections prior to preparing a scope of work or a request for proposals for curatorial services. This will help ensure that the resulting contract, memorandum, agreement or other written instrument meets the needs of the collection, including any special needs in regard to any religious remains. It also will aid the Federal Agency Official in evaluating the qualifications and appropriateness of a repository, and in determining whether the repository has the capability to provide adequate long-term curatorial services for a collection. Persons, agencies, institutions and organizations that may be able to provide technical assistance include, but are not limited to the:
(1) Federal agency's Historic Preservation Officer;
(2) State Historic Preservation Officer;
(3) Tribal Historic Preservation Officer;
(4) State Archeologist;
(5) Curators, collections managers, conservators, archivists, archeologists, historians and anthropologists in Federal and State Government agencies and Indian tribal museum;
(6) Indian tribal elders and religious leaders;
(7) Smithsonian Institution;
(8) American Association of Museums; and
(9) National Park Service.
[55 FR 37630, Sept. 12, 1990; 55 FR 41639, Oct. 12, 1990]
§ 79.7
Methods to fund curatorial services.
A variety of methods are used by Federal agencies to ensure that sufficient funds are available for adequate, long-term care and maintenance of collections. Those methods include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) Federal agencies may fund a variety of curatorial activities using monies appropriated annually by the U.S. Congress, subject to any specific statutory authorities or limitations applicable to a particular agency. As appropriate, curatorial activities that may be funded by Federal agencies include, but are not limited to:
(1) Purchasing, constructing, leasing, renovating, upgrading, expanding, operating, and maintaining a repository that has the capability to provide adequate long-term curatorial services as set forth in § 79.9 of this part;
(2) Entering into and maintaining on a cost-reimbursable or cost-sharing basis a contract, memorandum, agreement, or other appropriate written instrument with a repository that has the capability to provide adequate long-term curatorial services as set forth in § 79.9 of this part;
(3) As authorized under section 110(g) of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470
h
-2), reimbursing a grantee for curatorial costs paid by the grantee as a part of the grant project;
(4) As authorized under section 110(g) of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470
h
-2), reimbursing a State agency for curatorial costs paid by the State agency to carry out the historic preservation responsibilities of the Federal agency;
(5) Conducting inspections and inventories in accordance with § 79.11 of this part; and
(6) When a repository that is housing and maintaining a collection can no longer provide adequate long-term curatorial services, as set forth in § 79.9 of this part, either:
(i) Providing such funds or services as may be agreed upon pursuant to § 79.5(a)(1) of this part to assist the repository in eliminating the deficiencies; or
(ii) Removing the collection from the repository and depositing it in another repository that can provide curatorial services in accordance with the regulations in this part.
(b) As authorized under section 110(g) of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470
h
-2) and section 208(2) of the National Historic Preservation Act Amendments (16 U.S.C. 469
c
-2), for federally licensed or permitted projects or programs, Federal agencies may charge licensees and permittees reasonable costs for curatorial activities associated with identification, surveys, evaluation and data recovery as a condition to the issuance of a Federal license or permit.
(c) Federal agencies may deposit collections in a repository that agrees to provide curatorial services at no cost to the U.S. Government. This generally occurs when a collection is excavated or removed from public or Indian lands under a research permit issued pursuant to the Antiquities Act (16 U.S.C. 431-433) or the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470
aa-mm
). A repository also may agree to provide curatorial services as a public service or as a means of ensuring direct access to a collection for long-term study and use. Federal agencies should ensure that a repository that agrees to provide curatorial services at no cost to the U.S. Government has sufficient financial resources to support its operations and any needed improvements.
(d) Funds provided to a repository for curatorial services should include costs for initially processing, cataloging and accessioning the collection as well as costs for storing, inspecting,
inventorying, maintaining, and conserving the collection on a long-term basis.
(1) Funds to initially process, catalog and accession a collection to be generated during identification and evaluation surveys should be included in project planning budgets.
(2) Funds to initially process, catalog and accession a collection to be generated during data recovery operations should be included in project mitigation budgets.
(3) Funds to store, inspect, inventory, maintain and conserve a collection on a long-term basis should be included in annual operating budgets.
(e) When the Federal Agency Official determines that data recovery costs may exceed the one percent limitation contained in the Archeological and Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 469
c
), as authorized under section 208(3) of the National Historic Preservation Act Amendments (16 U.S.C. 469
c
-2), the limitation may be waived, in appropriate cases, after the Federal Agency Official has:
(1) Obtained the concurrence of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Interior by sending a written request to the Departmental Consulting Archeologist, National Park Service, P.O. Box 37127, Washington, DC 20013-7127; and
(2) Notified the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the U.S. Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the U.S. House of Representatives.
[55 FR 37630, Sept. 12, 1990; 55 FR 41639, Oct. 12, 1990]
§ 79.8
Terms and conditions to include in contracts, memoranda and agreements for curatorial services.
The Federal Agency Official shall ensure that any contract, memorandum, agreement or other appropriate written instrument for curatorial services that is entered into by or on behalf of that Official, a Repository Official and any other appropriate party contains the following:
(a) A statement that identifies the collection or group of collections to be covered and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property to be furnished to the repository;
(b) A statement that identifies who owns and has jurisdiction over the collection;
(c) A statement of work to be performed by the repository;
(d) A statement of the responsibilities of the Federal agency and any other appropriate party;
(e) When the collection is from Indian lands:
(1) A statement that the Indian landowner and the Indian tribe having jurisdiction over the lands consent to the disposition; and
(2) Such terms and conditions as may be requested by the Indian landowner and the Indian tribe having jurisdiction over the lands;
(f) When the collection is from a site on public lands that the Federal Agency Official has determined is of religious or cultural importance to any Indian tribe having aboriginal or historic ties to such lands, such terms and conditions as may have been developed pursuant to § -.7 of uniform regulations 43 CFR part 7, 36 CFR part 296, 18 CFR part 1312, and 32 CFR part 229;
(g) The term of the contract, memorandum or agreement; and procedures for modification, suspension, extension, and termination;
(h) A statement of costs associated with the contract, memorandum or agreement; the funds or services to be provided by the repository, the Federal agency and any other appropriate party; and the schedule for any payments;
(i) Any special procedures and restrictions for handling, storing, inspecting, inventorying, cleaning, conserving, and exhibiting the collection;
(j) Instructions and any terms and conditions for making the collection available for scientific, educational and religious uses, including procedures and criteria to be used by the Repository Official to review, approve or deny, and document actions taken in response to requests for study, laboratory analysis, loan, exhibition, use in religious rituals or spiritual activities, and other uses. When the Repository Official to approve consumptive uses, this should be specified; otherwise, the Federal Agency Official should review and approve consumptive uses. When
the repository's existing operating procedures and criteria for evaluating requests to use collections are consistent with the regulations in this part, they may be used, after making any necessary modifications, in lieu of developing new ones;
(k) Instructions for restricting access to information relating to the nature, location and character of the prehistoric or historic resource from which the material remains are excavated or removed;
(l) A statement that copies of any publications resulting from study of the collection are to be provided to the Federal Agency Official and, when the collection is from Indian lands, to the Tribal Official and the Tribal Historic Preservation Officer, if any, of the Indian tribe that owns or has jurisdiction over such lands;
(m) A statement that specifies the frequency and methods for conducting and documenting the inspections and inventories stipulated in § 79.11 of this part;
(n) A statement that the Repository Official shall redirect any request for transfer or repatriation of a federally-owned collection (or any part thereof) to the Federal Agency Official, and redirect any request for transfer or repatriation of a federally administered collection (or any part thereof) to the Federal Agency Official and the owner;
(o) A statement that the Repository Official shall not transfer, repatriate or discard a federally-owned collection (or any part thereof) without the written permission of the Federal Agency Official, and not transfer, repatriate or discard a federally administered collection (or any part thereof) without the written permission of the Federal Agency Official and the owner;
(p) A statement that the Repository Official shall not sell the collection; and
(q) A statement that the repository shall provide curatorial services in accordance with the regulations in this part.
§ 79.9
Standards to determine when a repository possesses the capability to provide adequate long-term curatorial services.
The Federal Agency Official shall determine that a repository has the capability to provide adequate long-term curatorial services when the repository is able to:
(a) Accession, label, catalog, store, maintain, inventory and conserve the particular collection on a long-term basis using professional museum and archival practices; and
(b) Comply with the following, as appropriate to the nature and consent of the collection;
(1) Maintain complete and accurate records of the collection, including:
(i) Records on acquisitions;
(ii) Catalog and artifact inventory lists;
(iii) Descriptive information, including field notes, site forms and reports;
(iv) Photographs, negatives and slides;
(v) Locational information, including maps;
(vi) Information on the condition of the collection, including any completed conservation treatments;
(vii) Approved loans and other uses;
(viii) Inventory and inspection records, including any environmental monitoring records;
(ix) Records on lost, deteriorated, damaged or destroyed Government property; and
(x) Records on any deaccessions and subsequent transfers, repatriations or discards, as approved by the Federal Agency Official;
(2) Dedicate the requisite facilities, equipment and space in the physical plant to properly store, study and conserve the collection. Space used for storage, study, conservation and, if exhibited, any exhibition must not be used for non-curatorial purposes that would endanger or damage the collection;
(3) Keep the collection under physically secure conditions within storage, laboratory, study and any exhibition areas by:
(i) Having the physical plant meet local electrical, fire, building, health and safety codes;
(ii) Having an appropriate and operational fire detection and suppression system;
(iii) Having an appropriate and operational intrusion detection and deterrent system;
(iv) Having an adequate emergency management plan that establishes procedures for responding to fires, floods, natural disasters, civil unrest, acts of violence, structural failures and failures of mechanical systems within the physical plant;
(v) Providing fragile or valuable items in a collection with additional security such as locking the items in a safe, vault or museum specimen cabinet, as appropriate;
(vi) Limiting and controlling access to keys, the collection and the physical plant; and
(vii) Inspecting the physical plant in accordance with § 79.11 of this part for possible security weaknesses and environmental control problems, and taking necessary actions to maintain the integrity of the collection;
(4) Require staff and any consultants who are responsible for managing and preserving the collection to be qualified museum professionals;
(5) Handle, store, clean, conserve and, if exhibited, exhibit the collection in a manner that:
(i) Is appropriate to the nature of the material remains and associated records;
(ii) Protects them from breakage and possible deterioration from adverse temperature and relative humidity, visible light, ultraviolet radiation, dust, soot, gases, mold, fungus, insects, rodents and general neglect; and
(iii) Preserves data that may be studied in future laboratory analyses. When material remains in a collection are to be treated with chemical solutions or preservatives that will permanently alter the remains, when possible, retain untreated representative samples of each affected artifact type, environmental specimen or other category of material remains to be treated. Untreated samples should not be stabilized or conserved beyond dry brushing;
(6) Store site forms, field notes, artifacts inventory lists, computer disks and tapes, catalog forms and a copy of the final report in a manner that will protect them from theft and fire such as:
(i) Storing the records in an appropriate insulated, fire resistant, locking cabinet, safe, vault or other container, or in a location with a fire suppression system;
(ii) Storing a duplicate set of records in a separate location; or
(iii) Ensuring that records are maintained and accessible through another party. For example, copies of final reports and site forms frequently are maintained by the State Historic Preservation Officer, the State Archeologist or the State museum or university. The Tribal Historic Preservation Officer and Indian tribal museum ordinarily maintain records on collections recovered from sites located on Indian lands. The National Technical Information Service and the Defense Technical Information Service maintain copies of final reports that have been deposited by Federal agencies. The National Archeological Database maintains summary information on archeological reports and projects, including information on the location of those reports.
(7) Inspect the collection in accordance with § 79.11 of this part for possible deterioration and damage, and perform only those actions as are absolutely necessary to stabilize the collection and rid it of any agents of deterioration;
(8) Conduct inventories in accordance with § 79.11 of this part to verify the location of the material remains, associated records and any other Federal personal property that is furnished to the repository; and
(9) Provide access to the collection in accordance with § 79.10 of this part.
[55 FR 37630, Sept. 12, 1990; 55 FR 41639, Oct. 12, 1990]

# Subpart C—Public Access to and Use of Collections
§ 79.10
Use of collections.
(a) The Federal Agency Official shall ensure that the Repository Official makes the collection available for scientific, educational and religious uses, subject to such terms and conditions as are necessary to protect and preserve
the condition, research potential, religious or sacred importance, and uniqueness of the collection.
(b)
Scientific and educational uses.
A collection shall be made available to qualified professionals for study, loan and use for such purposes as in-house and traveling exhibits, teaching, public interpretation, scientific analysis and scholarly research. Qualified professionals would include, but not be limited to, curators, conservators, collection managers, exhibitors, researchers, scholars, archeological contractors and educators. Students may use a collection when under the direction of a qualified professional. Any resulting exhibits and publications shall acknowledge the repository as the curatorial facility and the Federal agency as the owner or administrator, as appropriate. When the collection is from Indian lands and the Indian landowner and the Indian tribe having jurisdiction over the lands wish to be identified, those individuals and the Indian tribe shall also be acknowledged. Copies of any resulting publications shall be provided to the Repository Official and the Federal Agency Official. When Indian lands are involved, copies of such publications shall also be provided to the Tribal Official and the Tribal Historic Preservation Officer, if any, of the Indian tribe that owns or has jurisdiction over such lands.
(c)
Religious uses.
Religious remains in a collection shall be made available to persons for use in religious rituals or spiritual activities. Religious remains generally are of interest to medicine men and women, and other religious practitioners and persons from Indian tribes, Alaskan Native corporations, Native Hawaiians, and other indigenous and immigrant ethnic, social and religious groups that have aboriginal or historic ties to the lands from which the remains are recovered, and have traditionally used the remains or class of remains in religious rituals or spiritual activities.
(d)
Terms and conditions.
(1) In accordance with section 9 of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470
hh
) and section 304 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470
w
-3), the Federal Agency Official shall restrict access to associated records that contain information relating to the nature, location or character of a prehistoric or historic resource unless the Federal Agency Official determines that such disclosure would not create a risk of harm, theft or destruction to the resource or to the area or place where the resource is located.
(2) Section -.18(a)(2) of uniform regulations 43 CFR part 7, 36 CFR part 296, 18 CFR part 1312, and 32 CFR part 229 sets forth procedures whereby information relating to the nature, location or character of a prehistoric or historic resource may be made available to the Governor of any State. The Federal Agency Official may make information available to other persons who, following the procedures in § -.18(a)(2) of the referenced uniform regulations, demonstrate that the disclosure will not create a risk of harm, theft or destruction to the resource or to the area or place where the resource is located. Other persons generally would include, but not be limited to, archeological contractors, researchers, scholars, tribal representatives, Federal, State and local agency personnel, and other persons who are studying the resource or class or resources.
(3) When a collection is from Indian lands, the Federal Agency Official shall place such terms and conditions as may be requested by the Indian landowner and the Indian tribe having jurisdiction over the lands on:
(i) Scientific, educational or religious uses of material remains; and
(ii) Access to associated records that contain information relating to the nature, location or character of the resource.
(4) When a collection is from a site on public lands that the Federal Agency Official has determined is of religious or cultural importance to any Indian tribe having aboriginal or historic ties to such lands, the Federal Agency Official shall place such terms and conditions as may have been developed pursuant to § -.7 of uniform regulations 43 CFR part 7, 36 CFR part 296, 18 CFR part 1312, and 32 CFR part 229 on:
(i) Scientific, educational or religious uses of material remains; and
(ii) Access to associated records that contain information relating to the nature, location or character of the resource.
(5) The Federal Agency Official shall not allow uses that would alter, damage or destroy an object in a collection unless the Federal Agency Official determines that such use is necessary for scientific studies or public interpretation, and the potential gain in scientific or interpretive information outweighs the potential loss of the object. When possible, such use should be limited to unprovenienced, nonunique, nonfragile objects, or to a sample of objects drawn from a larger collection of similar objects.
(e) No collection (or a part thereof) shall be loaned to any person without a written agreement between the Repository Official and the borrower that specifies the terms and conditions of the loan. Appendix C to the regulations in this part contains an example of a short-term loan agreement for a federally-owned collection. At a minimum, a loan agreement shall specify:
(1) The collection or object being loaned;
(2) The purpose of the loan;
(3) The length of the loan;
(4) Any restrictions on scientific, educational or religious uses, including whether any object may be altered, damaged or destroyed;
(5) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, that the borrower shall handle the collection or object being borrowed during the term of the loan in accordance with this part so as not to damage or reduce its scientific, educational, religious or cultural value; and
(6) Any requirements for insuring the collection or object being borrowed for any loss, damage or destruction during transit and while in the borrower's possession.
(f) The Federal Agency Official shall ensure that the Repository Official maintains administrative records that document approved scientific, educational and religious uses of the collection.
(g) The Repository Official may charge persons who study, borrow or use a collection (or a part thereof) reasonable fees to cover costs for handling, packing, shipping and insuring material remains, for photocopying associated records, and for other related incidental costs.

# Subpart D—Inspections and Inventories of Collections
§ 79.11
Conduct of inspections and inventories.
(a) The inspections and inventories specified in this section shall be conducted periodically in accordance with the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act (40 U.S.C. 484), its implementing regulation (41 CFR part 101), any agency-specific regulations on the management of Federal property, and any agency-specific statutes and regulations on the management of museum collections.
(b) Consistent with paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Agency Official shall ensure that the Repository Official:
(1) Provides the Federal Agency Official and, when the collection is from Indian lands, the Indian landowner and the Tribal Official of the Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over the lands with a copy of the catalog list of the contents of the collection received and accessioned by the repository;
(2) Provides the Federal Agency Official will a list of any other U.S. Government-owned personal property received by the repository;
(3) Periodically inspects the physical plant for the purpose of monitoring the physical security and environmental control measures;
(4) Periodically inspects the collection for the purposes of assessing the condition of the material remains and associated records, and of monitoring those remains and records for possible deterioration and damage;
(5) Periodically inventories the collection by accession, lot or catalog record for the purpose of verifying the location of the material remains and associated records;
(6) Periodically inventories any other U.S. Government-owned personal property in the possession of the repository;
(7) Has qualified museum professionals conduct the inspections and inventories;
(8) Following each inspection and inventory, prepares and provides the Federal Agency Official with a written report of the results of the inspection and inventory, including the status of the collection, treatments completed and recommendations for additional treatments. When the collection is from Indian lands, the Indian landowner and the Tribal Official of the Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over the lands shall also be provided with a copy of the report;
(9) Within five (5) days of the discovery of any loss or theft of, deterioration and damage to, or destruction of the collection (or a part thereof) or any other U.S. Government-owned personal property, prepares and provides the Federal Agency Official with a written notification of the circumstances surrounding the loss, theft, deterioration, damage or destruction. When the collection is from Indian lands, the Indian landowner and the Tribal Official of the Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over the lands shall also be provided with a copy of the notification; and
(10) Makes the repository, the collection and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property available for periodic inspection by the:
(i) Federal Agency Official;
(ii) When the collection is from Indian lands, the Indian landowner and the Tribal Official of the Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over the lands; and
(iii) When the collection contains religious remains, the Indian tribal elders, religious leaders, and other officials representing the Indian tribe or other group for which the remains have religious or sacred importance.
(c) Consistent with paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Agency Official shall have qualified Federal agency professionals:
(1) Investigate reports of a lost, stolen, deteriorated, damaged or destroyed collection (or a part thereof) or any other U.S. Government-owned personal property; and
(2) Periodically inspect the repository, the collection and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property for the purposes of:
(i) Determining whether the repository is in compliance with the minimum standards set forth in § 79.9 of this part; and
(ii) Evaluating the performance of the repository in providing curatorial services under any contract, memorandum, agreement or other appropriate written instrument.
(d) The frequency and methods for conducting and documenting inspections and inventories stipulated in this section shall be mutually agreed upon, in writing, by the Federal Agency Official and the Repository Official, and be appropriate to the nature and content of the collection:
(1) Collections from Indian lands shall be inspected and inventoried in accordance with such terms and conditions as may be requested by the Indian landowner and the Indian tribe having jurisdiction over the lands.
(2) Religious remains in collections from public lands shall be inspected and inventoried in accordance with such terms and conditions as may have been developed pursuant to § -.7 of uniform regulations 43 CFR part 7, 36 CFR part 296, 18 CFR part 1312, and 32 CFR part 229.
(3) Material remains and records of a fragile or perishable nature should be inspected for deterioration and damage on a more frequent basis than lithic or more stable remains or records.
(4) Because frequent handling will accelerate the breakdown of fragile materials, material remains and records should be viewed but handled as little as possible during inspections and inventories.
(5) Material remains and records of a valuable nature should be inventoried on a more frequent basis than other less valuable remains or records.
(6) Persons such as those listed in § 79.6(c) of this part who have expertise in the management and preservation of similar collections should be able to provide advice to the Federal Agency Official concerning the appropriate frequency and methods for conducting inspections and inventories of a particular collection.
(e) Consistent with the Single Audit Act (31 U.S.C. 75), when two or more Federal agencies deposit collections in the same repository, the Federal Agency Officials should enter into an interagency agreement for the purposes of:
(1) Requesting the Repository Official to coordinate the inspections and inventories, stipulated in paragraph (b) of this section, for each of the collections;
(2) Designating one or more qualified Federal agency professionals to:
(i) Conduct inspections, stipulated in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, on behalf of the other agencies; and
(ii) Following each inspection, prepare and distribute to each Federal Agency Official a written report of findings, including an evaluation of performance and recommendations to correct any deficiencies and resolve any problems that were identified. When the collection is from Indian lands, the Indian landowner and the Tribal Official of the Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over the lands shall also be provided with a copy of the report; and
(3) Ensuring consistency in the conduct of inspections and inventories conducted pursuant to this section.
[55 FR 37630, Sept. 12, 1990; 55 FR 41639, Oct. 12, 1990]

# Subpart E—Disposition of Particular Material Remains

# Source:
87 FR 22459, Apr. 15, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 79.12
Determining which particular material remains are eligible for disposal.
(a)
Which material remains are eligible for disposal under this subpart?
In order to be eligible for disposal under this subpart, material remains from collections must be:
(1) Archaeological resources, as defined in the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470bb(1)), or other resources excavated and removed under the Reservoir Salvage Act (54 U.S.C. 312501-312508) or the Antiquities Act (54 U.S.C. 320301-320303); and
(2) Considered to be of insufficient archeological interest under the criteria in paragraph (e) of this section, based on the definition of “of archaeological interest” in 43 CFR 7.3(a)(1).
(b)
Which material remains are not eligible for disposal under this subpart?
The following material remains from collections are not eligible for disposal under this subpart:
(1) Native American “cultural items” as defined in the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act of 1990 (25 U.S.C. 3001(3)), because disposition is governed by that Act and its implementing regulations (43 CFR part 10);
(2) Other human remains not subject to the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act of 1990;
(3) Material remains excavated and removed from Indian lands on or before the enactment of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470aa-mm) on October 31, 1979; and
(4) Material remains excavated and removed from Indian lands under the Antiquities Act (54 U.S.C. 320301-320303).
(c)
Who may propose the disposal of particular material remains?
The following individuals who meet the applicable Professional Qualification Standards set by the Secretary of the Interior may propose the disposal of particular material remains from a collection:
(1) Federal agency staff members with verifiable knowledge of the particular material remains, including archeologists, curators, and conservators; and
(2) Qualified museum professionals located in a repository that provides curatorial services for a collection held in that repository.
(d)
Who is responsible for the disposal of particular material remains?
The Federal Agency Official is responsible for ensuring that particular material remains are disposed of according to the requirements of this subpart.
(e)
When are particular material remains considered to be of insufficient archeological interest?
Particular material remains are considered to be of insufficient archeological interest when, on a case-by-case basis, at least one qualified archeological or museum professional who meets the Professional Qualification Standards set by the Secretary of the Interior and possesses verifiable knowledge of and experience in the type of material remains being evaluated makes a determination. The determination must follow the process
established in § 79.15 and document that:
(1) Disposition of the material remains will not negatively impact the overall integrity of the original collection recovered during the survey, excavation, or other study of a prehistoric or historic resource; and
(2) At least one of the following three requirements—lack of provenience information; lack of physical integrity; or overly redundant and not useful for research—are met:
(i)
Lack of provenience information.
Lack of provenience information may be established after a concerted effort to recover the information in the related associated records is performed and documented and by one or more of the following circumstances:
(A) The labels on the material remains or the labels on the containers that hold the material remains do not provide adequate information to reliably establish meaningful archeological context for the material remains;
(B) The labels on the material remains or the labels on the containers that hold the material remains have been lost or destroyed over time and cannot be reconstructed through the associated records; or
(C) The associated records of the material remains never existed, have been lost, or have been destroyed.
(ii)
Lack of physical integrity.
Material remains lack physical integrity when, subsequent to recovery during the survey, excavation, or other study of a prehistoric or historic resource, the material remains were irreparably damaged through decay, decomposition, or inadvertent loss. Examples may include human-caused incidents, exposure to elements, or natural disaster.
(iii)
Overly redundant and not useful for research.
Material remains are overly redundant and not useful for research in light of the collection's archeological context, research questions, and research potential. These considerations may vary based on geography, time and culture period, scientific or cultural significance, prior analysis, and other factors. Because it is difficult to predict if future analytical methods will yield useful information about the material remains proposed for disposal, a sample of the material remains deemed to be overly redundant and not useful for research must be retained for curation, as required by § 79.15(f).
§ 79.13
Acceptable methods for disposition of particular material remains.
(a)
Indian lands.
This paragraph applies to material remains that are determined to be of insufficient archeological interest under § 79.12(e) and that were excavated or removed from Indian lands after October 31, 1979. Under the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470aa-mm), these material remains are the property of the Indian individual or Indian tribe having rights of ownership over the resources. Under the authority of 16 U.S.C. 470dd, disposition of these material remains is subject to the consent of the Indian individual or Indian tribe. The Federal Agency Official must use the following methods of disposal for these material remains in the following order:
(1) Return them to the Indian individual or Indian tribe having rights of ownership under the Archaeological Resources Protection Act's custody regulations, 43 CFR 7.13(b), 36 CFR 296.13(b), 32 CFR 229.13(b), and 18 CFR 1312.13(b).
(2) If the Indian individual or Indian tribe having rights of ownership does not wish to accept and take physical custody of the material remains, the Federal Agency Official may otherwise dispose of the material remains using the disposition methods in paragraph (b) of this section after receiving written consent and relinquishment of ownership from the Indian individual or Indian tribe having rights of ownership.
(b)
Public lands.
This paragraph applies to material remains that are determined to be of insufficient archeological interest under § 79.12(e) and that were excavated or removed from public lands that are not Indian lands. As a condition of disposal, the Federal Agency Official will reasonably ensure that material remains from such lands may not be traded, sold, bought, or bartered after disposal. The Federal Agency Official must consider the following methods for disposal of the material remains:
(1) Transfer to another Federal agency.
(2) Convey to a suitable public or tribal scientific or professional repository as defined in § 79.4(k) of this part.
(3) Convey to a federally recognized Indian tribe if the material remains were excavated or removed from lands of religious or cultural importance to that tribe and were identified and documented by a Federal land manager under 43 CFR 7.7(b)(1), 36 CFR 296.7(b)(1), 32 CFR 229.7(b)(1), or 18 CFR 1312.7(b)(1).
(4) Convey to a federally recognized Indian tribe from whose aboriginal lands the material remains were removed. Aboriginal occupation may be documented by evidence including, but not limited to, a final judgment of the Indian Claims Commission or the United States Court of Claims, or a treaty, Act of Congress, or Executive Order.
(5) Convey to a federally recognized Indian tribe for the purpose of traditional cultural, educational, or religious practices.
(6) Transfer within the Federal agency for the purpose of education or interpretation, or convey to a suitable institution to be used for public benefit and education including, but not limited to, local historical societies, museums, university or college departments, and schools.
(7) If the Federal Agency Official considers each of these prior methods carefully and is still unable to find an acceptable method of disposition, then the material remains may be destroyed. The Federal Agency Official or their designee must witness and document the destruction, including through photography or video as practicable.
§ 79.14
[Reserved]
§ 79.15
Final determination of disposition of particular material remains.
The Federal Agency Official is responsible for ensuring that the agency disposes of material remains according to the requirements of this subpart. A determination made under this subpart in no way affects a Federal land manager's obligations under other applicable laws or regulations. The Federal Agency Official must take all the following actions before making a final determination that it is appropriate to dispose of material remains.
(a) The Federal Agency Official must determine that the material remains are eligible for disposal under the criteria in § 79.12(a).
(b) The Federal Agency Official must verify in writing that none of the material remains proposed for disposal meet the criteria in § 79.12(b).
(c) The Federal Agency Official must verify that the material remains proposed for disposal are appropriately documented through a professional procedure approved by the Federal agency that is consistent with curatorial services, including accessioning and cataloging, as defined in § 79.4(b).
(d) The Federal Agency Official must consult with qualified museum professionals located in the repository that provides curatorial services for the material remains proposed for disposal if those museum professionals did not propose the disposal under § 79.12(c)(2). This consultation with the qualified museum professionals must address the appropriateness of the proposed disposal.
(e) The Federal Agency Official must establish a collections advisory committee of at least five members to review proposed dispositions of material remains. The committee must make a consensus recommendation to the Federal Agency Official about each proposed disposition based on the adequacy of the documentation addressing the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the appropriateness of the proposed disposition based on the criteria in § 79.12(e).
(1) The collections advisory committee must consist of qualified employees from Federal agencies who meet appropriate Professional Qualification Standards set by the Secretary of the Interior, and must include the curator and the principal archeologist of the Federal agency that owns or administers the material remains if either or both of these two positions exist. The Departmental Consulting Archeologist may not participate on the collections advisory committee. If the Departmental Consulting Archeologist is the principal archeologist, then
the Federal Agency Official must designate another qualified archeologist at the agency instead.
(2) Collections advisory committee members must include Federal employees with subject matter or technical expertise in the object types, cultural period, and culture area of the proposed disposition. These employees may include archeologists, anthropologists, curators, and conservators with expertise in historic, prehistoric, or underwater material remains.
(3) If the material remains being proposed for disposal are Native American, then collections advisory committee members must also include at least one or more individuals who are Tribal Officials acting in their official capacities representing their respective federally recognized Indian tribes that are regularly consulted by the Federal agency regarding the collection containing the material remains being proposed for disposal.
(4) The collections advisory committee must have written procedures and governing rules, including terms of member appointments and the duration of the committee, approved by the Federal Agency Official, to ensure all recommendations about the appropriateness of disposal are fair, open, timely, and in the best interests of the public.
(5) The collections advisory committee must submit a written report to the Federal Agency Official for each proposed disposition that, at a minimum, documents the information required for the
Federal Register
notice identified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section; membership of the committee and each member's role and expertise pertinent to the proposed disposition; a summary of any comments received on the proposed disposition under paragraph (h) of this section; the recommendations for disposition, including any conditions of transfer or conveyance; and the reasons why other methods of disposal would be of lesser public benefit.
(6) Federal employees or qualified members of federally recognized Indian tribes may be temporarily added to the committee if its existing members determine that specific expertise, including archeological knowledge of the cultural period and cultural area, is needed on a case-by-case basis.
(7) Collections advisory committee members, whether permanent or temporary, and their family members may not benefit financially or in any other way from a disposition of material remains, except to the extent that members of a federally recognized Indian Tribe, when that Indian Tribe is being considered as a potential recipient of material remains, may participate in the collections advisory committee as described in § 79.15(e)(3).
(f) The Federal Agency Official must retain in the curated collection a sample of those material remains determined to be overly redundant and not useful for research that is representative of the population as a whole from which the sample was taken.
(1) The size of the representative sample must be large enough to permit future analysis for research purposes.
(2) The method for establishing a representative sample, including sample size and typology, must be determined by a qualified museum or archeological professional with expertise in the type of prehistoric or historic material remains being sampled.
(3) The sampling method must be documented and consistent with professional prehistoric or historic archeological practice.
(g) The Federal Agency Official must retain all associated records in the archeological collection as defined in § 79.4(a)(2). A copy of the original associated records must be given to the recipient of any transferred or conveyed items subject to the restrictions stipulated in the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470hh(a)). For material remains excavated and removed from Indian land, a copy of the original associated records must be given to the Tribal Historic Preservation Officer (or other designated tribal representative) from the tribal land where the material remains were recovered.
(h) The Federal Agency Official must notify the entities listed in this paragraph of the proposed disposition and solicit comments on the proposal. Notifications must be made in writing, and must include a deadline for submitting comments that is at least 60 days after
notice is issued, in accordance with procedures established by the Federal agency. All written comments must be reviewed by the Federal Agency Official and the collections advisory committee. The Federal Agency Official will respond to all relevant, substantive comments received. Notice must be given to the following:
(1) The State Historic Preservation Officer and, where established, the State Archeologist, from the state(s) where the material remains to be disposed of were recovered.
(2) The Tribal Historic Preservation Officer (or other designated tribal representative) from the Indian land(s) where the material remains to be disposed of were recovered.
(3) Federal, state, tribal, or local agencies that were involved in the recovery of the material remains to be disposed of.
(4) Private landowners from whose lands the material remains to be disposed of were removed, but only in such cases where the Federal agency obtained practical management authority over the material remains as the result of activities conducted in connection with a Federal action, assistance, license, or permit, on those private lands.
(5) Universities, museums, scientific institutions, and educational institutions with which the agency has an existing relationship pursuant to a written instrument (
e.g.,
permit, agreement) for research, excavation, curation, education, or other partnership in the state and region from which the material remains to be disposed of were recovered.
(6) Indian tribes that consider the land to have religious or cultural importance, if the material remains are from a site on public lands that has religious or cultural importance to Indian tribes under 43 CFR 7.7(b)(1).
(7) Indian tribes from whose aboriginal lands the material remains were removed, if aboriginal occupation has been documented by a final judgment of the Indian Claims Commission or the United States Court of Claims, treaty, Act of Congress, or Executive Order.
(i) The Federal Agency Official must, after the comment period described in paragraph (h) of this section has expired and the Federal Agency Official has responded to all relevant, substantive comments received, publish a notice of determination of disposition in the
Federal Register
.
(1) The notice published in the
Federal Register
must include the following:
(i) A general description of the material remains to be disposed.
(ii) The criteria used to determine that the material remains are of insufficient archeological interest under § 79.12(e).
(iii) The method of disposal.
(iv) The name of the Federal Agency Official or their designee as a point of contact.
(v) An explanation of a person's right to object to the determination of disposition under § 79.16 and the name, email, and physical address of the Departmental Consulting Archeologist.
(2) The Federal Agency Official must also prepare a determination of disposition that includes the following:
(i) A detailed list of the material remains to be disposed, including a description of each object, or lot of objects if there are multiples of a particular type, and photograph(s) of the objects when appropriate.
(ii) The report of the collections advisory committee as stipulated in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.
(iii) Documentation that all of the procedures in § 79.15 have been met.
(iv) The name of the recipient entity or method of disposal, as appropriate.
(v) Justification of the method to be used to dispose of the material remains under § 79.13.
(vi) The name of the Federal Agency Official or their designee as a point of contact.
(vii) Other conditions of transfer or conveyance, as appropriate.
(viii) A statement that the determination is a final agency action under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 704) unless an objection is filed in accordance with § 79.16.
§ 79.16
Objecting to a determination of disposition of particular material remains.
Anyone may object to and request in writing that the Departmental Consulting Archeologist review a Federal Agency Official's determination to dispose of material remains within 60 days of publication of the notice of determination of disposition in the
Federal Register.
The objection must document why the objector disagrees with the Federal Agency Official's decision regarding the disposal. The procedure for objecting to a determination of disposition is as follows:
(a) The objection must be sent to the Departmental Consulting Archeologist. The Departmental Consulting Archeologist must forward a copy of the objection within 5 days of receipt to the Federal Agency Official who made the determination under objection. The Federal Agency Official must halt the planned disposition until the Departmental Consulting Archeologist completes the requested review.
(b) The Departmental Consulting Archeologist must review the objection, and the Federal Agency Official's determination of disposition in § 79.15(i)(2).
(c) The Departmental Consulting Archeologist must consult with the objecting party or parties and the Federal Agency Official with the aim of resolving the objection.
(d) Within 60 days of receipt of the objection, whether or not a formal resolution has been agreed upon, the Departmental Consulting Archeologist must transmit to the Federal Agency Official a non-binding recommendation, including a thorough explanation, for further consideration.
(e) The Federal Agency Official must consider the recommendation of the Departmental Consulting Archeologist prior to making a decision on the objection. Within 30 days of receipt of the recommendation, the Federal Agency Official must respond to the Departmental Consulting Archeologist and the objector with a decision on the objection and a justification for that decision. The decision document must include any information about administrative appeal rights required by internal agency appeal procedures or a statement that the decision document is a final agency action under the Administrative Procedure Act, as appropriate.
(f) The Federal Agency Official must publish notice of the decision on the objection and any amendments made to the determination of disposition in the
Federal Register.
This may only be done after the objector exhausts any internal appeal procedures identified in the decision document sent to the objector under § 79.16(e). Publication of the notice of the decision on the objection constitutes a final agency action under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 704).
§ 79.17
Timing of disposition.
Disposition will occur no sooner than 60 days after the notice of determination of disposition is published in the
Federal Register
under § 79.15(i). If the Federal agency receives an objection under § 79.16, then disposition will occur no sooner than 30 days after the notice of decision on the objection and any amendments are published in the
Federal Register
under § 79.16(f).
§ 79.18
Administrative record of disposition.
(a) After the Federal Agency Official has made a determination of disposition, he or she must document the determination and retain the administrative record as part of the associated records as defined in § 79.4(a)(2), which must include:
(1) The professional evaluation of the material remains conducted under §§ 79.12(e) and 79.15(b).
(2) The report of the collections advisory committee provided under § 79.15(e)(5).
(3) Notifications of the proposed disposition under § 79.15(h); consent of Indian individuals or tribes, if applicable, under § 79.13(a)(2); and comments received from the parties notified under § 79.15(h).
(4) Objections received by the Departmental Consulting Archeologist, the non-binding recommendation of the Departmental Consulting Archeologist, and the decision on the objection and any amendments made to the determination of disposition, if applicable, under § 79.16.
(5) The disposition action with specific information, including a description and evaluation of objects; the method of disposition and the reason for the method chosen; names and titles of persons initiating and approving the disposition; date of disposition; relevant accession and catalog numbers; evidence of the receipt for the return, transfer, or conveyance of the material remains by the recipient tribe, agency, repository, or institution, including the title to the received material remains, as appropriate; photographic documentation, as appropriate; and the name and location of the recipient institution or entity, as appropriate.
(6) A detailed inventory of the representative sample of material remains retained, when the larger proportion is disposed of because it is overly redundant and not useful for research.
(7) Other activities and decisions pertaining to the disposition of the material remains, such as conditions of use after the disposition is completed, as appropriate.
(b) The administrative record must be made available to the public upon request, unless the information or a portion of it must be withheld under the terms of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) or the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470hh). The latter restricts the government's ability to make sensitive information, such as archeological site location data, available to the public.
(c) After disposition, the accession and catalog records must be reviewed and amended through a procedure established by the Federal agency. The amendments must identify the material remains that were deaccessioned and disposed of, the date of disposition, and the manner in which they were disposed. The documentation prepared under § 79.15, § 79.16, and paragraph (a) of this section must be retained in accordance with Federal agency policy.
Pt. 79, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 79—Example of a Deed of Gift
DEED OF GIFT
TO THE
(Name of the Federal agency)
Whereas,
the (name of the Federal agency), hereinafter called the Recipient, is dedicated to the preservation and protection of artifacts, specimens and associated records that are generated in connection with its projects and programs;
Whereas,
certain artifacts and specimens, listed in Attachment A to this Deed of Gift, were recovered from the (name of the prehistoric or historic resource) site in connection with the Recipient's (name of the Recipient's project) project;
Whereas,
the (name of the prehistoric or historic resource) site is located on lands to which title is held by (name of the donor), hereinafter called the Donor, and that the Donor holds free and clear title to the artifacts and specimens; and
Whereas,
the Donor is desirous of donating the artifacts and specimens to the Recipient to ensure their continued preservation and protection;
Now therefore,
the Donor does hereby unconditionally donate to the Recipient, for unrestricted use, the artifacts and specimens listed in Attachment A to this Deed of Gift; and
The Recipient hereby gratefully acknowleges the receipt of the artifacts and specimens.
Signed: (signature of the Donor)
Date: (date)
Signed: (signature of the Federal Agency Official)
Date: (date)
Attachment A: Inventory of Artifacts and Specimens.
[55 FR 37630, Sept. 12, 1990; 55 FR 41639, Oct. 12, 1990]
Pt. 79, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 79—Example of a Memorandum of Understanding for Curatorial Services for a Federally-Owned Collection
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING FOR CURATORIAL SERVICES BETWEEN THE
(Name of the Federal agency)
AND THE
(Name of the Repository)
This Memorandum of Understanding is entered into this (day) day of (month and year), between the United States of America, acting by and through the (name of the Federal agency), hereinafter called the Depositor, and the (name of the Repository), hereinafter called the Repository, in the State of (name of the State).
The Parties do witnesseth that,
Whereas,
the Depositor has the responsibility under Federal law to preserve for future use certain collections of archeological artifacts, specimens and associated records, herein called the Collection, listed in Attachment A which is attached hereto and
made a part hereof, and is desirous of obtaining curatorial services; and
Whereas,
the Repository is desirous of obtaining, housing and maintaining the Collection, and recognizes the benefits which will accrue to it, the public and scientific interests by housing and maintaining the Collection for study and other educational purposes; and
Whereas,
the Parties hereto recognize the Federal Government's continued ownership and control over the Collection and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property, listed in Attachment B which is attached hereto and made a part hereof, provided to the Repository, and the Federal Government's responsibility to ensure that the Collection is suitably managed and preserved for the public good; and
Whereas,
the Parties hereto recognize the mutual benefits to be derived by having the Collection suitably housed and maintained by the Repository;
Now therefore,
the Parties do mutually agree as follows:
1. The Repository shall:
a. Provide for the professional care and management of the Collection from the (names of the prehistoric and historic resources) sites, assigned (list site numbers) site numbers. The collections were recovered in connection with the (name of the Federal or federally-authorized project) project, located in (name of the nearest city or town), (name of the county) county, in the State of (name of the State).
b. Perform all work necessary to protect the Collection in accordance with the regulation 36 CFR part 79 for the curation of federally-owned and administered archeological collections and the terms and conditions stipulated in Attachment C to this Memorandum.
c. Assign as the Curator, the Collections Manager and the Conservator having responsibility for the work under this Memorandum, persons who are qualified museum professionals and whose expertise is appropriate to the nature and content of the Collection.
d. Begin all work on or about (month, date and year) and continue for a period of (number of years) years or until sooner terminated or revoked in accordance with the terms set forth herein.
e. Provide and maintain a repository facility having requisite equipment, space and adequate safeguards for the physical security and controlled environment for the Collection and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property in the possession of the Repository.
f. Not in any way adversely alter or deface any of the Collection except as may be absolutely necessary in the course of stabilization, conservation, scientific study, analysis and research. Any activity that will involve the intentional destruction of any of the Collection must be approved in advance and in writing by the Depositor.
g. Annually inspect the facilities, the Collection and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property. Every (number of years) years inventory the Collection and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property. Perform only those conservation treatments as are absolutely necessary to ensure the physical stability and integrity of the Collection, and report the results of inventories, inspections and treatments to the Depositor.
h. Within five (5) days of discovery, report all instances of and circumstances surrounding loss of, deterioration and damage to, or destruction of the Collection and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property to the Depositor, and those actions taken to stabilize the Collection and to correct any deficiencies in the physical plant or operating procedures that may have contributed to the loss, deterioration, damage or destruction. Any actions that will involve the repair and restoration of any of the Collection and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property must be approved in advance and in writing by the Depositor.
i. Review and approve or deny requests for access to or short-term loan of the Collection (or a part thereof) for scientific, educational or religious uses in accordance with the regulation 36 CFR part 79 for the curation of federally-owned and administered archeological collections and the terms and conditions stipulated in Attachment C of this Memorandum. In addition, refer requests for consumptive uses of the Collection (or a part thereof) to the Depositor for approval or denial.
j. Not mortgage, pledge, assign, repatriate, transfer, exchange, give, sublet, discard or part with possession of any of the Collection or any other U.S. Government-owned personal property in any manner to any third party either directly or in-directly without the prior written permission of the Depositor, and redirect any such request to the Depositor for response. In addition, not take any action whereby any of the Collection or any other U.S. Government-owned personal property shall or may be encumbered, seized, taken in execution, sold, attached, lost, stolen, destroyed or damaged.
2. The Depositor shall:
a. On or about (month, date and year), deliver or cause to be delivered to the Repository the Collection, as described in Attachment A, and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property, as described in Attachment B.
b. Assign as the Depositor's Representative having full authority with regard to this Memorandum, a person who meets pertinent professional qualifications.
c. Every (number of years) years, jointly with the Repository's designated representative, have the Depositor's Representative inspect and inventory the Collection and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property, and inspect the repository facility.
d. Review and approve or deny requests for consumptively using the Collection (or a part thereof).
3. Removal of all or any portion of the Collection from the premises of the Repository for scientific, educational or religious purposes may be allowed only in accordance with the regulation 36 CFR part 79 for the curation of federally-owned and administered archeological collections; the terms and conditions stipulated in Attachment C to this Memorandum; any conditions for handling, packaging and transporting the Collection; and other conditions that may be specified by the Repository to prevent breakage, deterioration and contamination.
4. The Collection or portions thereof may be exhibited, photographed or otherwise reproduced and studied in accordance with the terms and conditions stipulated in Attachment C to this Memorandum. All exhibits, reproductions and studies shall credit the Depositor, and read as follows: “Courtesy of the (name of the Federal agency).” The Repository agrees to provide the Depositor with copies of any resulting publications.
5. The Repository shall maintain complete and accurate records of the Collection and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property, including information on the study, use, loan and location of said Collection which has been removed from the premises of the Repository.
6. Upon execution by both parties, this Memorandum of Understanding shall be effective on this (day) day of (month and year), and shall remain in effect for (number of years) years, at which time it will be reviewed, revised, as necessary, and reaffirmed or terminated. This Memorandum may be revised or extended by mutual consent of both parties, or by issuance of a written amendment signed and dated by both parties. Either party may terminate this Memorandum by providing 90 days written notice. Upon termination, the Repository shall return such Collection and any other U.S. Government-owned personal property to the destination directed by the Depositor and in such manner to preclude breakage, loss, deterioration and contamination during handling, packaging and shipping, and in accordance with other conditions specified in writing by the Depositor. If the Repository terminates, or is in default of, this Memorandum, the Repository shall fund the packaging and transportation costs. If the Depositor terminates this Memorandum, the Depositor shall fund the packaging and transportation costs.
7. Title to the Collection being cared for and maintained under this Memorandum lies with the Federal Government.
In witness whereof,
the Parties hereto have executed this Memorandum.
Signed: (signature of the Federal Agency Official)
Date: (date)
Signed: (signature of the Repository Official)
Date: (date)
Attachment A: Inventory of the Collection
Attachment B: Inventory of any other U.S. Government-owned Personal Property
Attachment C: Terms and Conditions Required by the Depositor
Pt. 79, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 79—Example of a Short-Term Loan Agreement for a Federally-Owned Collection
SHORT-TERM LOAN AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE
(Name of the Repository)
AND THE
(Name of the Borrower)
The (name of the Repository), hereinafter called the Repository, agrees to loan to (name of the Borrower), hereinafter called the Borrower, certain artifacts, specimens and associated records, listed in Attachment A, which were collected from the (name of the prehistoric or historic resource) site which is assigned (list site number) site number. The collection was recovered in connection with the (name of the Federal or federally authorized project) project, located in (name of the nearest city or town), (name of the county) county in the State of (name of the State). The Collection is the property of the U.S. Government.
The artifacts, specimens and associated records are being loaned for the purpose of (cite the purpose of the loan), beginning on (month, day and year) and ending on (month, day and year).
During the term of the loan, the Borrower agrees to handle, package and ship or transport the Collection in a manner that protects it from breakage, loss, deterioration and contamination, in conformance with the regulation 36 CFR part 79 for the curation of federally-owned and administered archeological collections and the terms and conditions stipulated in Attachment B to this loan agreement.
The Borrower agrees to assume full responsibility for insuring the Collection or for providing funds for the repair or replacement of objects that are damaged or lost during transit and while in the Borrower's possession. Within five (5) days of discovery, the Borrower will notify the Repository of instances and circumstances surrounding any loss of, deterioration and damage to, or destruction
of the Collection and will, at the direction of the Repository, take steps to conserve damaged materials.
The Borrower agrees to acknowledge and credit the U.S. Government and the Repository in any exhibits or publications resulting from the loan. The credit line shall read as follows: “Courtesy of the (names of the Federal agency and the Repository).” The Borrower agrees to provide the Repository and the (name of the Federal agency) with copies of any resulting publications.
Upon termination of this agreement, the Borrower agrees to properly package and ship or transport the Collection to the Repository.
Either party may terminate this agreement, effective not less than (number of days) days after receipt by the other party of written notice, without further liability to either party.
Signed: (signature of the Repository Official)
Date: (date)
Signed: (signature of the Borrower)
Date: (date)
Attachment A: Inventory of the Objects being Loaned.
Attachment B: Terms and Conditions of the Loan.
PARTS 80-199 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
36 CFR (7-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
36 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
1.2 (a)(3) revised; (f) added
72961
1.4 (a) amended
69188
4.30 (i) added
69188
13 Authority citation revised
72961
13.1 Amended; eff. 7-9-20
35191
Amended
72961
13.2 (a) revised; (f) removed
72961
13.42 (f) and (g) removed; eff. 7-9-20
35191
13.430 (a)(1) revised
72961
2021
36 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
7.1 Removed
71152
7.70 (f) added
3813
Regulation at 86 FR 3804 effective date corrected
9289
(f)(2)(i) and (3)(ii) introductory text correctly amended
9289
2022
36 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
2.1 Note revised
47319
2.5 Note revised
47319
7.9 Heading revised; (g) added
8952
7.32 (a)(1)(x) redesignated as (a)(1)(xvi); (a)(1)(x), (xi) through (xv), and (4) added; (a)(1) introductory text, (v), (viii), (ix), new (xvi), and (3) revised
5405
79 Heading and authority citation revised
22457
79.1—79.4 (Subpart A) Sections designated as Subpart A; heading added
22457
79.1 (a) amended
22457
79.2 (a) revised; (b)(2) amended
22457
79.3 (a) revised
22457
79.4 Revised
22457
79.5—79.9 (Subpart B) Sections designated as subpart B; heading added
22459
79.10 (Subpart C) Section designated as Subpart C; heading added
22459
79.11 (Subpart D) Section designated as Subpart D; heading added
22459
79.12—79.18 (Subpart E) Added
22459
2023
36 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
7.5 (a) revised
3664
7.83 (a) through (e) redesignated as (b) through (f); new (a) added; new (b) revised
86057
7.96 (g)(3) amended
31625
51 Authority citation revised
90117
51.4 Heading and (b) revised; (c) through (h) added
90117
51.8 Revised
90118
51.16 (a) revised
90118
51.17 (b)(2) revised
90118
51.51 Amended
90118
51.73 Revised
90118
51.76 Revised
90118
51.78 Revised
90119
51.81 (b) revised
90119
51.82 (b) revised; (c) and (d) added
90119
2024
36 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
1.2 (b) and (d) amended
96550
1.3 (a) amended
96550
7.58 (d) added; eff. 7-5-24
47868
7.90 (a) revised
104430
7.96 (g)(3)(i) amended
43322
13.1 Amended
55072
13.42 (f) and (k) added
55072
14 Revised
96550
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through July 1, 2025)
36 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter I
7.70 (f)(2)(i) removed; (f)(3)(ii) and table 1 amended; (f)(3)(iii) and (iv) added; (f)(4)(i) table 2, (ii), and (6)(ii) revised
2629
7.70 Regulation at 90 FR 2629 eff. date delayed
9518
7.70 Regulation at 90 FR 2629 eff. date delayed indefinitely
12108
7.96 (g)(8) added (temporary)
25500
52 Added
5646
52 Regulation at 90 FR 5646 eff. date delayed
9953
○
