equals the fair value for each derivative contract or each single-product netting set of derivative contracts (including a cleared transaction except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this section and, at the discretion of the FDIC-supervised institution, excluding a forward agreement treated as a derivative contract that is part of a repurchase or reverse repurchase or a securities borrowing or lending transaction that qualifies for sales treatment under GAAP);
CVM
r
equals the amount of cash collateral received from a counterparty to a derivative
contract and that satisfies the conditions in paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(C) through (G) of this section, or, in the case of a client-facing derivative transaction on behalf of a clearing member client, the amount of collateral received from the clearing member client; and
CVM
p
equals the amount of cash collateral that is posted to a counterparty to a derivative contract and that has not offset the fair value of the derivative contract and that satisfies the conditions in paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(C) through (G) of this section, or, in the case of a client-facing derivative transaction on behalf of a clearing member client, the amount of collateral posted to the clearing member client;
(
2
) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B)(
1
) of this section, where multiple netting sets are subject to a single variation margin agreement, an FDIC-supervised institution must apply the formula for replacement cost provided in § 324.132(c)(10)(i), in which the term C
MA
may only include cash collateral that satisfies the conditions in paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(C) through (G) of this section; and
(
3
) For purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B)(
1
), an FDIC-supervised institution must treat a derivative contract that references an index as if it were multiple derivative contracts each referencing one component of the index if the FDIC-supervised institution elected to treat the derivative contract as multiple derivative contracts under § 324.132(c)(5)(vi);
(C) For derivative contracts that are not cleared through a QCCP, the cash collateral received by the recipient counterparty is not segregated (by law, regulation, or an agreement with the counterparty);
(D) Variation margin is calculated and transferred on a daily basis based on the mark-to-fair value of the derivative contract;
(E) The variation margin transferred under the derivative contract or the governing rules of the CCP or QCCP for a cleared transaction is the full amount that is necessary to fully extinguish the net current credit exposure to the counterparty of the derivative contracts, subject to the threshold and minimum transfer amounts applicable to the counterparty under the terms of the derivative contract or the governing rules for a cleared transaction;
(F) The variation margin is in the form of cash in the same currency as the currency of settlement set forth in the derivative contract, provided that for the purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(F), currency of settlement means any currency for settlement specified in the governing qualifying master netting agreement and the credit support annex to the qualifying master netting agreement, or in the governing rules for a cleared transaction; and
(G) The derivative contract and the variation margin are governed by a qualifying master netting agreement between the legal entities that are the counterparties to the derivative contract or by the governing rules for a cleared transaction, and the qualifying master netting agreement or the governing rules for a cleared transaction must explicitly stipulate that the counterparties agree to settle any payment obligations on a net basis, taking into account any variation margin received or provided under the contract if a credit event involving either counterparty occurs;
(iv) The effective notional principal amount (that is, the apparent or stated notional principal amount multiplied by any multiplier in the derivative contract) of a credit derivative, or other similar instrument, through which the FDIC-supervised institution provides credit protection, provided that:
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution may reduce the effective notional principal amount of the credit derivative by the amount of any reduction in the mark-to-fair value of the credit derivative if the reduction is recognized in common equity tier 1 capital;
(B) The FDIC-supervised institution may reduce the effective notional principal amount of the credit derivative by the effective notional principal amount of a purchased credit derivative or other similar instrument, provided that the remaining maturity of the purchased credit derivative is equal to or greater than the remaining maturity of the credit derivative through which the FDIC-supervised institution provides credit protection and that:
(
1
) With respect to a credit derivative that references a single exposure, the
reference exposure of the purchased credit derivative is to the same legal entity and ranks
pari passu
with, or is junior to, the reference exposure of the credit derivative through which the FDIC-supervised institution provides credit protection; or
(
2
) With respect to a credit derivative that references multiple exposures, the reference exposures of the purchased credit derivative are to the same legal entities and rank
pari passu
with the reference exposures of the credit derivative through which the FDIC-supervised institution provides credit protection, and the level of seniority of the purchased credit derivative ranks
pari passu
to the level of seniority of the credit derivative through which the FDIC-supervised institution provides credit protection;
(
3
) Where an FDIC-supervised institution has reduced the effective notional amount of a credit derivative through which the FDIC-supervised institution provides credit protection in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, the FDIC-supervised institution must also reduce the effective notional principal amount of a purchased credit derivative used to offset the credit derivative through which the FDIC-supervised institution provides credit protection, by the amount of any increase in the mark-to-fair value of the purchased credit derivative that is recognized in common equity tier 1 capital; and
(
4
) Where the FDIC-supervised institution purchases credit protection through a total return swap and records the net payments received on a credit derivative through which the FDIC-supervised institution provides credit protection in net income, but does not record offsetting deterioration in the mark-to-fair value of the credit derivative through which the FDIC-supervised institution provides credit protection in net income (either through reductions in fair value or by additions to reserves), the FDIC-supervised institution may not use the purchased credit protection to offset the effective notional principal amount of the related credit derivative through which the FDIC-supervised institution provides credit protection;
(v) Where an FDIC-supervised institution acting as a principal has more than one repo-style transaction with the same counterparty and has offset the gross value of receivables due from a counterparty under reverse repurchase transactions by the gross value of payables under repurchase transactions due to the same counterparty, the gross value of receivables associated with the repo-style transactions
less
any on-balance sheet receivables amount associated with these repo-style transactions included under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, unless the following criteria are met:
(A) The offsetting transactions have the same explicit final settlement date under their governing agreements;
(B) The right to offset the amount owed to the counterparty with the amount owed by the counterparty is legally enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding; and
(C) Under the governing agreements, the counterparties intend to settle net, settle simultaneously, or settle according to a process that is the functional equivalent of net settlement, (that is, the cash flows of the transactions are equivalent, in effect, to a single net amount on the settlement date), where both transactions are settled through the same settlement system, the settlement arrangements are supported by cash or intraday credit facilities intended to ensure that settlement of both transactions will occur by the end of the business day, and the settlement of the underlying securities does not interfere with the net cash settlement;
(vi) The counterparty credit risk of a repo-style transaction, including where the FDIC-supervised institution acts as an agent for a repo-style transaction and indemnifies the customer with respect to the performance of the customer's counterparty in an amount limited to the difference between the fair value of the security or cash its customer has lent and the fair value of the collateral the borrower has provided, calculated as follows:
(A) If the transaction is not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement, the counterparty credit risk (E*) for transactions with a counterparty
must be calculated on a transaction by transaction basis, such that each transaction
i
is treated as its own netting set, in accordance with the following formula, where E
i
is the fair value of the instruments, gold, or cash that the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or provided as collateral to the counterparty, and C
i
is the fair value of the instruments, gold, or cash that the FDIC-supervised institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or received as collateral from the counterparty:
E
i
* = max {0, [E
i
− C
i
]}; and
(B) If the transaction is subject to a qualifying master netting agreement, the counterparty credit risk (E*) must be calculated as the greater of zero and the total fair value of the instruments, gold, or cash that the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase or provided as collateral to a counterparty for all transactions included in the qualifying master netting agreement (ΣE
i
),
less
the total fair value of the instruments, gold, or cash that the FDIC-supervised institution borrowed, purchased subject to resale or received as collateral from the counterparty for those transactions (ΣC
i
), in accordance with the following formula:
E* = max {0, [ΣE
i
− ΣC
i
]}
(vii) If an FDIC-supervised institution acting as an agent for a repo-style transaction provides a guarantee to a customer of the security or cash its customer has lent or borrowed with respect to the performance of the customer's counterparty and the guarantee is not limited to the difference between the fair value of the security or cash its customer has lent and the fair value of the collateral the borrower has provided, the amount of the guarantee that is greater than the difference between the fair value of the security or cash its customer has lent and the value of the collateral the borrower has provided;
(viii) The credit equivalent amount of all off-balance sheet exposures of the FDIC-supervised institution, excluding repo-style transactions, repurchase or reverse repurchase or securities borrowing or lending transactions that qualify for sales treatment under GAAP, and derivative transactions, determined using the applicable credit conversion factor under § 324.33(b), provided, however, that the minimum credit conversion factor that may be assigned to an off-balance sheet exposure under this paragraph is 10 percent; and
(ix) For an FDIC-supervised institution that is a clearing member:
(A) A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution that guarantees the performance of a clearing member client with respect to a cleared transaction must treat its exposure to the clearing member client as a derivative contract for purposes of determining its total leverage exposure;
(B) A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution that guarantees the performance of a CCP with respect to a transaction cleared on behalf of a clearing member client must treat its exposure to the CCP as a derivative contract for purposes of determining its total leverage exposure;
(C) A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution that does not guarantee the performance of a CCP with respect to a transaction cleared on behalf of a clearing member client may exclude its exposure to the CCP for purposes of determining its total leverage exposure;
(D) An FDIC-supervised institution that is a clearing member may exclude from its total leverage exposure the effective notional principal amount of credit protection sold through a credit derivative contract, or other similar instrument, that it clears on behalf of a clearing member client through a CCP as calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section; and
(E) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(2)(ix)(A) through (C) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution may exclude from its total leverage exposure a clearing member's exposure to a clearing member client for a derivative contract, if the clearing member client and the clearing member are affiliates and consolidated for financial reporting purposes on the FDIC-supervised institution's balance sheet.
(x) A custody bank shall exclude from its total leverage exposure the lesser of:
(A) The amount of funds that the custody bank has on deposit at a qualifying central bank; and
(B) The amount of funds in deposit accounts at the custody bank that are linked to fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping accounts at the custody bank. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(x), a deposit account is linked to a fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping account if the deposit account is provided to a client that maintains a fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping account with the custody bank, and the deposit account is used to facilitate the administration of the fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping account.
(d)
Advanced approaches capital ratio calculations.
An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that has completed the parallel run process and received notification from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d) must determine its regulatory capital ratios as described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio.
The FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital ratio is the lower of:
(i) The ratio of the FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital to standardized total risk-weighted assets; and
(ii) The ratio of the FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital to advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets.
(2)
Tier 1 capital ratio.
The FDIC-supervised institution's tier 1 capital ratio is the lower of:
(i) The ratio of the FDIC-supervised institution's tier 1 capital to standardized total risk-weighted assets; and
(ii) The ratio of the FDIC-supervised institution's tier 1 capital to advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets.
(3)
Total capital ratio.
The FDIC-supervised institution's total capital ratio is the lower of:
(i) The ratio of the FDIC-supervised institution's total capital to standardized total risk-weighted assets; and
(ii) The ratio of the FDIC-supervised institution's advanced-approaches-adjusted total capital to advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets. An FDIC-supervised institution's advanced-approaches-adjusted total capital is the FDIC-supervised institution's total capital after being adjusted as follows:
(A) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must deduct from its total capital any allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable, included in its tier 2 capital in accordance with § 324.20(d)(3); and
(B) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must add to its total capital any eligible credit reserves that exceed the FDIC-supervised institution's total expected credit losses to the extent that the excess reserve amount does not exceed 0.6 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's credit risk-weighted assets.
(4)
State savings association tangible capital ratio.
(i) Until January 1, 2014, a state savings association shall determine its tangible capital ratio in accordance with 12 CFR 390.468.
(ii) As of January 1, 2014, a state savings association's tangible capital ratio is the ratio of the state savings association's core capital (tier 1 capital) to total assets. For purposes of this paragraph, the term total assets shall have the meaning provided in 12 CFR 324.401(g).
(e)
Capital adequacy.
(1) Notwithstanding the minimum requirements in this part, An FDIC-supervised institution must maintain capital commensurate with the level and nature of all risks to which the FDIC-supervised institution is exposed.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must have a process for assessing its overall capital adequacy in relation to its risk profile and a comprehensive strategy for maintaining an appropriate level of capital.
(3)
Insured depository institutions with less than the minimum leverage capital requirement.
(i) An insured depository institution making an application to the FDIC operating with less than the minimum leverage capital requirement does not have adequate capital and therefore has inadequate financial resources.
(ii) Any insured depository institution operating with an inadequate capital structure, and therefore inadequate financial resources, will not receive approval for an application requiring the FDIC to consider the adequacy of its capital structure or its financial resources.
(iii) In any merger, acquisition, or other type of business combination where the FDIC must give its approval, where it is required to consider the adequacy of the financial resources of the existing and proposed institutions, and where the resulting entity is either insured by the FDIC or not otherwise federally insured, approval will not be granted when the resulting entity does not meet the minimum leverage capital requirement.
(iv) Exceptions. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (d)(3)(i), (ii) and (iii) of this section:
(A) The FDIC, in its discretion, may approve an application pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act where it is required to consider the adequacy of capital if it finds that such approval must be taken to prevent the closing of a depository institution or to facilitate the acquisition of a closed depository institution, or, when severe financial conditions exist which threaten the stability of an insured depository institution or of a significant number of depository institutions insured by the FDIC or of insured depository institutions possessing significant financial resources, if such action is taken to lessen the risk to the FDIC posed by an insured depository institution under such threat of instability.
(B) The FDIC, in its discretion, may approve an application pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act where it is required to consider the adequacy of capital or the financial resources of the insured depository institution where it finds that the applicant has committed to and is in compliance with a reasonable plan to meet its minimum leverage capital requirements within a reasonable period of time.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20758, Apr. 14, 2014; 79 FR 57748, Sept. 26, 2014; 80 FR 41422, July 15, 2015; 84 FR 4247, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 35270, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 59278, Nov. 1, 2019; 84 FR 61802, Nov. 13, 2019; 85 FR 4430, Jan. 24, 2020; 85 FR 4578, Jan. 27, 2020; 85 FR 57963, Sept. 17, 2020; 86 FR 740, Jan. 6, 2021]
§ 324.11
Capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer amount.
(a)
Capital conservation buffer
—(1)
Composition of the capital conservation buffer.
The capital conservation buffer is composed solely of common equity tier 1 capital.
(2)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(i)
Eligible retained income.
The eligible retained income of an FDIC-supervised institution is the greater of:
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution's net income, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the Call Report, for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter, net of any distributions and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income; and
(B) The average of the FDIC-supervised institution's net income, calculated in accordance with the instructions to Call Report, for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter.
(ii)
Maximum payout ratio.
The maximum payout ratio is the percentage of eligible retained income that an FDIC-supervised institution can pay out in the form of distributions and discretionary bonus payments during the current calendar quarter. The maximum payout ratio is based on the FDIC-supervised institution's capital conservation buffer, calculated as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter, as set forth in Table 1 to § 324.11.
(iii)
Maximum payout amount.
An FDIC-supervised institution's maximum payout amount for the current calendar quarter is equal to the FDIC-supervised institution's eligible retained income, multiplied by the applicable maximum payout ratio, as set forth in Table 1 to § 324.11.
(iv)
Private sector credit exposure.
Private sector credit exposure means an exposure to a company or an individual that is not an exposure to a sovereign, the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, the International Monetary Fund, a MDB, a PSE, or a GSE.
(3)
Calculation of capital conservation buffer.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution's capital conservation buffer is equal to the lowest of the following ratios, calculated as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter:
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital ratio minus the FDIC-supervised institution's minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio requirement under § 324.10;
(B) The FDIC-supervised institution's tier 1 capital ratio minus the FDIC-supervised institution's minimum tier 1 capital ratio requirement under § 324.10; and
(C) The FDIC-supervised institution's total capital ratio minus the FDIC-supervised institution's minimum total capital ratio requirement under § 324.10; or
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A)-(C) of this section, if the FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1, tier 1 or total capital ratio is less than or equal to the FDIC-supervised institution's minimum common equity tier 1, tier 1 or total capital ratio requirement under § 324.10, respectively, the FDIC-supervised institution's capital conservation buffer is zero.
(4)
Limits on distributions and discretionary bonus payments.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution shall not make distributions or discretionary bonus payments or create an obligation to make such distributions or payments during the current calendar quarter that, in the aggregate, exceed the maximum payout amount.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution with a capital conservation buffer that is greater than 2.5 percent plus 100 percent of its applicable countercyclical capital buffer, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, is not subject to a maximum payout amount under this section.
(iii)
Negative eligible retained income.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution may not make distributions or discretionary bonus payments during the current calendar quarter if the FDIC-supervised institution's:
(A) Eligible retained income is negative; and
(B) Capital conservation buffer was less than 2.5 percent as of the end of the previous calendar quarter.
(iv)
Prior approval.
Notwithstanding the limitations in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, the FDIC may permit an FDIC-supervised institution to make a distribution or discretionary bonus payment upon a request of the FDIC-supervised institution, if the FDIC determines that the distribution or discretionary bonus payment would not be contrary to the purposes of this section, or to the safety and soundness of the FDIC-supervised institution. In making such a determination, the FDIC will consider the nature and extent of the request and the particular circumstances giving rise to the request.
Table 1 to § 324.11—Calculation of Maximum Payout Amount
Capital conservation buffer
Maximum payout ratio
Greater than 2.5 percent plus 100 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount
No payout ratio limitation applies.
Less than or equal to 2.5 percent plus 100 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount,
and
greater than 1.875 percent plus 75 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount
60 percent.
Less than or equal to 1.875 percent plus 75 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount,
and
greater than 1.25 percent plus 50 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount
40 percent.
Less than or equal to 1.25 percent plus 50 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount,
and
greater than 0.625 percent plus 25 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount
20 percent.
Less than or equal to 0.625 percent plus 25 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount
0 percent.
(v)
Other limitations on distributions.
Additional limitations on distributions may apply to an FDIC-supervised institution under 12 CFR 303.241 and subpart H of this part.
(b)
Countercyclical capital buffer amount
—(1)
General.
An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution or a Category III FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a countercyclical capital buffer amount in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section for purposes of determining its maximum payout ratio under Table 1 to this section.
(i)
Extension of capital conservation buffer.
The countercyclical capital buffer amount is an extension of the capital conservation buffer as described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii)
Amount.
An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution or a Category III FDIC-supervised institution has a countercyclical capital buffer amount determined by calculating the weighted average of the countercyclical capital buffer amounts established for the national jurisdictions where the FDIC-supervised institution's private sector credit exposures are located, as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.
(iii)
Weighting.
The weight assigned to a jurisdiction's countercyclical capital buffer amount is calculated by dividing the total risk-weighted assets for the FDIC-supervised institution's private sector credit exposures located in the jurisdiction by the total risk-weighted assets for all of the FDIC-supervised institution's private sector credit exposures. The methodology an FDIC-supervised institution uses for determining risk-weighted assets for purposes of this paragraph (b) must be the methodology that determines its risk-based capital ratios under § 324.10. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the risk-weighted asset amount for a private sector credit exposure that is a covered position under subpart F of this part is its specific risk add-on as determined under § 324.210 multiplied by 12.5.
(iv)
Location.
(A) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(B) and (b)(1)(iv)(C) of this section, the location of a private sector credit exposure is the national jurisdiction where the borrower is located (that is, where it is incorporated, chartered, or similarly established or, if the borrower is an individual, where the borrower resides).
(B) If, in accordance with subparts D or E of this part, the FDIC-supervised institution has assigned to a private sector credit exposure a risk weight associated with a protection provider on a guarantee or credit derivative, the location of the exposure is the national jurisdiction where the protection provider is located.
(C) The location of a securitization exposure is the location of the underlying exposures, or, if the underlying exposures are located in more than one national jurisdiction, the national jurisdiction where the underlying exposures with the largest aggregate unpaid principal balance are located. For purposes of this paragraph (b), the location of an underlying exposure shall be the location of the borrower, determined consistent with paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(A) of this section.
(2)
Countercyclical capital buffer amount for credit exposures in the United States
—(i)
Initial countercyclical capital buffer amount with respect to credit exposures in the United States.
The initial countercyclical capital buffer amount in the United States is zero.
(ii)
Adjustment of the countercyclical capital buffer amount.
The FDIC will adjust the countercyclical capital buffer amount for credit exposures in the
United States in accordance with applicable law.
11
11
The FDIC expects that any adjustment will be based on a determination made jointly by the Board, OCC, and FDIC.
(iii)
Range of countercyclical capital buffer amount.
The FDIC will adjust the countercyclical capital buffer amount for credit exposures in the United States between zero percent and 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets.
(iv)
Adjustment determination.
The FDIC will base its decision to adjust the countercyclical capital buffer amount under this section on a range of macroeconomic, financial, and supervisory information indicating an increase in systemic risk including, but not limited to, the ratio of credit to gross domestic product, a variety of asset prices, other factors indicative of relative credit and liquidity expansion or contraction, funding spreads, credit condition surveys, indices based on credit default swap spreads, options implied volatility, and measures of systemic risk.
(v)
Effective date of adjusted countercyclical capital buffer amount
—(A)
Increase adjustment.
A determination by the FDIC under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section to increase the countercyclical capital buffer amount will be effective 12 months from the date of announcement, unless the FDIC establishes an earlier effective date and includes a statement articulating the reasons for the earlier effective date.
(B)
Decrease adjustment.
A determination by the FDIC to decrease the established countercyclical capital buffer amount under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section will be effective on the day following announcement of the final determination or the earliest date permissible under applicable law or regulation, whichever is later.
(vi)
Twelve month sunset.
The countercyclical capital buffer amount will return to zero percent 12 months after the effective date that the adjusted countercyclical capital buffer amount is announced, unless the FDIC announces a decision to maintain the adjusted countercyclical capital buffer amount or adjust it again before the expiration of the 12-month period.
(3)
Countercyclical capital buffer amount for foreign jurisdictions.
The FDIC will adjust the countercyclical capital buffer amount for private sector credit exposures to reflect decisions made by foreign jurisdictions consistent with due process requirements described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20758, Apr. 14, 2014; 81 FR 71354, Oct. 17, 2016; 84 FR 35270, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 59278, Nov. 1, 2019; 85 FR 15916, Mar. 20, 2020]
§ 324.12
Community bank leverage ratio framework.
(a)
Community bank leverage ratio framework.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, a qualifying community banking organization that has made an election to use the community bank leverage ratio framework under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be considered to have met the minimum capital requirements under § 324.10, the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category under § 324.403(b)(1) of this part, and any other capital or leverage requirements to which the qualifying community banking organization is subject, if it has a leverage ratio greater than 9 percent.
(2) For purposes of this section, a qualifying community banking organization means an FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution and that satisfies all of the following criteria:
(i) Has a leverage ratio of greater than 9 percent;
(ii) Has total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion, calculated in accordance with the reporting instructions to the Call Report as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter;
(iii) Has off-balance sheet exposures of 25 percent or less of its total consolidated assets as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter, calculated as the sum of the notional amounts of the exposures listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (I) of this section, divided by total consolidated assets, each as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter:
(A) The unused portion of commitments (except for unconditionally cancellable commitments);
(B) Self-liquidating, trade-related contingent items that arise from the movement of goods;
(C) Transaction-related contingent items, including performance bonds, bid bonds, warranties, and performance standby letters of credit;
(D) Sold credit protection through guarantees and credit derivatives;
(E) Credit-enhancing representations and warranties;
(F) Securities lent and borrowed, calculated in accordance with the reporting instructions to the Call Report;
(G) Financial standby letters of credit;
(H) Forward agreements that are not derivative contracts; and
(I) Off-balance sheet securitization exposures; and
(iv) Has total trading assets and trading liabilities, calculated in accordance with the reporting instructions to the Call Report of 5 percent or less of the FDIC-supervised institution's total consolidated assets, each as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter.
(3)(i) A qualifying community banking organization may elect to use the community bank leverage ratio framework if it makes an opt-in election under this paragraph (a)(3).
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(3), a qualifying community banking organization makes an election to use the community bank leverage ratio framework by completing the applicable reporting requirements of its Call Report.
(iii)(A) A qualifying community banking organization that has elected to use the community bank leverage ratio framework may opt out of the community bank leverage ratio framework by completing the applicable risk-based and leverage ratio reporting requirements necessary to demonstrate compliance with § 324.10(a)(1) in its Call Report or by otherwise providing the information to the FDIC.
(B) A qualifying community banking organization that opts out of the community bank leverage ratio framework pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) of this section must comply with § 324.10(a)(1) immediately.
(4)(i)
Temporary relief
—From December 2, 2020 through December 31, 2021, for purposes of determining whether an FDIC-supervised institution satisfies the criterion in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, the total consolidated assets of an FDIC-supervised institution for purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section shall be determined based on the lesser of:
(A) The total consolidated assets reported by the institution in the Call Report as of December 31, 2019; and
(B) The total consolidated assets calculated in accordance with the reporting instructions to the Call Report as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter.
(ii)
Reservation of authority
—The temporary relief provided under this paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section does not apply to an FDIC-supervised institution if the FDIC determines that permitting the FDIC-supervised institution to determine its assets in accordance with that paragraph would not be commensurate with the risk posed by the institution. When making this determination, the FDIC will consider all relevant factors, including the extent of asset growth of the FDIC-supervised institution since December 31, 2019; the causes of such growth, including whether growth occurred as a result of mergers or acquisitions; whether such growth is likely to be temporary or permanent; whether the FDIC-supervised institution has become involved in any additional activities since December 31, 2019; and the type of assets held by the FDIC-supervised institution. The FDIC will notify an FDIC-supervised institution of a determination under this paragraph. An FDIC-supervised institution may, not later than 30 days after the date of a determination by the FDIC, inform the FDIC, in writing, of why the FDIC-supervised institution should be eligible for the temporary relief. The FDIC will make a final determination after reviewing any response.
(b)
Calculation of the leverage ratio.
A qualifying community banking organization's leverage ratio is calculated in accordance to § 324.10(b)(4), except that a qualifying community banking organization is not required to:
(1) Make adjustments and deductions from tier 2 capital for purposes of § 324.22(c); or
(2) Calculate and deduct from tier 1 capital an amount resulting from insufficient tier 2 capital under § 324.22(f).
(c)
Treatment when ceasing to meet the qualifying community banking organization requirements.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(5) and (6) of this section, if an FDIC-supervised institution ceases to meet the definition of a qualifying community banking organization, the FDIC-supervised institution has two reporting periods under its Call Report (grace period) either to satisfy the requirements to be a qualifying community banking organization or to comply with § 324.10(a)(1) and report the required capital measures under § 324.10(a)(1) on its Call Report.
(2) The grace period begins as of the end of the calendar quarter in which the FDIC-supervised institution ceases to satisfy the criteria to be a qualifying community banking organization provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The grace period ends on the last day of the second consecutive calendar quarter following the beginning of the grace period.
(3) During the grace period, the FDIC-supervised institution continues to be treated as a qualifying community banking organization for the purpose of this part and must continue calculating and reporting its leverage ratio under this section unless the FDIC-supervised institution has opted out of using the community bank leverage ratio framework under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(4) During the grace period, the qualifying community banking organization continues to be considered to have met the minimum capital requirements under § 324.10(a)(1), the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category under § 324.403(b)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this part, and any other capital or leverage requirements to which the qualifying community banking organization is subject and must continue calculating and reporting its leverage ratio under this section.
(5) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution that no longer meets the definition of a qualifying community banking organization as a result of a merger or acquisition has no grace period and immediately ceases to be a qualifying community banking organization. Such an FDIC-supervised institution must comply with the minimum capital requirements under § 324.10(a)(1) and must report the required capital measures under § 324.10(a)(1) for the quarter in which it ceases to be a qualifying community banking organization.
(6) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution that has a leverage ratio of 8 percent or less does not have a grace period and must comply with the minimum capital requirements under § 324.10(a)(1) and must report the required capital measures under § 324.10(a)(1) for the quarter in which it reports a leverage ratio of 8 percent or less.
[84 FR 61802, Nov. 13, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 77363, Dec. 2, 2020]
§§ 324.13-324.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Definition of Capital
§ 324.20
Capital components and eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments.
(a)
Regulatory capital components.
An FDIC-supervised institution's regulatory capital components are:
(1) Common equity tier 1 capital;
(2) Additional tier 1 capital; and
(3) Tier 2 capital.
(b)
Common equity tier 1 capital.
Common equity tier 1 capital is the sum of the common equity tier 1 capital elements in this paragraph (b), minus regulatory adjustments and deductions in § 324.22. The common equity tier 1 capital elements are:
(1) Any common stock instruments (plus any related surplus) issued by the FDIC-supervised institution, net of treasury stock, and any capital instruments issued by mutual banking organizations, that meet all the following criteria:
(i) The instrument is paid-in, issued directly by the FDIC-supervised institution, and represents the most subordinated claim in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the FDIC-supervised institution;
(ii) The holder of the instrument is entitled to a claim on the residual assets of the FDIC-supervised institution that is proportional with the holder's share of the FDIC-supervised institution's issued capital after all senior claims have been satisfied in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding;
(iii) The instrument has no maturity date, can only be redeemed via discretionary repurchases with the prior approval of the FDIC, and does not contain any term or feature that creates an incentive to redeem;
(iv) The FDIC-supervised institution did not create at issuance of the instrument through any action or communication an expectation that it will buy back, cancel, or redeem the instrument, and the instrument does not include any term or feature that might give rise to such an expectation;
(v) Any cash dividend payments on the instrument are paid out of the FDIC-supervised institution's net income and retained earnings and are not subject to a limit imposed by the contractual terms governing the instrument. An FDIC-supervised institution must obtain prior FDIC approval for any dividend payment involving a reduction or retirement of capital stock in accordance with 12 CFR 303.241;
(vi) The FDIC-supervised institution has full discretion at all times to refrain from paying any dividends and making any other distributions on the instrument without triggering an event of default, a requirement to make a payment-in-kind, or an imposition of any other restrictions on the FDIC-supervised institution;
(vii) Dividend payments and any other distributions on the instrument may be paid only after all legal and contractual obligations of the FDIC-supervised institution have been satisfied, including payments due on more senior claims;
(viii) The holders of the instrument bear losses as they occur equally, proportionately, and simultaneously with the holders of all other common stock instruments before any losses are borne by holders of claims on the FDIC-supervised institution with greater priority in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding;
(ix) The paid-in amount is classified as equity under GAAP;
(x) The FDIC-supervised institution, or an entity that the FDIC-supervised institution controls, did not purchase or directly or indirectly fund the purchase of the instrument;
(xi) The instrument is not secured, not covered by a guarantee of the FDIC-supervised institution or of an affiliate of the FDIC-supervised institution, and is not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument;
(xii) The instrument has been issued in accordance with applicable laws and regulations; and
(xiii) The instrument is reported on the FDIC-supervised institution's regulatory financial statements separately from other capital instruments.
(2) Retained earnings.
(3) Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) as reported under GAAP.
12
12
See
§ 324.22 for specific adjustments related to AOCI.
(4) Any common equity tier 1 minority interest, subject to the limitations in § 324.21.
(5) Notwithstanding the criteria for common stock instruments referenced above, an FDIC-supervised institution's common stock issued and held in trust for the benefit of its employees as part of an employee stock ownership plan does not violate any of the criteria in paragraph (b)(1)(iii), paragraph (b)(1)(iv) or paragraph (b)(1)(xi) of this section, provided that any repurchase of the stock is required solely by virtue of ERISA for an instrument of an FDIC-supervised institution that is not publicly-traded. In addition, an instrument issued by an FDIC-supervised institution to its employee stock ownership plan does not violate the criterion in paragraph (b)(1)(x) of this section.
(c)
Additional tier 1 capital.
Additional tier 1 capital is the sum of additional tier 1 capital elements and any related surplus, minus the regulatory adjustments and deductions in § 324.22. Additional tier 1 capital elements are:
(1) Instruments (plus any related surplus) that meet the following criteria:
(i) The instrument is issued and paid-in;
(ii) The instrument is subordinated to depositors, general creditors, and subordinated debt holders of the FDIC-supervised institution in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding;
(iii) The instrument is not secured, not covered by a guarantee of the FDIC-supervised institution or of an affiliate of the FDIC-supervised institution, and not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument;
(iv) The instrument has no maturity date and does not contain a dividend step-up or any other term or feature that creates an incentive to redeem; and
(v) If callable by its terms, the instrument may be called by the FDIC-supervised institution only after a minimum of five years following issuance, except that the terms of the instrument may allow it to be called earlier than five years upon the occurrence of a regulatory event that precludes the instrument from being included in additional tier 1 capital, a tax event, or if the issuing entity is required to register as an investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act. In addition:
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution must receive prior approval from the FDIC to exercise a call option on the instrument.
(B) The FDIC-supervised institution does not create at issuance of the instrument, through any action or communication, an expectation that the call option will be exercised.
(C) Prior to exercising the call option, or immediately thereafter, the FDIC-supervised institution must either: Replace the instrument to be called with an equal amount of instruments that meet the criteria under paragraph (b) of this section or this paragraph (c);
13
or demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDIC that following redemption, the FDIC-supervised institution will continue to hold capital commensurate with its risk.
13
Replacement can be concurrent with redemption of existing additional tier 1 capital instruments.
(vi) Redemption or repurchase of the instrument requires prior approval from the FDIC.
(vii) The FDIC-supervised institution has full discretion at all times to cancel dividends or other distributions on the instrument without triggering an event of default, a requirement to make a payment-in-kind, or an imposition of other restrictions on the FDIC-supervised institution except in relation to any distributions to holders of common stock or instruments that are pari passu with the instrument.
(viii) Any cash dividend payments on the instrument are paid out of the FDIC-supervised institution's net income or retained earnings. An FDIC-supervised institution must obtain prior FDIC approval for any dividend payment involving a reduction or retirement of capital stock in accordance with 12 CFR 303.241.
(ix) The instrument does not have a credit-sensitive feature, such as a dividend rate that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the FDIC-supervised institution's credit quality, but may have a dividend rate that is adjusted periodically independent of the FDIC-supervised institution's credit quality, in relation to general market interest rates or similar adjustments.
(x) The paid-in amount is classified as equity under GAAP.
(xi) The FDIC-supervised institution, or an entity that the FDIC-supervised institution controls, did not purchase or directly or indirectly fund the purchase of the instrument.
(xii) The instrument does not have any features that would limit or discourage additional issuance of capital by the FDIC-supervised institution, such as provisions that require the FDIC-supervised institution to compensate holders of the instrument if a new instrument is issued at a lower price during a specified time frame.
(xiii) If the instrument is not issued directly by the FDIC-supervised institution or by a subsidiary of the FDIC-supervised institution that is an operating entity, the only asset of the issuing entity is its investment in the capital of the FDIC-supervised institution, and proceeds must be immediately available without limitation to the FDIC-supervised institution or to the FDIC-supervised institution's top-tier holding company in a form which meets or exceeds all of the other criteria for additional tier 1 capital instruments.
14
14
See 77 FR 52856 (August 30, 2012).
(xiv) For an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, the governing agreement, offering circular, or prospectus of an instrument issued after the date upon which the FDIC-supervised institution becomes subject to this part as set forth in § 324.1(f) must disclose that the holders of the instrument may be fully subordinated to interests held by the U.S. government in the event that the FDIC-supervised institution enters into a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding.
(2) Tier 1 minority interest, subject to the limitations in § 324.21, that is not included in the FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital.
(3)(i) Any and all instruments that qualified as tier 1 capital under the FDIC's general risk-based capital rules under 12 CFR part 325, appendix A (state nonmember banks) and 12 CFR part 390, subpart Z (state savings associations) as then in effect, that were issued under the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010
15
or prior to October 4, 2010, under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.
16
15
Public Law 111-240; 124 Stat. 2504 (2010).
16
Public Law 110-343, 122 Stat. 3765 (2008).
(ii) Any preferred stock instruments issued under the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Emergency Capital Investment Program pursuant to section 104A of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, added by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021.
17
17
Public Law 116-260.
(4) Notwithstanding the criteria for additional tier 1 capital instruments referenced above:
(i) An instrument issued by an FDIC-supervised institution and held in trust for the benefit of its employees as part of an employee stock ownership plan does not violate any of the criteria in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, provided that any repurchase is required solely by virtue of ERISA for an instrument of an FDIC-supervised institution that is not publicly-traded. In addition, an instrument issued by an FDIC-supervised institution to its employee stock ownership plan does not violate the criteria in paragraph (c)(1)(v) or paragraph (c)(1)(xi) of this section; and
(ii) An instrument with terms that provide that the instrument may be called earlier than five years upon the occurrence of a rating agency event does not violate the criterion in paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section provided that the instrument was issued and included in an FDIC-supervised institution's tier 1 capital prior to the January 1, 2014, and that such instrument satisfies all other criteria under this paragraph (c).
(d)
Tier 2 Capital.
Tier 2 capital is the sum of tier 2 capital elements and any related surplus, minus regulatory adjustments and deductions in § 324.22. Tier 2 capital elements are:
(1) Instruments (plus related surplus) that meet the following criteria:
(i) The instrument is issued and paid-in;
(ii) The instrument is subordinated to depositors and general creditors of the FDIC-supervised institution;
(iii) The instrument is not secured, not covered by a guarantee of the FDIC-supervised institution or of an affiliate of the FDIC-supervised institution, and not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument in relation to more senior claims;
(iv) The instrument has a minimum original maturity of at least five years. At the beginning of each of the last five years of the life of the instrument, the amount that is eligible to be included in tier 2 capital is reduced by 20 percent of the original amount of the instrument (net of redemptions) and is excluded from regulatory capital when the remaining maturity is less than
one year. In addition, the instrument must not have any terms or features that require, or create significant incentives for, the FDIC-supervised institution to redeem the instrument prior to maturity;
18
and
18
An instrument that by its terms automatically converts into a tier 1 capital instrument prior to five years after issuance complies with the five-year maturity requirement of this criterion.
(v) The instrument, by its terms, may be called by the FDIC-supervised institution only after a minimum of five years following issuance, except that the terms of the instrument may allow it to be called sooner upon the occurrence of an event that would preclude the instrument from being included in tier 2 capital, a tax event, or if the issuing entity is required to register as an investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act. In addition:
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution must receive the prior approval of the FDIC to exercise a call option on the instrument.
(B) The FDIC-supervised institution does not create at issuance, through action or communication, an expectation the call option will be exercised.
(C) Prior to exercising the call option, or immediately thereafter, the FDIC-supervised institution must either: Replace any amount called with an equivalent amount of an instrument that meets the criteria for regulatory capital under this section;
19
or demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDIC that following redemption, the FDIC-supervised institution would continue to hold an amount of capital that is commensurate with its risk.
19
A FDIC-supervised institution may replace tier 2 capital instruments concurrent with the redemption of existing tier 2 capital instruments.
(vi) The holder of the instrument must have no contractual right to accelerate payment of principal or interest on the instrument, except in the event of a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the FDIC-supervised institution.
(vii) The instrument has no credit-sensitive feature, such as a dividend or interest rate that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the FDIC-supervised institution's credit standing, but may have a dividend rate that is adjusted periodically independent of the FDIC-supervised institution's credit standing, in relation to general market interest rates or similar adjustments.
(viii) The FDIC-supervised institution, or an entity that the FDIC-supervised institution controls, has not purchased and has not directly or indirectly funded the purchase of the instrument.
(ix) If the instrument is not issued directly by the FDIC-supervised institution or by a subsidiary of the FDIC-supervised institution that is an operating entity, the only asset of the issuing entity is its investment in the capital of the FDIC-supervised institution, and proceeds must be immediately available without limitation to the FDIC-supervised institution or the FDIC-supervised institution's top-tier holding company in a form that meets or exceeds all the other criteria for tier 2 capital instruments under this section.
20
20
A FDIC-supervised institution may disregard
de minimis
assets related to the operation of the issuing entity for purposes of this criterion.
(x) Redemption of the instrument prior to maturity or repurchase requires the prior approval of the FDIC.
(xi) For an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, the governing agreement, offering circular, or prospectus of an instrument issued after the date on which the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution becomes subject to this part under § 324.1(f) must disclose that the holders of the instrument may be fully subordinated to interests held by the U.S. government in the event that the FDIC-supervised institution enters into a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding.
(2) Total capital minority interest, subject to the limitations set forth in § 324.21, that is not included in the FDIC-supervised institution's tier 1 capital.
(3) ALLL or AACL, as applicable, up to 1.25 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's standardized total risk-weighted assets not including any
amount of the ALLL or AACL, as applicable (and excluding in the case of a market risk FDIC-supervised institution, its standardized market risk-weighted assets).
(4)(i) Any instrument that qualified as tier 2 capital under the FDIC's general risk-based capital rules under 12 CFR part 325, appendix A (state nonmember banks) and 12 CFR part 390, appendix Z (state saving associations) as then in effect, that were issued under the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010,
21
or prior to October 4, 2010, under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.
22
21
Public Law 111-240; 124 Stat. 2504 (2010)
22
Public Law 110-343, 122 Stat. 3765 (2008)
(ii) Any debt instruments issued under the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Emergency Capital Investment Program pursuant to section 104A of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, added by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021.
23
23
Public Law 116-260.
(5) For an FDIC-supervised institution that makes an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in § 324.22(b)(2), 45 percent of pretax net unrealized gains on available-for-sale preferred stock classified as an equity security under GAAP and available-for-sale equity exposures.
(6) Notwithstanding the criteria for tier 2 capital instruments referenced above, an instrument with terms that provide that the instrument may be called earlier than five years upon the occurrence of a rating agency event does not violate the criterion in paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section provided that the instrument was issued and included in an FDIC-supervised institution's tier 1 or tier 2 capital prior to January 1, 2014, and that such instrument satisfies all other criteria under this paragraph (d).
(e)
FDIC approval of a capital element.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must receive FDIC prior approval to include a capital element (as listed in this section) in its common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital unless the element:
(i) Was included in an FDIC-supervised institution's tier 1 capital or tier 2 capital prior to May 19, 2010, in accordance with the FDIC's risk-based capital rules that were effective as of that date and the underlying instrument may continue to be included under the criteria set forth in this section; or
(ii) Is equivalent, in terms of capital quality and ability to absorb losses with respect to all material terms, to a regulatory capital element the FDIC determined may be included in regulatory capital pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) When considering whether an FDIC-supervised institution may include a regulatory capital element in its common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital, the FDIC will consult with the OCC and the Federal Reserve.
(3) After determining that a regulatory capital element may be included in an FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital, the FDIC will make its decision publicly available, including a brief description of the material terms of the regulatory capital element and the rationale for the determination.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 71354, Oct. 17, 2016; 84 FR 4247, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 35271, July 22, 2019; 86 FR 15081, Mar. 22, 2021]
§ 324.21
Minority interest.
(a)(1)
Applicability.
For purposes of § 324.20, an FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution is subject to the minority interest limitations in this paragraph (a) if a consolidated subsidiary of the FDIC-supervised institution has issued regulatory capital that is not owned by the FDIC-supervised institution.
(2)
Common equity tier 1 minority interest includable in the common equity tier 1 capital of the FDIC-supervised institution.
The amount of common equity tier 1 minority interest that an FDIC-supervised institution may include in common equity tier 1 capital must be no greater than 10 percent of the sum of all common equity tier 1 capital elements of the FDIC-supervised institution (not including the common equity tier 1 minority interest itself), less any
common equity tier 1 capital regulatory adjustments and deductions in accordance with § 324.22(a) and (b).
(3)
Tier 1 minority interest includable in the tier 1 capital of the FDIC-supervised institution.
The amount of tier 1 minority interest that an FDIC-supervised institution may include in tier 1 capital must be no greater than 10 percent of the sum of all tier 1 capital elements of the FDIC-supervised institution (not including the tier 1 minority interest itself), less any tier 1 capital regulatory adjustments and deductions in accordance with § 324.22(a) and (b).
(4)
Total capital minority interest includable in the total capital of the FDIC-supervised institution.
The amount of total capital minority interest that an FDIC-supervised institution may include in total capital must be no greater than 10 percent of the sum of all total capital elements of the FDIC-supervised institution (not including the total capital minority interest itself), less any total capital regulatory adjustments and deductions in accordance with § 324.22(a) and (b).
(b)(1)
Applicability.
For purposes of § 324.20, an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution is subject to the minority interest limitations in this paragraph (b) if:
(i) A consolidated subsidiary of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution has issued regulatory capital that is not owned by the FDIC-supervised institution; and
(ii) For each relevant regulatory capital ratio of the consolidated subsidiary, the ratio exceeds the sum of the subsidiary's minimum regulatory capital requirements plus its capital conservation buffer.
(2)
Difference in capital adequacy standards at the subsidiary level.
For purposes of the minority interest calculations in this section, if the consolidated subsidiary issuing the capital is not subject to capital adequacy standards similar to those of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must assume that the capital adequacy standards of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution apply to the subsidiary.
(3)
Common equity tier 1 minority interest includable in the common equity tier 1 capital of the FDIC-supervised institution.
For each consolidated subsidiary of an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, the amount of common equity tier 1 minority interest the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution may include in common equity tier 1 capital is equal to:
(i) The common equity tier 1 minority interest of the subsidiary; minus
(ii) The percentage of the subsidiary's common equity tier 1 capital that is not owned by the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, multiplied by the difference between the common equity tier 1 capital of the subsidiary and the lower of:
(A) The amount of common equity tier 1 capital the subsidiary must hold, or would be required to hold pursuant to this paragraph (b), to avoid restrictions on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 324.11 or equivalent standards established by the subsidiary's home country supervisor; or
(B)(
1
) The standardized total risk-weighted assets of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that relate to the subsidiary multiplied by
(
2
) The common equity tier 1 capital ratio the subsidiary must maintain to avoid restrictions on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 324.11 or equivalent standards established by the subsidiary's home country supervisor.
(4)
Tier 1 minority interest includable in the tier 1 capital of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution.
For each consolidated subsidiary of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, the amount of tier 1 minority interest the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution may include in tier 1 capital is equal to:
(i) The tier 1 minority interest of the subsidiary; minus
(ii) The percentage of the subsidiary's tier 1 capital that is not owned by the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution multiplied by the difference between the tier 1 capital of the subsidiary and the lower of:
(A) The amount of tier 1 capital the subsidiary must hold, or would be required to hold pursuant to this paragraph (b), to avoid restrictions on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 324.11 or equivalent standards established by the subsidiary's home country supervisor, or
(B)(
1
) The standardized total risk-weighted assets of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that relate to the subsidiary multiplied by
(
2
) The tier 1 capital ratio the subsidiary must maintain to avoid restrictions on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 324.11 or equivalent standards established by the subsidiary's home country supervisor.
(5)
Total capital minority interest includable in the total capital of the FDIC-supervised institution.
For each consolidated subsidiary of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, the amount of total capital minority interest the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution may include in total capital is equal to:
(i) The total capital minority interest of the subsidiary; minus
(ii) The percentage of the subsidiary's total capital that is not owned by the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution multiplied by the difference between the total capital of the subsidiary and the lower of:
(A) The amount of total capital the subsidiary must hold, or would be required to hold pursuant to this paragraph (b), to avoid restrictions on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 324.11 or equivalent standards established by the subsidiary's home country supervisor, or
(B)(
1
) The standardized total risk-weighted assets of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that relate to the subsidiary multiplied by
(
2
) The total capital ratio the subsidiary must maintain to avoid restrictions on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 324.11 or equivalent standards established by the subsidiary's home country supervisor.
[84 FR 35271, July 22, 2019]
§ 324.22
Regulatory capital adjustments and deductions.
(a)
Regulatory capital deductions from common equity tier 1 capital.
An FDIC-supervised institution must deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements the items set forth in this paragraph (a):
(1)(i) Goodwill, net of associated deferred tax liabilities (DTLs) in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section; and
(ii) For an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, goodwill that is embedded in the valuation of a significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution in the form of common stock (and that is reflected in the consolidated financial statements of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution), in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) Intangible assets, other than MSAs, net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;
(3) Deferred tax assets (DTAs) that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;
(4) Any gain-on-sale in connection with a securitization exposure;
(5)(i) Any defined benefit pension fund net asset, net of any associated DTL in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, held by a depository institution holding company. With the prior approval of the FDIC, this deduction is not required for any defined benefit pension fund net asset to the extent the depository institution holding company has unrestricted and unfettered access to the assets in that fund.
(ii) For an insured depository institution, no deduction is required.
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution must risk weight any portion of the defined benefit pension fund asset that is not deducted under paragraphs (a)(5)(i) or (a)(5)(ii) of this section as if the FDIC-supervised institution directly holds a proportional ownership share of each exposure in the defined benefit pension fund.
(6) For an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that has completed the parallel run process and that has received notification from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d), the amount of expected credit loss that exceeds its eligible credit reserves; and
(7) With respect to a financial subsidiary, the aggregate amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's outstanding equity investment, including retained earnings, in its financial subsidiaries (as defined in 12 CFR 362.17). An FDIC-supervised institution must not consolidate the assets and liabilities of a financial subsidiary with those of the parent bank, and no other deduction is required under paragraph (c) of this section for investments in the capital instruments of financial subsidiaries.
(8)(i) A state savings association must deduct the aggregate amount of its outstanding investments, (both equity and debt) in, and extensions of credit to, subsidiaries that are not includable subsidiaries as defined in paragraph (a)(8)(iv) of this section and may not consolidate the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary with those of the state savings association. Any such deductions shall be from assets and common equity tier 1 capital, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(8)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(ii) If a state savings association has any investments (both debt and equity) in, or extensions of credit to, one or more subsidiaries engaged in any activity that would not fall within the scope of activities in which includable subsidiaries as defined in paragraph (a)(8)(iv) of this section may engage, it must deduct such investments and extensions of credit from assets and, thus, common equity tier 1 capital in accordance with paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section.
(iii) If a state savings association holds a subsidiary (either directly or through a subsidiary) that is itself a domestic depository institution, the FDIC may, in its sole discretion upon determining that the amount of common equity tier 1 capital that would be required would be higher if the assets and liabilities of such subsidiary were consolidated with those of the parent state savings association than the amount that would be required if the parent state savings association's investment were deducted pursuant to paragraphs (a)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section, consolidate the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary with those of the parent state savings association in calculating the capital adequacy of the parent state savings association, regardless of whether the subsidiary would otherwise be an includable subsidiary as defined in paragraph (a)(8)(iv) of this section.
(iv) For purposes of this section, the term includable subsidiary means a subsidiary of a state savings association that is:
(A) Engaged solely in activities that are permissible for a national bank;
(B) Engaged in activities not permissible for a national bank, but only if acting solely as agent for its customers and such agency position is clearly documented in the state savings association's files;
(C) Engaged solely in mortgage-banking activities;
(D)(
1
) Itself an insured depository institution or a company the sole investment of which is an insured depository institution, and
(
2
) Was acquired by the parent state savings association prior to May 1, 1989; or
(E) A subsidiary of any state savings association existing as a state savings association on August 9, 1989 that—
(
1
) Was chartered prior to October 15, 1982, as a savings bank or a cooperative bank under state law, or
(
2
) Acquired its principal assets from an association that was chartered prior to October 15, 1982, as a savings bank or a cooperative bank under state law.
(9)
Identified losses.
An FDIC-supervised institution must deduct identified losses (to the extent that common equity tier 1 capital would have been reduced if the appropriate accounting entries to reflect the identified losses had been recorded on the FDIC-supervised institution's books).
(b)
Regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the sum of common equity tier 1 capital elements pursuant to the requirements set forth in this paragraph (b). Such adjustments to common equity tier 1
capital must be made net of the associated deferred tax effects.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution that makes an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) must make the adjustments required under § 324.22(b)(2)(i).
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution that is an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, and an FDIC-supervised institution that has not made an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section), must deduct any accumulated net gains and add any accumulated net losses on cash flow hedges included in AOCI that relate to the hedging of items that are not recognized at fair value on the balance sheet.
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution must deduct any net gain and add any net loss related to changes in the fair value of liabilities that are due to changes in the FDIC-supervised institution's own credit risk. An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must deduct the difference between its credit spread premium and the risk-free rate for derivatives that are liabilities as part of this adjustment.
(2)
AOCI opt-out election.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution may make a one-time election to opt out of the requirement to include all components of AOCI (with the exception of accumulated net gains and losses on cash flow hedges related to items that are not fair-valued on the balance sheet) in common equity tier 1 capital (AOCI opt-out election). An FDIC-supervised institution that makes an AOCI opt-out election in accordance with this paragraph (b)(2) must adjust common equity tier 1 capital as follows:
(A) Subtract any net unrealized gains and add any net unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities;
(B) Subtract any net unrealized losses on available-for-sale preferred stock classified as an equity security under GAAP and available-for-sale equity exposures;
(C) Subtract any accumulated net gains and add any accumulated net losses on cash flow hedges;
(D) Subtract any amounts recorded in AOCI attributed to defined benefit postretirement plans resulting from the initial and subsequent application of the relevant GAAP standards that pertain to such plans (excluding, at the FDIC-supervised institution's option, the portion relating to pension assets deducted under paragraph (a)(5) of this section); and
(E) Subtract any net unrealized gains and add any net unrealized losses on held-to-maturity securities that are included in AOCI.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must make its AOCI opt-out election in the Call Report:
(A) If the FDIC-supervised institution is a Category III FDIC-supervised institution or a Category IV FDIC-supervised institution, during the first reporting period after the FDIC-supervised institution meets the definition of a Category III FDIC-supervised institution or a Category IV FDIC-supervised institution in § 324.2; or
(B) If the FDIC-supervised institution is not a Category III FDIC-supervised institution or a Category IV FDIC-supervised institution, during the first reporting period after the FDIC-supervised institution is required to comply with subpart A of this part as set forth in § 324.1(f).
(iii) With respect to an FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, each of its subsidiary banking organizations that is subject to regulatory capital requirements issued by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, or the OCC
22
must elect the same option as the FDIC-supervised institution pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2).
22
These rules include the regulatory capital requirements set forth at 12 CFR part 3 (OCC); 12 CFR part 217 (Board); 12 CFR part 324 (FDIC).
(iv) With prior notice to the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution resulting from a merger, acquisition, or purchase transaction and that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution may change its AOCI opt-out election in its Call Report filed for the
first reporting period after the date required for such FDIC-supervised institution to comply with subpart A of this part as set forth in § 324.1(f) if:
(A) Other than as set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(C) of this section, the merger, acquisition, or purchase transaction involved the acquisition or purchase of all or substantially all of either the assets or voting stock of another banking organization that is subject to regulatory capital requirements issued by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, or the OCC;
(B) Prior to the merger, acquisition, or purchase transaction, only one of the banking organizations involved in the transaction made an AOCI opt-out election under this section; and
(C) An FDIC-supervised institution may, with the prior approval of the FDIC, change its AOCI opt-out election under this paragraph (b) in the case of a merger, acquisition, or purchase transaction that meets the requirements set forth at paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, but does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A). In making such a determination, the FDIC may consider the terms of the merger, acquisition, or purchase transaction, as well as the extent of any changes to the risk profile, complexity, and scope of operations of the FDIC-supervised institution resulting from the merger, acquisition, or purchase transaction.
(c)
Deductions from regulatory capital related to investments in capital instruments or covered debt instruments
23
—(1)
Investment in the FDIC-supervised institution's own capital instruments.
An FDIC-supervised institution must deduct an investment in its own capital instruments, as follows:
23
The FDIC-supervised institution must calculate amounts deducted under paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section after it calculates the amount of ALLL or AACL, as applicable, includable in tier 2 capital under § 324.20(d)(3).
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution must deduct an investment in the FDIC-supervised institution's own common stock instruments from its common equity tier 1 capital elements to the extent such instruments are not excluded from regulatory capital under § 324.20(b)(1);
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must deduct an investment in the FDIC-supervised institution's own additional tier 1 capital instruments from its additional tier 1 capital elements; and
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution must deduct an investment in the FDIC-supervised institution's own tier 2 capital instruments from its tier 2 capital elements.
(2)
Corresponding deduction approach.
For purposes of subpart C of this part, the corresponding deduction approach is the methodology used for the deductions from regulatory capital related to reciprocal cross holdings (as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section), investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions for an FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution (as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section), non-significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions for an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution (as described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section), and non-common stock significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions for an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution (as described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section). Under the corresponding deduction approach, an FDIC-supervised institution must make deductions from the component of capital for which the underlying instrument would qualify if it were issued by the FDIC-supervised institution itself, as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. If the FDIC-supervised institution does not have a sufficient amount of a specific component of capital to effect the required deduction, the shortfall must be deducted according to paragraph (f) of this section.
(i) If an investment is in the form of an instrument issued by a financial institution that is not a regulated financial institution, the FDIC-supervised institution must treat the instrument as:
(A) A common equity tier 1 capital instrument if it is common stock or represents the most subordinated claim
in a liquidation of the financial institution; and
(B) An additional tier 1 capital instrument if it is subordinated to all creditors of the financial institution and is senior in liquidation only to common shareholders.
(ii) If an investment is in the form of an instrument issued by a regulated financial institution and the instrument does not meet the criteria for common equity tier 1, additional tier 1 or tier 2 capital instruments under § 324.20, the FDIC-supervised institution must treat the instrument as:
(A) A common equity tier 1 capital instrument if it is common stock included in GAAP equity or represents the most subordinated claim in liquidation of the financial institution;
(B) An additional tier 1 capital instrument if it is included in GAAP equity, subordinated to all creditors of the financial institution, and senior in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding only to common shareholders;
(C) A tier 2 capital instrument if it is not included in GAAP equity but considered regulatory capital by the primary supervisor of the financial institution; and
(D) For an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, a tier 2 capital instrument if it is a covered debt instrument.
(iii) If an investment is in the form of a non-qualifying capital instrument (as defined in § 324.300(c)), the FDIC-supervised institution must treat the instrument as:
(A) An additional tier 1 capital instrument if such instrument was included in the issuer's tier 1 capital prior to May 19, 2010; or
(B) A tier 2 capital instrument if such instrument was included in the issuer's tier 2 capital (but not includable in tier 1 capital) prior to May 19, 2010.
(3)
Reciprocal cross holdings in the capital of financial institutions.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution must deduct an investment in the capital of other financial institutions that it holds reciprocally, where such reciprocal cross holdings result from a formal or informal arrangement to swap, exchange, or otherwise intend to hold each other's capital instruments, by applying the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(ii) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must deduct an investment in any covered debt instrument that the institution holds reciprocally with another financial institution, where such reciprocal cross holdings result from a formal or informal arrangement to swap, exchange, or otherwise intend to hold each other's capital or covered debt instruments, by applying the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(4)
Investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions.
An FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must deduct its investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions (as defined in § 324.2) that exceed 25 percent of the sum of the FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements minus all deductions from and adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital elements required under paragraphs (a) through (c)(3) of this section by applying the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
24
The deductions described in this section are net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. In addition, with the prior written approval of the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution that underwrites a failed underwriting, for the period of time stipulated by the FDIC, is not required to deduct an investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution pursuant to this
paragraph (c) to the extent the investment is related to the failed underwriting.
25
24
With the prior written approval of the FDIC, for the period of time stipulated by the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, is not required to deduct an investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution pursuant to this paragraph if the financial institution is in distress and if such investment is made for the purpose of providing financial support to the financial institution, as determined by the FDIC.
25
Any investments in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution that do not exceed the 25 percent threshold for investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions under this section must be assigned the appropriate risk weight under subparts D or F of this part, as applicable.
(5)
Non-significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions.
(i) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must deduct its non-significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions (as defined in § 324.2) that, in the aggregate and together with any investment in a covered debt instrument (as defined in § 324.2) issued by a financial institution in which the FDIC-supervised institution does not have a significant investment in the capital of the unconsolidated financial institution (as defined in § 324.2), exceeds 10 percent of the sum of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements minus all deductions from and adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital elements required under paragraphs (a) through (c)(3) of this section (the 10 percent threshold for non-significant investments) by applying the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
26
The deductions described in this paragraph are net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. In addition, with the prior written approval of the FDIC, an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that underwrites a failed underwriting, for the period of time stipulated by the FDIC, is not required to deduct from capital a non-significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution or an investment in a covered debt instrument pursuant to this paragraph (c)(5) to the extent the investment is related to the failed underwriting.
27
For any calculation under this paragraph (c)(5)(i), an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution may exclude the amount of an investment in a covered debt instrument under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) or (iv) of this section, as applicable.
26
With the prior written approval of the FDIC, for the period of time stipulated by the FDIC, an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution is not required to deduct a non-significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution or an investment in a covered debt instrument pursuant to this paragraph if the financial institution is in distress and if such investment is made for the purpose of providing financial support to the financial institution, as determined by the FDIC.
27
Any non-significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution or any investment in a covered debt instrument that is not required to be deducted under this paragraph (c)(5) or otherwise under this section must be assigned the appropriate risk weight under subparts D, E, or F of this part, as applicable.
(ii) For an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, the amount to be deducted under this paragraph (c)(5) from a specific capital component is equal to:
(A) The advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution's aggregate non-significant investments in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution and, if applicable, any investments in a covered debt instrument subject to deduction under this paragraph (c)(5), exceeding the 10 percent threshold for non-significant investments, multiplied by
(B) The ratio of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution's aggregate non-significant investments in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution (in the form of such capital component) to the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution's total non-significant investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, with an investment in a covered debt instrument being treated as tier 2 capital for this purpose.
(iii) For purposes of applying the deduction under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that is not a subsidiary of a global systemically important banking organization, as defined in 12 CFR 252.2, may exclude from the deduction the amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's gross long position, in accordance with § 324.22(h)(2), in investments in covered debt instruments issued by financial institutions
in which the FDIC-supervised institution does not have a significant investment in the capital of the unconsolidated financial institutions up to an amount equal to 5 percent of the sum of the FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements minus all deductions from and adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital elements required under paragraphs (a) through (c)(3) of this section, net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(iv) Prior to applying the deduction under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section:
(A) An FDIC-supervised institution that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC, as defined in 12 CFR 252.2, may designate any investment in a covered debt instrument as an excluded covered debt instrument, as defined in § 324.2.
(B) An FDIC-supervised institution that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC, as defined in 12 CFR 252.2, must deduct, according to the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, its gross long position, calculated in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section, in a covered debt instrument that was originally designated as an excluded covered debt instrument, in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, but no longer qualifies as an excluded covered debt instrument.
(C) An FDIC-supervised institution that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC, as defined in 12 CFR 252.2, must deduct according to the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section the amount of its gross long position, calculated in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section, in a direct or indirect investment in a covered debt instrument that was originally designated as an excluded covered debt instrument, in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, and has been held for more than thirty business days.
(D) An FDIC-supervised institution that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC, as defined in 12 CFR 252.2, must deduct according to the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section its gross long position, calculated in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section, of its aggregate position in excluded covered debt instruments that exceeds 5 percent of the sum of the FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements minus all deductions from and adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital elements required under paragraphs (a) through (c)(3) of this section, net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(6)
Significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions that are not in the form of common stock.
If an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution has a significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must deduct from capital any such investment issued by the unconsolidated financial institution that is held by the FDIC-supervised institution other than an investment in the form of common stock, as well as any investment in a covered debt instrument issued by the unconsolidated financial institution, by applying the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
28
The deductions described in this section are net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. In addition, with the prior written approval of the FDIC, for the period of time stipulated by the FDIC, an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that underwrites a failed underwriting is not required to deduct the significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution or an investment in a covered
debt instrument pursuant to this paragraph (c)(6) if such investment is related to such failed underwriting.
28
With prior written approval of the FDIC, for the period of time stipulated by the FDIC, an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution is not required to deduct a significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, including an investment in a covered debt instrument, under this paragraph (c)(6) or otherwise under this section if such investment is made for the purpose of providing financial support to the financial institution as determined by the FDIC.
(d)
MSAs and certain DTAs subject to common equity tier 1 capital deduction thresholds.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must make deductions from regulatory capital as described in this paragraph (d)(1).
(i) The FDIC-supervised institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the amount of each of the items set forth in this paragraph (d)(1) that, individually, exceeds 25 percent of the sum of the FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements, less adjustments to and deductions from common equity tier 1 capital required under paragraphs (a) through (c)(3) of this section (the 25 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold).
29
29
The amount of the items in paragraph (d)(1) of this section that is not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital must be included in the risk-weighted assets of the FDIC-supervised institution and assigned a 250 percent risk weight.
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the amount of DTAs arising from temporary differences that the FDIC-supervised institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. An FDIC-supervised institution is not required to deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements DTAs (net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with § 324.22(e)) arising from timing differences that the FDIC-supervised institution could realize through net operating loss carrybacks. The FDIC-supervised institution must risk weight these assets at 100 percent. For an FDIC-supervised institution that is a member of a consolidated group for tax purposes, the amount of DTAs that could be realized through net operating loss carrybacks may not exceed the amount that the FDIC-supervised institution could reasonably expect to have refunded by its parent holding company.
(iii) The FDIC-supervised institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the amount of MSAs net of associated DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(iv) For purposes of calculating the amount of DTAs subject to deduction pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution may exclude DTAs and DTLs relating to adjustments made to common equity tier 1 capital under paragraph (b) of this section. An FDIC-supervised institution that elects to exclude DTAs relating to adjustments under paragraph (b) of this section also must exclude DTLs and must do so consistently in all future calculations. An FDIC-supervised institution may change its exclusion preference only after obtaining the prior approval of the FDIC.
(2) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must make deductions from regulatory capital as described in this paragraph (d)(2).
(i) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the amount of each of the items set forth in this paragraph (d)(2) that, individually, exceeds 10 percent of the sum of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements, less adjustments to and deductions from common equity tier 1 capital required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section (the 10 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold).
(A) DTAs arising from temporary differences that the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution is not required to deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements DTAs (net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with § 324.22(e)) arising from timing differences that the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution could realize through net operating loss
carrybacks. The advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must risk weight these assets at 100 percent. For an FDIC-supervised institution that is a member of a consolidated group for tax purposes, the amount of DTAs that could be realized through net operating loss carrybacks may not exceed the amount that the FDIC-supervised institution could reasonably expect to have refunded by its parent holding company.
(B) MSAs net of associated DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(C) Significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in the form of common stock, net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
30
Significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in the form of common stock subject to the 10 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold may be reduced by any goodwill embedded in the valuation of such investments deducted by the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section. In addition, with the prior written approval of the FDIC, for the period of time stipulated by the FDIC, an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that underwrites a failed underwriting is not required to deduct a significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution in the form of common stock pursuant to this paragraph (d)(2) if such investment is related to such failed underwriting.
30
With the prior written approval of the FDIC, for the period of time stipulated by the FDIC, an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution is not required to deduct a significant investment in the capital instrument of an unconsolidated financial institution in distress in the form of common stock pursuant to this section if such investment is made for the purpose of providing financial support to the financial institution as determined by the FDIC.
(ii) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the items listed in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section that are not deducted as a result of the application of the 10 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold, and that, in aggregate, exceed 17.65 percent of the sum of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements, minus adjustments to and deductions from common equity tier 1 capital required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, minus the items listed in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section (the 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold). Any goodwill that has been deducted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section can be excluded from the significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in the form of common stock.
31
31
The amount of the items in paragraph (d)(2) of this section that is not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital pursuant to this section must be included in the risk-weighted assets of the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution and assigned a 250 percent risk weight.
(iii) For purposes of calculating the amount of DTAs subject to the 10 and 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction thresholds, an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution may exclude DTAs and DTLs relating to adjustments made to common equity tier 1 capital under paragraph (b) of this section. An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that elects to exclude DTAs relating to adjustments under paragraph (b) of this section also must exclude DTLs and must do so consistently in all future calculations. An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution may change its exclusion preference only after obtaining the prior approval of the FDIC.
(e)
Netting of DTLs against assets subject to deduction.
(1) Except as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, netting of DTLs against assets that are subject to deduction under this section is permitted, but not required, if the following conditions are met:
(i) The DTL is associated with the asset; and
(ii) The DTL would be extinguished if the associated asset becomes impaired or is derecognized under GAAP.
(2) A DTL may only be netted against a single asset.
(3) For purposes of calculating the amount of DTAs subject to the threshold deduction in paragraph (d) of this section, the amount of DTAs that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, net of any related valuation allowances, and of DTAs arising from temporary differences that the FDIC-supervised institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances, may be offset by DTLs (that have not been netted against assets subject to deduction pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section) subject to the conditions set forth in this paragraph (e).
(i) Only the DTAs and DTLs that relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority and that are eligible for offsetting by that authority may be offset for purposes of this deduction.
(ii) The amount of DTLs that the FDIC-supervised institution nets against DTAs that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, net of any related valuation allowances, and against DTAs arising from temporary differences that the FDIC-supervised institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances, must be allocated in proportion to the amount of DTAs that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (net of any related valuation allowances, but before any offsetting of DTLs) and of DTAs arising from temporary differences that the FDIC-supervised institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks (net of any related valuation allowances, but before any offsetting of DTLs), respectively.
(4) An FDIC-supervised institution may offset DTLs embedded in the carrying value of a leveraged lease portfolio acquired in a business combination that are not recognized under GAAP against DTAs that are subject to paragraph (d) of this section in accordance with this paragraph (e).
(5) An FDIC-supervised institution must net DTLs against assets subject to deduction under this section in a consistent manner from reporting period to reporting period. An FDIC-supervised institution may change its preference regarding the manner in which it nets DTLs against specific assets subject to deduction under this section only after obtaining the prior approval of the FDIC.
(f)
Insufficient amounts of a specific regulatory capital component to effect deductions.
Under the corresponding deduction approach, if an FDIC-supervised institution does not have a sufficient amount of a specific component of capital to effect the full amount of any deduction from capital required under paragraph (d) of this section, the FDIC-supervised institution must deduct the shortfall amount from the next higher (that is, more subordinated) component of regulatory capital. Any investment by an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution in a covered debt instrument must be treated as an investment in the tier 2 capital for purposes of this paragraph (f). Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a qualifying community banking organization (as defined in § 324.12) that has elected to use the community bank leverage ratio framework pursuant to § 324.12 is not required to deduct any shortfall of tier 2 capital from its additional tier 1 capital or common equity tier 1 capital.
(g)
Treatment of assets that are deducted.
An FDIC-supervised institution must exclude from standardized total risk-weighted assets and, as applicable, advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets any item that is required to be deducted from regulatory capital.
(h)
Net long position
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of calculating the amount of an FDIC-supervised institution's investment in the FDIC-supervised institution's own capital instrument, investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, and investment in a covered debt instrument under this section, the institution's net long position is the gross long position in the underlying instrument determined in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section, as adjusted to recognize any short position by the FDIC-supervised institution in the same instrument subject to paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(2)
Gross long position.
A gross long position is determined as follows:
(i) For an equity exposure that is held directly by the FDIC-supervised
institution, the adjusted carrying value of the exposure as that term is defined in § 324.51(b);
(ii) For an exposure that is held directly and that is not an equity exposure or a securitization exposure, the exposure amount as that term is defined in § 324.2;
(iii) For each indirect exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution's carrying value of its investment in an investment fund or, alternatively:
(A) An FDIC-supervised institution may, with the prior approval of the FDIC, use a conservative estimate of the amount of its indirect investment in the FDIC-supervised institution's own capital instruments, its indirect investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, or its indirect investment in a covered debt instrument held through a position in an index, as applicable; or
(B) An FDIC-supervised institution may calculate the gross long position for an indirect exposure to the FDIC-supervised institution's own capital instruments, the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, or a covered debt instrument by multiplying the FDIC-supervised institution's carrying value of its investment in the investment fund by either:
(
1
) The highest stated investment limit (in percent) for an investment in the FDIC-supervised institution's own capital instruments, an investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, or an investment in a covered debt instrument, as applicable, as stated in the prospectus, partnership agreement, or similar contract defining permissible investments of the investment fund; or
(
2
) The investment fund's actual holdings (in percent) of the investment in the FDIC-supervised institution's own capital instruments, investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, or investment in a covered debt instrument, as applicable; and
(iv) For a synthetic exposure, the amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's loss on the exposure if the reference capital or covered debt instrument were to have a value of zero.
(3)
Adjustments to reflect a short position.
In order to adjust the gross long position to recognize a short position in the same instrument under paragraph (h)(1) of this section, the following criteria must be met:
(i) The maturity of the short position must match the maturity of the long position, or the short position must have a residual maturity of at least one year (maturity requirement); or
(ii) For a position that is a trading asset or trading liability (whether on- or off-balance sheet) as reported on the FDIC-supervised institution's Call Report, if the FDIC-supervised institution has a contractual right or obligation to sell the long position at a specific point in time and the counterparty to the contract has an obligation to purchase the long position if the FDIC-supervised institution exercises its right to sell, this point in time may be treated as the maturity of the long position such that the maturity of the long position and short position are deemed to match for purposes of the maturity requirement, even if the maturity of the short position is less than one year; and
(iii) For an investment in an FDIC-supervised institution's own capital instrument under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution under paragraphs (c)(4) through (6) and (d) of this section (as applicable), and an investment in a covered debt instrument under paragraphs (c)(1), (5), and (6) of this section:
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution may only net a short position against a long position in an investment in the FDIC-supervised institution's own capital instrument under paragraph (c)(1) of this section if the short position involves no counterparty credit risk;
(B) A gross long position in an investment in the FDIC-supervised institution's own capital instrument, an investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, or an investment in a covered debt instrument due to a position in an index may be netted against a short position in the same index;
(C) Long and short positions in the same index without maturity dates are considered to have matching maturities; and
(D) A short position in an index that is hedging a long cash or synthetic position in an investment in the FDIC-supervised institution's own capital instrument, an investment in the capital instrument of an unconsolidated financial institution, or an investment in a covered debt instrument can be decomposed to provide recognition of the hedge. More specifically, the portion of the index that is composed of the same underlying instrument that is being hedged may be used to offset the long position if both the long position being hedged and the short position in the index are reported as a trading asset or trading liability (whether on- or off-balance sheet) on the FDIC-supervised institution's Call Report, and the hedge is deemed effective by the FDIC-supervised institution's internal control processes, which have not been found to be inadequate by the FDIC.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20759, Apr. 14, 2014; 80 FR 41422, July 15, 2015; 81 FR 71354, Oct. 17, 2016; 83 FR 17740, Apr. 24, 2018; 84 FR 4247, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 35272, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 59279, Nov. 1, 2019; 84 FR 61803, Nov. 13, 2019; 86 FR 742, Jan. 6, 2021]
§§ 324.23-324.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Risk-Weighted Assets—Standardized Approach
§ 324.30
Applicability.
(a) This subpart sets forth methodologies for determining risk-weighted assets for purposes of the generally applicable risk-based capital requirements for all FDIC-supervised institutions.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a market risk FDIC-supervised institution must exclude from its calculation of risk-weighted assets under this subpart the risk-weighted asset amounts of all covered positions, as defined in subpart F of this part (except foreign exchange positions that are not trading positions, OTC derivative positions, cleared transactions, and unsettled transactions).

# Risk-Weighted Assets for General Credit Risk
§ 324.31
Mechanics for calculating risk-weighted assets for general credit risk.
(a)
General risk-weighting requirements.
An FDIC-supervised institution must apply risk weights to its exposures as follows:
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must determine the exposure amount of each on-balance sheet exposure, each OTC derivative contract, and each off-balance sheet commitment, trade and transaction-related contingency, guarantee, repo-style transaction, financial standby letter of credit, forward agreement, or other similar transaction that is not:
(i) An unsettled transaction subject to § 324.38;
(ii) A cleared transaction subject to § 324.35;
(iii) A default fund contribution subject to § 324.35;
(iv) A securitization exposure subject to §§ 324.41 through 324.45; or
(v) An equity exposure (other than an equity OTC derivative contract) subject to §§ 324.51 through 324.53.
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution must multiply each exposure amount by the risk weight appropriate to the exposure based on the exposure type or counterparty, eligible guarantor, or financial collateral to determine the risk-weighted asset amount for each exposure.
(b) Total risk-weighted assets for general credit risk equals the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts calculated under this section.
§ 324.32
General risk weights.
(a)
Sovereign exposures
—(1)
Exposures to the U.S. government.
(i) Notwithstanding any other requirement in this subpart, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a zero percent risk weight to:
(A) An exposure to the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency; and
(B) The portion of an exposure that is directly and unconditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency. This includes a deposit or other exposure, or the portion of a deposit or other exposure, that is insured or otherwise unconditionally guaranteed by the FDIC or National Credit Union Administration.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to the portion of an exposure that is conditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency. This includes an exposure, or the portion of an exposure, that is conditionally guaranteed by the FDIC or National Credit Union Administration.
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a zero percent risk weight to a Paycheck Protection Program covered loan as defined in section 7(a)(36) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36)).
(2)
Other sovereign exposures.
In accordance with Table 1 to § 324.32, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a risk weight to a sovereign exposure based on the CRC applicable to the sovereign or the sovereign's OECD membership status if there is no CRC applicable to the sovereign.
Table 1 to § 324.32—Risk Weights for Sovereign Exposures
Risk Weight
(in percent)
CRC
0-1
0
2
20
3
50
4-6
100
7
150
OECD Member with No CRC
0
Non-OECD Member with No CRC
100
Sovereign Default
150
(3)
Certain sovereign exposures.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution may assign to a sovereign exposure a risk weight that is lower than the applicable risk weight in Table 1 to § 324.32 if:
(i) The exposure is denominated in the sovereign's currency;
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution has at least an equivalent amount of liabilities in that currency; and
(iii) The risk weight is not lower than the risk weight that the home country supervisor allows FDIC-supervised institutions under its jurisdiction to assign to the same exposures to the sovereign.
(4)
Exposures to a non-OECD member sovereign with no CRC.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3), (a)(5) and (a)(6) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a sovereign if the sovereign does not have a CRC.
(5)
Exposures to an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 0 percent risk weight to an exposure to a sovereign that is a member of the OECD if the sovereign does not have a CRC.
(6)
Sovereign default.
An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 150 percent risk weight to a sovereign exposure immediately upon determining that an event of sovereign default has occurred, or if an event of sovereign default has occurred during the previous five years.
(b)
Certain supranational entities and multilateral development banks (MDBs).
An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a zero percent risk weight to an exposure to the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, or an MDB.
(c)
Exposures to GSEs.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a GSE other than an equity exposure or preferred stock.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to preferred stock issued by a GSE.
(d)
Exposures to depository institutions, foreign banks, and credit unions
—(1)
Exposures to U.S. depository institutions and credit unions.
An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 20 percent
risk weight to an exposure to a depository institution or credit union that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, except as otherwise provided under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(2)
Exposures to foreign banks.
(i) Except as otherwise provided under paragraphs (d)(2)(iii), (d)(2)(v), and (d)(3) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank, in accordance with Table 2 to § 324.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the foreign bank's home country or the OECD membership status of the foreign bank's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the foreign bank's home country.
Table 2 to § 324.32—Risk Weights for Exposures to Foreign Banks
Risk weight
(in percent)
CRC:
0-1
20
2
50
3
100
4-7
150
OECD Member with No CRC
20
Non-OECD Member with No CRC
100
Sovereign Default
150
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank whose home country is a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC.
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 20 percent risk-weight to an exposure that is a self-liquidating, trade-related contingent item that arises from the movement of goods and that has a maturity of three months or less to a foreign bank whose home country has a CRC of 0, 1, 2, or 3, or is an OECD member with no CRC.
(iv) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank whose home country is not a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC, with the exception of self-liquidating, trade-related contingent items that arise from the movement of goods, and that have a maturity of three months or less, which may be assigned a 20 percent risk weight.
(v) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 150 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank immediately upon determining that an event of sovereign default has occurred in the bank's home country, or if an event of sovereign default has occurred in the foreign bank's home country during the previous five years.
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a financial institution if the exposure may be included in that financial institution's capital unless the exposure is:
(i) An equity exposure;
(ii) A significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution in the form of common stock pursuant to § 324.22(d)(2)(i)(c);
(iii) Deducted from regulatory capital under § 324.22; or
(iv) Subject to a 150 percent risk weight under paragraph (d)(2)(iv) or Table 2 of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(e)
Exposures to public sector entities (PSEs)
—(1)
Exposures to U.S. PSEs.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof.
(2)
Exposures to foreign PSEs.
(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE, in accordance with Table 3 to § 324.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the PSE's home country or the OECD membership status of the PSE's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the PSE's home country.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE, in accordance with Table 4 to § 324.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the PSE's home country; or the OECD membership status of the PSE's home country
if there is no CRC applicable to the PSE's home country.
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution may assign a lower risk weight than would otherwise apply under Tables 3 or 4 to § 324.32 to an exposure to a foreign PSE if:
(i) The PSE's home country supervisor allows banks under its jurisdiction to assign a lower risk weight to such exposures; and
(ii) The risk weight is not lower than the risk weight that corresponds to the PSE's home country in accordance with Table 1 to § 324.32.
Table 3 to § 324.32—Risk Weights for non-U.S. PSE General Obligations
Risk Weight
(in percent)
CRC
0-1
20
2
50
3
100
4-7
150
OECD Member with No CRC
20
Non-OECD Member with No CRC
100
Sovereign Default
150
Table 4 to § 324.32—Risk Weights for non-U.S. PSE Revenue Obligations
Risk Weight
(in percent)
CRC
0-1
50
2-3
50
4-7
150
OECD Member with No CRC
50
Non-OECD Member with No CRC
100
Sovereign Default
150
(4)
Exposures to PSEs from an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE whose home country is an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE whose home country is an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.
(5)
Exposures to PSEs whose home country is not an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.
An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a PSE whose home country is not a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC.
(6) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 150 percent risk weight to a PSE exposure immediately upon determining that an event of sovereign default has occurred in a PSE's home country or if an event of sovereign default has occurred in the PSE's home country during the previous five years.
(f)
Corporate exposures.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to all its corporate exposures, except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section.
(2) A FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 2 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the FDIC-supervised institution posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 324.35(b)(3)(i)(A) and a 4 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the FDIC-supervised institution posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 324.35(b)(3)(i)(B).
(3) A FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 2 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the FDIC-supervised institution posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 324.35(c)(3)(i).
(g)
Residential mortgage exposures.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a first-lien residential mortgage exposure that:
(i) Is secured by a property that is either owner-occupied or rented;
(ii) Is made in accordance with prudent underwriting standards, including standards relating to the loan amount as a percent of the appraised value of the property;
(iii) Is not 90 days or more past due or carried in nonaccrual status; and
(iv) Is not restructured or modified.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to a first-lien residential mortgage exposure that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and to junior-lien residential mortgage exposures.
(3) For the purpose of this paragraph (g), if an FDIC-supervised institution holds the first-lien and junior-lien(s) residential mortgage exposures, and no other party holds an intervening lien, the FDIC-supervised institution must combine the exposures and treat them as a single first-lien residential mortgage exposure.
(4) A loan modified or restructured solely pursuant to the U.S. Treasury's Home Affordable Mortgage Program is not modified or restructured for purposes of this section.
(h)
Pre-sold construction loans.
An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a pre-sold construction loan unless the purchase contract is cancelled, in which case an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight.
(i)
Statutory multifamily mortgages.
An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a statutory multifamily mortgage.
(j)
High-volatility commercial real estate (HVCRE) exposures.
An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 150 percent risk weight to an HVCRE exposure.
(k)
Past due exposures.
Except for an exposure to a sovereign entity or a residential mortgage exposure or a policy loan, if an exposure is 90 days or more past due or on nonaccrual:
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 150 percent risk weight to the portion of the exposure that is not guaranteed or that is unsecured;
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution may assign a risk weight to the guaranteed portion of a past due exposure based on the risk weight that applies under § 324.36 if the guarantee or credit derivative meets the requirements of that section; and
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution may assign a risk weight to the collateralized portion of a past due exposure based on the risk weight that applies under § 324.37 if the collateral meets the requirements of that section.
(l)
Other assets.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a zero percent risk weight to cash owned and held in all offices of the FDIC-supervised institution or in transit; to gold bullion held in the FDIC-supervised institution's own vaults or held in another depository institution's vaults on an allocated basis, to the extent the gold bullion assets are offset by gold bullion liabilities; and to exposures that arise from the settlement of cash transactions (such as equities, fixed income, spot foreign exchange and spot commodities) with a central counterparty where there is no assumption of ongoing counterparty credit risk by the central counterparty after settlement of the trade and associated default fund contributions.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to cash items in the process of collection.
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to DTAs arising from temporary differences that the FDIC-supervised institution could realize through net operating loss carrybacks.
(4) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 250 percent risk weight to the portion of each of the following items to the extent it is not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital pursuant to § 324.22(d):
(i) MSAs; and
(ii) DTAs arising from temporary differences that the FDIC-supervised institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks.
(5) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to all assets not specifically assigned a different risk weight under this subpart and that are not deducted from tier 1 or tier 2 capital pursuant to § 324.22.
(6) Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution may assign an asset that is not included in one of the categories provided in this section to the risk weight category applicable under the capital rules applicable to bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies under 12 CFR part 217, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
(i) The FDIC-supervised institution is not authorized to hold the asset under applicable law other than debt previously contracted or similar authority; and
(ii) The risks associated with the asset are substantially similar to the risks of assets that are otherwise assigned to a risk weight category of less than 100 percent under this subpart.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20759, Apr. 14, 2014; 84 FR 35275, July 22, 2019; 85 FR 4431, Jan. 24, 2020; 85 FR 20394, Apr. 13, 2020; 85 FR 57963, Sept. 17, 2020]
§ 324.33
Off-balance sheet exposures.
(a)
General.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the exposure amount of an off-balance sheet exposure using the credit conversion factors (CCFs) in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Where an FDIC-supervised institution commits to provide a commitment, the FDIC-supervised institution may apply the lower of the two applicable CCFs.
(3) Where an FDIC-supervised institution provides a commitment structured as a syndication or participation, the FDIC-supervised institution is only required to calculate the exposure amount for its pro rata share of the commitment.
(4) Where an FDIC-supervised institution provides a commitment, enters into a repurchase agreement, or provides a credit-enhancing representation and warranty, and such commitment, repurchase agreement, or credit-enhancing representation and warranty is not a securitization exposure, the exposure amount shall be no greater than the maximum contractual amount of the commitment, repurchase agreement, or credit-enhancing representation and warranty, as applicable.
(b)
Credit conversion factors
—(1)
Zero percent CCF.
An FDIC-supervised institution must apply a zero percent CCF to the unused portion of a commitment that is unconditionally cancelable by the FDIC-supervised institution.
(2)
20 percent CCF.
An FDIC-supervised institution must apply a 20 percent CCF to the amount of:
(i) Commitments with an original maturity of one year or less that are not unconditionally cancelable by the FDIC-supervised institution; and
(ii) Self-liquidating, trade-related contingent items that arise from the movement of goods, with an original maturity of one year or less.
(3)
50 percent CCF.
An FDIC-supervised institution must apply a 50 percent CCF to the amount of:
(i) Commitments with an original maturity of more than one year that are not unconditionally cancelable by the FDIC-supervised institution; and
(ii) Transaction-related contingent items, including performance bonds, bid bonds, warranties, and performance standby letters of credit.
(4)
100 percent CCF.
An FDIC-supervised institution must apply a 100 percent CCF to the amount of the following off-balance-sheet items and other similar transactions:
(i) Guarantees;
(ii) Repurchase agreements (the off-balance sheet component of which equals the sum of the current fair values of all positions the FDIC-supervised institution has sold subject to repurchase);
(iii) Credit-enhancing representations and warranties that are not securitization exposures;
(iv) Off-balance sheet securities lending transactions (the off-balance sheet component of which equals the sum of the current fair values of all positions the FDIC-supervised institution has lent under the transaction);
(v) Off-balance sheet securities borrowing transactions (the off-balance sheet component of which equals the sum of the current fair values of all non-cash positions the FDIC-supervised institution has posted as collateral under the transaction);
(vi) Financial standby letters of credit; and
(vii) Forward agreements.
§ 324.34
Derivative contracts.
(a)
Exposure amount for derivative contracts
—(1)
FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution.
(i) A FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must use the current exposure methodology (CEM) described in
paragraph (b) of this section to calculate the exposure amount for all its OTC derivative contracts, unless the FDIC-supervised institution makes the election provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii) A FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution may elect to calculate the exposure amount for all its OTC derivative contracts under the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR) in § 324.132(c) by notifying the FDIC, rather than calculating the exposure amount for all its derivative contracts using CEM. A FDIC-supervised institution that elects under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii) to calculate the exposure amount for its OTC derivative contracts under SA-CCR must apply the treatment of cleared transactions under § 324.133 to its derivative contracts that are cleared transactions and to all default fund contributions associated with such derivative contracts, rather than applying § 324.35. A FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must use the same methodology to calculate the exposure amount for all its derivative contracts and, if a FDIC-supervised institution has elected to use SA-CCR under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii), the FDIC-supervised institution may change its election only with prior approval of the FDIC.
(2)
Advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution.
An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the exposure amount for all its derivative contracts using SA-CCR in § 324.132(c) for purposes of standardized total risk-weighted assets. An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must apply the treatment of cleared transactions under § 324.133 to its derivative contracts that are cleared transactions and to all default fund contributions associated with such derivative contracts for purposes of standardized total risk-weighted assets.
(b)
Current exposure methodology exposure amount
—(1)
Single OTC derivative contract.
Except as modified by paragraph (c) of this section, the exposure amount for a single OTC derivative contract that is not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement is equal to the sum of the FDIC-supervised institution's current credit exposure and potential future credit exposure (PFE) on the OTC derivative contract.
(i)
Current credit exposure.
The current credit exposure for a single OTC derivative contract is the greater of the fair value of the OTC derivative contract or zero.
(ii)
PFE.
(A) The PFE for a single OTC derivative contract, including an OTC derivative contract with a negative fair value, is calculated by multiplying the notional principal amount of the OTC derivative contract by the appropriate conversion factor in Table 1 to this section.
(B) For purposes of calculating either the PFE under this paragraph (b)(1)(ii) or the gross PFE under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section for exchange rate contracts and other similar contracts in which the notional principal amount is equivalent to the cash flows, notional principal amount is the net receipts to each party falling due on each value date in each currency.
(C) For an OTC derivative contract that does not fall within one of the specified categories in Table 1 to this section, the PFE must be calculated using the appropriate “other” conversion factor.
(D) A FDIC-supervised institution must use an OTC derivative contract's effective notional principal amount (that is, the apparent or stated notional principal amount multiplied by any multiplier in the OTC derivative contract) rather than the apparent or stated notional principal amount in calculating PFE.
(E) The PFE of the protection provider of a credit derivative is capped at the net present value of the amount of unpaid premiums.
Table 1 to § 324.34—Conversion Factor Matrix for Derivative Contracts
1
Remaining maturity
2
Interest rate
Foreign
exchange
rate and gold
Credit
(investment
grade
reference
asset)
3
Credit
(non-investment-
grade
reference asset)
Equity
Precious
metals
(except gold)
Other
One year or less
0.00
0.01
0.05
0.10
0.06
0.07
0.10
Greater than one year and less than or equal to five years
0.005
0.05
0.05
0.10
0.08
0.07
0.12
Greater than five years
0.015
0.075
0.05
0.10
0.10
0.08
0.15
1
For a derivative contract with multiple exchanges of principal, the conversion factor is multiplied by the number of remaining payments in the derivative contract.
2
For an OTC derivative contract that is structured such that on specified dates any outstanding exposure is settled and the terms are reset so that the fair value of the contract is zero, the remaining maturity equals the time until the next reset date. For an interest rate derivative contract with a remaining maturity of greater than one year that meets these criteria, the minimum conversion factor is 0.005.
3
A FDIC-supervised institution must use the column labeled “Credit (investment-grade reference asset)” for a credit derivative whose reference asset is an outstanding unsecured long-term debt security without credit enhancement that is investment grade. A FDIC-supervised institution must use the column labeled “Credit (non-investment-grade reference asset)” for all other credit derivatives.
(2)
Multiple OTC derivative contracts subject to a qualifying master netting agreement.
Except as modified by paragraph (c) of this section, the exposure amount for multiple OTC derivative contracts subject to a qualifying master netting agreement is equal to the sum of the net current credit exposure and the adjusted sum of the PFE amounts for all OTC derivative contracts subject to the qualifying master netting agreement.
(i)
Net current credit exposure.
The net current credit exposure is the greater of the net sum of all positive and negative fair values of the individual OTC derivative contracts subject to the qualifying master netting agreement or zero.
(ii)
Adjusted sum of the PFE amounts.
The adjusted sum of the PFE amounts, Anet, is calculated as Anet = (0.4 × Agross) + (0.6 × NGR × Agross), where:
(A) Agross = the gross PFE (that is, the sum of the PFE amounts as determined under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section for each individual derivative contract subject to the qualifying master netting agreement); and
(B) Net-to-gross Ratio (NGR) = the ratio of the net current credit exposure to the gross current credit exposure. In calculating the NGR, the gross current credit exposure equals the sum of the positive current credit exposures (as determined under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) of all individual derivative contracts subject to the qualifying master netting agreement.
(c)
Recognition of credit risk mitigation of collateralized OTC derivative contracts.
(1) A FDIC-supervised institution using CEM under paragraph (b) of this section may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral that secures an OTC derivative contract or multiple OTC derivative contracts subject to a qualifying master netting agreement (netting set) by using the simple approach in § 324.37(b).
(2) As an alternative to the simple approach, a FDIC-supervised institution using CEM under paragraph (b) of this section may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral that secures such a contract or netting set if the financial collateral is marked-to-fair value on a daily basis and subject to a daily margin maintenance requirement by applying a risk weight to the uncollateralized portion of the exposure, after adjusting the exposure amount calculated under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section using the collateral haircut approach in § 324.37(c). The FDIC-supervised institution must substitute the exposure amount calculated under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section for ΣE in the equation in § 324.37(c)(2).
(d)
Counterparty credit risk for credit derivatives
—(1)
Protection purchasers.
A FDIC-supervised institution that purchases a credit derivative that is recognized under § 324.36 as a credit risk mitigant for an exposure that is not a covered position under subpart F of this part is not required to compute a
separate counterparty credit risk capital requirement under this subpart provided that the FDIC-supervised institution does so consistently for all such credit derivatives. The FDIC-supervised institution must either include all or exclude all such credit derivatives that are subject to a qualifying master netting agreement from any measure used to determine counterparty credit risk exposure to all relevant counterparties for risk-based capital purposes.
(2)
Protection providers.
(i) A FDIC-supervised institution that is the protection provider under a credit derivative must treat the credit derivative as an exposure to the underlying reference asset. The FDIC-supervised institution is not required to compute a counterparty credit risk capital requirement for the credit derivative under this subpart, provided that this treatment is applied consistently for all such credit derivatives. The FDIC-supervised institution must either include all or exclude all such credit derivatives that are subject to a qualifying master netting agreement from any measure used to determine counterparty credit risk exposure.
(ii) The provisions of this paragraph (d)(2) apply to all relevant counterparties for risk-based capital purposes unless the FDIC-supervised institution is treating the credit derivative as a covered position under subpart F of this part, in which case the FDIC-supervised institution must compute a supplemental counterparty credit risk capital requirement under this section.
(e)
Counterparty credit risk for equity derivatives.
(1) A FDIC-supervised institution must treat an equity derivative contract as an equity exposure and compute a risk-weighted asset amount for the equity derivative contract under §§ 324.51 through 324.53 (unless the FDIC-supervised institution is treating the contract as a covered position under subpart F of this part).
(2) In addition, the FDIC-supervised institution must also calculate a risk-based capital requirement for the counterparty credit risk of an equity derivative contract under this section if the FDIC-supervised institution is treating the contract as a covered position under subpart F of this part.
(3) If the FDIC-supervised institution risk weights the contract under the Simple Risk-Weight Approach (SRWA) in § 324.52, the FDIC-supervised institution may choose not to hold risk-based capital against the counterparty credit risk of the equity derivative contract, as long as it does so for all such contracts. Where the equity derivative contracts are subject to a qualified master netting agreement, a FDIC-supervised institution using the SRWA must either include all or exclude all of the contracts from any measure used to determine counterparty credit risk exposure.
(f)
Clearing member FDIC-supervised institution's exposure amount.
The exposure amount of a clearing member FDIC-supervised institution using CEM under paragraph (b) of this section for a client-facing derivative transaction or netting set of client-facing derivative transactions equals the exposure amount calculated according to paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section multiplied by the scaling factor the square root of
1/2
(which equals 0.707107). If the FDIC-supervised institution determines that a longer period is appropriate, the FDIC-supervised institution must use a larger scaling factor to adjust for a longer holding period as follows:
ER24JA20.036
Where H = the holding period greater than or equal to five days. Additionally, the FDIC may require the FDIC-supervised institution to set a longer holding period if the FDIC determines that a longer period is appropriate due to the nature, structure, or characteristics of the transaction or is commensurate with the risks associated with the transaction.
[85 FR 4431, Jan. 24, 2020]
§ 324.35
Cleared transactions.
(a)
General requirements
—(1)
Clearing member clients.
An FDIC-supervised institution that is a clearing member client must use the methodologies described in paragraph (b) of this section to calculate risk-weighted assets for a cleared transaction.
(2)
Clearing members.
An FDIC-supervised institution that is a clearing member must use the methodologies described in paragraph (c) of this section to calculate its risk-weighted assets for a cleared transaction and paragraph (d) of this section to calculate its risk-weighted assets for its default fund contribution to a CCP.
(3)
Alternate requirements.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution or a FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution and that has elected to use SA-CCR under § 324.34(a)(1) must apply § 324.133 to its derivative contracts that are cleared transactions rather than this section.
(b)
Clearing member client FDIC-supervised institutions
—(1)
Risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions.
(i) To determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a cleared transaction, an FDIC-supervised institution that is a clearing member client must multiply the trade exposure amount for the cleared transaction, calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, by the risk weight appropriate for the cleared transaction, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(ii) A clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution's total risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions is the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts for all its cleared transactions.
(2)
Trade exposure amount.
(i) For a cleared transaction that is either a derivative contract or a netting set of derivative contracts, the trade exposure amount equals:
(A) The exposure amount for the derivative contract or netting set of derivative contracts, calculated using the methodology used to calculate exposure amount for OTC derivative contracts under § 324.34; plus
(B) The fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution and held by the CCP, clearing member, or custodian in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote.
(ii) For a cleared transaction that is a repo-style transaction or netting set of repo-style transactions, the trade exposure amount equals:
(A) The exposure amount for the repo-style transaction calculated using the methodologies under § 324.37(c); plus
(B) The fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution and held by the CCP, clearing member, or custodian in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote.
(3)
Cleared transaction risk weights.
(i) For a cleared transaction with a QCCP, a clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution must apply a risk weight of:
(A) 2 percent if the collateral posted by the FDIC-supervised institution to the QCCP or clearing member is subject to an arrangement that prevents any losses to the clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution due to the joint default or a concurrent insolvency, liquidation, or receivership proceeding of the clearing member and any other clearing member clients of the clearing member; and the clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution has conducted sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintains sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that in the event of a legal challenge (including one resulting from an event of default or from liquidation, insolvency, or receivership proceedings) the relevant court and administrative authorities would find the arrangements to be legal, valid, binding and enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdictions; or
(B) 4 percent if the requirements of § 324.35(b)(3)(A) are not met.
(ii) For a cleared transaction with a CCP that is not a QCCP, a clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution must apply the risk weight appropriate for the CCP according to this subpart D.
(4)
Collateral.
(i) Notwithstanding any other requirements in this section, collateral posted by a clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution that is held by a custodian (in its capacity as custodian) in a manner that is bankruptcy remote from the CCP, clearing member, and other clearing member clients of the clearing member, is not
subject to a capital requirement under this section.
(ii) A clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a risk-weighted asset amount for any collateral provided to a CCP, clearing member, or custodian in connection with a cleared transaction in accordance with the requirements under this subpart D.
(c)
Clearing member FDIC-supervised institutions
—(1)
Risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions.
(i) To determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a cleared transaction, a clearing member FDIC-supervised institution must multiply the trade exposure amount for the cleared transaction, calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, by the risk weight appropriate for the cleared transaction, determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(ii) A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution's total risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions is the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts for all of its cleared transactions.
(2)
Trade exposure amount.
A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution must calculate its trade exposure amount for a cleared transaction as follows:
(i) For a cleared transaction that is either a derivative contract or a netting set of derivative contracts, the trade exposure amount equals:
(A) The exposure amount for the derivative contract, calculated using the methodology to calculate exposure amount for OTC derivative contracts under § 324.34; plus
(B) The fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member FDIC-supervised institution and held by the CCP in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote.
(ii) For a cleared transaction that is a repo-style transaction or netting set of repo-style transactions, trade exposure amount equals:
(A) The exposure amount for repo-style transactions calculated using methodologies under § 324.37(c); plus
(B) The fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member FDIC-supervised institution and held by the CCP in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote.
(3)
Cleared transaction risk weight.
(i) A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution must apply a risk weight of 2 percent to the trade exposure amount for a cleared transaction with a QCCP.
(ii) For a cleared transaction with a CCP that is not a QCCP, a clearing member FDIC-supervised institution must apply the risk weight appropriate for the CCP according to this subpart D.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, a clearing member FDIC-supervised institution may apply a risk weight of zero percent to the trade exposure amount for a cleared transaction with a CCP where the clearing member FDIC-supervised institution is acting as a financial intermediary on behalf of a clearing member client, the transaction offsets another transaction that satisfies the requirements set forth in § 324.3(a), and the clearing member FDIC-supervised institution is not obligated to reimburse the clearing member client in the event of the CCP default.
(4)
Collateral.
(i) Notwithstanding any other requirement in this section, collateral posted by a clearing member FDIC-supervised institution that is held by a custodian in a manner that is bankruptcy remote from the CCP is not subject to a capital requirement under this section.
(ii) A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a risk-weighted asset amount for any collateral provided to a CCP, clearing member, or a custodian in connection with a cleared transaction in accordance with requirements under this subpart D.
(d)
Default fund contributions
—(1)
General requirement.
A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution must determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a default fund contribution to a CCP at least quarterly, or more frequently if, in the opinion of the FDIC-supervised institution or the FDIC, there is a material change in the financial condition of the CCP.
(2)
Risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to non-qualifying
CCPs.
A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to CCPs that are not QCCPs equals the sum of such default fund contributions multiplied by 1,250 percent, or an amount determined by the FDIC, based on factors such as size, structure and membership characteristics of the CCP and riskiness of its transactions, in cases where such default fund contributions may be unlimited.
(3)
Risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to QCCP
s. A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to QCCPs equals the sum of its capital requirement, K
CM
for each QCCP, as calculated under the methodology set forth in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section (Method 1), multiplied by 1,250 percent or in paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section (Method 2).
(i)
Method 1.
The hypothetical capital requirement of a QCCP (K
CCP
) equals:
ER10SE13.015
Where
(A) EBRM
i
equals the exposure amount for each transaction cleared through the QCCP by clearing member i, calculated in accordance with § 324.34 for OTC derivative contracts and § 324.37(c)(2) for repo-style transactions, provided that:
(
1
) For purposes of this section, in calculating the exposure amount the FDIC-supervised institution may replace the formula provided in § 324.34(a)(2)(ii) with the following: Anet = (0.15 × Agross) + (0.85 × NGR × Agross); and
(
2
) For option derivative contracts that are cleared transactions, the PFE described in § 324.34(a)(1)(ii) must be adjusted by multiplying the notional principal amount of the derivative contract by the appropriate conversion factor in Table 1 to § 324.34 and the absolute value of the option's delta, that is, the ratio of the change in the value of the derivative contract to the corresponding change in the price of the underlying asset.
(
3
) For repo-style transactions, when applying § 324.37(c)(2), the FDIC-supervised institution must use the methodology in § 324.37(c)(3);
(B) VM
i
equals any collateral posted by clearing member i to the QCCP that it is entitled to receive from the QCCP, but has not yet received, and any collateral that the QCCP has actually received from clearing member i;
(C) IM
i
equals the collateral posted as initial margin by clearing member i to the QCCP;
(D) DF
i
equals the funded portion of clearing member i's default fund contribution that will be applied to reduce the QCCP's loss upon a default by clearing member i;
(E) RW equals 20 percent, except when the FDIC has determined that a higher risk weight is more appropriate based on the specific characteristics of the QCCP and its clearing members; and
(F) Where a QCCP has provided its K
CCP
, an FDIC-supervised institution must rely on such disclosed figure instead of calculating K
CCP
under this paragraph (d), unless the FDIC-supervised institution determines that a more conservative figure is appropriate based on the nature, structure, or characteristics of the QCCP.
(ii) For an FDIC-supervised institution that is a clearing member of a QCCP with a default fund supported by funded commitments, K
CM
equals:
ER10SE13.016
(A) Subscripts 1 and 2 denote the clearing members with the two largest A
Net
values. For purposes of this paragraph (d), for derivatives A
Net
is defined in § 324.34(a)(2)(ii) and for repo-style transactions, A
Net
means the exposure amount as defined in § 324.37(c)(2) using the methodology in § 324.37(c)(3);
(B) N equals the number of clearing members in the QCCP;
(C) DF
CCP
equals the QCCP's own funds and other financial resources that would be used to cover its losses before clearing members' default fund contributions are used to cover losses;
(D) DF
CM
equals funded default fund contributions from all clearing members and any other clearing member contributed financial resources that are available to absorb mutualized QCCP losses;
(E) DF = DF
CCP
+ DF
CM
(that is, the total funded default fund contribution);
ER10SE13.017
Where
(
1
) DF
i
equals the FDIC-supervised institution's unfunded commitment to the default fund;
(
2
) DF
CM
equals the total of all clearing members' unfunded commitment to the default fund; and
(
3
)
K*
CM
as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section.
(B) For an FDIC-supervised institution that is a clearing member of a QCCP with a default fund supported by unfunded commitments and is unable to calculate K
CM
using the methodology described in paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section, K
CM
equals:
ER10SE13.018
Where
(
1
) IM
i
= the FDIC-supervised institution's initial margin posted to the QCCP;
(
2
) IM
CM
equals the total of initial margin posted to the QCCP; and
(
3
)
K*
CM
as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section.
(iv)
Method 2.
A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for its default fund contribution to a QCCP, RWA
DF
, equals:
RWA
DF
= Min {12.5 * DF; 0.18 * TE}
Where
(A) TE equals the FDIC-supervised institution's trade exposure amount to the QCCP, calculated according to § 324.35(c)(2);
(B) DF equals the funded portion of the FDIC-supervised institution's default fund contribution to the QCCP.
(4)
Total risk-weighted assets for default fund contributions.
Total risk-weighted assets for default fund contributions is the sum of a clearing member FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted assets for all of its default fund contributions to all CCPs of which the FDIC-supervised institution is a clearing member.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20760, Apr. 14, 2014; 84 FR 35277, July 22, 2019; 85 FR 4433, Jan. 24, 2020]
§ 324.36
Guarantees and credit derivatives: Substitution treatment.
(a)
Scope
—(1)
General.
An FDIC-supervised institution may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative by substituting the risk weight associated with the protection provider for the risk weight assigned to an exposure, as provided under this section.
(2) This section applies to exposures for which:
(i) Credit risk is fully covered by an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative; or
(ii) Credit risk is covered on a pro rata basis (that is, on a basis in which the FDIC-supervised institution and the protection provider share losses proportionately) by an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative.
(3) Exposures on which there is a tranching of credit risk (reflecting at least two different levels of seniority) generally are securitization exposures subject to §§ 324.41 through 324.45.
(4) If multiple eligible guarantees or eligible credit derivatives cover a single exposure described in this section, an FDIC-supervised institution may treat the hedged exposure as multiple separate exposures each covered by a single eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative and may calculate a separate risk-weighted asset amount for each separate exposure as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(5) If a single eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative covers multiple hedged exposures described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must treat each hedged exposure as covered by a separate eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative and must calculate a separate risk-weighted asset amount for each exposure as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Rules of recognition.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution may only recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of eligible guarantees and eligible credit derivatives.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution may only recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of an eligible credit derivative to hedge an exposure that is different from the credit derivative's reference exposure used for determining the derivative's cash settlement value, deliverable obligation, or occurrence of a credit event if:
(i) The reference exposure ranks
pari passu
with, or is subordinated to, the hedged exposure; and
(ii) The reference exposure and the hedged exposure are to the same legal entity, and legally enforceable cross-default or cross-acceleration clauses are in place to ensure payments under the credit derivative are triggered when the obligated party of the hedged exposure fails to pay under the terms of the hedged exposure.
(c)
Substitution approach
—(1)
Full coverage.
If an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative meets the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the protection amount (P) of the guarantee or credit derivative is greater than or equal to the exposure amount of the hedged exposure, an FDIC-supervised institution may recognize the guarantee or credit derivative in determining the risk-weighted
asset amount for the hedged exposure by substituting the risk weight applicable to the guarantor or credit derivative protection provider under this subpart D for the risk weight assigned to the exposure.
(2)
Partial coverage.
If an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative meets the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the protection amount (P) of the guarantee or credit derivative is less than the exposure amount of the hedged exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must treat the hedged exposure as two separate exposures (protected and unprotected) in order to recognize the credit risk mitigation benefit of the guarantee or credit derivative.
(i) The FDIC-supervised institution may calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the protected exposure under this subpart D, where the applicable risk weight is the risk weight applicable to the guarantor or credit derivative protection provider.
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the unprotected exposure under this subpart D, where the applicable risk weight is that of the unprotected portion of the hedged exposure.
(iii) The treatment provided in this section is applicable when the credit risk of an exposure is covered on a partial pro rata basis and may be applicable when an adjustment is made to the effective notional amount of the guarantee or credit derivative under paragraphs (d), (e), or (f) of this section.
(d)
Maturity mismatch adjustment.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution that recognizes an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative in determining the risk-weighted asset amount for a hedged exposure must adjust the effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant to reflect any maturity mismatch between the hedged exposure and the credit risk mitigant.
(2) A maturity mismatch occurs when the residual maturity of a credit risk mitigant is less than that of the hedged exposure(s).
(3) The residual maturity of a hedged exposure is the longest possible remaining time before the obligated party of the hedged exposure is scheduled to fulfil its obligation on the hedged exposure. If a credit risk mitigant has embedded options that may reduce its term, the FDIC-supervised institution (protection purchaser) must use the shortest possible residual maturity for the credit risk mitigant. If a call is at the discretion of the protection provider, the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant is at the first call date. If the call is at the discretion of the FDIC-supervised institution (protection purchaser), but the terms of the arrangement at origination of the credit risk mitigant contain a positive incentive for the FDIC-supervised institution to call the transaction before contractual maturity, the remaining time to the first call date is the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant.
(4) A credit risk mitigant with a maturity mismatch may be recognized only if its original maturity is greater than or equal to one year and its residual maturity is greater than three months.
(5) When a maturity mismatch exists, the FDIC-supervised institution must apply the following adjustment to reduce the effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant: Pm = E × (t-0.25)/(T-0.25), where:
(i) Pm equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for maturity mismatch;
(ii) E equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant;
(iii) t equals the lesser of T or the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant, expressed in years; and
(iv) T equals the lesser of five or the residual maturity of the hedged exposure, expressed in years.
(e)
Adjustment for credit derivatives without restructuring as a credit event.
If an FDIC-supervised institution recognizes an eligible credit derivative that does not include as a credit event a restructuring of the hedged exposure involving forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest, or fees that results in a credit loss event (that is, a charge-off, specific provision, or other similar debit to the profit and loss account), the FDIC-supervised institution must apply the following adjustment to reduce the effective notional amount of the credit derivative: Pr = Pm × 0.60, where:
(1) Pr equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for lack of restructuring event (and maturity mismatch, if applicable); and
(2) Pm equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant (adjusted for maturity mismatch, if applicable).
(f)
Currency mismatch adjustment.
(1) If an FDIC-supervised institution recognizes an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative that is denominated in a currency different from that in which the hedged exposure is denominated, the FDIC-supervised institution must apply the following formula to the effective notional amount of the guarantee or credit derivative: Pc = Pr × (1-H
FX
), where:
(i) Pc equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for currency mismatch (and maturity mismatch and lack of restructuring event, if applicable);
(ii) Pr equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant (adjusted for maturity mismatch and lack of restructuring event, if applicable); and
(iii) H
FX
equals haircut appropriate for the currency mismatch between the credit risk mitigant and the hedged exposure.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must set H
FX
equal to eight percent unless it qualifies for the use of and uses its own internal estimates of foreign exchange volatility based on a ten-business-day holding period. An FDIC-supervised institution qualifies for the use of its own internal estimates of foreign exchange volatility if it qualifies for the use of its own-estimates haircuts in § 324.37(c)(4).
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution must adjust H
FX
calculated in paragraph (f)(2) of this section upward if the FDIC-supervised institution revalues the guarantee or credit derivative less frequently than once every 10 business days using the following square root of time formula:
ER10SE13.019
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 35277, July 22, 2019]
§ 324.37
Collateralized transactions.
(a)
General.
(1) To recognize the risk-mitigating effects of financial collateral, an FDIC-supervised institution may use:
(i) The simple approach in paragraph (b) of this section for any exposure; or
(ii) The collateral haircut approach in paragraph (c) of this section for repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, collateralized derivative contracts, and single-product netting sets of such transactions.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution may use any approach described in this section that is valid for a particular type of exposure or transaction; however, it must use the same approach for similar exposures or transactions.
(b)
The simple approach
—(1)
General requirements.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral that secures any exposure.
(ii) To qualify for the simple approach, the financial collateral must meet the following requirements:
(A) The collateral must be subject to a collateral agreement for at least the life of the exposure;
(B) The collateral must be revalued at least every six months; and
(C) The collateral (other than gold) and the exposure must be denominated in the same currency.
(2)
Risk weight substitution.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution may apply a risk weight to the portion of an exposure that is secured by the fair value of financial collateral (that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this
section) based on the risk weight assigned to the collateral under this subpart D. For repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, and securities lending and borrowing transactions, the collateral is the instruments, gold, and cash the FDIC-supervised institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty under the transaction. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the risk weight assigned to the collateralized portion of the exposure may not be less than 20 percent.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must apply a risk weight to the unsecured portion of the exposure based on the risk weight applicable to the exposure under this subpart.
(3)
Exceptions to the 20 percent risk-weight floor and other requirements.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section:
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution may assign a zero percent risk weight to an exposure to an OTC derivative contract that is marked-to-market on a daily basis and subject to a daily margin maintenance requirement, to the extent the contract is collateralized by cash on deposit.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution may assign a 10 percent risk weight to an exposure to an OTC derivative contract that is marked-to-market daily and subject to a daily margin maintenance requirement, to the extent that the contract is collateralized by an exposure to a sovereign that qualifies for a zero percent risk weight under § 324.32.
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution may assign a zero percent risk weight to the collateralized portion of an exposure where:
(A) The financial collateral is cash on deposit; or
(B) The financial collateral is an exposure to a sovereign that qualifies for a zero percent risk weight under § 324.32, and the FDIC-supervised institution has discounted the fair value of the collateral by 20 percent.
(c)
Collateral haircut approach
—(1)
General.
An FDIC-supervised institution may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral that secures an eligible margin loan, repo-style transaction, collateralized derivative contract, or single-product netting set of such transactions, and of any collateral that secures a repo-style transaction that is included in the FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based measure under subpart F of this part by using the collateral haircut approach in this section. An FDIC-supervised institution may use the standard supervisory haircuts in paragraph (c)(3) of this section or, with prior written approval of the FDIC, its own estimates of haircuts according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(2)
Exposure amount equation.
An FDIC-supervised institution must determine the exposure amount for an eligible margin loan, repo-style transaction, collateralized derivative contract, or a single-product netting set of such transactions by setting the exposure amount equal to max {0, [(∑E − ∑C) + ∑(Es × Hs) + ∑(Efx × Hfx)]}, where:
(i)(A) For eligible margin loans and repo-style transactions and netting sets thereof, ∑E equals the value of the exposure (the sum of the current fair values of all instruments, gold, and cash the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty under the transaction (or netting set)); and
(B) For collateralized derivative contracts and netting sets thereof, ∑E equals the exposure amount of the OTC derivative contract (or netting set) calculated under § 324.34(b)(1) or (2).
(ii) ∑C equals the value of the collateral (the sum of the current fair values of all instruments, gold and cash the FDIC-supervised institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty under the transaction (or netting set));
(iii) Es equals the absolute value of the net position in a given instrument or in gold (where the net position in the instrument or gold equals the sum of the current fair values of the instrument or gold the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the
counterparty minus the sum of the current fair values of that same instrument or gold the FDIC-supervised institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty);
(iv) Hs equals the market price volatility haircut appropriate to the instrument or gold referenced in Es;
(v) Efx equals the absolute value of the net position of instruments and cash in a currency that is different from the settlement currency (where the net position in a given currency equals the sum of the current fair values of any instruments or cash in the currency the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty minus the sum of the current fair values of any instruments or cash in the currency the FDIC-supervised institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty); and
(vi) Hfx equals the haircut appropriate to the mismatch between the currency referenced in Efx and the settlement currency.
(3)
Standard supervisory haircuts.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution must use the haircuts for market price volatility (Hs) provided in Table 1 to § 324.37, as adjusted in certain circumstances in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3)(iii) and (iv) of this section.
Table 1 to § 324.37—Standard Supervisory Market Price Volatility Haircuts
1
Residual maturity
Haircut (in percent) assigned based on:
Sovereign issuers risk weight
under § 324.32
(in percent)
2
Zero
20 or 50
100
Non-sovereign issuers risk weight under § 324.32
(in percent)
20
Investment grade securitization
exposures
(in percent)
Less than or equal to 1 year
0.5
1.0
15.0
1.0
2.0
4.0
4.0
Greater than 1 year and less than or equal to 5 years
2.0
3.0
15.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
12.0
Greater than 5 years
4.0
6.0
15.0
8.0
12.0
16.0
24.0
Main index equities (including convertible bonds) and gold
15.0
Other publicly traded equities (including convertible bonds)
25.0
Mutual funds
Highest haircut applicable to any security in which the fund can invest.
Cash collateral held
Zero
Other exposure types
25.0
1
The market price volatility haircuts in Table 1 to § 324.37 are based on a 10 business-day holding period.
2
Includes a foreign PSE that receives a zero percent risk weight.
(ii) For currency mismatches, an FDIC-supervised institution must use a haircut for foreign exchange rate volatility (Hfx) of 8.0 percent, as adjusted in certain circumstances under paragraphs (c)(3)(iii) and (iv) of this section.
(iii) For repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions, a FDIC-supervised institution may multiply the standard supervisory haircuts provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section by the square root of
1/2
(which equals 0.707107). For client-facing derivative transactions, if a larger scaling factor is applied under § 324.34(f), the same factor must be used to adjust the supervisory haircuts.
(iv) If the number of trades in a netting set exceeds 5,000 at any time during a quarter, an FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the supervisory haircuts provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section upward on the basis of a holding period of twenty business days for the following quarter except in the calculation of the exposure amount for purposes of § 324.35. If a netting set contains one or
more trades involving illiquid collateral or an OTC derivative that cannot be easily replaced, an FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward on the basis of a holding period of twenty business days. If over the two previous quarters more than two margin disputes on a netting set have occurred that lasted more than the holding period, then the FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward for that netting set on the basis of a holding period that is at least two times the minimum holding period for that netting set. An FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the standard supervisory haircuts upward using the following formula:
ER10SE13.020
(A) T
M
equals a holding period of longer than 10 business days for eligible margin loans and derivative contracts other than client-facing derivative transactions or longer than 5 business days for repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions;
(B) H
S
equals the standard supervisory haircut; and
(C) T
S
equals 10 business days for eligible margin loans and derivative contracts other than client-facing derivative transactions or 5 business days for repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions.
(v) If the instrument an FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral does not meet the definition of financial collateral, the FDIC-supervised institution must use a 25.0 percent haircut for market price volatility (H
s
).
(4)
Own internal estimates for haircuts.
With the prior written approval of the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution may calculate haircuts (Hs and Hfx) using its own internal estimates of the volatilities of market prices and foreign exchange rates:
(i) To receive FDIC approval to use its own internal estimates, an FDIC-supervised institution must satisfy the following minimum standards:
(A) An FDIC-supervised institution must use a 99th percentile one-tailed confidence interval.
(B) The minimum holding period for a repo-style transaction and client-facing derivative transaction is five business days and for an eligible margin loan and a derivative contract other than a client-facing derivative transaction is ten business days except for transactions or netting sets for which paragraph (c)(4)(i)(C) of this section applies. When a FDIC-supervised institution calculates an own-estimates haircut on a T
N
-day holding period, which is different from the minimum holding period for the transaction type, the applicable haircut (H
M
) is calculated using the following square root of time formula:
ER10SE13.021
(
1
) T
M
equals 5 for repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions and 10 for eligible margin loans and derivative contracts other than client-facing derivative transactions;
(
2
) T
N
equals the holding period used by the FDIC-supervised institution to derive H
N
; and
(
3
) H
N
equals the haircut based on the holding period T
N
.
(C) If the number of trades in a netting set exceeds 5,000 at any time during a quarter, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the haircut using a minimum holding period of twenty business days for the following quarter except in the calculation of the exposure amount for purposes of § 324.35. If a netting set contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral or an OTC derivative that cannot be easily replaced, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the haircut using a minimum holding period of twenty business days. If over the two previous quarters more than two margin disputes on a netting set have occurred that lasted more than the holding period, then the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the haircut for transactions in that netting set on the basis of a holding period that is at least two times the minimum holding period for that netting set.
(D) An FDIC-supervised institution is required to calculate its own internal estimates with inputs calibrated to historical data from a continuous 12-
month period that reflects a period of significant financial stress appropriate to the security or category of securities.
(E) An FDIC-supervised institution must have policies and procedures that describe how it determines the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the FDIC-supervised institution's own internal estimates for haircuts under this section and must be able to provide empirical support for the period used. The FDIC-supervised institution must obtain the prior approval of the FDIC for, and notify the FDIC if the FDIC-supervised institution makes any material changes to, these policies and procedures.
(F) Nothing in this section prevents the FDIC from requiring an FDIC-supervised institution to use a different period of significant financial stress in the calculation of own internal estimates for haircuts.
(G) An FDIC-supervised institution must update its data sets and calculate haircuts no less frequently than quarterly and must also reassess data sets and haircuts whenever market prices change materially.
(ii) With respect to debt securities that are investment grade, an FDIC-supervised institution may calculate haircuts for categories of securities. For a category of securities, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the haircut on the basis of internal volatility estimates for securities in that category that are representative of the securities in that category that the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, posted as collateral, borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral. In determining relevant categories, the FDIC-supervised institution must at a minimum take into account:
(A) The type of issuer of the security;
(B) The credit quality of the security;
(C) The maturity of the security; and
(D) The interest rate sensitivity of the security.
(iii) With respect to debt securities that are not investment grade and equity securities, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a separate haircut for each individual security.
(iv) Where an exposure or collateral (whether in the form of cash or securities) is denominated in a currency that differs from the settlement currency, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a separate currency mismatch haircut for its net position in each mismatched currency based on estimated volatilities of foreign exchange rates between the mismatched currency and the settlement currency.
(v) An FDIC-supervised institution's own estimates of market price and foreign exchange rate volatilities may not take into account the correlations among securities and foreign exchange rates on either the exposure or collateral side of a transaction (or netting set) or the correlations among securities and foreign exchange rates between the exposure and collateral sides of the transaction (or netting set).
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20760, Apr. 14, 2014; 84 FR 35277, July 22, 2019; 85 FR 4433, Jan. 24, 2020; 85 FR 57963, Sept. 17, 2020]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Unsettled Transactions
§ 324.38
Unsettled transactions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Delivery-versus-payment (DvP) transaction means a securities or commodities transaction in which the buyer is obligated to make payment only if the seller has made delivery of the securities or commodities and the seller is obligated to deliver the securities or commodities only if the buyer has made payment.
(2) Payment-versus-payment (PvP) transaction means a foreign exchange transaction in which each counterparty is obligated to make a final transfer of one or more currencies only if the other counterparty has made a final transfer of one or more currencies.
(3) A transaction has a normal settlement period if the contractual settlement period for the transaction is equal to or less than the market standard for the instrument underlying the transaction and equal to or less than five business days.
(4) Positive current exposure of an FDIC-supervised institution for a transaction is the difference between
the transaction value at the agreed settlement price and the current market price of the transaction, if the difference results in a credit exposure of the FDIC-supervised institution to the counterparty.
(b)
Scope.
This section applies to all transactions involving securities, foreign exchange instruments, and commodities that have a risk of delayed settlement or delivery. This section does not apply to:
(1) Cleared transactions that are marked-to-market daily and subject to daily receipt and payment of variation margin;
(2) Repo-style transactions, including unsettled repo-style transactions;
(3) One-way cash payments on OTC derivative contracts; or
(4) Transactions with a contractual settlement period that is longer than the normal settlement period (which are treated as OTC derivative contracts as provided in § 324.34).
(c)
System-wide failures.
In the case of a system-wide failure of a settlement, clearing system or central counterparty, the FDIC may waive risk-based capital requirements for unsettled and failed transactions until the situation is rectified.
(d)
Delivery-versus-payment (DvP) and payment-versus-payment (PvP) transactions.
An FDIC-supervised institution must hold risk-based capital against any DvP or PvP transaction with a normal settlement period if the FDIC-supervised institution's counterparty has not made delivery or payment within five business days after the settlement date. The FDIC-supervised institution must determine its risk-weighted asset amount for such a transaction by multiplying the positive current exposure of the transaction for the FDIC-supervised institution by the appropriate risk weight in Table 1 to § 324.38.
Table 1 to § 324.38—Risk Weights for Unsettled DvP and PvP Transactions
Number of business days after contractual settlement date
Risk weight to be applied to positive current exposure
(in percent)
From 5 to 15
100.0
From 16 to 30
625.0
From 31 to 45
937.5
46 or more
1,250.0
(e)
Non-DvP/non-PvP (non-delivery-versus-payment/non-payment-versus-payment) transactions.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must hold risk-based capital against any non-DvP/non-PvP transaction with a normal settlement period if the FDIC-supervised institution has delivered cash, securities, commodities, or currencies to its counterparty but has not received its corresponding deliverables by the end of the same business day. The FDIC-supervised institution must continue to hold risk-based capital against the transaction until the FDIC-supervised institution has received its corresponding deliverables.
(2) From the business day after the FDIC-supervised institution has made its delivery until five business days after the counterparty delivery is due, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the transaction by treating the current fair value of the deliverables owed to the FDIC-supervised institution as an exposure to the counterparty and using the applicable counterparty risk weight under this subpart D.
(3) If the FDIC-supervised institution has not received its deliverables by the fifth business day after counterparty delivery was due, the FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 1,250 percent risk weight to the current fair value of the deliverables owed to the FDIC-supervised institution.
(f)
Total risk-weighted assets for unsettled transactions.
Total risk-weighted assets for unsettled transactions is the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts of all DvP, PvP, and non-DvP/non-PvP transactions.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 35277, July 22, 2019]
§§ 324.39-324.40
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Securitization Exposures
§ 324.41
Operational requirements for securitization exposures.
(a)
Operational criteria for traditional securitizations.
An FDIC-supervised institution that transfers exposures it has originated or purchased to a securitization SPE or other third party in connection with a traditional securitization may exclude the exposures from the calculation of its risk-weighted assets only if each condition in this section is satisfied. An FDIC-supervised institution that meets these conditions must hold risk-based capital against any credit risk it retains in connection with the securitization. An FDIC-supervised institution that fails to meet these conditions must hold risk-based capital against the transferred exposures as if they had not been securitized and must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from the transaction. The conditions are:
(1) The exposures are not reported on the FDIC-supervised institution's consolidated balance sheet under GAAP;
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution has transferred to one or more third parties credit risk associated with the underlying exposures;
(3) Any clean-up calls relating to the securitization are eligible clean-up calls; and
(4) The securitization does not:
(i) Include one or more underlying exposures in which the borrower is permitted to vary the drawn amount within an agreed limit under a line of credit; and
(ii) Contain an early amortization provision.
(b)
Operational criteria for synthetic securitizations.
For synthetic securitizations, an FDIC-supervised institution may recognize for risk-based capital purposes the use of a credit risk mitigant to hedge underlying exposures only if each condition in this paragraph (b) is satisfied. An FDIC-supervised institution that meets these conditions must hold risk-based capital against any credit risk of the exposures it retains in connection with the synthetic securitization. An FDIC-supervised institution that fails to meet these conditions or chooses not to recognize the credit risk mitigant for purposes of this section must instead hold risk-based capital against the underlying exposures as if they had not been synthetically securitized. The conditions are:
(1) The credit risk mitigant is:
(i) Financial collateral;
(ii) A guarantee that meets all criteria as set forth in the definition of “eligible guarantee” in § 324.2, except for the criteria in paragraph (3) of that definition; or
(iii) A credit derivative that meets all criteria as set forth in the definition of “eligible credit derivative” in § 324.2, except for the criteria in paragraph (3) of the definition of “eligible guarantee” in § 324.2.
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution transfers credit risk associated with the underlying exposures to one or more third parties, and the terms and conditions in the credit risk mitigants employed do not include provisions that:
(i) Allow for the termination of the credit protection due to deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(ii) Require the FDIC-supervised institution to alter or replace the underlying exposures to improve the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(iii) Increase the FDIC-supervised institution's cost of credit protection in response to deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(iv) Increase the yield payable to parties other than the FDIC-supervised institution in response to a deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures; or
(v) Provide for increases in a retained first loss position or credit enhancement provided by the FDIC-supervised institution after the inception of the securitization;
(3) The FDIC-supervised institution obtains a well-reasoned opinion from legal counsel that confirms the enforceability of the credit risk mitigant in all relevant jurisdictions; and
(4) Any clean-up calls relating to the securitization are eligible clean-up calls.
(c)
Due diligence requirements for securitization exposures.
(1) Except for exposures that are deducted from common equity tier 1 capital and exposures subject to § 324.42(h), if an FDIC-supervised institution is unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDIC a comprehensive understanding of the features of a securitization exposure that would materially affect the performance of the exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must assign the securitization exposure a risk weight of 1,250 percent. The FDIC-supervised institution's analysis must be commensurate with the complexity of the securitization exposure and the materiality of the exposure in relation to its capital.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate its comprehensive understanding of a securitization exposure under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for each securitization exposure by:
(i) Conducting an analysis of the risk characteristics of a securitization exposure prior to acquiring the exposure, and documenting such analysis within three business days after acquiring the exposure, considering:
(A) Structural features of the securitization that would materially impact the performance of the exposure, for example, the contractual cash flow waterfall, waterfall-related triggers, credit enhancements, liquidity enhancements, fair value triggers, the performance of organizations that service the exposure, and deal-specific definitions of default;
(B) Relevant information regarding the performance of the underlying credit exposure(s), for example, the percentage of loans 30, 60, and 90 days past due; default rates; prepayment rates; loans in foreclosure; property types; occupancy; average credit score or other measures of creditworthiness; average LTV ratio; and industry and geographic diversification data on the underlying exposure(s);
(C) Relevant market data of the securitization, for example, bid-ask spread, most recent sales price and historic price volatility, trading volume, implied market rating, and size, depth and concentration level of the market for the securitization; and
(D) For resecuritization exposures, performance information on the underlying securitization exposures, for example, the issuer name and credit quality, and the characteristics and performance of the exposures underlying the securitization exposures; and
(ii) On an on-going basis (no less frequently than quarterly), evaluating, reviewing, and updating as appropriate the analysis required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for each securitization exposure.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20760, Apr. 14, 2014]
§ 324.42
Risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures.
(a)
Securitization risk weight approaches.
Except as provided elsewhere in this section or in § 324.41:
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from a securitization and apply a 1,250 percent risk weight to the portion of a CEIO that does not constitute after-tax gain-on-sale.
(2) If a securitization exposure does not require deduction under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution may assign a risk weight to the securitization exposure using the simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) in accordance with §§ 324.43(a) through 324.43(d) and subject to the limitation under paragraph (e) of this section. Alternatively, an FDIC-supervised institution that is not subject to subpart F of this part may assign a risk weight to the securitization exposure using the gross-up approach in accordance with § 324.43(e), provided, however, that such FDIC-supervised institution must apply either the SSFA or the gross-up approach consistently across all of its securitization exposures, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of this section.
(3) If a securitization exposure does not require deduction under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the FDIC-supervised institution cannot, or chooses not to apply the SSFA or the gross-up approach to the exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must assign a risk weight to the exposure as described in § 324.44.
(4) If a securitization exposure is a derivative contract (other than protection provided by an FDIC-supervised institution in the form of a credit derivative) that has a first priority claim on the cash flows from the underlying exposures (notwithstanding amounts due under interest rate or currency derivative contracts, fees due, or other similar payments), an FDIC-supervised institution may choose to set the risk-weighted asset amount of the exposure equal to the amount of the exposure as determined in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Total risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures.
An FDIC-supervised institution's total risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures equals the sum of the risk-weighted asset amount for securitization exposures that the FDIC-supervised institution risk weights under §§ 324.41(c), 324.42(a)(1), and 324.43, 324.44, or 324.45, and paragraphs (e) through (j) of this section, as applicable.
(c)
Exposure amount of a securitization exposure
—(1)
On-balance sheet securitization exposures.
The exposure amount of an on-balance sheet securitization exposure (excluding an available-for-sale or held-to-maturity security where the FDIC-supervised institution has made an AOCI opt-out election under § 324.22(b)(2), a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, OTC derivative contract, or cleared transaction) is equal to the carrying value of the exposure.
(2)
On-balance sheet securitization exposures held by an FDIC-supervised institution that has made an AOCI opt-out election.
The exposure amount of an on-balance sheet securitization exposure that is an available-for-sale or held-to-maturity security held by an FDIC-supervised institution that has made an AOCI opt-out election under § 324.22(b)(2) is the FDIC-supervised institution's carrying value (including net accrued but unpaid interest and fees), less any net unrealized gains on the exposure and plus any net unrealized losses on the exposure.
(3)
Off-balance sheet securitization exposures.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (j) of this section, the exposure amount of an off-balance sheet securitization exposure that is not a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, cleared transaction (other than a credit derivative), or an OTC derivative contract (other than a credit derivative) is the notional amount of the exposure. For an off-balance sheet securitization exposure to an ABCP program, such as an eligible ABCP liquidity facility, the notional amount may be reduced to the maximum potential amount that the FDIC-supervised institution could be required to fund given the ABCP program's current underlying assets (calculated without regard to the current credit quality of those assets).
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must determine the exposure amount of an eligible ABCP liquidity facility for which the SSFA does not apply by multiplying the notional amount of the exposure by a CCF of 50 percent.
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution must determine the exposure amount of an eligible ABCP liquidity facility for which the SSFA applies by multiplying the notional amount of the exposure by a CCF of 100 percent.
(4)
Repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, and derivative contracts.
The exposure amount of a securitization exposure that is a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, or derivative contract (other than a credit derivative) is the exposure amount of the transaction as calculated under § 324.34 or § 324.37, as applicable.
(d)
Overlapping exposures.
If an FDIC-supervised institution has multiple securitization exposures that provide duplicative coverage to the underlying exposures of a securitization (such as when an FDIC-supervised institution provides a program-wide credit enhancement and multiple pool-specific liquidity facilities to an ABCP program), the FDIC-supervised institution is not required to hold duplicative risk-based capital against the overlapping position. Instead, the FDIC-supervised institution may apply to the overlapping position the applicable risk-based capital treatment that results in the highest risk-based capital requirement.
(e)
Implicit support.
If an FDIC-supervised institution provides support to a
securitization in excess of the FDIC-supervised institution's contractual obligation to provide credit support to the securitization (implicit support):
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution must include in risk-weighted assets all of the underlying exposures associated with the securitization as if the exposures had not been securitized and must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from the securitization; and
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution must disclose publicly:
(i) That it has provided implicit support to the securitization; and
(ii) The risk-based capital impact to the FDIC-supervised institution of providing such implicit support.
(f)
Undrawn portion of a servicer cash advance facility.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, an FDIC-supervised institution that is a servicer under an eligible servicer cash advance facility is not required to hold risk-based capital against potential future cash advance payments that it may be required to provide under the contract governing the facility.
(2) For an FDIC-supervised institution that acts as a servicer, the exposure amount for a servicer cash advance facility that is not an eligible servicer cash advance facility is equal to the amount of all potential future cash advance payments that the FDIC-supervised institution may be contractually required to provide during the subsequent 12 month period under the contract governing the facility.
(g)
Interest-only mortgage-backed securities.
Regardless of any other provisions in this subpart, the risk weight for a non-credit-enhancing interest-only mortgage-backed security may not be less than 100 percent.
(h)
Small-business loans and leases on personal property transferred with retained contractual exposure.
(1) Regardless of any other provision of this subpart, an FDIC-supervised institution that has transferred small-business loans and leases on personal property (small-business obligations) with recourse must include in risk-weighted assets only its contractual exposure to the small-business obligations if all the following conditions are met:
(i) The transaction must be treated as a sale under GAAP.
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution establishes and maintains, pursuant to GAAP, a non-capital reserve sufficient to meet the FDIC-supervised institution's reasonably estimated liability under the contractual obligation.
(iii) The small-business obligations are to businesses that meet the criteria for a small-business concern established by the Small Business Administration under section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632 et seq.).
(iv) The FDIC-supervised institution is well capitalized, as defined in subpart H of this part. For purposes of determining whether an FDIC-supervised institution is well capitalized for purposes of this paragraph (h), the FDIC-supervised institution's capital ratios must be calculated without regard to the capital treatment for transfers of small-business obligations under this paragraph (h).
(2) The total outstanding amount of contractual exposure retained by an FDIC-supervised institution on transfers of small-business obligations receiving the capital treatment specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section cannot exceed 15 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's total capital.
(3) If an FDIC-supervised institution ceases to be well capitalized under subpart H of this part or exceeds the 15 percent capital limitation provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, the capital treatment under paragraph (h)(1) of this section will continue to apply to any transfers of small-business obligations with retained contractual exposure that occurred during the time that the FDIC-supervised institution was well capitalized and did not exceed the capital limit.
(4) The risk-based capital ratios of the FDIC-supervised institution must be calculated without regard to the capital treatment for transfers of small-business obligations specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section for purposes of:
(i) Determining whether an FDIC-supervised institution is adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized under subpart H of this part; and
(ii) Reclassifying a well-capitalized FDIC-supervised institution to adequately capitalized and requiring an adequately capitalized FDIC-supervised institution to comply with certain mandatory or discretionary supervisory actions as if the FDIC-supervised institution were in the next lower prompt-corrective-action category.
(i)
Nth-to-default credit derivatives
—(1)
Protection provider.
An FDIC-supervised institution may assign a risk weight using the SSFA in § 324.43 to an n
th
-to-default credit derivative in accordance with this paragraph (i). An FDIC-supervised institution must determine its exposure in the nth-to-default credit derivative as the largest notional amount of all the underlying exposures.
(2) For purposes of determining the risk weight for an nth-to-default credit derivative using the SSFA, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the attachment point and detachment point of its exposure as follows:
(i) The attachment point (parameter A) is the ratio of the sum of the notional amounts of all underlying exposures that are subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. The ratio is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. In the case of a first-to-default credit derivative, there are no underlying exposures that are subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure. In the case of a second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivative, the smallest (n-1) notional amounts of the underlying exposure(s) are subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure.
(ii) The detachment point (parameter D) equals the sum of parameter A plus the ratio of the notional amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure in the nth-to-default credit derivative to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. The ratio is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution that does not use the SSFA to determine a risk weight for its nth-to-default credit derivative must assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the exposure.
(4)
Protection purchaser
—(i)
First-to-default credit derivatives.
An FDIC-supervised institution that obtains credit protection on a group of underlying exposures through a first-to-default credit derivative that meets the rules of recognition of § 324.36(b) must determine its risk-based capital requirement for the underlying exposures as if the FDIC-supervised institution synthetically securitized the underlying exposure with the smallest risk-weighted asset amount and had obtained no credit risk mitigant on the other underlying exposures. An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a risk-based capital requirement for counterparty credit risk according to § 324.34 for a first-to-default credit derivative that does not meet the rules of recognition of § 324.36(b).
(ii)
Second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivatives.
(A) An FDIC-supervised institution that obtains credit protection on a group of underlying exposures through a nth-to-default credit derivative that meets the rules of recognition of § 324.36(b) (other than a first-to-default credit derivative) may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of the derivative only if:
(
1
) The FDIC-supervised institution also has obtained credit protection on the same underlying exposures in the form of first-through-(n-1)-to-default credit derivatives; or
(
2
) If n-1 of the underlying exposures have already defaulted.
(B) If an FDIC-supervised institution satisfies the requirements of paragraph (i)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, the FDIC-supervised institution must determine its risk-based capital requirement for the underlying exposures as if the FDIC-supervised institution had only synthetically securitized the underlying exposure with the nth smallest risk-weighted asset amount and had obtained no credit risk mitigant on the other underlying exposures.
(C) An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a risk-based capital requirement for counterparty credit risk according to § 324.34 for a nth-to-default credit derivative that does not meet the rules of recognition of § 324.36(b).
(j)
Guarantees and credit derivatives other than nth-to-default credit derivatives
—(1)
Protection provider.
For a guarantee or credit derivative (other than an nth-to-default credit derivative) provided by an FDIC-supervised institution that covers the full amount or a pro rata share of a securitization exposure's principal and interest, the FDIC-supervised institution must risk weight the guarantee or credit derivative as if it holds the portion of the reference exposure covered by the guarantee or credit derivative.
(2)
Protection purchaser.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution that purchases a guarantee or OTC credit derivative (other than an nth-to-default credit derivative) that is recognized under § 324.45 as a credit risk mitigant (including via collateral recognized under § 324.37) is not required to compute a separate counterparty credit risk capital requirement under § 324.31, in accordance with § 324.34(c).
(ii) If an FDIC-supervised institution cannot, or chooses not to, recognize a purchased credit derivative as a credit risk mitigant under § 324.45, the FDIC-supervised institution must determine the exposure amount of the credit derivative under § 324.34.
(A) If the FDIC-supervised institution purchases credit protection from a counterparty that is not a securitization SPE, the FDIC-supervised institution must determine the risk weight for the exposure according to this subpart D.
(B) If the FDIC-supervised institution purchases the credit protection from a counterparty that is a securitization SPE, the FDIC-supervised institution must determine the risk weight for the exposure according to section § 324.42, including § 324.42(a)(4) for a credit derivative that has a first priority claim on the cash flows from the underlying exposures of the securitization SPE (notwithstanding amounts due under interest rate or currency derivative contracts, fees due, or other similar payments).
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20760, Apr. 14, 2014; 84 FR 35277, July 22, 2019]
§ 324.43
Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) and the gross-up approach.
(a)
General requirements for the SSFA.
To use the SSFA to determine the risk weight for a securitization exposure, an FDIC-supervised institution must have data that enables it to assign accurately the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section. Data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be the most currently available data; if the contracts governing the underlying exposures of the securitization require payments on a monthly or quarterly basis, the data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be no more than 91 calendar days old. An FDIC-supervised institution that does not have the appropriate data to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the exposure.
(b)
SSFA parameters.
To calculate the risk weight for a securitization exposure using the SSFA, an FDIC-supervised institution must have accurate information on the following five inputs to the SSFA calculation:
(1) K
G
is the weighted-average (with unpaid principal used as the weight for each exposure) total capital requirement of the underlying exposures calculated using this subpart. K
G
is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one (that is, an average risk weight of 100 percent represents a value of K
G
equal to 0.08).
(2) Parameter W is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. Parameter W is the ratio of the sum of the dollar amounts of any underlying exposures of the securitization that meet any of the criteria as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section to the balance, measured in dollars, of underlying exposures:
(i) Ninety days or more past due;
(ii) Subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding;
(iii) In the process of foreclosure;
(iv) Held as real estate owned;
(v) Has contractually deferred payments for 90 days or more, other than principal or interest payments deferred on:
(A) Federally-guaranteed student loans, in accordance with the terms of those guarantee programs; or
(B) Consumer loans, including non-federally-guaranteed student loans, provided that such payments are deferred pursuant to provisions included in the contract at the time funds are disbursed that provide for period(s) of deferral that are not initiated based on changes in the creditworthiness of the borrower; or
(vi) Is in default.
(3) Parameter A is the attachment point for the exposure, which represents the threshold at which credit losses will first be allocated to the exposure. Except as provided in § 324.42(i) for n
th
-to-default credit derivatives, parameter A equals the ratio of the current dollar amount of underlying exposures that are subordinated to the exposure of the FDIC-supervised institution to the current dollar amount of underlying exposures. Any reserve account funded by the accumulated cash flows from the underlying exposures that is subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's securitization exposure may be included in the calculation of parameter A to the extent that cash is present in the account. Parameter A is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(4) Parameter D is the detachment point for the exposure, which represents the threshold at which credit losses of principal allocated to the exposure would result in a total loss of principal. Except as provided in § 324.42(i) for n
th
-to-default credit derivatives, parameter D equals parameter A plus the ratio of the current dollar amount of the securitization exposures that are
pari passu
with the exposure (that is, have equal seniority with respect to credit risk) to the current dollar amount of the underlying exposures. Parameter D is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(5) A supervisory calibration parameter, p, is equal to 0.5 for securitization exposures that are not resecuritization exposures and equal to 1.5 for resecuritization exposures.
(c)
Mechanics of the SSFA.
K
G
and W are used to calculate K
A
, the augmented value of K
G
, which reflects the observed credit quality of the underlying exposures. K
A
is defined in paragraph (d) of this section. The values of parameters A and D, relative to K
A
determine the risk weight assigned to a securitization exposure as described in paragraph (d) of this section. The risk weight assigned to a securitization exposure, or portion of a securitization exposure, as appropriate, is the larger of the risk weight determined in accordance with this paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of this section and a risk weight of 20 percent.
(1) When the detachment point, parameter D, for a securitization exposure is less than or equal to K
A
, the exposure must be assigned a risk weight of 1,250 percent.
(2) When the attachment point, parameter A, for a securitization exposure is greater than or equal to K
A
, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the risk weight in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) When A is less than K
A
and D is greater than K
A
, the risk weight is a weighted-average of 1,250 percent and 1,250 percent times K
SSFA
calculated in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. For the purpose of this weighted-average calculation:
ER10SE13.022
(e)
Gross-up approach
—(1)
Applicability.
An FDIC-supervised institution that is not subject to subpart F of this part may apply the gross-up approach set forth in this section instead of the SSFA to determine the risk weight of its securitization exposures, provided that it applies the gross-up approach to all of its securitization exposures, except as otherwise provided for certain securitization exposures in §§ 324.44 and 324.45.
(2) To use the gross-up approach, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the following four inputs:
(i) Pro rata share, which is the par value of the FDIC-supervised institution's securitization exposure as a percent of the par value of the tranche in which the securitization exposure resides;
(ii) Enhanced amount, which is the par value of tranches that are more senior to the tranche in which the FDIC-supervised institution's securitization resides;
(iii) Exposure amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's securitization exposure calculated under § 324.42(c); and
(iv) Risk weight, which is the weighted-average risk weight of underlying exposures of the securitization as calculated under this subpart.
(3)
Credit equivalent amount.
The credit equivalent amount of a securitization exposure under this section equals the sum of:
(i) The exposure amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's securitization exposure; and
(ii) The pro rata share multiplied by the enhanced amount, each calculated in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(4)
Risk-weighted assets.
To calculate risk-weighted assets for a securitization exposure under the gross-up approach, an FDIC-supervised institution must apply the risk weight required under paragraph (e)(2) of this section to the credit equivalent amount calculated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(f)
Limitations.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a risk weight of not less than 20 percent to a securitization exposure.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20760, Apr. 14, 2014]
§ 324.44
Securitization exposures to which the SSFA and gross-up approach do not apply.
(a)
General Requirement.
An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 1,250 percent risk weight to all securitization exposures to which the FDIC-supervised institution does not apply the SSFA or the gross-up approach under § 324.43, except as set forth in this section.
(b)
Eligible ABCP liquidity facilities.
An FDIC-supervised institution may determine the risk-weighted asset amount of an eligible ABCP liquidity facility by multiplying the exposure amount by the highest risk weight applicable to any of the individual underlying exposures covered by the facility.
(c)
A securitization exposure in a second loss position or better to an ABCP program
—(1)
Risk weighting.
An FDIC-supervised institution may determine the risk-weighted asset amount of a securitization exposure that is in a second loss position or better to an ABCP program that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section by multiplying the exposure amount by the higher of the following risk weights:
(i) 100 percent; and
(ii) The highest risk weight applicable to any of the individual underlying exposures of the ABCP program.
(2)
Requirements.
(i) The exposure is not an eligible ABCP liquidity facility;
(ii) The exposure must be economically in a second loss position or better, and the first loss position must provide significant credit protection to the second loss position;
(iii) The exposure qualifies as investment grade; and
(iv) The FDIC-supervised institution holding the exposure must not retain or provide protection to the first loss position.
§ 324.45
Recognition of credit risk mitigants for securitization exposures.
(a)
General.
(1) An originating FDIC-supervised institution that has obtained a credit risk mitigant to hedge its exposure to a synthetic or traditional securitization that satisfies the operational criteria provided in § 324.41 may recognize the credit risk mitigant under §§ 324.36 or 324.37, but only as provided in this section.
(2) An investing FDIC-supervised institution that has obtained a credit risk mitigant to hedge a securitization exposure may recognize the credit risk mitigant under §§ 324.36 or 324.37, but only as provided in this section.
(b)
Mismatches.
An FDIC-supervised institution must make any applicable adjustment to the protection amount of an eligible guarantee or credit derivative as required in § 324.36(d), (e), and (f) for any hedged securitization exposure. In the context of a synthetic
securitization, when an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative covers multiple hedged exposures that have different residual maturities, the FDIC-supervised institution must use the longest residual maturity of any of the hedged exposures as the residual maturity of all hedged exposures.
§§ 324.46-324.50
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Equity Exposures
§ 324.51
Introduction and exposure measurement.
(a)
General.
(1) To calculate its risk-weighted asset amounts for equity exposures that are not equity exposures to an investment fund, an FDIC-supervised institution must use the Simple Risk-Weight Approach (SRWA) provided in § 324.52. An FDIC-supervised institution must use the look-through approaches provided in § 324.53 to calculate its risk-weighted asset amounts for equity exposures to investment funds.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must treat an investment in a separate account (as defined in § 324.2) as if it were an equity exposure to an investment fund as provided in § 324.53.
(3)
Stable value protection.
(i) Stable value protection means a contract where the provider of the contract is obligated to pay:
(A) The policy owner of a separate account an amount equal to the shortfall between the fair value and cost basis of the separate account when the policy owner of the separate account surrenders the policy; or
(B) The beneficiary of the contract an amount equal to the shortfall between the fair value and book value of a specified portfolio of assets.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution that purchases stable value protection on its investment in a separate account must treat the portion of the carrying value of its investment in the separate account attributable to the stable value protection as an exposure to the provider of the protection and the remaining portion of the carrying value of its separate account as an equity exposure to an investment fund.
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution that provides stable value protection must treat the exposure as an equity derivative with an adjusted carrying value determined as the sum of paragraphs (b)(1) and (3) of this section.
(b)
Adjusted carrying value.
For purposes of §§ 324.51 through 324.53, the adjusted carrying value of an equity exposure is:
(1) For the on-balance sheet component of an equity exposure (other than an equity exposure that is classified as available-for-sale where the FDIC-supervised institution has made an AOCI opt-out election under § 324.22(b)(2)), the FDIC-supervised institution's carrying value of the exposure;
(2) For the on-balance sheet component of an equity exposure that is classified as available-for-sale where the FDIC-supervised institution has made an AOCI opt-out election under § 324.22(b)(2), the FDIC-supervised institution's carrying value of the exposure less any net unrealized gains on the exposure that are reflected in such carrying value but excluded from the FDIC-supervised institution's regulatory capital components;
(3) For the off-balance sheet component of an equity exposure that is not an equity commitment, the effective notional principal amount of the exposure, the size of which is equivalent to a hypothetical on-balance sheet position in the underlying equity instrument that would evidence the same change in fair value (measured in dollars) given a small change in the price of the underlying equity instrument, minus the adjusted carrying value of the on-balance sheet component of the exposure as calculated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(4) For a commitment to acquire an equity exposure (an equity commitment), the effective notional principal amount of the exposure is multiplied by the following conversion factors (CFs):
(i) Conditional equity commitments with an original maturity of one year or less receive a CF of 20 percent.
(ii) Conditional equity commitments with an original maturity of over one year receive a CF of 50 percent.
(iii) Unconditional equity commitments receive a CF of 100 percent.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20760, Apr. 14, 2014]
§ 324.52
Simple risk-weight approach (SRWA).
(a)
General.
Under the SRWA, an FDIC-supervised institution's total risk-weighted assets for equity exposures equals the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts for each of the FDIC-supervised institution's individual equity exposures (other than equity exposures to an investment fund) as determined under this section and the risk-weighted asset amounts for each of the FDIC-supervised institution's individual equity exposures to an investment fund as determined under § 324.53.
(b)
SRWA computation for individual equity exposures.
An FDIC-supervised institution must determine the risk-weighted asset amount for an individual equity exposure (other than an equity exposure to an investment fund) by multiplying the adjusted carrying value of the equity exposure or the effective portion and ineffective portion of a hedge pair (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) by the lowest applicable risk weight in this paragraph (b).
(1)
Zero percent risk weight equity exposures.
An equity exposure to a sovereign, the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, an MDB, and any other entity whose credit exposures receive a zero percent risk weight under § 324.32 may be assigned a zero percent risk weight.
(2)
20 percent risk weight equity exposures.
An equity exposure to a PSE, Federal Home Loan Bank or the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (Farmer Mac) must be assigned a 20 percent risk weight.
(3)
100 percent risk weight equity exposures.
The equity exposures set forth in this paragraph (b)(3) must be assigned a 100 percent risk weight.
(i)
Community development equity exposures.
An equity exposure that qualifies as a community development investment under section 24 (Eleventh) of the National Bank Act, excluding equity exposures to an unconsolidated small business investment company and equity exposures held through a consolidated small business investment company described in section 302 of the Small Business Investment Act.
(ii)
Effective portion of hedge pairs.
The effective portion of a hedge pair.
(iii)
Non-significant equity exposures.
Equity exposures, excluding significant investments in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution in the form of common stock and exposures to an investment firm that would meet the definition of a traditional securitization were it not for the application of paragraph (8) of that definition in § 324.2 and has greater than immaterial leverage, to the extent that the aggregate adjusted carrying value of the exposures does not exceed 10 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's total capital.
(A) To compute the aggregate adjusted carrying value of an FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposures for purposes of this section, the FDIC-supervised institution may exclude equity exposures described in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3)(i), and (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the equity exposure in a hedge pair with the smaller adjusted carrying value, and a proportion of each equity exposure to an investment fund equal to the proportion of the assets of the investment fund that are not equity exposures or that meet the criterion of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. If an FDIC-supervised institution does not know the actual holdings of the investment fund, the FDIC-supervised institution may calculate the proportion of the assets of the fund that are not equity exposures based on the terms of the prospectus, partnership agreement, or similar contract that defines the fund's permissible investments. If the sum of the investment limits for all exposure classes within the fund exceeds 100 percent, the FDIC-supervised institution must assume for purposes of this section that the investment fund invests to the maximum extent possible in equity exposures.
(B) When determining which of an FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposures qualify for a 100 percent risk weight under this paragraph (b), an FDIC-supervised institution first must include equity exposures to unconsolidated small business investment companies or held through consolidated
small business investment companies described in section 302 of the Small Business Investment Act, then must include publicly traded equity exposures (including those held indirectly through investment funds), and then must include non-publicly traded equity exposures (including those held indirectly through investment funds).
(4)
250 percent risk weight equity exposures.
Significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in the form of common stock that are not deducted from capital pursuant to § 324.22(d)(2) are assigned a 250 percent risk weight.
(5)
300 percent risk weight equity exposures.
A publicly traded equity exposure (other than an equity exposure described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section and including the ineffective portion of a hedge pair) must be assigned a 300 percent risk weight.
(6)
400 percent risk weight equity exposures.
An equity exposure (other than an equity exposure described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section) that is not publicly traded must be assigned a 400 percent risk weight.
(7)
600 percent risk weight equity exposures.
An equity exposure to an investment firm must be assigned a 600 percent risk weight, provided that the investment firm:
(i) Would meet the definition of a traditional securitization were it not for the application of paragraph (8) of that definition; and
(ii) Has greater than immaterial leverage.
(c)
Hedge transactions
—(1)
Hedge pair.
A hedge pair is two equity exposures that form an effective hedge so long as each equity exposure is publicly traded or has a return that is primarily based on a publicly traded equity exposure.
(2)
Effective hedge.
Two equity exposures form an effective hedge if the exposures either have the same remaining maturity or each has a remaining maturity of at least three months; the hedge relationship is formally documented in a prospective manner (that is, before the FDIC-supervised institution acquires at least one of the equity exposures); the documentation specifies the measure of effectiveness (E) the FDIC-supervised institution will use for the hedge relationship throughout the life of the transaction; and the hedge relationship has an E greater than or equal to 0.8. An FDIC-supervised institution must measure E at least quarterly and must use one of three alternative measures of E as set forth in this paragraph (c).
(i) Under the dollar-offset method of measuring effectiveness, the FDIC-supervised institution must determine the ratio of value change (RVC). The RVC is the ratio of the cumulative sum of the changes in value of one equity exposure to the cumulative sum of the changes in the value of the other equity exposure. If RVC is positive, the hedge is not effective and E equals 0. If RVC is negative and greater than or equal to −1 (that is, between zero and −1), then E equals the absolute value of RVC. If RVC is negative and less than −1, then E equals 2 plus RVC.
(ii) Under the variability-reduction method of measuring effectiveness:
ER10SE13.023
(iii) Under the regression method of measuring effectiveness, E equals the coefficient of determination of a regression in which the change in value of one exposure in a hedge pair is the dependent variable and the change in value of the other exposure in a hedge pair is the independent variable. However, if the estimated regression coefficient is positive, then E equals zero.
(3) The effective portion of a hedge pair is E multiplied by the greater of the adjusted carrying values of the equity exposures forming a hedge pair.
(4) The ineffective portion of a hedge pair is (1-E) multiplied by the greater of the adjusted carrying values of the equity exposures forming a hedge pair.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 35277, July 22, 2019]
§ 324.53
Equity exposures to investment funds.
(a)
Available approaches.
(1) Unless the exposure meets the requirements for a community development equity exposure under § 324.52(b)(3)(i), an FDIC-supervised institution must determine the risk-weighted asset amount of an equity exposure to an investment fund under the full look-through approach described in paragraph (b) of this section, the simple modified look-through approach described in paragraph (c) of this section, or the alterative modified look-through approach described paragraph (d) of this section, provided, however, that the minimum risk weight that may be assigned to an equity exposure under this section is 20 percent.
(2) The risk-weighted asset amount of an equity exposure to an investment fund that meets the requirements for a community development equity exposure in § 324.52(b)(3)(i) is its adjusted carrying value.
(3) If an equity exposure to an investment fund is part of a hedge pair and the FDIC-supervised institution does not use the full look-through approach, the FDIC-supervised institution must use the ineffective portion of the hedge pair as determined under § 324.52(c) as the adjusted carrying value for the equity exposure to the investment fund. The risk-weighted asset amount of the effective portion of the hedge pair is equal to its adjusted carrying value.
(b)
Full look-through approach.
An FDIC-supervised institution that is able to calculate a risk-weighted asset amount for its proportional ownership share of each exposure held by the investment fund (as calculated under this subpart as if the proportional ownership share of the adjusted carrying value of each exposure were held directly by the FDIC-supervised institution) may set the risk-weighted asset amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure to the fund equal to the product of:
(1) The aggregate risk-weighted asset amounts of the exposures held by the fund as if they were held directly by the FDIC-supervised institution; and
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution's proportional ownership share of the fund.
(c)
Simple modified look-through approach.
Under the simple modified look-through approach, the risk-weighted asset amount for an FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposure to an investment fund equals the adjusted carrying value of the equity exposure multiplied by the highest risk weight that applies to any exposure the fund is permitted to hold under the prospectus, partnership agreement, or similar agreement that defines the fund's permissible investments (excluding derivative contracts that are used for hedging rather than speculative purposes and that do not constitute a material portion of the fund's exposures).
(d)
Alternative modified look-through approach.
Under the alternative modified look-through approach, an FDIC-supervised institution may assign the adjusted carrying value of an equity exposure to an investment fund on a pro rata basis to different risk weight categories under this subpart based on the investment limits in the fund's prospectus, partnership agreement, or similar contract that defines the fund's permissible investments. The risk-weighted asset amount for the FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposure to the investment fund equals the sum of each portion of the adjusted carrying value assigned to an exposure type multiplied by the applicable risk weight under this subpart. If the sum of the investment limits for all exposure types within the fund exceeds 100 percent, the FDIC-supervised institution must assume that the fund invests to the maximum extent permitted under its investment limits in the exposure type with the highest applicable risk weight under this subpart and continues to make investments in order of the exposure type with the next highest applicable risk weight under this subpart until the maximum total investment level is reached. If more than one exposure type applies to an exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must use the highest applicable risk weight. An FDIC-supervised institution may exclude derivative contracts held by the fund that are used for hedging rather than for speculative purposes and do not constitute a material portion of the fund's exposures.
§§ 324.54-324.60
[Reserved]

# Disclosures
§ 324.61
Purpose and scope.
Sections 324.61 through 324.63 of this subpart establish public disclosure requirements related to the capital requirements described in subpart B of this part for an FDIC-supervised institution with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more as reported on the FDIC-supervised institution's most recent year-end Call Report that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution making public disclosures pursuant to § 324.172. An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that has not received approval from the FDIC to exit parallel run pursuant to § 324.121(d) is subject to the disclosure requirements described in §§ 324.62 and 324.63. An FDIC-supervised institution with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more as reported on the FDIC-supervised institution's most recent year-end Call Report that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution making public disclosures subject to § 324.172 must comply with § 324.62 unless it is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or depository institution that is subject to the disclosure requirements of § 324.62 or a subsidiary of a non-U.S. banking organization that is subject to comparable public disclosure requirements in its home jurisdiction. For purposes of this section, total consolidated assets are determined based on the average of the FDIC-supervised institution's total consolidated assets in the four most recent quarters as reported on the Call Report; or the average of the FDIC-supervised institution's total consolidated assets in the most recent consecutive quarters as reported quarterly on the FDIC-supervised institution's Call Report if the FDIC-supervised institution has not filed such a report for each of the most recent four quarters.
[84 FR 35278, July 22, 2019]
§ 324.62
Disclosure requirements.
(a) An FDIC-supervised institution described in § 324.61 must provide timely public disclosures each calendar quarter of the information in the applicable tables in § 324.63. If a significant change occurs, such that the most recent reported amounts are no longer reflective of the FDIC-supervised institution's capital adequacy and risk profile, then a brief discussion of this change and its likely impact must be disclosed as soon as practicable thereafter. Qualitative disclosures that typically do not change each quarter (for example, a general summary of the FDIC-supervised institution's risk management objectives and policies, reporting system, and definitions) may be disclosed annually after the end of the fourth calendar quarter, provided that any significant changes are disclosed in the interim. The FDIC-supervised institution's management may provide all of the disclosures required by §§ 324.61 through 324.63 in one place on the FDIC-supervised institution's public Web site or may provide the disclosures in more than one public financial report or other regulatory reports, provided that the FDIC-supervised institution publicly provides a summary table specifically indicating the location(s) of all such disclosures.
(b) An FDIC-supervised institution described in § 324.61 must have a formal disclosure policy approved by the board of directors that addresses its approach for determining the disclosures it makes. The policy must address the associated internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. The board of directors and senior management are responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective internal control structure over financial reporting, including the disclosures required by this subpart, and must ensure that appropriate review of the disclosures takes place. One or more senior officers of the FDIC-supervised institution must attest that the disclosures meet the requirements of this subpart.
(c) If an FDIC-supervised institution described in § 324.61 concludes that specific commercial or financial information that it would otherwise be required to disclose under this section would be exempt from disclosure by the FDIC under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), then the FDIC-supervised institution is not required to disclose that specific information pursuant to this section, but must disclose more general information about the subject matter of the requirement, together with the fact that, and the reason why, the specific items of information have not been disclosed.
§ 324.63
Disclosures by FDIC-supervised institutions described in § 324.61.
(a) Except as provided in § 324.62, an FDIC-supervised institution described in § 324.61 must make the disclosures described in Tables 1 through 10 of this section. The FDIC-supervised institution must make these disclosures publicly available for each of the last three years (that is, twelve quarters) or such shorter period beginning on January 1, 2015.
(b) An FDIC-supervised institution must publicly disclose each quarter the following:
(1) Common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, tier 2 capital, tier 1 and total capital ratios, including the regulatory capital elements and all the regulatory adjustments and deductions needed to calculate the numerator of such ratios;
(2) Total risk-weighted assets, including the different regulatory adjustments and deductions needed to calculate total risk-weighted assets;
(3) Regulatory capital ratios during any transition periods, including a description of all the regulatory capital elements and all regulatory adjustments and deductions needed to calculate the numerator and denominator of each capital ratio during any transition period; and
(4) A reconciliation of regulatory capital elements as they relate to its balance sheet in any audited consolidated financial statements.
Table 1 to § 324.63—Scope of Application
Qualitative Disclosures
(a)
The name of the top corporate entity in the group to which subpart D of this part applies.
(b)
A brief description of the differences in the basis for consolidating entities
1
for accounting and regulatory purposes, with a description of those entities:
(1) That are fully consolidated;
(2) That are deconsolidated and deducted from total capital;
(3) For which the total capital requirement is deducted; and
(4) That are neither consolidated nor deducted (for example, where the investment in the entity is assigned a risk weight in accordance with this subpart).
(c)
Any restrictions, or other major impediments, on transfer of funds or total capital within the group.
Quantitative Disclosures
(d)
The aggregate amount of surplus capital of insurance subsidiaries included in the total capital of the consolidated group.
(e)
The aggregate amount by which actual total capital is less than the minimum total capital requirement in all subsidiaries, with total capital requirements and the name(s) of the subsidiaries with such deficiencies.
1
Entities include securities, insurance and other financial subsidiaries, commercial subsidiaries (where permitted), and significant minority equity investments in insurance, financial and commercial entities.
Table 2 to § 324.63—Capital Structure
Qualitative Disclosures
(a)
Summary information on the terms and conditions of the main features of all regulatory capital instruments.
Quantitative Disclosures
(b)
The amount of common equity tier 1 capital, with separate disclosure of:
(1) Common stock and related surplus;
(2) Retained earnings;
(3) Common equity minority interest;
(4) AOCI; and
(5) Regulatory adjustments and deductions made to common equity tier 1 capital.
(c)
The amount of tier 1 capital, with separate disclosure of:
(1) Additional tier 1 capital elements, including additional tier 1 capital instruments and tier 1 minority interest not included in common equity tier 1 capital; and
(2) Regulatory adjustments and deductions made to tier 1 capital.
(d)
The amount of total capital, with separate disclosure of:
(1) Tier 2 capital elements, including tier 2 capital instruments and total capital minority interest not included in tier 1 capital; and
(2) Regulatory adjustments and deductions made to total capital.
Table 3 to § 324.63—Capital Adequacy
Qualitative disclosures
(a) A summary discussion of the FDIC-supervised institution's approach to assessing the adequacy of its capital to support current and future activities.
Quantitative disclosures
(b) Risk-weighted assets for:
(1) Exposures to sovereign entities;
(2) Exposures to certain supranational entities and MDBs;
(3) Exposures to depository institutions, foreign banks, and credit unions;
(4) Exposures to PSEs;
(5) Corporate exposures;
(6) Residential mortgage exposures;
(7) Statutory multifamily mortgages and pre-sold construction loans;
(8) HVCRE exposures;
(9) Past due loans;
(10) Other assets;
(11) Cleared transactions;
(12) Default fund contributions;
(13) Unsettled transactions;
(14) Securitization exposures; and
(15) Equity exposures.
(c) Standardized market risk-weighted assets as calculated under subpart F of this part.
(d) Common equity tier 1, tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios:
(1) For the top consolidated group; and
(2) For each depository institution subsidiary.
(e) Total standardized risk-weighted assets.
Table 4 to § 324.63—Capital Conservation Buffer
Quantitative Disclosures
(a)
At least quarterly, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate and publicly disclose the capital conservation buffer as described under § 324.11.
(b)
At least quarterly, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate and publicly disclose the eligible retained income of the FDIC-supervised institution, as described under § 324.11.
(c)
At least quarterly, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate and publicly disclose any limitations it has on distributions and discretionary bonus payments resulting from the capital conservation buffer framework described under § 324.11, including the maximum payout amount for the quarter.
(c)
General qualitative disclosure requirement.
For each separate risk area described in Tables 5 through 10, the FDIC-supervised institution must describe its risk management objectives and policies, including: strategies and processes; the structure and organization of the relevant risk management function; the scope and nature of risk reporting and/or measurement systems; policies for hedging and/or mitigating risk and strategies and processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges/mitigants.
Table 5 to § 324.63—Credit Risk: General Disclosures
Qualitative Disclosures
(a)
The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to credit risk (excluding counterparty credit risk disclosed in accordance with Table 6 to § 324.63), including the:
(1) Policy for determining past due or delinquency status;
(2) Policy for placing loans on nonaccrual;
(3) Policy for returning loans to accrual status;
(4) Definition of and policy for identifying impaired loans (for financial accounting purposes);
(5) Description of the methodology that the FDIC-supervised institution uses to estimate its allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable, including statistical methods used where applicable;
(6) Policy for charging-off uncollectible amounts; and
(7) Discussion of the FDIC-supervised institution's credit risk management policy.
Quantitative Disclosures
(b)
Total credit risk exposures and average credit risk exposures, after accounting offsets in accordance with GAAP, without taking into account the effects of credit risk mitigation techniques (for example, collateral and netting not permitted under GAAP), over the period categorized by major types of credit exposure. For example, FDIC-supervised institutions could use categories similar to that used for financial statement purposes. Such categories might include, for instance:
(1) Loans, off-balance sheet commitments, and other non-derivative off-balance sheet exposures;
(2) Debt securities; and
(3) OTC derivatives.
2
(c)
Geographic distribution of exposures, categorized in significant areas by major types of credit exposure.
3
(d)
Industry or counterparty type distribution of exposures, categorized by major types of credit exposure.
(e)
By major industry or counterparty type:
(1) Amount of impaired loans for which there was a related allowance under GAAP;
(2) Amount of impaired loans for which there was no related allowance under GAAP;
(3) Amount of loans past due 90 days and on nonaccrual;
(4) Amount of loans past due 90 days and still accruing;
4
(5) The balance in the allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable, at the end of each period, disaggregated on the basis of the FDIC-supervised institution's impairment method. To disaggregate the information required on the basis of impairment methodology, an entity shall separately disclose the amounts based on the requirements in GAAP; and
(6) Charge-offs during the period.
(f)
Amount of impaired loans and, if available, the amount of past due loans categorized by significant geographic areas including, if practical, the amounts of allowances related to each geographical area
5
, further categorized as required by GAAP.
(g)
Reconciliation of changes in ALLL or AACL, as applicable.
6
(h)
Remaining contractual maturity delineation (for example, one year or less) of the whole portfolio, categorized by credit exposure.
1
Table 5 to § 324.63 does not cover equity exposures, which should be reported in Table 9 to § 324.63.
2
See,
for example, ASC Topic 815-10 and 210, as they may be amended from time to time.
3
Geographical areas may consist of individual countries, groups of countries, or regions within countries. An FDIC-supervised institution might choose to define the geographical areas based on the way the FDIC-supervised institution's portfolio is geographically managed. The criteria used to allocate the loans to geographical areas must be specified.
4
An FDIC-supervised institution is encouraged also to provide an analysis of the aging of past-due loans.
5
The portion of the general allowance that is not allocated to a geographical area should be disclosed separately.
6
The reconciliation should include the following: a description of the allowance; the opening balance of the allowance; charge-offs taken against the allowance during the period; amounts provided (or reversed) for estimated probable loan losses during the period; any other adjustments (for example, exchange rate differences, business combinations, acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries), including transfers between allowances; and the closing balance of the allowance. Charge-offs and recoveries that have been recorded directly to the income statement should be disclosed separately.
Table 6 to § 324.63—General Disclosure for Counterparty Credit Risk-Related Exposures
Qualitative Disclosures
(a)
The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to OTC derivatives, eligible margin loans, and repo-style transactions, including a discussion of:
(1) The methodology used to assign credit limits for counterparty credit exposures;
(2) Policies for securing collateral, valuing and managing collateral, and establishing credit reserves;
(3) The primary types of collateral taken; and
(4) The impact of the amount of collateral the FDIC-supervised institution would have to provide given a deterioration in the FDIC-supervised institution's own creditworthiness.
Quantitative Disclosures
(b)
Gross positive fair value of contracts, collateral held (including type, for example, cash, government securities), and net unsecured credit exposure.
1
An FDIC-supervised institution also must disclose the notional value of credit derivative hedges purchased for counterparty credit risk protection and the distribution of current credit exposure by exposure type.
2
(c)
Notional amount of purchased and sold credit derivatives, segregated between use for the FDIC-supervised institution's own credit portfolio and in its intermediation activities, including the distribution of the credit derivative products used, categorized further by protection bought and sold within each product group.
1
Net unsecured credit exposure is the credit exposure after considering both the benefits from legally enforceable netting agreements and collateral arrangements without taking into account haircuts for price volatility, liquidity, etc.
2
This may include interest rate derivative contracts, foreign exchange derivative contracts, equity derivative contracts, credit derivatives, commodity or other derivative contracts, repo-style transactions, and eligible margin loans.
Table 7 to § 324.63—Credit Risk Mitigation
1 2
Qualitative Disclosures
(a)
The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to credit risk mitigation, including:
(1) Policies and processes for collateral valuation and management;
(2) A description of the main types of collateral taken by the FDIC-supervised institution;
(3) The main types of guarantors/credit derivative counterparties and their creditworthiness; and
(4) Information about (market or credit) risk concentrations with respect to credit risk mitigation.
Quantitative Disclosures
(b)
For each separately disclosed credit risk portfolio, the total exposure that is covered by eligible financial collateral, and after the application of haircuts.
(c)
For each separately disclosed portfolio, the total exposure that is covered by guarantees/credit derivatives and the risk-weighted asset amount associated with that exposure.
1
At a minimum, an FDIC-supervised institution must provide the disclosures in Table 7 in relation to credit risk mitigation that has been recognized for the purposes of reducing capital requirements under this subpart. Where relevant, FDIC-supervised institutions are encouraged to give further information about mitigants that have not been recognized for that purpose.
2
Credit derivatives that are treated, for the purposes of this subpart, as synthetic securitization exposures should be excluded from the credit risk mitigation disclosures and included within those relating to securitization (Table 8 to § 324.63).
Table 8 to § 324.63—Securitization
Qualitative Disclosures
(a) The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to a securitization (including synthetic securitizations), including a discussion of:
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution's objectives for securitizing assets, including the extent to which these activities transfer credit risk of the underlying exposures away from the FDIC-supervised institution to other entities and including the type of risks assumed and retained with resecuritization activity;
1
(2) The nature of the risks (
e.g.
liquidity risk) inherent in the securitized assets;
(3) The roles played by the FDIC-supervised institution in the securitization process
2
and an indication of the extent of the FDIC-supervised institution's involvement in each of them;
(4) The processes in place to monitor changes in the credit and market risk of securitization exposures including how those processes differ for resecuritization exposures;
(5) The FDIC-supervised institution's policy for mitigating the credit risk retained through securitization and resecuritization exposures; and
(6) The risk-based capital approaches that the FDIC-supervised institution follows for its securitization exposures including the type of securitization exposure to which each approach applies.
(b) A list of:
(1) The type of securitization SPEs that the FDIC-supervised institution, as sponsor, uses to securitize third-party exposures. The FDIC-supervised institution must indicate whether it has exposure to these SPEs, either on- or off-balance sheet; and
(2) Affiliated entities:
(i) That the FDIC-supervised institution manages or advises; and
(ii) That invest either in the securitization exposures that the FDIC-supervised institution has securitized or in securitization SPEs that the FDIC-supervised institution sponsors.
3
(c) Summary of the FDIC-supervised institution's accounting policies for securitization activities, including:
(1) Whether the transactions are treated as sales or financings;
(2) Recognition of gain-on-sale;
(3) Methods and key assumptions applied in valuing retained or purchased interests;
(4) Changes in methods and key assumptions from the previous period for valuing retained interests and impact of the changes;
(5) Treatment of synthetic securitizations;
(6) How exposures intended to be securitized are valued and whether they are recorded under subpart D of this part; and
(7) Policies for recognizing liabilities on the balance sheet for arrangements that could require the FDIC-supervised institution to provide financial support for securitized assets.
(d) An explanation of significant changes to any quantitative information since the last reporting period.
Quantitative Disclosures
(e) The total outstanding exposures securitized by the FDIC-supervised institution in securitizations that meet the operational criteria provided in § 324.41 (categorized into traditional and synthetic securitizations), by exposure type, separately for securitizations of third-party exposures for which the bank acts only as sponsor.
4
(f) For exposures securitized by the FDIC-supervised institution in securitizations that meet the operational criteria in § 324.41:
(1) Amount of securitized assets that are impaired/past due categorized by exposure type;
5
and
(2) Losses recognized by the FDIC-supervised institution during the current period categorized by exposure type.
6
(g) The total amount of outstanding exposures intended to be securitized categorized by exposure type.
(h) Aggregate amount of:
(1) On-balance sheet securitization exposures retained or purchased categorized by exposure type; and
(2) Off-balance sheet securitization exposures categorized by exposure type.
(i)(1) Aggregate amount of securitization exposures retained or purchased and the associated capital requirements for these exposures, categorized between securitization and resecuritization exposures, further categorized into a meaningful number of risk weight bands and by risk-based capital approach (
e.g.,
SSFA); and
(2) Aggregate amount disclosed separately by type of underlying exposure in the pool of any:
(i) After-tax gain-on-sale on a securitization that has been deducted from common equity tier 1 capital; and
(ii) Credit-enhancing interest-only strip that is assigned a 1,250 percent risk weight.
(j) Summary of current year's securitization activity, including the amount of exposures securitized (by exposure type), and recognized gain or loss on sale by exposure type.
(k) Aggregate amount of resecuritization exposures retained or purchased categorized according to:
(1) Exposures to which credit risk mitigation is applied and those not applied; and
(2) Exposures to guarantors categorized according to guarantor creditworthiness categories or guarantor name.
1
The FDIC-supervised institution should describe the structure of resecuritizations in which it participates; this description should be provided for the main categories of resecuritization products in which the FDIC-supervised institution is active.
2
For example, these roles may include originator, investor, servicer, provider of credit enhancement, sponsor, liquidity provider, or swap provider.
3
Such affiliated entities may include, for example, money market funds, to be listed individually, and personal and private trusts, to be noted collectively.
4
“Exposures securitized” include underlying exposures originated by the FDIC-supervised institution, whether generated by them or purchased, and recognized in the balance sheet, from third parties, and third-party exposures included in sponsored transactions. Securitization transactions (including underlying exposures originally on the FDIC-supervised institution's balance sheet and underlying exposures acquired by the FDIC-supervised institution from third-party entities) in which the originating bank does not retain any securitization exposure should be shown separately but need only be reported for the year of inception. FDIC-supervised institutions are required to disclose exposures regardless of whether there is a capital charge under this part.
5
Include credit-related other than temporary impairment (OTTI).
6
For example, charge-offs/allowances (if the assets remain on the FDIC-supervised institution's balance sheet) or credit-related OTTI of interest-only strips and other retained residual interests, as well as recognition of liabilities for probable future financial support required of the FDIC-supervised institution with respect to securitized assets.
Table 9 to § 324.63—Equities Not Subject to Subpart F of This Part
Qualitative Disclosures
(a)
The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to equity risk for equities not subject to subpart F of this part, including:
(1) Differentiation between holdings on which capital gains are expected and those taken under other objectives including for relationship and strategic reasons; and
(2) Discussion of important policies covering the valuation of and accounting for equity holdings not subject to subpart F of this part. This includes the accounting techniques and valuation methodologies used, including key assumptions and practices affecting valuation as well as significant changes in these practices.
Quantitative Disclosures
(b)
Value disclosed on the balance sheet of investments, as well as the fair value of those investments; for securities that are publicly traded, a comparison to publicly-quoted share values where the share price is materially different from fair value.
(c)
The types and nature of investments, including the amount that is:
(1) Publicly traded; and
(2) Non publicly traded.
(d)
The cumulative realized gains (losses) arising from sales and liquidations in the reporting period.
(e)
(1) Total unrealized gains (losses).
1
(2) Total latent revaluation gains (losses).
2
(3) Any amounts of the above included in tier 1 or tier 2 capital.
(f)
Capital requirements categorized by appropriate equity groupings, consistent with the FDIC-supervised institution's methodology, as well as the aggregate amounts and the type of equity investments subject to any supervisory transition regarding regulatory capital requirements.
1
Unrealized gains (losses) recognized on the balance sheet but not through earnings.
2
Unrealized gains (losses) not recognized either on the balance sheet or through earnings.
Table 10 to § 324.63—Interest Rate Risk for Non-Trading Activities
Qualitative disclosures
(a)
The general qualitative disclosure requirement, including the nature of interest rate risk for non-trading activities and key assumptions, including assumptions regarding loan prepayments and behavior of non-maturity deposits, and frequency of measurement of interest rate risk for non-trading activities.
Quantitative disclosures
(b)
The increase (decline) in earnings or economic value (or relevant measure used by management) for upward and downward rate shocks according to management's method for measuring interest rate risk for non-trading activities, categorized by currency (as appropriate).
(d) A Category III FDIC-supervised institution that is required to publicly disclose its supplementary leverage ratio pursuant to § 324.172(d) is subject to the supplementary leverage ratio disclosure requirement at § 324.173(a)(2).
(e) A Category III FDIC-supervised institution that is required to calculate a countercyclical capital buffer pursuant to § 324.11 is subject to the disclosure requirement at Table 4 to § 324.173, “Capital Conservation and Countercyclical Capital Buffers,” and
not to the disclosure requirement at Table 4 to this section, “Capital Conservation Buffer.”
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 62417, Oct. 22, 2013; 79 FR 20760, Apr. 14, 2014; 84 FR 4247, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 35278, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 59279, Nov. 1, 2019]
§§ 324.64-324.99
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Risk-Weighted Assets—Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced Measurement Approaches
§ 324.100
Purpose, applicability, and principle of conservatism.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart E establishes:
(1) Minimum qualifying criteria for FDIC-supervised institutions using institution-specific internal risk measurement and management processes for calculating risk-based capital requirements; and
(2) Methodologies for such FDIC-supervised institutions to calculate their total risk-weighted assets.
(b)
Applicability.
(1) This subpart applies to an FDIC-supervised institution that:
(i) Is a subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC, as identified pursuant to 12 CFR 217.402;
(ii) Is a Category II FDIC-supervised institution;
(iii) Is a subsidiary of a depository institution that uses the advanced approaches pursuant to 12 CFR part 3, subpart E (OCC), 12 CFR part 217, subpart E (Board), or this subpart (FDIC) to calculate its risk-based capital requirements;
(iv) Is a subsidiary of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company that uses the advanced approaches pursuant to subpart E of 12 CFR part 217 to calculate its risk-based capital requirements; or
(v) Elects to use this subpart to calculate its risk-based capital requirements.
(2) A market risk FDIC-supervised institution must exclude from its calculation of risk-weighted assets under this subpart the risk-weighted asset amounts of all covered positions, as defined in subpart F of this part (except foreign exchange positions that are not trading positions, over-the-counter derivative positions, cleared transactions, and unsettled transactions).
(c)
Principle of conservatism.
Notwithstanding the requirements of this subpart, an FDIC-supervised institution may choose not to apply a provision of this subpart to one or more exposures provided that:
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution can demonstrate on an ongoing basis to the satisfaction of the FDIC that not applying the provision would, in all circumstances, unambiguously generate a risk-based capital requirement for each such exposure greater than that which would otherwise be required under this subpart;
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution appropriately manages the risk of each such exposure;
(3) The FDIC-supervised institution notifies the FDIC in writing prior to applying this principle to each such exposure; and
(4) The exposures to which the FDIC-supervised institution applies this principle are not, in the aggregate, material to the FDIC-supervised institution.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 41423, July 15, 2015; 84 FR 59279, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 324.101
Definitions.
(a) Terms that are set forth in § 324.2 and used in this subpart have the definitions assigned thereto in § 324.2.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, the following terms are defined as follows:
Advanced internal ratings-based (IRB) systems
means an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution's internal risk rating and segmentation system; risk parameter quantification system; data management and maintenance system; and control, oversight, and validation system for credit risk of wholesale and retail exposures.
Advanced systems
means an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution's advanced IRB systems, operational risk management processes, operational risk data and assessment systems, operational risk quantification systems, and, to the extent used by the FDIC-supervised institution, the internal models methodology, advanced CVA approach, double default
excessive correlation detection process, and internal models approach (IMA) for equity exposures.
Backtesting
means the comparison of an FDIC-supervised institution's internal estimates with actual outcomes during a sample period not used in model development. In this context, backtesting is one form of out-of-sample testing.
Benchmarking
means the comparison of an FDIC-supervised institution's internal estimates with relevant internal and external data or with estimates based on other estimation techniques.
Bond option contract
means a bond option, bond future, or any other instrument linked to a bond that gives rise to similar counterparty credit risk.
Business environment and internal control factors
means the indicators of an FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk profile that reflect a current and forward-looking assessment of the FDIC-supervised institution's underlying business risk factors and internal control environment.
Credit default swap
(CDS) means a financial contract executed under standard industry documentation that allows one party (the protection purchaser) to transfer the credit risk of one or more exposures (reference exposure(s)) to another party (the protection provider) for a certain period of time.
Credit valuation adjustment
(CVA) means the fair value adjustment to reflect counterparty credit risk in valuation of OTC derivative contracts.
Default
—For the purposes of calculating capital requirements under this subpart:
(1)
Retail.
(i) A retail exposure of an FDIC-supervised institution is in default if:
(A) The exposure is 180 days past due, in the case of a residential mortgage exposure or revolving exposure;
(B) The exposure is 120 days past due, in the case of retail exposures that are not residential mortgage exposures or revolving exposures; or
(C) The FDIC-supervised institution has taken a full or partial charge-off, write-down of principal, or material negative fair value adjustment of principal on the exposure for credit-related reasons.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(i) of this definition, for a retail exposure held by a non-U.S. subsidiary of the FDIC-supervised institution that is subject to an internal ratings-based approach to capital adequacy consistent with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision's “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: A Revised Framework” in a non-U.S. jurisdiction, the FDIC-supervised institution may elect to use the definition of default that is used in that jurisdiction, provided that the FDIC-supervised institution has obtained prior approval from the FDIC to use the definition of default in that jurisdiction.
(iii) A retail exposure in default remains in default until the FDIC-supervised institution has reasonable assurance of repayment and performance for all contractual principal and interest payments on the exposure.
(2)
Wholesale.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution's wholesale obligor is in default if:
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution determines that the obligor is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the FDIC-supervised institution in full, without recourse by the FDIC-supervised institution to actions such as realizing collateral (if held); or
(B) The obligor is past due more than 90 days on any material credit obligation(s) to the FDIC-supervised institution.
29
29
Overdrafts are past due once the obligor has breached an advised limit or been advised of a limit smaller than the current outstanding balance.
(ii) An obligor in default remains in default until the FDIC-supervised institution has reasonable assurance of repayment and performance for all contractual principal and interest payments on all exposures of the FDIC-supervised institution to the obligor (other than exposures that have been fully written-down or charged-off).
Dependence
means a measure of the association among operational losses across and within units of measure.
Economic downturn conditions
means, with respect to an exposure held by the FDIC-supervised institution, those conditions in which the aggregate default
rates for that exposure's wholesale or retail exposure subcategory (or subdivision of such subcategory selected by the FDIC-supervised institution) in the exposure's national jurisdiction (or subdivision of such jurisdiction selected by the FDIC-supervised institution) are significantly higher than average.
Effective maturity (M)
of a wholesale exposure means:
(1) For wholesale exposures other than repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, and OTC derivative contracts described in paragraph (2) or (3) of this definition:
(i) The weighted-average remaining maturity (measured in years, whole or fractional) of the expected contractual cash flows from the exposure, using the undiscounted amounts of the cash flows as weights; or
(ii) The nominal remaining maturity (measured in years, whole or fractional) of the exposure.
(2) For repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, and OTC derivative contracts subject to a qualifying master netting agreement for which the FDIC-supervised institution does not apply the internal models approach in § 324.132(d), the weighted-average remaining maturity (measured in years, whole or fractional) of the individual transactions subject to the qualifying master netting agreement, with the weight of each individual transaction set equal to the notional amount of the transaction.
(3) For repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, and OTC derivative contracts for which the FDIC-supervised institution applies the internal models approach in § 324.132(d), the value determined in § 324.132(d)(4).
Eligible double default guarantor,
with respect to a guarantee or credit derivative obtained by an FDIC-supervised institution, means:
(1)
U.S.-based entities.
A depository institution, a bank holding company, a savings and loan holding company, or a securities broker or dealer registered with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act, if at the time the guarantee is issued or anytime thereafter, has issued and outstanding an unsecured debt security without credit enhancement that is investment grade.
(2)
Non-U.S.-based entities.
A foreign bank, or a non-U.S.-based securities firm if the FDIC-supervised institution demonstrates that the guarantor is subject to consolidated supervision and regulation comparable to that imposed on U.S. depository institutions (or securities broker-dealers), if at the time the guarantee is issued or anytime thereafter, has issued and outstanding an unsecured debt security without credit enhancement that is investment grade.
Eligible operational risk offsets
means amounts, not to exceed expected operational loss, that:
(1) Are generated by internal business practices to absorb highly predictable and reasonably stable operational losses, including reserves calculated consistent with GAAP; and
(2) Are available to cover expected operational losses with a high degree of certainty over a one-year horizon.
Eligible purchased wholesale exposure
means a purchased wholesale exposure that:
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution or securitization SPE purchased from an unaffiliated seller and did not directly or indirectly originate;
(2) Was generated on an arm's-length basis between the seller and the obligor (intercompany accounts receivable and receivables subject to contra-accounts between firms that buy and sell to each other do not satisfy this criterion);
(3) Provides the FDIC-supervised institution or securitization SPE with a claim on all proceeds from the exposure or a pro rata interest in the proceeds from the exposure;
(4) Has an M of less than one year; and
(5) When consolidated by obligor, does not represent a concentrated exposure relative to the portfolio of purchased wholesale exposures.
Expected exposure (EE)
means the expected value of the probability distribution of non-negative credit risk exposures to a counterparty at any specified future date before the maturity date of the longest term transaction in the netting set. Any negative fair values in the probability distribution of fair values to a counterparty at a specified future date are set to zero to convert the probability distribution
of fair values to the probability distribution of credit risk exposures.
Expected operational loss (EOL)
means the expected value of the distribution of potential aggregate operational losses, as generated by the FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk quantification system using a one-year horizon.
Expected positive exposure (EPE)
means the weighted average over time of expected (non-negative) exposures to a counterparty where the weights are the proportion of the time interval that an individual expected exposure represents. When calculating risk-based capital requirements, the average is taken over a one-year horizon.
Exposure at default (EAD)
means:
(1) For the on-balance sheet component of a wholesale exposure or segment of retail exposures (other than an OTC derivative contract, a repo-style transaction or eligible margin loan for which the FDIC-supervised institution determines EAD under § 324.132, a cleared transaction, or default fund contribution), EAD means the FDIC-supervised institution's carrying value (including net accrued but unpaid interest and fees) for the exposure or segment less any allocated transfer risk reserve for the exposure or segment.
(2) For the off-balance sheet component of a wholesale exposure or segment of retail exposures (other than an OTC derivative contract, a repo-style transaction or eligible margin loan for which the FDIC-supervised institution determines EAD under § 324.132, cleared transaction, or default fund contribution) in the form of a loan commitment, line of credit, trade-related letter of credit, or transaction-related contingency, EAD means the FDIC-supervised institution's best estimate of net additions to the outstanding amount owed the FDIC-supervised institution, including estimated future additional draws of principal and accrued but unpaid interest and fees, that are likely to occur over a one-year horizon assuming the wholesale exposure or the retail exposures in the segment were to go into default. This estimate of net additions must reflect what would be expected during economic downturn conditions. For the purposes of this definition:
(i) Trade-related letters of credit are short-term, self-liquidating instruments that are used to finance the movement of goods and are collateralized by the underlying goods.
(ii) Transaction-related contingencies relate to a particular transaction and include, among other things, performance bonds and performance-based letters of credit.
(3) For the off-balance sheet component of a wholesale exposure or segment of retail exposures (other than an OTC derivative contract, a repo-style transaction, or eligible margin loan for which the FDIC-supervised institution determines EAD under § 324.132, cleared transaction, or default fund contribution) in the form of anything other than a loan commitment, line of credit, trade-related letter of credit, or transaction-related contingency, EAD means the notional amount of the exposure or segment.
(4) EAD for OTC derivative contracts is calculated as described in § 324.132. An FDIC-supervised institution also may determine EAD for repo-style transactions and eligible margin loans as described in § 324.132.
Exposure category
means any of the wholesale, retail, securitization, or equity exposure categories.
External operational loss event data
means, with respect to an FDIC-supervised institution, gross operational loss amounts, dates, recoveries, and relevant causal information for operational loss events occurring at organizations other than the FDIC-supervised institution.
IMM exposure
means a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, or OTC derivative for which an FDIC-supervised institution calculates its EAD using the internal models methodology of § 324.132(d).
Internal operational loss event data
means, with respect to an FDIC-supervised institution, gross operational loss amounts, dates, recoveries, and relevant causal information for operational loss events occurring at the FDIC-supervised institution.
Loss given default (LGD)
means:
(1) For a wholesale exposure, the greatest of:
(i) Zero;
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution's empirically based best estimate of the long-run default-weighted average economic loss, per dollar of EAD, the FDIC-supervised institution would expect to incur if the obligor (or a typical obligor in the loss severity grade assigned by the FDIC-supervised institution to the exposure) were to default within a one-year horizon over a mix of economic conditions, including economic downturn conditions; or
(iii) The FDIC-supervised institution's empirically based best estimate of the economic loss, per dollar of EAD, the FDIC-supervised institution would expect to incur if the obligor (or a typical obligor in the loss severity grade assigned by the FDIC-supervised institution to the exposure) were to default within a one-year horizon during economic downturn conditions.
(2) For a segment of retail exposures, the greatest of:
(i) Zero;
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution's empirically based best estimate of the long-run default-weighted average economic loss, per dollar of EAD, the FDIC-supervised institution would expect to incur if the exposures in the segment were to default within a one-year horizon over a mix of economic conditions, including economic downturn conditions; or
(iii) The FDIC-supervised institution's empirically based best estimate of the economic loss, per dollar of EAD, the FDIC-supervised institution would expect to incur if the exposures in the segment were to default within a one-year horizon during economic downturn conditions.
(3) The economic loss on an exposure in the event of default is all material credit-related losses on the exposure (including accrued but unpaid interest or fees, losses on the sale of collateral, direct workout costs, and an appropriate allocation of indirect workout costs). Where positive or negative cash flows on a wholesale exposure to a defaulted obligor or a defaulted retail exposure (including proceeds from the sale of collateral, workout costs, additional extensions of credit to facilitate repayment of the exposure, and draw-downs of unused credit lines) occur after the date of default, the economic loss must reflect the net present value of cash flows as of the default date using a discount rate appropriate to the risk of the defaulted exposure.
Obligor
means the legal entity or natural person contractually obligated on a wholesale exposure, except that an FDIC-supervised institution may treat the following exposures as having separate obligors:
(1) Exposures to the same legal entity or natural person denominated in different currencies;
(2)(i) An income-producing real estate exposure for which all or substantially all of the repayment of the exposure is reliant on the cash flows of the real estate serving as collateral for the exposure; the FDIC-supervised institution, in economic substance, does not have recourse to the borrower beyond the real estate collateral; and no cross-default or cross-acceleration clauses are in place other than clauses obtained solely out of an abundance of caution; and
(ii) Other credit exposures to the same legal entity or natural person; and
(3)(i) A wholesale exposure authorized under section 364 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. 364) to a legal entity or natural person who is a debtor-in-possession for purposes of Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code; and
(ii) Other credit exposures to the same legal entity or natural person.
Operational loss
means a loss (excluding insurance or tax effects) resulting from an operational loss event. Operational loss includes all expenses associated with an operational loss event except for opportunity costs, forgone revenue, and costs related to risk management and control enhancements implemented to prevent future operational losses.
Operational loss event
means an event that results in loss and is associated with any of the following seven operational loss event type categories:
(1) Internal fraud, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from an act involving at least one internal party of a type intended to defraud, misappropriate property, or circumvent regulations, the law, or
company policy excluding diversity- and discrimination-type events.
(2) External fraud, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from an act by a third party of a type intended to defraud, misappropriate property, or circumvent the law. Retail credit card losses arising from non-contractual, third-party-initiated fraud (for example, identity theft) are external fraud operational losses. All other third-party-initiated credit losses are to be treated as credit risk losses.
(3) Employment practices and workplace safety, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from an act inconsistent with employment, health, or safety laws or agreements, payment of personal injury claims, or payment arising from diversity- and discrimination-type events.
(4) Clients, products, and business practices, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from the nature or design of a product or from an unintentional or negligent failure to meet a professional obligation to specific clients (including fiduciary and suitability requirements).
(5) Damage to physical assets, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from the loss of or damage to physical assets from natural disaster or other events.
(6) Business disruption and system failures, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from disruption of business or system failures.
(7) Execution, delivery, and process management, which means the operational loss event type category that comprises operational losses resulting from failed transaction processing or process management or losses arising from relations with trade counterparties and vendors.
Operational risk
means the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems or from external events (including legal risk but excluding strategic and reputational risk).
Operational risk exposure
means the 99.9th percentile of the distribution of potential aggregate operational losses, as generated by the FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk quantification system over a one-year horizon (and not incorporating eligible operational risk offsets or qualifying operational risk mitigants).
Other retail exposure
means an exposure (other than a securitization exposure, an equity exposure, a residential mortgage exposure, a pre-sold construction loan, a qualifying revolving exposure, or the residual value portion of a lease exposure) that is managed as part of a segment of exposures with homogeneous risk characteristics, not on an individual-exposure basis, and is either:
(1) An exposure to an individual for non-business purposes; or
(2) An exposure to an individual or company for business purposes if the FDIC-supervised institution's consolidated business credit exposure to the individual or company is $1 million or less.
Probability of default (PD)
means:
(1) For a wholesale exposure to a non-defaulted obligor, the FDIC-supervised institution's empirically based best estimate of the long-run average one-year default rate for the rating grade assigned by the FDIC-supervised institution to the obligor, capturing the average default experience for obligors in the rating grade over a mix of economic conditions (including economic downturn conditions) sufficient to provide a reasonable estimate of the average one-year default rate over the economic cycle for the rating grade.
(2) For a segment of non-defaulted retail exposures, the FDIC-supervised institution's empirically based best estimate of the long-run average one-year default rate for the exposures in the segment, capturing the average default experience for exposures in the segment over a mix of economic conditions (including economic downturn conditions) sufficient to provide a reasonable estimate of the average one-year default rate over the economic cycle for the segment.
(3) For a wholesale exposure to a defaulted obligor or segment of defaulted retail exposures, 100 percent.
Qualifying cross-product master netting agreement
means a qualifying master netting agreement that provides for termination and close-out netting across multiple types of financial transactions or qualifying master netting agreements in the event of a counterparty's default, provided that the underlying financial transactions are OTC derivative contracts, eligible margin loans, or repo-style transactions. In order to treat an agreement as a qualifying cross-product master netting agreement for purposes of this subpart, an FDIC-supervised institution must comply with the requirements of § 324.3(c) of this part with respect to that agreement.
Qualifying revolving exposure (QRE)
means an exposure (other than a securitization exposure or equity exposure) to an individual that is managed as part of a segment of exposures with homogeneous risk characteristics, not on an individual-exposure basis, and:
(1) Is revolving (that is, the amount outstanding fluctuates, determined largely by a borrower's decision to borrow and repay up to a pre-established maximum amount, except for an outstanding amount that the borrower is required to pay in full every month);
(2) Is unsecured and unconditionally cancelable by the FDIC-supervised institution to the fullest extent permitted by Federal law; and
(3)(i) Has a maximum contractual exposure amount (drawn plus undrawn) of up to $100,000; or
(ii) With respect to a product with an outstanding amount that the borrower is required to pay in full every month, the total outstanding amount does not in practice exceed $100,000.
(4) A segment of exposures that contains one or more exposures that fails to meet paragraph (3)(ii) of this definition must be treated as a segment of other retail exposures for the 24 month period following the month in which the total outstanding amount of one or more exposures individually exceeds $100,000.
Retail exposure
means a residential mortgage exposure, a qualifying revolving exposure, or an other retail exposure.
Retail exposure subcategory
means the residential mortgage exposure, qualifying revolving exposure, or other retail exposure subcategory.
Risk parameter
means a variable used in determining risk-based capital requirements for wholesale and retail exposures, specifically probability of default (PD), loss given default (LGD), exposure at default (EAD), or effective maturity (M).
Scenario analysis
means a systematic process of obtaining expert opinions from business managers and risk management experts to derive reasoned assessments of the likelihood and loss impact of plausible high-severity operational losses. Scenario analysis may include the well-reasoned evaluation and use of external operational loss event data, adjusted as appropriate to ensure relevance to an FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk profile and control structure.
Total wholesale and retail risk-weighted assets
means the sum of:
(1) Risk-weighted assets for wholesale exposures that are not IMM exposures, cleared transactions, or default fund contributions to non-defaulted obligors and segments of non-defaulted retail exposures;
(2) Risk-weighted assets for wholesale exposures to defaulted obligors and segments of defaulted retail exposures;
(3) Risk-weighted assets for assets not defined by an exposure category;
(4) Risk-weighted assets for non-material portfolios of exposures;
(5) Risk-weighted assets for IMM exposures (as determined in § 324.132(d));
(6) Risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions and risk-weighted assets for default fund contributions (as determined in § 324.133); and
(7) Risk-weighted assets for unsettled transactions (as determined in § 324.136).
Unexpected operational loss (UOL)
means the difference between the FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk exposure and the FDIC-supervised institution's expected operational loss.
Unit of measure
means the level (for example, organizational unit or operational loss event type) at which the FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk quantification system generates a separate distribution of potential operational losses.
Wholesale exposure
means a credit exposure to a company, natural person, sovereign, or governmental entity (other than a securitization exposure, retail exposure, pre-sold construction loan, or equity exposure).
Wholesale exposure subcategory
means the HVCRE or non-HVCRE wholesale exposure subcategory.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as 81 FR 71354, Oct. 17, 2016]
§§ 324.102-324.120
[Reserved]

# Qualification
§ 324.121
Qualification process.
(a)
Timing.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution that is described in § 324.100(b)(1)(i) through (iv) must adopt a written implementation plan no later than six months after the date the FDIC-supervised institution meets a criterion in that section. The implementation plan must incorporate an explicit start date no later than 36 months after the date the FDIC-supervised institution meets at least one criterion under § 324.100(b)(1)(i) through (iv). The FDIC may extend the start date.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution that elects to be subject to this subpart under § 324.100(b)(1)(v) must adopt a written implementation plan.
(b)
Implementation plan.
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution's implementation plan must address in detail how the FDIC-supervised institution complies, or plans to comply, with the qualification requirements in § 324.122. The FDIC-supervised institution also must maintain a comprehensive and sound planning and governance process to oversee the implementation efforts described in the plan. At a minimum, the plan must:
(i) Comprehensively address the qualification requirements in § 324.122 for the FDIC-supervised institution and each consolidated subsidiary (U.S. and foreign-based) of the FDIC-supervised institution with respect to all portfolios and exposures of the FDIC-supervised institution and each of its consolidated subsidiaries;
(ii) Justify and support any proposed temporary or permanent exclusion of business lines, portfolios, or exposures from the application of the advanced approaches in this subpart (which business lines, portfolios, and exposures must be, in the aggregate, immaterial to the FDIC-supervised institution);
(iii) Include the FDIC-supervised institution's self-assessment of:
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution's current status in meeting the qualification requirements in § 324.122; and
(B) The consistency of the FDIC-supervised institution's current practices with the FDIC's supervisory guidance on the qualification requirements;
(iv) Based on the FDIC-supervised institution's self-assessment, identify and describe the areas in which the FDIC-supervised institution proposes to undertake additional work to comply with the qualification requirements in § 324.122 or to improve the consistency of the FDIC-supervised institution's current practices with the FDIC's supervisory guidance on the qualification requirements (gap analysis);
(v) Describe what specific actions the FDIC-supervised institution will take to address the areas identified in the gap analysis required by paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section;
(vi) Identify objective, measurable milestones, including delivery dates and a date when the FDIC-supervised institution's implementation of the methodologies described in this subpart will be fully operational;
(vii) Describe resources that have been budgeted and are available to implement the plan; and
(viii) Receive approval of the FDIC-supervised institution's board of directors.
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution must submit the implementation plan, together with a copy of the minutes of the board of directors' approval, to the FDIC at least 60 days before the FDIC-supervised institution proposes to begin its parallel run, unless the FDIC waives prior notice.
(c)
Parallel run.
Before determining its risk-weighted assets under this subpart and following adoption of the implementation plan, the FDIC-supervised institution must conduct a satisfactory parallel run. A satisfactory parallel run is a period of no less than four consecutive calendar quarters during which the FDIC-supervised institution complies with the qualification requirements in § 324.122 to the satisfaction of the FDIC. During the parallel run, the FDIC-supervised institution must report to the FDIC on a calendar quarterly basis its risk-based capital ratios determined in accordance with § 324.10(b)(1) through (3) and § 324.10(d)(1) through (3). During this period, the FDIC-supervised institution's minimum risk-based capital ratios are determined as set forth in subpart D of this part.
(d)
Approval to calculate risk-based capital requirements under this subpart.
The FDIC will notify the FDIC-supervised institution of the date that the FDIC-supervised institution must begin to use this subpart for purposes of § 324.10 if the FDIC determines that:
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution fully complies with all the qualification requirements in § 324.122;
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution has conducted a satisfactory parallel run under paragraph (c) of this section; and
(3) The FDIC-supervised institution has an adequate process to ensure ongoing compliance with the qualification requirements in § 324.122.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 86 FR 745, Jan. 6, 2021]
§ 324.122
Qualification requirements.
(a)
Process and systems requirements.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must have a rigorous process for assessing its overall capital adequacy in relation to its risk profile and a comprehensive strategy for maintaining an appropriate level of capital.
(2) The systems and processes used by an FDIC-supervised institution for risk-based capital purposes under this subpart must be consistent with the FDIC-supervised institution's internal risk management processes and management information reporting systems.
(3) Each FDIC-supervised institution must have an appropriate infrastructure with risk measurement and management processes that meet the qualification requirements of this section and are appropriate given the FDIC-supervised institution's size and level of complexity. Regardless of whether the systems and models that generate the risk parameters necessary for calculating an FDIC-supervised institution's risk-based capital requirements are located at any affiliate of the FDIC-supervised institution, the FDIC-supervised institution itself must ensure that the risk parameters and reference data used to determine its risk-based capital requirements are representative of long run experience with respect to its own credit risk and operational risk exposures.
(b)
Risk rating and segmentation systems for wholesale and retail exposures.
(1)(i) An FDIC-supervised institution must have an internal risk rating and segmentation system that accurately, reliably, and meaningfully differentiates among degrees of credit risk for the FDIC-supervised institution's wholesale and retail exposures. When assigning an internal risk rating, an FDIC-supervised institution may consider a third-party assessment of credit risk, provided that the FDIC-supervised institution's internal risk rating assignment does not rely solely on the external assessment.
(ii) If an FDIC-supervised institution uses multiple rating or segmentation systems, the FDIC-supervised institution's rationale for assigning an obligor or exposure to a particular system must be documented and applied in a manner that best reflects the obligor or exposure's level of risk. An FDIC-supervised institution must not inappropriately allocate obligors or exposures across systems to minimize regulatory capital requirements.
(iii) In assigning ratings to wholesale obligors and exposures, including loss severity ratings grades to wholesale exposures, and assigning retail exposures to retail segments, an FDIC-supervised institution must use all relevant and material information and ensure that the information is current.
(iv) When assigning an obligor to a PD rating or retail exposure to a PD
segment, an FDIC-supervised institution must assess the obligor or retail borrower's ability and willingness to contractually perform, taking a conservative view of projected information.
(2) For wholesale exposures:
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution must have an internal risk rating system that accurately and reliably assigns each obligor to a single rating grade (reflecting the obligor's likelihood of default). An FDIC-supervised institution may elect, however, not to assign to a rating grade an obligor to whom the FDIC-supervised institution extends credit based solely on the financial strength of a guarantor, provided that all of the FDIC-supervised institution's exposures to the obligor are fully covered by eligible guarantees, the FDIC-supervised institution applies the PD substitution approach in § 324.134(c)(1) to all exposures to that obligor, and the FDIC-supervised institution immediately assigns the obligor to a rating grade if a guarantee can no longer be recognized under this part. The FDIC-supervised institution's wholesale obligor rating system must have at least seven discrete rating grades for non-defaulted obligors and at least one rating grade for defaulted obligors.
(ii) Unless the FDIC-supervised institution has chosen to directly assign LGD estimates to each wholesale exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must have an internal risk rating system that accurately and reliably assigns each wholesale exposure to a loss severity rating grade (reflecting the FDIC-supervised institution's estimate of the LGD of the exposure). An FDIC-supervised institution employing loss severity rating grades must have a sufficiently granular loss severity grading system to avoid grouping together exposures with widely ranging LGDs.
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution must have an effective process to obtain and update in a timely manner relevant and material information on obligor and exposure characteristics that affect PD, LGD and EAD.
(3) For retail exposures:
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution must have an internal system that groups retail exposures into the appropriate retail exposure subcategory and groups the retail exposures in each retail exposure subcategory into separate segments with homogeneous risk characteristics that provide a meaningful differentiation of risk. The FDIC-supervised institution's system must identify and group in separate segments by subcategories exposures identified in § 324.131(c)(2)(ii) and (iii).
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must have an internal system that captures all relevant exposure risk characteristics, including borrower credit score, product and collateral types, as well as exposure delinquencies, and must consider cross-collateral provisions, where present.
(iii) The FDIC-supervised institution must review and, if appropriate, update assignments of individual retail exposures to segments and the loss characteristics and delinquency status of each identified risk segment. These reviews must occur whenever the FDIC-supervised institution receives new material information, but generally no less frequently than quarterly, and, in all cases, at least annually.
(4) The FDIC-supervised institution's internal risk rating policy for wholesale exposures must describe the FDIC-supervised institution's rating philosophy (that is, must describe how wholesale obligor rating assignments are affected by the FDIC-supervised institution's choice of the range of economic, business, and industry conditions that are considered in the obligor rating process).
(5) The FDIC-supervised institution's internal risk rating system for wholesale exposures must provide for the review and update (as appropriate) of each obligor rating and (if applicable) each loss severity rating whenever the FDIC-supervised institution obtains relevant and material information on the obligor or exposure that affects PD, LGD and EAD, but no less frequently than annually.
(c)
Quantification of risk parameters for wholesale and retail exposures.
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution must have a comprehensive risk parameter quantification process that produces accurate, timely, and reliable estimates of the risk parameters on a consistent
basis for the FDIC-supervised institution's wholesale and retail exposures.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution's estimates of PD, LGD, and EAD must incorporate all relevant, material, and available data that is reflective of the FDIC-supervised institution's actual wholesale and retail exposures and of sufficient quality to support the determination of risk-based capital requirements for the exposures. In particular, the population of exposures in the data used for estimation purposes, the lending standards in use when the data were generated, and other relevant characteristics, should closely match or be comparable to the FDIC-supervised institution's exposures and standards. In addition, an FDIC-supervised institution must:
(i) Demonstrate that its estimates are representative of long run experience, including periods of economic downturn conditions, whether internal or external data are used;
(ii) Take into account any changes in lending practice or the process for pursuing recoveries over the observation period;
(iii) Promptly reflect technical advances, new data, and other information as they become available;
(iv) Demonstrate that the data used to estimate risk parameters support the accuracy and robustness of those estimates; and
(v) Demonstrate that its estimation technique performs well in out-of-sample tests whenever possible.
(3) The FDIC-supervised institution's risk parameter quantification process must produce appropriately conservative risk parameter estimates where the FDIC-supervised institution has limited relevant data, and any adjustments that are part of the quantification process must not result in a pattern of bias toward lower risk parameter estimates.
(4) The FDIC-supervised institution's risk parameter estimation process should not rely on the possibility of U.S. government financial assistance, except for the financial assistance that the U.S. government has a legally binding commitment to provide.
(5) The FDIC-supervised institution must be able to demonstrate which variables have been found to be statistically significant with regard to EAD. The FDIC-supervised institution's EAD estimates must reflect its specific policies and strategies with regard to account management, including account monitoring and payment processing, and its ability and willingness to prevent further drawdowns in circumstances short of payment default. The FDIC-supervised institution must have adequate systems and procedures in place to monitor current outstanding amounts against committed lines, and changes in outstanding amounts per obligor and obligor rating grade and per retail segment. The FDIC-supervised institution must be able to monitor outstanding amounts on a daily basis.
(6) At a minimum, PD estimates for wholesale obligors and retail segments must be based on at least five years of default data. LGD estimates for wholesale exposures must be based on at least seven years of loss severity data, and LGD estimates for retail segments must be based on at least five years of loss severity data. EAD estimates for wholesale exposures must be based on at least seven years of exposure amount data, and EAD estimates for retail segments must be based on at least five years of exposure amount data. If the FDIC-supervised institution has relevant and material reference data that span a longer period of time than the minimum time periods specified above, the FDIC-supervised institution must incorporate such data in its estimates, provided that it does not place undue weight on periods of favorable or benign economic conditions relative to periods of economic downturn conditions.
(7) Default, loss severity, and exposure amount data must include periods of economic downturn conditions, or the FDIC-supervised institution must adjust its estimates of risk parameters to compensate for the lack of data from periods of economic downturn conditions.
(8) The FDIC-supervised institution's PD, LGD, and EAD estimates must be based on the definition of default in § 324.101.
(9) If an FDIC-supervised institution uses internal data obtained prior to becoming subject to this subpart E or external data to arrive at PD, LGD, or EAD estimates, the FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate to the FDIC that the FDIC-supervised institution has made appropriate adjustments if necessary to be consistent with the definition of default in § 324.101. Internal data obtained after the FDIC-supervised institution becomes subject to this subpart E must be consistent with the definition of default in § 324.101.
(10) The FDIC-supervised institution must review and update (as appropriate) its risk parameters and its risk parameter quantification process at least annually.
(11) The FDIC-supervised institution must, at least annually, conduct a comprehensive review and analysis of reference data to determine relevance of the reference data to the FDIC-supervised institution's exposures, quality of reference data to support PD, LGD, and EAD estimates, and consistency of reference data to the definition of default in § 324.101.
(d)
Counterparty credit risk model.
An FDIC-supervised institution must obtain the prior written approval of the FDIC under § 324.132 to use the internal models methodology for counterparty credit risk and the advanced CVA approach for the CVA capital requirement.
(e)
Double default treatment.
An FDIC-supervised institution must obtain the prior written approval of the FDIC under § 324.135 to use the double default treatment.
(f)
Equity exposures model.
An FDIC-supervised institution must obtain the prior written approval of the FDIC under § 324.153 to use the internal models approach for equity exposures.
(g)
Operational risk.
(1) Operational risk management processes. An FDIC-supervised institution must:
(i) Have an operational risk management function that:
(A) Is independent of business line management; and
(B) Is responsible for designing, implementing, and overseeing the FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk data and assessment systems, operational risk quantification systems, and related processes;
(ii) Have and document a process (which must capture business environment and internal control factors affecting the FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk profile) to identify, measure, monitor, and control operational risk in the FDIC-supervised institution's products, activities, processes, and systems; and
(iii) Report operational risk exposures, operational loss events, and other relevant operational risk information to business unit management, senior management, and the board of directors (or a designated committee of the board).
(2)
Operational risk data and assessment systems.
An FDIC-supervised institution must have operational risk data and assessment systems that capture operational risks to which the FDIC-supervised institution is exposed. The FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk data and assessment systems must:
(i) Be structured in a manner consistent with the FDIC-supervised institution's current business activities, risk profile, technological processes, and risk management processes; and
(ii) Include credible, transparent, systematic, and verifiable processes that incorporate the following elements on an ongoing basis:
(A)
Internal operational loss event data.
The FDIC-supervised institution must have a systematic process for capturing and using internal operational loss event data in its operational risk data and assessment systems.
(
1
) The FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk data and assessment systems must include a historical observation period of at least five years for internal operational loss event data (or such shorter period approved by the FDIC to address transitional situations, such as integrating a new business line).
(
2
) The FDIC-supervised institution must be able to map its internal operational loss event data into the seven operational loss event type categories.
(
3
) The FDIC-supervised institution may refrain from collecting internal
operational loss event data for individual operational losses below established dollar threshold amounts if the FDIC-supervised institution can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDIC that the thresholds are reasonable, do not exclude important internal operational loss event data, and permit the FDIC-supervised institution to capture substantially all the dollar value of the FDIC-supervised institution's operational losses.
(B)
External operational loss event data.
The FDIC-supervised institution must have a systematic process for determining its methodologies for incorporating external operational loss event data into its operational risk data and assessment systems.
(C)
Scenario analysis.
The FDIC-supervised institution must have a systematic process for determining its methodologies for incorporating scenario analysis into its operational risk data and assessment systems.
(D)
Business environment and internal control factors.
The FDIC-supervised institution must incorporate business environment and internal control factors into its operational risk data and assessment systems. The FDIC-supervised institution must also periodically compare the results of its prior business environment and internal control factor assessments against its actual operational losses incurred in the intervening period.
(3)
Operational risk quantification systems.
(i) The FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk quantification systems:
(A) Must generate estimates of the FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk exposure using its operational risk data and assessment systems;
(B) Must employ a unit of measure that is appropriate for the FDIC-supervised institution's range of business activities and the variety of operational loss events to which it is exposed, and that does not combine business activities or operational loss events with demonstrably different risk profiles within the same loss distribution;
(C) Must include a credible, transparent, systematic, and verifiable approach for weighting each of the four elements, described in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section, that an FDIC-supervised institution is required to incorporate into its operational risk data and assessment systems;
(D) May use internal estimates of dependence among operational losses across and within units of measure if the FDIC-supervised institution can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDIC that its process for estimating dependence is sound, robust to a variety of scenarios, and implemented with integrity, and allows for uncertainty surrounding the estimates. If the FDIC-supervised institution has not made such a demonstration, it must sum operational risk exposure estimates across units of measure to calculate its total operational risk exposure; and
(E) Must be reviewed and updated (as appropriate) whenever the FDIC-supervised institution becomes aware of information that may have a material effect on the FDIC-supervised institution's estimate of operational risk exposure, but the review and update must occur no less frequently than annually.
(ii) With the prior written approval of the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution may generate an estimate of its operational risk exposure using an alternative approach to that specified in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section. An FDIC-supervised institution proposing to use such an alternative operational risk quantification system must submit a proposal to the FDIC. In determining whether to approve an FDIC-supervised institution's proposal to use an alternative operational risk quantification system, the FDIC will consider the following principles:
(A) Use of the alternative operational risk quantification system will be allowed only on an exception basis, considering the size, complexity, and risk profile of the FDIC-supervised institution;
(B) The FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate that its estimate of its operational risk exposure generated under the alternative operational risk quantification system is appropriate and can be supported empirically; and
(C) An FDIC-supervised institution must not use an allocation of operational risk capital requirements that includes entities other than depository
institutions or the benefits of diversification across entities.
(h)
Data management and maintenance.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must have data management and maintenance systems that adequately support all aspects of its advanced systems and the timely and accurate reporting of risk-based capital requirements.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must retain data using an electronic format that allows timely retrieval of data for analysis, validation, reporting, and disclosure purposes.
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution must retain sufficient data elements related to key risk drivers to permit adequate monitoring, validation, and refinement of its advanced systems.
(i)
Control, oversight, and validation mechanisms.
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution's senior management must ensure that all components of the FDIC-supervised institution's advanced systems function effectively and comply with the qualification requirements in this section.
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution's board of directors (or a designated committee of the board) must at least annually review the effectiveness of, and approve, the FDIC-supervised institution's advanced systems.
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution must have an effective system of controls and oversight that:
(i) Ensures ongoing compliance with the qualification requirements in this section;
(ii) Maintains the integrity, reliability, and accuracy of the FDIC-supervised institution's advanced systems; and
(iii) Includes adequate governance and project management processes.
(4) The FDIC-supervised institution must validate, on an ongoing basis, its advanced systems. The FDIC-supervised institution's validation process must be independent of the advanced systems' development, implementation, and operation, or the validation process must be subjected to an independent review of its adequacy and effectiveness. Validation must include:
(i) An evaluation of the conceptual soundness of (including developmental evidence supporting) the advanced systems;
(ii) An ongoing monitoring process that includes verification of processes and benchmarking; and
(iii) An outcomes analysis process that includes backtesting.
(5) The FDIC-supervised institution must have an internal audit function or equivalent function that is independent of business-line management that at least annually:
(i) Reviews the FDIC-supervised institution's advanced systems and associated operations, including the operations of its credit function and estimations of PD, LGD, and EAD;
(ii) Assesses the effectiveness of the controls supporting the FDIC-supervised institution's advanced systems; and
(iii) Documents and reports its findings to the FDIC-supervised institution's board of directors (or a committee thereof).
(6) The FDIC-supervised institution must periodically stress test its advanced systems. The stress testing must include a consideration of how economic cycles, especially downturns, affect risk-based capital requirements (including migration across rating grades and segments and the credit risk mitigation benefits of double default treatment).
(j)
Documentation.
The FDIC-supervised institution must adequately document all material aspects of its advanced systems.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 41423, July 15, 2015]
§ 324.123
Ongoing qualification.
(a)
Changes to advanced systems.
An FDIC-supervised institution must meet all the qualification requirements in § 324.122 on an ongoing basis. An FDIC-supervised institution must notify the FDIC when the FDIC-supervised institution makes any change to an advanced system that would result in a material change in the FDIC-supervised institution's advanced approaches total risk-weighted asset amount for an exposure type or when the FDIC-supervised institution makes any significant change to its modeling assumptions.
(b)
Failure to comply with qualification requirements.
(1) If the FDIC determines that an FDIC-supervised institution
that uses this subpart and that has conducted a satisfactory parallel run fails to comply with the qualification requirements in § 324.122, the FDIC will notify the FDIC-supervised institution in writing of the FDIC-supervised institution's failure to comply.
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution must establish and submit a plan satisfactory to the FDIC to return to compliance with the qualification requirements.
(3) In addition, if the FDIC determines that the FDIC-supervised institution's advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets are not commensurate with the FDIC-supervised institution's credit, market, operational, or other risks, the FDIC may require such an FDIC-supervised institution to calculate its advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets with any modifications provided by the FDIC.
§ 324.124
Merger and acquisition transitional arrangements.
(a)
Mergers and acquisitions of companies without advanced systems.
If an FDIC-supervised institution merges with or acquires a company that does not calculate its risk-based capital requirements using advanced systems, the FDIC-supervised institution may use subpart D of this part to determine the risk-weighted asset amounts for the merged or acquired company's exposures for up to 24 months after the calendar quarter during which the merger or acquisition consummates. The FDIC may extend this transition period for up to an additional 12 months. Within 90 days of consummating the merger or acquisition, the FDIC-supervised institution must submit to the FDIC an implementation plan for using its advanced systems for the acquired company. During the period in which subpart D of this part applies to the merged or acquired company, any ALLL or AACL, as applicable, net of allocated transfer risk reserves established pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3904, associated with the merged or acquired company's exposures may be included in the acquiring FDIC-supervised institution's tier 2 capital up to 1.25 percent of the acquired company's risk-weighted assets. All general allowances of the merged or acquired company must be excluded from the FDIC-supervised institution's eligible credit reserves. In addition, the risk-weighted assets of the merged or acquired company are not included in the FDIC-supervised institution's credit-risk-weighted assets but are included in total risk-weighted assets. If an FDIC-supervised institution relies on this paragraph (a), the FDIC-supervised institution must disclose publicly the amounts of risk-weighted assets and qualifying capital calculated under this subpart for the acquiring FDIC-supervised institution and under subpart D of this part for the acquired company.
(b)
Mergers and acquisitions of companies with advanced systems.
(1) If an FDIC-supervised institution merges with or acquires a company that calculates its risk-based capital requirements using advanced systems, the FDIC-supervised institution may use the acquired company's advanced systems to determine total risk-weighted assets for the merged or acquired company's exposures for up to 24 months after the calendar quarter during which the acquisition or merger consummates. The FDIC may extend this transition period for up to an additional 12 months. Within 90 days of consummating the merger or acquisition, the FDIC-supervised institution must submit to the FDIC an implementation plan for using its advanced systems for the merged or acquired company.
(2) If the acquiring FDIC-supervised institution is not subject to the advanced approaches in this subpart at the time of acquisition or merger, during the period when subpart D of this part applies to the acquiring FDIC-supervised institution, the ALLL or AACL, as applicable associated with the exposures of the merged or acquired company may not be directly included in tier 2 capital. Rather, any excess eligible credit reserves associated with the merged or acquired company's exposures may be included in the FDIC-supervised institution's tier 2 capital up to 0.6 percent of the credit-
risk-weighted assets associated with those exposures.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20760, Apr. 14, 2014; 84 FR 4247, Feb. 14, 2019]
§§ 324.125-324.130
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for General Credit Risk
§ 324.131
Mechanics for calculating total wholesale and retail risk-weighted assets.
(a)
Overview.
An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate its total wholesale and retail risk-weighted asset amount in four distinct phases:
(1) Phase 1—categorization of exposures;
(2) Phase 2—assignment of wholesale obligors and exposures to rating grades and segmentation of retail exposures;
(3) Phase 3—assignment of risk parameters to wholesale exposures and segments of retail exposures; and
(4) Phase 4—calculation of risk-weighted asset amounts.
(b)
Phase 1—Categorization.
The FDIC-supervised institution must determine which of its exposures are wholesale exposures, retail exposures, securitization exposures, or equity exposures. The FDIC-supervised institution must categorize each retail exposure as a residential mortgage exposure, a QRE, or an other retail exposure. The FDIC-supervised institution must identify which wholesale exposures are HVCRE exposures, sovereign exposures, OTC derivative contracts, repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, eligible purchased wholesale exposures, cleared transactions, default fund contributions, unsettled transactions to which § 324.136 applies, and eligible guarantees or eligible credit derivatives that are used as credit risk mitigants. The FDIC-supervised institution must identify any on-balance sheet asset that does not meet the definition of a wholesale, retail, equity, or securitization exposure, as well as any non-material portfolio of exposures described in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(c)
Phase 2—Assignment of wholesale obligors and exposures to rating grades and retail exposures to segments
—(1)
Assignment of wholesale obligors and exposures to rating grades.
(i) The FDIC-supervised institution must assign each obligor of a wholesale exposure to a single obligor rating grade and must assign each wholesale exposure to which it does not directly assign an LGD estimate to a loss severity rating grade.
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution must identify which of its wholesale obligors are in default.
(2)
Segmentation of retail exposures.
(i) The FDIC-supervised institution must group the retail exposures in each retail subcategory into segments that have homogeneous risk characteristics.
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution must identify which of its retail exposures are in default. The FDIC-supervised institution must segment defaulted retail exposures separately from non-defaulted retail exposures.
(iii) If the FDIC-supervised institution determines the EAD for eligible margin loans using the approach in § 324.132(b), the FDIC-supervised institution must identify which of its retail exposures are eligible margin loans for which the FDIC-supervised institution uses this EAD approach and must segment such eligible margin loans separately from other retail exposures.
(3)
Eligible purchased wholesale exposures.
An FDIC-supervised institution may group its eligible purchased wholesale exposures into segments that have homogeneous risk characteristics. An FDIC-supervised institution must use the wholesale exposure formula in Table 1 of this section to determine the risk-based capital requirement for each segment of eligible purchased wholesale exposures.
(d)
Phase 3—Assignment of risk parameters to wholesale exposures and segments of retail exposures
—(1)
Quantification process.
Subject to the limitations in this paragraph (d), the FDIC-supervised institution must:
(i) Associate a PD with each wholesale obligor rating grade;
(ii) Associate an LGD with each wholesale loss severity rating grade or assign an LGD to each wholesale exposure;
(iii) Assign an EAD and M to each wholesale exposure; and
(iv) Assign a PD, LGD, and EAD to each segment of retail exposures.
(2)
Floor on PD assignment.
The PD for each wholesale obligor or retail segment may not be less than 0.03 percent, except for exposures to or directly and unconditionally guaranteed by a sovereign entity, the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, or a multilateral development bank, to which the FDIC-supervised institution assigns a rating grade associated with a PD of less than 0.03 percent.
(3)
Floor on LGD estimation.
The LGD for each segment of residential mortgage exposures may not be less than 10 percent, except for segments of residential mortgage exposures for which all or substantially all of the principal of each exposure is either:
(i) Directly and unconditionally guaranteed by the full faith and credit of a sovereign entity; or
(ii) Guaranteed by a contingent obligation of the U.S. government or its agencies, the enforceability of which is dependent upon some affirmative action on the part of the beneficiary of the guarantee or a third party (for example, meeting servicing requirements).
(4)
Eligible purchased wholesale exposures.
An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a PD, LGD, EAD, and M to each segment of eligible purchased wholesale exposures. If the FDIC-supervised institution can estimate ECL (but not PD or LGD) for a segment of eligible purchased wholesale exposures, the FDIC-supervised institution must assume that the LGD of the segment equals 100 percent and that the PD of the segment equals ECL divided by EAD. The estimated ECL must be calculated for the exposures without regard to any assumption of recourse or guarantees from the seller or other parties.
(5)
Credit risk mitigation: credit derivatives, guarantees, and collateral.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution may take into account the risk reducing effects of eligible guarantees and eligible credit derivatives in support of a wholesale exposure by applying the PD substitution or LGD adjustment treatment to the exposure as provided in § 324.134 or, if applicable, applying double default treatment to the exposure as provided in § 324.135. An FDIC-supervised institution may decide separately for each wholesale exposure that qualifies for the double default treatment under § 324.135 whether to apply the double default treatment or to use the PD substitution or LGD adjustment treatment without recognizing double default effects.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution may take into account the risk reducing effects of guarantees and credit derivatives in support of retail exposures in a segment when quantifying the PD and LGD of the segment. In doing so, an FDIC-supervised institution must consider all relevant available information.
(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution may take into account the risk reducing effects of collateral in support of a wholesale exposure when quantifying the LGD of the exposure, and may take into account the risk reducing effects of collateral in support of retail exposures when quantifying the PD and LGD of the segment. In order to do so, an FDIC-supervised institution must have established internal requirements for collateral management, legal certainty, and risk management processes.
(6)
EAD for OTC derivative contracts, repo-style transactions, and eligible margin loans.
An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate its EAD for an OTC derivative contract as provided in § 324.132 (c) and (d). An FDIC-supervised institution may take into account the risk-reducing effects of financial collateral in support of a repo-style transaction or eligible margin loan and of any collateral in support of a repo-style transaction that is included in the FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based measure under subpart F of this part through an adjustment to EAD as provided in § 324.132(b) and (d). An FDIC-supervised institution that takes collateral into account through such an adjustment to EAD under § 324.132 may not reflect such collateral in LGD.
(7)
Effective maturity.
An exposure's M must be no greater than five years and no less than one year, except that an
exposure's M must be no less than one day if the exposure is a trade related letter of credit, or if the exposure has an original maturity of less than one year and is not part of an FDIC-supervised institution's ongoing financing of the obligor. An exposure is not part of an FDIC-supervised institution's ongoing financing of the obligor if the FDIC-supervised institution:
(i) Has a legal and practical ability not to renew or roll over the exposure in the event of credit deterioration of the obligor;
(ii) Makes an independent credit decision at the inception of the exposure and at every renewal or roll over; and
(iii) Has no substantial commercial incentive to continue its credit relationship with the obligor in the event of credit deterioration of the obligor.
(8)
EAD for exposures to certain central counterparties.
An FDIC-supervised institution may attribute an EAD of zero to exposures that arise from the settlement of cash transactions (such as equities, fixed income, spot foreign exchange, and spot commodities) with a central counterparty where there is no assumption of ongoing counterparty credit risk by the central counterparty after settlement of the trade and associated default fund contributions.
(e)
Phase 4—Calculation of risk-weighted assets
—(1)
Non-defaulted exposures.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the dollar risk-based capital requirement for each of its wholesale exposures to a non-defaulted obligor (except for eligible guarantees and eligible credit derivatives that hedge another wholesale exposure, IMM exposures, cleared transactions, default fund contributions, unsettled transactions, and exposures to which the FDIC-supervised institution applies the double default treatment in § 324.135) and segments of non-defaulted retail exposures by inserting the assigned risk parameters for the wholesale obligor and exposure or retail segment into the appropriate risk-based capital formula specified in Table 1 to § 324.131 and multiplying the output of the formula (K) by the EAD of the exposure or segment. Alternatively, an FDIC-supervised institution may apply a 300 percent risk weight to the EAD of an eligible margin loan if the FDIC-supervised institution is not able to meet the FDIC's requirements for estimation of PD and LGD for the margin loan.
ER10SE13.024
ER10SE13.025
(ii) The sum of all the dollar risk-based capital requirements for each wholesale exposure to a non-defaulted obligor and segment of non-defaulted retail exposures calculated in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section and in § 324.135(e) equals the total dollar risk-based capital requirement for those exposures and segments.
(iii) The aggregate risk-weighted asset amount for wholesale exposures to non-defaulted obligors and segments of non-defaulted retail exposures equals the total dollar risk-based capital requirement in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section multiplied by 12.5.
(2)
Wholesale exposures to defaulted obligors and segments of defaulted retail exposures
—(i)
Not covered by an eligible U.S. government guarantee:
The dollar risk-based capital requirement for each wholesale exposure not covered by an eligible guarantee from the U.S. government to a defaulted obligor and each segment of defaulted retail exposures not covered by an eligible guarantee from the U.S. government equals 0.08 multiplied by the EAD of the exposure or segment.
(ii)
Covered by an eligible U.S. government guarantee:
The dollar risk-based capital requirement for each wholesale exposure to a defaulted obligor covered by an eligible guarantee from the U.S. government and each segment of defaulted retail exposures covered by an
eligible guarantee from the U.S. government equals the sum of:
(A) The sum of the EAD of the portion of each wholesale exposure to a defaulted obligor covered by an eligible guarantee from the U.S. government plus the EAD of the portion of each segment of defaulted retail exposures that is covered by an eligible guarantee from the U.S. government and the resulting sum is multiplied by 0.016, and
(B) The sum of the EAD of the portion of each wholesale exposure to a defaulted obligor not covered by an eligible guarantee from the U.S. government plus the EAD of the portion of each segment of defaulted retail exposures that is not covered by an eligible guarantee from the U.S. government and the resulting sum is multiplied by 0.08.
(iii) The sum of all the dollar risk-based capital requirements for each wholesale exposure to a defaulted obligor and each segment of defaulted retail exposures calculated in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section plus the dollar risk-based capital requirements each wholesale exposure to a defaulted obligor and for each segment of defaulted retail exposures calculated in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section equals the total dollar risk-based capital requirement for those exposures and segments.
(iv) The aggregate risk-weighted asset amount for wholesale exposures to defaulted obligors and segments of defaulted retail exposures equals the total dollar risk-based capital requirement calculated in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section multiplied by 12.5.
(3)
Assets not included in a defined exposure category.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution may assign a risk-weighted asset amount of zero to cash owned and held in all offices of the FDIC-supervised institution or in transit and for gold bullion held in the FDIC-supervised institution's own vaults, or held in another depository institution's vaults on an allocated basis, to the extent the gold bullion assets are offset by gold bullion liabilities.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a risk-weighted asset amount equal to 20 percent of the carrying value of cash items in the process of collection.
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a risk-weighted asset amount equal to 50 percent of the carrying value to a pre-sold construction loan unless the purchase contract is cancelled, in which case an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a risk-weighted asset amount equal to a 100 percent of the carrying value of the pre-sold construction loan.
(iv) The risk-weighted asset amount for the residual value of a retail lease exposure equals such residual value.
(v) The risk-weighted asset amount for DTAs arising from temporary differences that the FDIC-supervised institution could realize through net operating loss carrybacks equals the carrying value, netted in accordance with § 324.22.
(vi) The risk-weighted asset amount for MSAs, DTAs arising from temporary timing differences that the FDIC-supervised institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, and significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in the form of common stock that are not deducted pursuant to § 324.22(d) equals the amount not subject to deduction multiplied by 250 percent.
(vii) The risk-weighted asset amount for any other on-balance-sheet asset that does not meet the definition of a wholesale, retail, securitization, IMM, or equity exposure, cleared transaction, or default fund contribution and is not subject to deduction under § 324.22(a), (c), or (d) equals the carrying value of the asset.
(viii) The risk-weighted asset amount for a Paycheck Protection Program covered loan as defined in section 7(a)(36) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36)) equals zero.
(4)
Non-material portfolios of exposures.
The risk-weighted asset amount of a portfolio of exposures for which the FDIC-supervised institution has demonstrated to the FDIC's satisfaction that the portfolio (when combined with all other portfolios of exposures that the FDIC-supervised institution seeks to treat under this paragraph (e)) is not material to the FDIC-supervised institution is the sum of the carrying values of on-balance sheet exposures plus the notional amounts of off-balance
sheet exposures in the portfolio. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(4), the notional amount of an OTC derivative contract that is not a credit derivative is the EAD of the derivative as calculated in § 324.132.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20761, Apr. 14, 2014; 80 FR 41424, July 15, 2015; 84 FR 35279, July 22, 2019; 85 FR 22010, Apr. 21, 2020]
§ 324.132
Counterparty credit risk of repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, and OTC derivative contracts.
(a)
Methodologies for collateral recognition.
(1) Instead of an LGD estimation methodology, an FDIC-supervised institution may use the following methodologies to recognize the benefits of financial collateral in mitigating the counterparty credit risk of repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, collateralized OTC derivative contracts and single product netting sets of such transactions, and to recognize the benefits of any collateral in mitigating the counterparty credit risk of repo-style transactions that are included in an FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based measure under subpart F of this part:
(i) The collateral haircut approach set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(ii) The internal models methodology set forth in paragraph (d) of this section; and
(iii) For single product netting sets of repo-style transactions and eligible margin loans, the simple VaR methodology set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution may use any combination of the three methodologies for collateral recognition; however, it must use the same methodology for transactions in the same category.
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution must use the methodology in paragraph (c) of this section, or with prior written approval of the FDIC, the internal model methodology in paragraph (d) of this section, to calculate EAD for an OTC derivative contract or a set of OTC derivative contracts subject to a qualifying master netting agreement. To estimate EAD for qualifying cross-product master netting agreements, an FDIC-supervised institution may only use the internal models methodology in paragraph (d) of this section.
(4) An FDIC-supervised institution must also use the methodology in paragraph (e) of this section to calculate the risk-weighted asset amounts for CVA for OTC derivatives.
(b)
EAD for eligible margin loans and repo-style transactions
—(1)
General.
An FDIC-supervised institution may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral that secures an eligible margin loan, repo-style transaction, or single-product netting set of such transactions by factoring the collateral into its LGD estimates for the exposure. Alternatively, an FDIC-supervised institution may estimate an unsecured LGD for the exposure, as well as for any repo-style transaction that is included in the FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based measure under subpart F of this part, and determine the EAD of the exposure using:
(i) The collateral haircut approach described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(ii) For netting sets only, the simple VaR methodology described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section; or
(iii) The internal models methodology described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Collateral haircut approach
—(i)
EAD equation.
An FDIC-supervised institution may determine EAD for an eligible margin loan, repo-style transaction, or netting set by setting EAD equal to max {0, [(ΣE−ΣC) + Σ(E
s
× H
s
) + Σ(E
fx
× H
fx
)]}, where:
(A) ΣE equals the value of the exposure (the sum of the current fair values of all instruments, gold, and cash the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty under the transaction (or netting set));
(B) ΣC equals the value of the collateral (the sum of the current fair values of all instruments, gold, and cash the FDIC-supervised institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty under the transaction (or netting set));
(C) E
s
equals the absolute value of the net position in a given instrument or in gold (where the net position in a given instrument or in gold equals the sum of the current fair values of the instrument or gold the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty minus the sum of the current fair values of that same instrument or gold the FDIC-supervised institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty);
(D) H
s
equals the market price volatility haircut appropriate to the instrument or gold referenced in E
s
;
(E) E
fx
equals the absolute value of the net position of instruments and cash in a currency that is different from the settlement currency (where the net position in a given currency equals the sum of the current fair values of any instruments or cash in the currency the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty minus the sum of the current fair values of any instruments or cash in the currency the FDIC-supervised institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty); and
(F) H
fx
equals the haircut appropriate to the mismatch between the currency referenced in E
fx
and the settlement currency.
(ii)
Standard supervisory haircuts.
(A) Under the standard supervisory haircuts approach:
(
1
) An FDIC-supervised institution must use the haircuts for market price volatility (H
s
) in Table 1 to § 324.132, as adjusted in certain circumstances as provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
3
) and (
4
) of this section;
Table 1 to § 324.132—Standard Supervisory Market Price Volatility Haircuts
1
Residual maturity
Haircut (in percent) assigned based on:
Sovereign issuers risk weight under § 324.32
2
(in percent)
Zero
20 or 50
100
Non-sovereign issuers risk weight under § 324.32
(in percent)
20
50
100
Investment grade
securitization
exposures
(in percent)
Less than or equal to 1 year
0.5
1.0
15.0
1.0
2.0
4.0
4.0
Greater than 1 year and less than or equal to 5 years
2.0
3.0
15.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
12.0
Greater than 5 years
4.0
6.0
15.0
8.0
12.0
16.0
24.0
Main index equities (including convertible bonds) and gold
15.0
Other publicly traded equities (including convertible bonds)
25.0
Mutual funds
Highest haircut applicable to any security in which the fund can invest.
Cash collateral held
Zero
Other exposure types
25.0
1
The market price volatility haircuts in Table 1 to § 324.132 are based on a 10 business-day holding period.
2
Includes a foreign PSE that receives a zero percent risk weight.
(
2
) For currency mismatches, an FDIC-supervised institution must use a haircut for foreign exchange rate volatility (H
fx
) of 8 percent, as adjusted in certain circumstances as provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
3
) and (
4
) of this section.
(
3
) For repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions, a FDIC-supervised institution may multiply the supervisory haircuts provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section by the square root of
1/2
(which equals 0.707107). If the FDIC-supervised institution determines that a longer holding period is appropriate for client-facing derivative transactions, then it must use a larger scaling factor to adjust for the longer holding period pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
6
) of this section.
(
4
) A FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward on the basis of a holding period longer than ten business days (for eligible margin loans) or five business days
(for repo-style transactions), using the formula provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
6
) of this section where the conditions in this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
4
) apply. If the number of trades in a netting set exceeds 5,000 at any time during a quarter, a FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward on the basis of a minimum holding period of twenty business days for the following quarter (except when a FDIC-supervised institution is calculating EAD for a cleared transaction under § 324.133). If a netting set contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral, a FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward on the basis of a minimum holding period of twenty business days. If over the two previous quarters more than two margin disputes on a netting set have occurred that lasted longer than the holding period, then the FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward for that netting set on the basis of a minimum holding period that is at least two times the minimum holding period for that netting set.
(
5
)(
i
) A FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward on the basis of a holding period longer than ten business days for collateral associated with derivative contracts (five business days for client-facing derivative contracts) using the formula provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
6
) of this section where the conditions in this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
5
)(
i
) apply. For collateral associated with a derivative contract that is within a netting set that is composed of more than 5,000 derivative contracts that are not cleared transactions, a FDIC-supervised institution must use a minimum holding period of twenty business days. If a netting set contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral or a derivative contract that cannot be easily replaced, a FDIC-supervised institution must use a minimum holding period of twenty business days.
(
ii
) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
1
) or (
3
) or (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
5
)(
i
) of this section, for collateral associated with a derivative contract in a netting set under which more than two margin disputes that lasted longer than the holding period occurred during the two previous quarters, the minimum holding period is twice the amount provided under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
1
) or (
3
) or (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
5
)(
i
) of this section.
(
6
) A FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the standard supervisory haircuts upward, pursuant to the adjustments provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
3
) through (
5
) of this section, using the following formula:
ER24JA20.037
Where:
T
M
equals a holding period of longer than 10 business days for eligible margin loans and derivative contracts other than client-facing derivative transactions or longer than 5 business days for repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions;
Hs equals the standard supervisory haircut; and
Ts equals 10 business days for eligible margin loans and derivative contracts other than client-facing derivative transactions or 5 business days for repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions.
(
7
) If the instrument a FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral does not meet the definition of financial collateral, the FDIC-supervised institution must use a 25.0 percent haircut for market price volatility (Hs).
(iii)
Own internal estimates for haircuts.
With the prior written approval of the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution may calculate haircuts (H
s
and H
fx
) using its own internal estimates of the volatilities of market prices and foreign exchange rates.
(A) To receive FDIC approval to use its own internal estimates, an FDIC-supervised institution must satisfy the following minimum quantitative standards:
(
1
) An FDIC-supervised institution must use a 99th percentile one-tailed confidence interval.
(
2
) The minimum holding period for a repo-style transaction is five business days and for an eligible margin loan is
ten business days except for transactions or netting sets for which paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A)(
3
) of this section applies. When an FDIC-supervised institution calculates an own-estimates haircut on a T
N
-day holding period, which is different from the minimum holding period for the transaction type, the applicable haircut (H
M
) is calculated using the following square root of time formula:
ER10SE13.027
(
i
) T
M
equals 5 for repo-style transactions and 10 for eligible margin loans;
(
ii
) T
N
equals the holding period used by the FDIC-supervised institution to derive H
N
; and
(
iii
) H
N
equals the haircut based on the holding period T
N
.
(
3
) If the number of trades in a netting set exceeds 5,000 at any time during a quarter, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the haircut using a minimum holding period of twenty business days for the following quarter (except when an FDIC-supervised institution is calculating EAD for a cleared transaction under § 324.133). If a netting set contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral or an OTC derivative that cannot be easily replaced, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the haircut using a minimum holding period of twenty business days. If over the two previous quarters more than two margin disputes on a netting set have occurred that lasted more than the holding period, then the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the haircut for transactions in that netting set on the basis of a holding period that is at least two times the minimum holding period for that netting set.
(
4
) An FDIC-supervised institution is required to calculate its own internal estimates with inputs calibrated to historical data from a continuous 12-month period that reflects a period of significant financial stress appropriate to the security or category of securities.
(
5
) An FDIC-supervised institution must have policies and procedures that describe how it determines the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the FDIC-supervised institution's own internal estimates for haircuts under this section and must be able to provide empirical support for the period used. The FDIC-supervised institution must obtain the prior approval of the FDIC for, and notify the FDIC if the FDIC-supervised institution makes any material changes to, these policies and procedures.
(
6
) Nothing in this section prevents the FDIC from requiring an FDIC-supervised institution to use a different period of significant financial stress in the calculation of own internal estimates for haircuts.
(
7
) An FDIC-supervised institution must update its data sets and calculate haircuts no less frequently than quarterly and must also reassess data sets and haircuts whenever market prices change materially.
(B) With respect to debt securities that are investment grade, an FDIC-supervised institution may calculate haircuts for categories of securities. For a category of securities, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the haircut on the basis of internal volatility estimates for securities in that category that are representative of the securities in that category that the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, posted as collateral, borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral. In determining relevant categories, the FDIC-supervised institution must at a minimum take into account:
(
1
) The type of issuer of the security;
(
2
) The credit quality of the security;
(
3
) The maturity of the security; and
(
4
) The interest rate sensitivity of the security.
(C) With respect to debt securities that are not investment grade and equity securities, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a separate haircut for each individual security.
(D) Where an exposure or collateral (whether in the form of cash or securities) is denominated in a currency that differs from the settlement currency, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a separate currency mismatch haircut for its net position in
each mismatched currency based on estimated volatilities of foreign exchange rates between the mismatched currency and the settlement currency.
(E) An FDIC-supervised institution's own estimates of market price and foreign exchange rate volatilities may not take into account the correlations among securities and foreign exchange rates on either the exposure or collateral side of a transaction (or netting set) or the correlations among securities and foreign exchange rates between the exposure and collateral sides of the transaction (or netting set).
(3)
Simple VaR methodology.
With the prior written approval of the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution may estimate EAD for a netting set using a VaR model that meets the requirements in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section. In such event, the FDIC-supervised institution must set EAD equal to max {0, [(ΣE−ΣC) + PFE]}, where:
(i) ΣE equals the value of the exposure (the sum of the current fair values of all instruments, gold, and cash the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty under the netting set);
(ii) ΣC equals the value of the collateral (the sum of the current fair values of all instruments, gold, and cash the FDIC-supervised institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty under the netting set); and
(iii) PFE (potential future exposure) equals the FDIC-supervised institution's empirically based best estimate of the 99th percentile, one-tailed confidence interval for an increase in the value of (ΣE−ΣC) over a five-business-day holding period for repo-style transactions, or over a ten-business-day holding period for eligible margin loans except for netting sets for which paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section applies using a minimum one-year historical observation period of price data representing the instruments that the FDIC-supervised institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, posted as collateral, borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral. The FDIC-supervised institution must validate its VaR model by establishing and maintaining a rigorous and regular backtesting regime.
(iv) If the number of trades in a netting set exceeds 5,000 at any time during a quarter, an FDIC-supervised institution must use a twenty-business-day holding period for the following quarter (except when an FDIC-supervised institution is calculating EAD for a cleared transaction under § 324.133). If a netting set contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral, an FDIC-supervised institution must use a twenty-business-day holding period. If over the two previous quarters more than two margin disputes on a netting set have occurred that lasted more than the holding period, then the FDIC-supervised institution must set its PFE for that netting set equal to an estimate over a holding period that is at least two times the minimum holding period for that netting set.
(c)
EAD for derivative contracts
—(1)
Options for determining EAD.
A FDIC-supervised institution must determine the EAD for a derivative contract using the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR) under paragraph (c)(5) of this section or using the internal models methodology described in paragraph (d) of this section. If a FDIC-supervised institution elects to use SA-CCR for one or more derivative contracts, the exposure amount determined under SA-CCR is the EAD for the derivative contract or derivatives contracts. A FDIC-supervised institution must use the same methodology to calculate the exposure amount for all its derivative contracts and may change its election only with prior approval of the FDIC. A FDIC-supervised institution may reduce the EAD calculated according to paragraph (c)(5) of this section by the credit valuation adjustment that the FDIC-supervised institution has recognized in its balance sheet valuation of any derivative contracts in the netting set. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(1), the credit valuation adjustment does not include any adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital attributable to changes in the fair value of the FDIC-supervised institution's liabilities that are due to changes in its own credit risk since the inception of the transaction with the counterparty.
(2)
Definitions.
For purposes of this paragraph (c) of this section, the following definitions apply:
(i)
End date
means the last date of the period referenced by an interest rate or credit derivative contract or, if the derivative contract references another instrument, by the underlying instrument, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) S
tart date
means the first date of the period referenced by an interest rate or credit derivative contract or, if the derivative contract references the value of another instrument, by underlying instrument, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(iii)
Hedging set
means:
(A) With respect to interest rate derivative contracts, all such contracts within a netting set that reference the same reference currency;
(B) With respect to exchange rate derivative contracts, all such contracts within a netting set that reference the same currency pair;
(C) With respect to credit derivative contract, all such contracts within a netting set;
(D) With respect to equity derivative contracts, all such contracts within a netting set;
(E) With respect to a commodity derivative contract, all such contracts within a netting set that reference one of the following commodity categories: Energy, metal, agricultural, or other commodities;
(F) With respect to basis derivative contracts, all such contracts within a netting set that reference the same pair of risk factors and are denominated in the same currency; or
(G) With respect to volatility derivative contracts, all such contracts within a netting set that reference one of interest rate, exchange rate, credit, equity, or commodity risk factors, separated according to the requirements under paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(A) through (E) of this section.
(H) If the risk of a derivative contract materially depends on more than one of interest rate, exchange rate, credit, equity, or commodity risk factors, the FDIC may require a FDIC-supervised institution to include the derivative contract in each appropriate hedging set under paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(A) through (E) of this section.
(3)
Credit derivatives.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section:
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution that purchases a credit derivative that is recognized under § 324.134 or § 324.135 as a credit risk mitigant for an exposure that is not a covered position under subpart F of this part is not required to calculate a separate counterparty credit risk capital requirement under this section so long as the FDIC-supervised institution does so consistently for all such credit derivatives and either includes or excludes all such credit derivatives that are subject to a master netting agreement from any measure used to determine counterparty credit risk exposure to all relevant counterparties for risk-based capital purposes.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution that is the protection provider in a credit derivative must treat the credit derivative as a wholesale exposure to the reference obligor and is not required to calculate a counterparty credit risk capital requirement for the credit derivative under this section, so long as it does so consistently for all such credit derivatives and either includes all or excludes all such credit derivatives that are subject to a master netting agreement from any measure used to determine counterparty credit risk exposure to all relevant counterparties for risk-based capital purposes (unless the FDIC-supervised institution is treating the credit derivative as a covered position under subpart F of this part, in which case the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a supplemental counterparty credit risk capital requirement under this section).
(4)
Equity derivatives.
An FDIC-supervised institution must treat an equity derivative contract as an equity exposure and compute a risk-weighted asset amount for the equity derivative contract under §§ 324.151-324.155 (unless the FDIC-supervised institution is treating the contract as a covered position under subpart F of this part). In addition, if the FDIC-supervised institution is treating the contract as a covered position under subpart F of this part,
and under certain other circumstances described in § 324.155, the FDIC-supervised institution must also calculate a risk-based capital requirement for the counterparty credit risk of an equity derivative contract under this section.
(5)
Exposure amount.
(i) The exposure amount of a netting set, as calculated under paragraph (c) of this section, is equal to 1.4 multiplied by the sum of the replacement cost of the netting set, as calculated under paragraph (c)(6) of this section, and the potential future exposure of the netting set, as calculated under paragraph (c)(7) of this section.
(ii) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, the exposure amount of a netting set subject to a variation margin agreement, excluding a netting set that is subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty to the variation margin agreement is not required to post variation margin, is equal to the lesser of the exposure amount of the netting set calculated under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section and the exposure amount of the netting set calculated as if the netting set were not subject to a variation margin agreement.
(iii) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, the exposure amount of a netting set that consists of only sold options in which the premiums have been fully paid by the counterparty to the options and where the options are not subject to a variation margin agreement is zero.
(iv) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, the exposure amount of a netting set in which the counterparty is a commercial end-user is equal to the sum of replacement cost, as calculated under paragraph (c)(6) of this section, and the potential future exposure of the netting set, as calculated under paragraph (c)(7) of this section.
(v) For purposes of the exposure amount calculated under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section and all calculations that are part of that exposure amount, a FDIC-supervised institution may elect, at the netting set level, to treat a derivative contract that is a cleared transaction that is not subject to a variation margin agreement as one that is subject to a variation margin agreement, if the derivative contract is subject to a requirement that the counterparties make daily cash payments to each other to account for changes in the fair value of the derivative contract and to reduce the net position of the contract to zero. If a FDIC-supervised institution makes an election under this paragraph (c)(5)(v) for one derivative contract, it must treat all other derivative contracts within the same netting set that are eligible for an election under this paragraph (c)(5)(v) as derivative contracts that are subject to a variation margin agreement.
(vi) For purposes of the exposure amount calculated under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section and all calculations that are part of that exposure amount, a FDIC-supervised institution may elect to treat a credit derivative contract, equity derivative contract, or commodity derivative contract that references an index as if it were multiple derivative contracts each referencing one component of the index.
(6)
Replacement cost of a netting set
—(i)
Netting set subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty must post variation margin.
The replacement cost of a netting set subject to a variation margin agreement, excluding a netting set that is subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty is not required to post variation margin, is the greater of:
(A) The sum of the fair values (after excluding any valuation adjustments) of the derivative contracts within the netting set less the sum of the net independent collateral amount and the variation margin amount applicable to such derivative contracts;
(B) The sum of the variation margin threshold and the minimum transfer amount applicable to the derivative contracts within the netting set less the net independent collateral amount applicable to such derivative contracts; or
(C) Zero.
(ii)
Netting sets not subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty must post variation margin.
The replacement cost of a netting set
that is not subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty must post variation margin to the FDIC-supervised institution is the greater of:
(A) The sum of the fair values (after excluding any valuation adjustments) of the derivative contracts within the netting set less the sum of the net independent collateral amount and variation margin amount applicable to such derivative contracts; or
(B) Zero.
(iii)
Multiple netting sets subject to a single variation margin agreement.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section, the replacement cost for multiple netting sets subject to a single variation margin agreement must be calculated according to paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section.
(iv)
Netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements or a hybrid netting set.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section, the replacement cost for a netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements or a hybrid netting set must be calculated according to paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this section.
(7)
Potential future exposure of a netting set.
The potential future exposure of a netting set is the product of the PFE multiplier and the aggregated amount.
(i)
PFE multiplier.
The PFE multiplier is calculated according to the following formula:
ER24JA20.038
Where:
V is the sum of the fair values (after excluding any valuation adjustments) of the derivative contracts within the netting set;
C is the sum of the net independent collateral amount and the variation margin amount applicable to the derivative contracts within the netting set; and
A is the aggregated amount of the netting set.
(ii)
Aggregated amount.
The aggregated amount is the sum of all hedging set amounts, as calculated under paragraph (c)(8) of this section, within a netting set.
(iii)
Multiple netting sets subject to a single variation margin agreement.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section and when calculating the potential future exposure for purposes of total leverage exposure under § 324.10(c)(2)(ii)(B), the potential future exposure for multiple netting sets subject to a single variation margin agreement must be calculated according to paragraph (c)(10)(ii) of this section.
(iv)
Netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements or a hybrid netting set.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section and when calculating the potential future exposure for purposes of total leverage exposure under § 324.10(c)(2)(ii)(B), the potential future exposure for a netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements or a hybrid netting set must be calculated according to paragraph (c)(11)(ii) of this section.
(8)
Hedging set amount
—(i)
Interest rate derivative contracts.
To calculate the hedging set amount of an interest rate derivative contract hedging set, a FDIC-supervised institution may use either of the formulas provided in paragraphs (c)(8)(i)(A) and (B) of this section:
(A) Formula 1 is as follows:
ER24JA20.039
(B) Formula 2 is as follows:
Hedging set amount
= |
AddOn
TB
1
IR
| + |
AddOn
TB
2
IR
+ |
AddOn
TB
3
IR
|.
Where in paragraphs (c)(8)(i)(A) and (B) of this section:
AddOn
TB
1
IR
is the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts, as calculated under paragraph (c)(9) of this section, within the hedging set with an end date of less than one year from the present date;
AddOn
TB
2
IR
is the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts, as calculated under paragraph (c)(9) of this section, within the hedging set with an end date of one to five years from the present date; and
AddOn
TB
3
IR
is the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts, as calculated under paragraph (c)(9) of this section, within the hedging set with an end date of more than five years from the present date.
(ii)
Exchange rate derivative contracts.
For an exchange rate derivative contract hedging set, the hedging set amount equals the absolute value of the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts, as calculated under paragraph (c)(9) of this section, within the hedging set.
(iii)
Credit derivative contracts and equity derivative contracts.
The hedging set amount of a credit derivative contract hedging set or equity derivative contract hedging set within a netting set is calculated according to the following formula:
ER24JA20.040
Where:
k
is each reference entity within the hedging set.
K
is the number of reference entities within the hedging set.
AddOn
(
Ref
k
) equals the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts, as determined under paragraph (c)(9) of this section, for all derivative contracts within the hedging set that reference reference entity
k
.
ρ
k
equals the applicable supervisory correlation factor, as provided in Table 3 to this section.
(iv)
Commodity derivative contracts.
The hedging set amount of a commodity derivative contract hedging set within a netting set is calculated according to the following formula:
ER24JA20.041
Where:
k
is each commodity type within the hedging set.
K
is the number of commodity types within the hedging set.
AddOn
(
Type
k
) equals the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts, as determined under paragraph (c)(9) of this section, for all derivative contracts within the hedging set that reference commodity type
k
.
ρ
equals the applicable supervisory correlation factor, as provided in Table 3 to this section.
(v)
Basis derivative contracts and volatility derivative contracts.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section, a FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a separate hedging set amount for each basis derivative contract hedging set and each volatility derivative contract hedging set. A FDIC-supervised institution must calculate such hedging set amounts using one of the formulas under paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (iv) that corresponds to the primary risk factor of the hedging set being calculated.
(9)
Adjusted derivative contract amount
—(i)
Summary.
To calculate the adjusted derivative contract amount of a derivative contract, a FDIC-supervised institution must determine the adjusted notional amount of derivative contract, pursuant to paragraph (c)(9)(ii) of this section, and multiply the adjusted notional amount by each of the supervisory delta adjustment, pursuant to paragraph (c)(9)(iii) of this section, the maturity factor, pursuant to paragraph (c)(9)(iv) of this section, and the applicable supervisory factor, as provided in Table 3 to this section.
(ii)
Adjusted notional amount.
(A)(
1
) For an interest rate derivative contract or a credit derivative contract, the adjusted notional amount equals the product of the notional amount of the derivative contract, as measured in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate on the date of the calculation, and the supervisory duration, as calculated by the following formula:
ER17SE20.015
Where:
S is the number of business days from the present day until the start date of the derivative contract, or zero if the start date has already passed; and
E is the number of business days from the present day until the end date of the derivative contract.
(
2
) For purposes of paragraph (c)(9)(ii)(A)(
1
) of this section:
(
i
) For an interest rate derivative contract or credit derivative contract that is a variable notional swap, the notional amount is equal to the time-weighted average of the contractual notional amounts of such a swap over the remaining life of the swap; and
(
ii
) For an interest rate derivative contract or a credit derivative contract that is a leveraged swap, in which the notional amount of all legs of the derivative contract are divided by a factor and all rates of the derivative contract are multiplied by the same factor, the notional amount is equal to the notional amount of an equivalent unleveraged swap.
(B)(
1
) For an exchange rate derivative contract, the adjusted notional amount is the notional amount of the non-U.S. denominated currency leg of the derivative contract, as measured in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate on the date of the calculation. If both legs of the exchange rate derivative contract are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, the adjusted notional amount of the derivative contract is the largest leg of the derivative contract, as measured in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate on the date of the calculation.
(
2
) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(9)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section, for an exchange rate derivative contract with multiple exchanges of principal, the FDIC-supervised institution must set the adjusted notional amount of the
derivative contract equal to the notional amount of the derivative contract multiplied by the number of exchanges of principal under the derivative contract.
(C)(
1
) For an equity derivative contract or a commodity derivative contract, the adjusted notional amount is the product of the fair value of one unit of the reference instrument underlying the derivative contract and the number of such units referenced by the derivative contract.
(
2
) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(9)(ii)(C)(
1
) of this section, when calculating the adjusted notional amount for an equity derivative contract or a commodity derivative contract that is a volatility derivative contract, the FDIC-supervised institution must replace the unit price with the underlying volatility referenced by the volatility derivative contract and replace the number of units with the notional amount of the volatility derivative contract.
(iii)
Supervisory delta adjustments.
(A) For a derivative contract that is not an option contract or collateralized debt obligation tranche, the supervisory delta adjustment is 1 if the fair value of the derivative contract increases when the value of the primary risk factor increases and −1 if the fair value of the derivative contract decreases when the value of the primary risk factor increases.
(B)(
1
) For a derivative contract that is an option contract, the supervisory delta adjustment is determined by the following formulas, as applicable:
ER24JA20.043
(
2
) As used in the formulas in Table 2 to this section:
(
i
) Φ is the standard normal cumulative distribution function;
(
ii
) P equals the current fair value of the instrument or risk factor, as applicable, underlying the option;
(
iii
) K equals the strike price of the option;
(
iv
) T equals the number of business days until the latest contractual exercise date of the option;
(
v
) λ equals zero for all derivative contracts except interest rate options for the currencies where interest rates have negative values. The same value of λ must be used for all interest rate options that are denominated in the same currency. To determine the value of λ for a given currency, a FDIC-supervised institution must find the lowest value L of P and K of all interest rate options in a given currency that the FDIC-supervised institution has with all counterparties. Then, λ is set according to this formula: λ =
max
{−
L
+ 0.1%, 0}; and
(
vi
) σ equals the supervisory option volatility, as provided in Table 3 to this section.
(C)(
1
) For a derivative contract that is a collateralized debt obligation tranche, the supervisory delta adjustment is determined by the following formula:
ER24JA20.044
(
2
) As used in the formula in paragraph (c)(9)(iii)(C)(
1
) of this section:
(
i
) A is the attachment point, which equals the ratio of the notional amounts of all underlying exposures that are subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures, expressed as a decimal value between zero and one;
30
30
In the case of a first-to-default credit derivative, there are no underlying exposures that are subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure. In the case of a second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivative, the smallest (n−1) notional amounts of the underlying exposures are subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure.
(
ii
) D is the detachment point, which equals one minus the ratio of the notional amounts of all underlying exposures that are senior to the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures, expressed as a decimal value between zero and one; and
(
iii
) The resulting amount is designated with a positive sign if the collateralized debt obligation tranche was purchased by the FDIC-supervised institution and is designated with a negative sign if the collateralized debt obligation tranche was sold by the FDIC-supervised institution.
(iv)
Maturity factor.
(A)(
1
) The maturity factor of a derivative contract that is subject to a variation margin agreement, excluding derivative contracts that are subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty is not required to post variation margin, is determined by the following formula:
ER24JA20.045
Where MPOR refers to the period from the most recent exchange of collateral covering a netting set of derivative contracts with a defaulting counterparty until the derivative contracts are closed out and the resulting market risk is re-hedged.
(
2
) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(9)(iv)(A)(
1
) of this section:
(
i
) For a derivative contract that is not a client-facing derivative transaction, MPOR cannot be less than ten business days plus the periodicity of re-margining expressed in business days minus one business day;
(
ii
) For a derivative contract that is a client-facing derivative transaction, MPOR cannot be less than five business days plus the periodicity of re-margining expressed in business days minus one business day; and
(
iii
) For a derivative contract that is within a netting set that is composed of more than 5,000 derivative contracts that are not cleared transactions, or a netting set that contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral or a derivative contract that cannot be easily replaced, MPOR cannot be less than twenty business days.
(
3
) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(9)(iv)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section, for a netting set subject to more than two outstanding disputes over margin that lasted longer than the MPOR over the previous two quarters, the applicable floor is twice the amount provided in paragraphs (c)(9)(iv)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section.
(B) The maturity factor of a derivative contract that is not subject to a variation margin agreement, or derivative contracts under which the
counterparty is not required to post variation margin, is determined by the following formula:
ER24JA20.046
Where M equals the greater of 10 business days and the remaining maturity of the contract, as measured in business days.
(C) For purposes of paragraph (c)(9)(iv) of this section, if a FDIC-supervised institution has elected pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(v) of this section to treat a derivative contract that is a cleared transaction that is not subject to a variation margin agreement as one that is subject to a variation margin agreement, the Board-regulated institution must treat the derivative contract as subject to a variation margin agreement with maturity factor as determined according to (c)(9)(iv)(A) of this section, and daily settlement does not change the end date of the period referenced by the derivative contract.
(v)
Derivative contract as multiple effective derivative contracts.
A FDIC-supervised institution must separate a derivative contract into separate derivative contracts, according to the following rules:
(A) For an option where the counterparty pays a predetermined amount if the value of the underlying asset is above or below the strike price and nothing otherwise (binary option), the option must be treated as two separate options. For purposes of paragraph (c)(9)(iii)(B) of this section, a binary option with strike K must be represented as the combination of one bought European option and one sold European option of the same type as the original option (put or call) with the strikes set equal to 0.95 * K and 1.05 * K so that the payoff of the binary option is reproduced exactly outside the region between the two strikes. The absolute value of the sum of the adjusted derivative contract amounts of the bought and sold options is capped at the payoff amount of the binary option.
(B) For a derivative contract that can be represented as a combination of standard option payoffs (such as collar, butterfly spread, calendar spread, straddle, and strangle), a FDIC-supervised institution must treat each standard option component must be treated as a separate derivative contract.
(C) For a derivative contract that includes multiple-payment options, (such as interest rate caps and floors), a FDIC-supervised institution may represent each payment option as a combination of effective single-payment options (such as interest rate caplets and floorlets).
(D) A FDIC-supervised institution may not decompose linear derivative contracts (such as swaps) into components.
(10)
Multiple netting sets subject to a single variation margin agreement
—(i)
Calculating replacement cost.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(6) of this section, a FDIC-supervised institution shall assign a single replacement cost to multiple netting sets that are subject to a single variation margin agreement under which the counterparty must post variation margin, calculated according to the following formula:
Replacement Cost
=
max
{Σ
NS
max
{
V
NS
;
0} −
max
{
C
MA
;
0}; 0} +
max
{Σ
NS
min
{
V
NS
;
0} −
min
{
C
MA
;
0}; 0}
Where:
NS
is each netting set subject to the variation margin agreement MA;
V
NS
is the sum of the fair values (after excluding any valuation adjustments) of the derivative contracts within the netting set NS; and
C
MA
is the sum of the net independent collateral amount and the variation margin amount applicable to the derivative contracts within the netting sets subject to the single variation margin agreement.
(ii)
Calculating potential future exposure.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(5) of this section, a FDIC-supervised institution shall assign a single potential future exposure to multiple netting sets that are subject to a single variation margin agreement under which the counterparty must post variation margin equal to the sum of the potential future exposure of each such netting set, each calculated according to paragraph (c)(7) of this section as if such nettings sets were not subject to a variation margin agreement.
(11)
Netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements or a hybrid netting set
—(i)
Calculating replacement cost.
To calculate replacement cost for either a netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements under which the counterparty to each variation margin agreement must post variation margin, or a netting set composed of at least one derivative contract subject to variation margin agreement under which the counterparty must post variation margin and at least one derivative contract that is not subject to such a variation margin agreement, the calculation for replacement cost is provided under paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, except that the variation margin threshold equals the sum of the variation margin thresholds of all variation margin agreements within the netting set and the minimum transfer amount equals the sum of the minimum transfer amounts of all the variation margin agreements within the netting set.
(ii)
Calculating potential future exposure.
(A) To calculate potential future exposure for a netting set subject to multiple variation margin agreements under which the counterparty to each variation margin agreement must post variation margin, or a netting set composed of at least one derivative contract subject to variation margin agreement under which the counterparty to the derivative contract must post variation margin and at least one derivative contract that is not subject to such a variation margin agreement, a FDIC-supervised institution must divide the netting set into sub-netting sets (as described in paragraph (c)(11)(ii)(B) of this section) and calculate the aggregated amount for each sub-netting set. The aggregated amount for the netting set is calculated as the sum of the aggregated amounts for the sub-netting sets. The multiplier is calculated for the entire netting set.
(B) For purposes of paragraph (c)(11)(ii)(A) of this section, the netting set must be divided into sub-netting sets as follows:
(
1
) All derivative contracts within the netting set that are not subject to a variation margin agreement or that are subject to a variation margin agreement under which the counterparty is not required to post variation margin form a single sub-netting set. The aggregated amount for this sub-netting set is calculated as if the netting set is not subject to a variation margin agreement.
(
2
) All derivative contracts within the netting set that are subject to variation margin agreements in which the counterparty must post variation margin and that share the same value of the MPOR form a single sub-netting set. The aggregated amount for this sub-netting set is calculated as if the netting set is subject to a variation margin agreement, using the MPOR value shared by the derivative contracts within the netting set.
Table 3 to § 324.132—Supervisory Option Volatility, Supervisory Correlation Parameters, and Supervisory Factors for Derivative Contracts
Asset class
Subclass
Type
Supervisory
option
volatility
(percent)
Supervisory
correlation
factor
(percent)
Supervisory
factor
1
(percent)
Interest rate
N/A
N/A
50
N/A
0.50
Exchange rate
N/A
N/A
15
N/A
4.0
Credit, single name
Investment grade
N/A
100
50
0.46
Speculative grade
N/A
100
50
1.3
Sub-speculative grade
N/A
100
50
6.0
Credit, index
Investment Grade
N/A
80
80
0.38
Speculative Grade
N/A
80
80
1.06
Equity, single name
N/A
N/A
120
50
32
Equity, index
N/A
N/A
75
80
20
Commodity
Energy
Electricity
150
40
40
Other
70
40
18
Metals
N/A
70
40
18
Agricultural
N/A
70
40
18
Other
N/A
70
40
18
1
The applicable supervisory factor for basis derivative contract hedging sets is equal to one-half of the supervisory factor provided in this Table 3, and the applicable supervisory factor for volatility derivative contract hedging sets is equal to 5 times the supervisory factor provided in this Table 3.
(d)
Internal models methodology.
(1)(i) With prior written approval from the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution may use the internal models methodology in this paragraph (d) to determine EAD for counterparty credit risk for derivative contracts (collateralized or uncollateralized) and single-product netting sets thereof, for eligible margin loans and single-product netting sets thereof, and for repo-style transactions and single-product netting sets thereof.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution that uses the internal models methodology for a particular transaction type (derivative contracts, eligible margin loans, or repo-style transactions) must use the internal models methodology for all transactions of that transaction type. An FDIC-supervised institution may choose to use the internal models methodology for one or two of these three types of exposures and not the other types.
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution may also use the internal models methodology for derivative contracts, eligible margin loans, and repo-style transactions subject to a qualifying cross-product netting agreement if:
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution effectively integrates the risk mitigating effects of cross-product netting into its risk management and other information technology systems; and
(B) The FDIC-supervised institution obtains the prior written approval of the FDIC.
(iv) An FDIC-supervised institution that uses the internal models methodology for a transaction type must receive approval from the FDIC to cease using the methodology for that transaction type or to make a material change to its internal model.
(2)
Risk-weighted assets using IMM.
Under the IMM, an FDIC-supervised institution uses an internal model to estimate the expected exposure (EE) for a netting set and then calculates EAD based on that EE. An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate two EEs and two EADs (one stressed and one unstressed) for each netting set as follows:
(i) EAD
unstressed
is calculated using an EE estimate based on the most recent data meeting the requirements of paragraph (d)(3)(vii) of this section;
(ii) EAD
stressed
is calculated using an EE estimate based on a historical period that includes a period of stress to the credit default spreads of the FDIC-supervised institution's counterparties according to paragraph (d)(3)(viii) of this section;
(iii) The FDIC-supervised institution must use its internal model's probability distribution for changes in the fair value of a netting set that are attributable to changes in market variables to determine EE; and
(iv) Under the internal models methodology, EAD = Max (0, α × effective EPE−CVA), or, subject to the prior written approval of FDIC as provided in paragraph (d)(10) of this section, a more conservative measure of EAD.
(A) CVA equals the credit valuation adjustment that the FDIC-supervised institution has recognized in its balance sheet valuation of any OTC derivative contracts in the netting set. For purposes of this paragraph (d), CVA does not include any adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital attributable to changes in the fair value of
the FDIC-supervised institution's liabilities that are due to changes in its own credit risk since the inception of the transaction with the counterparty.
ER10SE13.029
(that is, effective EPE is the time-weighted average of effective EE where the weights are the proportion that an individual effective EE represents in a one-year time interval) where:
(
1
)
EffectiveEE
t
k
= max(
Effective EE
t
k−1
,
EE
t
k
) (that is, for a specific date t
k
, effective EE is the greater of EE at that date or the effective EE at the previous date); and
(
2
) t
k
represents the k
th
future time period in the model and there are n time periods represented in the model over the first year, and
(C) α = 1.4 except as provided in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, or when the FDIC has determined that the FDIC-supervised institution must set α higher based on the FDIC-supervised institution's specific characteristics of counterparty credit risk or model performance.
(v) An FDIC-supervised institution may include financial collateral currently posted by the counterparty as collateral (but may not include other forms of collateral) when calculating EE.
(vi) If an FDIC-supervised institution hedges some or all of the counterparty credit risk associated with a netting set using an eligible credit derivative, the FDIC-supervised institution may take the reduction in exposure to the counterparty into account when estimating EE. If the FDIC-supervised institution recognizes this reduction in exposure to the counterparty in its estimate of EE, it must also use its internal model to estimate a separate EAD for the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure to the protection provider of the credit derivative.
(3)
Prior approval relating to EAD calculation.
To obtain FDIC approval to calculate the distributions of exposures upon which the EAD calculation is based, the FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDIC that it has been using for at least one year an internal model that broadly meets the following minimum standards, with which the FDIC-supervised institution must maintain compliance:
(i) The model must have the systems capability to estimate the expected exposure to the counterparty on a daily basis (but is not expected to estimate or report expected exposure on a daily basis);
(ii) The model must estimate expected exposure at enough future dates to reflect accurately all the future cash flows of contracts in the netting set;
(iii) The model must account for the possible non-normality of the exposure distribution, where appropriate;
(iv) The FDIC-supervised institution must measure, monitor, and control current counterparty exposure and the exposure to the counterparty over the whole life of all contracts in the netting set;
(v) The FDIC-supervised institution must be able to measure and manage current exposures gross and net of collateral held, where appropriate. The FDIC-supervised institution must estimate expected exposures for OTC derivative contracts both with and without the effect of collateral agreements;
(vi) The FDIC-supervised institution must have procedures to identify, monitor, and control wrong-way risk throughout the life of an exposure. The procedures must include stress testing and scenario analysis;
(vii) The model must use current market data to compute current exposures. The FDIC-supervised institution must estimate model parameters using historical data from the most recent three-year period and update the data quarterly or more frequently if market conditions warrant. The FDIC-supervised institution should consider using
model parameters based on forward-looking measures, where appropriate;
(viii) When estimating model parameters based on a stress period, the FDIC-supervised institution must use at least three years of historical data that include a period of stress to the credit default spreads of the FDIC-supervised institution's counterparties. The FDIC-supervised institution must review the data set and update the data as necessary, particularly for any material changes in its counterparties. The FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate, at least quarterly, and maintain documentation of such demonstration, that the stress period coincides with increased CDS or other credit spreads of the FDIC-supervised institution's counterparties. The FDIC-supervised institution must have procedures to evaluate the effectiveness of its stress calibration that include a process for using benchmark portfolios that are vulnerable to the same risk factors as the FDIC-supervised institution's portfolio. The FDIC may require the FDIC-supervised institution to modify its stress calibration to better reflect actual historic losses of the portfolio;
(ix) An FDIC-supervised institution must subject its internal model to an initial validation and annual model review process. The model review should consider whether the inputs and risk factors, as well as the model outputs, are appropriate. As part of the model review process, the FDIC-supervised institution must have a backtesting program for its model that includes a process by which unacceptable model performance will be determined and remedied;
(x) An FDIC-supervised institution must have policies for the measurement, management and control of collateral and margin amounts; and
(xi) An FDIC-supervised institution must have a comprehensive stress testing program that captures all credit exposures to counterparties, and incorporates stress testing of principal market risk factors and creditworthiness of counterparties.
(4)
Calculating the maturity of exposures.
(i) If the remaining maturity of the exposure or the longest-dated contract in the netting set is greater than one year, the FDIC-supervised institution must set M for the exposure or netting set equal to the lower of five years or M(EPE), where:
ER10SE13.030
(ii) If the remaining maturity of the exposure or the longest-dated contract in the netting set is one year or less, the FDIC-supervised institution must set M for the exposure or netting set equal to one year, except as provided in § 324.131(d)(7).
(iii) Alternatively, an FDIC-supervised institution that uses an internal model to calculate a one-sided credit valuation adjustment may use the effective credit duration estimated by the model as M(EPE) in place of the formula in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section.
(5)
Effects of collateral agreements on EAD.
An FDIC-supervised institution
may capture the effect on EAD of a collateral agreement that requires receipt of collateral when exposure to the counterparty increases, but may not capture the effect on EAD of a collateral agreement that requires receipt of collateral when counterparty credit quality deteriorates. Two methods are available to capture the effect of a collateral agreement, as set forth in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) With prior written approval from the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution may include the effect of a collateral agreement within its internal model used to calculate EAD. The FDIC-supervised institution may set EAD equal to the expected exposure at the end of the margin period of risk. The margin period of risk means, with respect to a netting set subject to a collateral agreement, the time period from the most recent exchange of collateral with a counterparty until the next required exchange of collateral, plus the period of time required to sell and realize the proceeds of the least liquid collateral that can be delivered under the terms of the collateral agreement and, where applicable, the period of time required to re-hedge the resulting market risk upon the default of the counterparty. The minimum margin period of risk is set according to paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section; or
(ii) As an alternative to paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution that can model EPE without collateral agreements but cannot achieve the higher level of modeling sophistication to model EPE with collateral agreements can set effective EPE for a collateralized netting set equal to the lesser of:
(A) An add-on that reflects the potential increase in exposure of the netting set over the margin period of risk, plus the larger of:
(
1
) The current exposure of the netting set reflecting all collateral held or posted by the FDIC-supervised institution excluding any collateral called or in dispute; or
(
2
) The largest net exposure including all collateral held or posted under the margin agreement that would not trigger a collateral call. For purposes of this section, the add-on is computed as the expected increase in the netting set's exposure over the margin period of risk (set in accordance with paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section); or
(B) Effective EPE without a collateral agreement plus any collateral the FDIC-supervised institution posts to the counterparty that exceeds the required margin amount.
(iii) For purposes of this part, including paragraphs (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section, the margin period of risk for a netting set subject to a collateral agreement is:
(A) Five business days for repo-style transactions subject to daily remargining and daily marking-to-market, and ten business days for other transactions when liquid financial collateral is posted under a daily margin maintenance requirement, or
(B) Twenty business days if the number of trades in a netting set exceeds 5,000 at any time during the previous quarter (except if the FDIC-supervised institution is calculating EAD for a cleared transaction under § 324.133) or contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral or any derivative contract that cannot be easily replaced. If over the two previous quarters more than two margin disputes on a netting set have occurred that lasted more than the margin period of risk, then the FDIC-supervised institution must use a margin period of risk for that netting set that is at least two times the minimum margin period of risk for that netting set. If the periodicity of the receipt of collateral is N-days, the minimum margin period of risk is the minimum margin period of risk under this paragraph (d) plus N minus 1. This period should be extended to cover any impediments to prompt re-hedging of any market risk.
(C) Five business days for an OTC derivative contract or netting set of OTC derivative contracts where the FDIC-supervised institution is either acting as a financial intermediary and enters into an offsetting transaction with a CCP or where the FDIC-supervised institution provides a guarantee to the CCP on the performance of the client. An FDIC-supervised institution must use a longer holding period if the FDIC-supervised institution determines that a longer period is appropriate. Additionally, the FDIC may require the
FDIC-supervised institution to set a longer holding period if the FDIC determines that a longer period is appropriate due to the nature, structure, or characteristics of the transaction or is commensurate with the risks associated with the transaction.
(6)
Own estimate of alpha.
With prior written approval of the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution may calculate alpha as the ratio of economic capital from a full simulation of counterparty exposure across counterparties that incorporates a joint simulation of market and credit risk factors (numerator) and economic capital based on EPE (denominator), subject to a floor of 1.2. For purposes of this calculation, economic capital is the unexpected losses for all counterparty credit risks measured at a 99.9 percent confidence level over a one-year horizon. To receive approval, the FDIC-supervised institution must meet the following minimum standards to the satisfaction of the FDIC:
(i) The FDIC-supervised institution's own estimate of alpha must capture in the numerator the effects of:
(A) The material sources of stochastic dependency of distributions of fair values of transactions or portfolios of transactions across counterparties;
(B) Volatilities and correlations of market risk factors used in the joint simulation, which must be related to the credit risk factor used in the simulation to reflect potential increases in volatility or correlation in an economic downturn, where appropriate; and
(C) The granularity of exposures (that is, the effect of a concentration in the proportion of each counterparty's exposure that is driven by a particular risk factor).
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution must assess the potential model uncertainty in its estimates of alpha.
(iii) The FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the numerator and denominator of alpha in a consistent fashion with respect to modeling methodology, parameter specifications, and portfolio composition.
(iv) The FDIC-supervised institution must review and adjust as appropriate its estimates of the numerator and denominator of alpha on at least a quarterly basis and more frequently when the composition of the portfolio varies over time.
(7)
Risk-based capital requirements for transactions with specific wrong-way risk.
An FDIC-supervised institution must determine if a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, bond option, or equity derivative contract or purchased credit derivative to which the FDIC-supervised institution applies the internal models methodology under this paragraph (d) has specific wrong-way risk. If a transaction has specific wrong-way risk, the FDIC-supervised institution must treat the transaction as its own netting set and exclude it from the model described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section and instead calculate the risk-based capital requirement for the transaction as follows:
(i) For an equity derivative contract, by multiplying:
(A) K, calculated using the appropriate risk-based capital formula specified in Table 1 of § 324.131 using the PD of the counterparty and LGD equal to 100 percent, by
(B) The maximum amount the FDIC-supervised institution could lose on the equity derivative.
(ii) For a purchased credit derivative by multiplying:
(A) K, calculated using the appropriate risk-based capital formula specified in Table 1 of § 324.131 using the PD of the counterparty and LGD equal to 100 percent, by
(B) The fair value of the reference asset of the credit derivative.
(iii) For a bond option, by multiplying:
(A) K, calculated using the appropriate risk-based capital formula specified in Table 1 of § 324.131 using the PD of the counterparty and LGD equal to 100 percent, by
(B) The smaller of the notional amount of the underlying reference asset and the maximum potential loss under the bond option contract.
(iv) For a repo-style transaction or eligible margin loan by multiplying:
(A) K, calculated using the appropriate risk-based capital formula specified in Table 1 of § 324.131 using the PD of the counterparty and LGD equal to 100 percent, by
(B) The EAD of the transaction determined according to the EAD equation in § 324.132(b)(2), substituting the estimated value of the collateral assuming a default of the counterparty for the value of the collateral in Σ
C
of the equation.
(8)
Risk-weighted asset amount for IMM exposures with specific wrong-way risk.
The aggregate risk-weighted asset amount for IMM exposures with specific wrong-way risk is the sum of an FDIC-supervised institution's risk-based capital requirement for purchased credit derivatives that are not bond options with specific wrong-way risk as calculated under paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution's risk-based capital requirement for equity derivatives with specific wrong-way risk as calculated under paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution's risk-based capital requirement for bond options with specific wrong-way risk as calculated under paragraph (d)(7)(iii) of this section, and an FDIC-supervised institution's risk-based capital requirement for repo-style transactions and eligible margin loans with specific wrong-way risk as calculated under paragraph (d)(7)(iv) of this section, multiplied by 12.5.
(9)
Risk-weighted assets for IMM exposures.
(i) The FDIC-supervised institution must insert the assigned risk parameters for each counterparty and netting set into the appropriate formula specified in Table 1 of § 324.131 and multiply the output of the formula by the EAD
unstressed
of the netting set to obtain the unstressed capital requirement for each netting set. An FDIC-supervised institution that uses an advanced CVA approach that captures migrations in credit spreads under paragraph (e)(3) of this section must set the maturity adjustment (b) in the formula equal to zero. The sum of the unstressed capital requirement calculated for each netting set equals K
unstressed
.
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution must insert the assigned risk parameters for each wholesale obligor and netting set into the appropriate formula specified in Table 1 of § 324.131 and multiply the output of the formula by the EAD
stressed
of the netting set to obtain the stressed capital requirement for each netting set. An FDIC-supervised institution that uses an advanced CVA approach that captures migrations in credit spreads under paragraph (e)(6) of this section must set the maturity adjustment (b) in the formula equal to zero. The sum of the stressed capital requirement calculated for each netting set equals K
stressed
.
(iii) The FDIC-supervised institution's dollar risk-based capital requirement under the internal models methodology equals the larger of K
unstressed
and K
stressed
. An FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted assets amount for IMM exposures is equal to the capital requirement multiplied by 12.5, plus risk-weighted assets for IMM exposures with specific wrong-way risk in paragraph (d)(8) of this section and those in paragraph (d)(10) of this section.
(10)
Other measures of counterparty exposure.
(i) With prior written approval of the FDIC, a FDIC-supervised institution may set EAD equal to a measure of counterparty credit risk exposure, such as peak EAD, that is more conservative than an alpha of 1.4 times the larger of EPE
unstressed
and EPE
stressed
for every counterparty whose EAD will be measured under the alternative measure of counterparty exposure. The FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate the conservatism of the measure of counterparty credit risk exposure used for EAD. With respect to paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section:
(A) For material portfolios of new OTC derivative products, the FDIC-supervised institution may assume that the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section meets the conservatism requirement of this section for a period not to exceed 180 days.
(B) For immaterial portfolios of OTC derivative contracts, the FDIC-supervised institution generally may assume that the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section meets the conservatism requirement of this section.
(ii) To calculate risk-weighted assets for purposes of the approach in paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section, the
FDIC-supervised institution must insert the assigned risk parameters for each counterparty and netting set into the appropriate formula specified in Table 1 of § 324.131, multiply the output of the formula by the EAD for the exposure as specified above, and multiply by 12.5.
(e)
Credit valuation adjustment (CVA) risk-weighted assets
—(1)
In general.
With respect to its OTC derivative contracts, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a CVA risk-weighted asset amount for its portfolio of OTC derivative transactions that are subject to the CVA capital requirement using the simple CVA approach described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section or, with prior written approval of the FDIC, the advanced CVA approach described in paragraph (e)(6) of this section. An FDIC-supervised institution that receives prior FDIC approval to calculate its CVA risk-weighted asset amounts for a class of counterparties using the advanced CVA approach must continue to use that approach for that class of counterparties until it notifies the FDIC in writing that the FDIC-supervised institution expects to begin calculating its CVA risk-weighted asset amount using the simple CVA approach. Such notice must include an explanation of the FDIC-supervised institution's rationale and the date upon which the FDIC-supervised institution will begin to calculate its CVA risk-weighted asset amount using the simple CVA approach.
(2)
Market risk FDIC-supervised institutions.
Notwithstanding the prior approval requirement in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a market risk FDIC-supervised institution may calculate its CVA risk-weighted asset amount using the advanced CVA approach if the FDIC-supervised institution has FDIC approval to:
(i) Determine EAD for OTC derivative contracts using the internal models methodology described in paragraph (d) of this section; and
(ii) Determine its specific risk add-on for debt positions issued by the counterparty using a specific risk model described in § 324.207(b).
(3)
Recognition of hedges.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution may recognize a single name CDS, single name contingent CDS, any other equivalent hedging instrument that references the counterparty directly, and index credit default swaps (CDS
ind
) as a CVA hedge under paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of this section or paragraph (e)(6) of this section, provided that the position is managed as a CVA hedge in accordance with the FDIC-supervised institution's hedging policies.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution shall not recognize as a CVA hedge any tranched or n
th
-to-default credit derivative.
(4)
Total CVA risk-weighted assets.
Total CVA risk-weighted assets is the CVA capital requirement, K
CVA
, calculated for an FDIC-supervised institution's entire portfolio of OTC derivative counterparties that are subject to the CVA capital requirement, multiplied by 12.5.
(5)
Simple CVA approach.
(i) Under the simple CVA approach, the CVA capital requirement, K
CVA
, is calculated according to the following formula:
ER10SE13.031
(A)
w
i
equals the weight applicable to counterparty
i
under Table 4 to this section;
(B)
M
i
equals the EAD-weighted average of the effective maturity of each netting set with counterparty
i
(where
each netting set's effective maturity can be no less than one year.)
(C)
EAD
i
total
equals the sum of the EAD for all netting sets of OTC derivative contracts with counterparty
i
calculated using the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk described in paragraph (c) of this section or the internal models methodology described in paragraph (d) of this section. When the FDIC-supervised institution calculates EAD under paragraph (c) of this section, such EAD may be adjusted for purposes of calculating
EAD
i
total
by multiplying EAD by (1-exp(-0.05 ×
M
i
))/(0.05 ×
M
i
), where “exp” is the exponential function. When the FDIC-supervised institution calculates EAD under paragraph (d) of this section,
EAD
i
total
equals
EAD
unstressed
.
(D)
M
i
hedge
equals the notional weighted average maturity of the hedge instrument.
(E)
B
i
equals the sum of the notional amounts of any purchased single name CDS referencing counterparty
i
that is used to hedge CVA risk to counterparty
i
multiplied by (1-exp(-0.05 ×
M
i
hedge
))/(0.05 ×
M
i
hedge
).
(F)
M
ind
equals the maturity of the CDS
ind
or the notional weighted average maturity of any CDS
ind
purchased to hedge CVA risk of counterparty
i.
(G)
B
ind
equals the notional amount of one or more CDS
ind
purchased to hedge CVA risk for counterparty
i
multiplied by (1-exp(-0.05 ×
M
ind
))/(0.05 ×
M
ind
)
(H)
w
ind
equals the weight applicable to the CDS
ind
based on the average weight of the underlying reference names that comprise the index under Table 4 to this section.
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution may treat the notional amount of the index attributable to a counterparty as a single name hedge of counterparty
i
(
B
i
,) when calculating K
CVA
, and subtract the notional amount of
B
i
from the notional amount of the CDS
ind.
An FDIC-supervised institution must treat the CDS
ind
hedge with the notional amount reduced by
B
i
as a CVA hedge.
Table 4 to § 324.132—Assignment of Counterparty Weight
Internal PD
(in percent)
Weight
w
i
(in percent)
0.00-0.07
0.70
0.070-0.15
0.80
0.15-0.40
1.00
0.40-2.00
2.00
2.00-6.00
3.00
6.00
10.00
(6)
Advanced CVA approach.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution may use the VaR model that it uses to determine specific risk under § 324.207(b) or another VaR model that meets the quantitative requirements of § 324.205(b) and § 324.207(b)(1) to calculate its CVA capital requirement for a counterparty by modeling the impact of changes in the counterparties' credit spreads, together with any recognized CVA hedges, on the CVA for the counterparties, subject to the following requirements:
(A) The VaR model must incorporate only changes in the counterparties' credit spreads, not changes in other risk factors. The VaR model does not need to capture jump-to-default risk;
(B) An FDIC-supervised institution that qualifies to use the advanced CVA approach must include in that approach any immaterial OTC derivative portfolios for which it uses the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk in paragraph (c) of this section according to paragraph (e)(6)(viii) of this section; and
(C) An FDIC-supervised institution must have the systems capability to calculate the CVA capital requirement for a counterparty on a daily basis (but is not required to calculate the CVA capital requirement on a daily basis).
(ii) Under the advanced CVA approach, the CVA capital requirement, K
CVA
, is calculated according to the following formulas:
ER10SE13.032
Where
(A)
t
i
equals the time of the
i
-th revaluation time bucket starting from
t
0
= 0.
(B)
t
T
equals the longest contractual maturity across the OTC derivative contracts with the counterparty.
(C)
s
i
equals the CDS spread for the counterparty at tenor
t
i
used to calculate the CVA for the counterparty. If a CDS spread is not available, the FDIC-supervised institution must use a proxy spread based on the credit quality, industry and region of the counterparty.
(D)
LGD
MKT
equals the loss given default of the counterparty based on the spread of a publicly traded debt instrument of the counterparty, or, where a publicly traded debt instrument spread is not available, a proxy spread based on the credit quality, industry, and region of the counterparty. Where no market information and no reliable proxy based on the credit quality, industry, and region of the counterparty are available to determine LGD
MKT
, an FDIC-supervised institution may use a conservative estimate when determining LGD
MKT
, subject to approval by the FDIC.
(E)
EE
i
equals the sum of the expected exposures for all netting sets with the counterparty at revaluation time
t
i
, calculated according to paragraphs (e)(6)(iv)(A) and (e)(6)(v)(A) of this section.
(F)
D
i
equals the risk-free discount factor at time
t
i
, where
D
0
= 1.
(G) Exp is the exponential function.
(H) The subscript j refers either to a stressed or an unstressed calibration as described in paragraphs (e)(6)(iv) and (v) of this section.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (e)(6)(i) and (e)(6)(ii) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must use the formulas in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii)(A) or (e)(6)(iii)(B) of this section to calculate credit spread sensitivities if its VaR model is not based on full repricing.
(A) If the VaR model is based on credit spread sensitivities for specific tenors, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate each credit spread sensitivity according to the following formula:
ER10SE13.033
(B) If the VaR model uses credit spread sensitivities to parallel shifts in credit spreads, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate each credit spread sensitivity according to the following formula:
ER10SE13.034
(iv) To calculate the
CVA
Unstressed
measure for purposes of paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section, the FDIC-supervised institution must:
(A) Use the
EE
i
calculated using the calibration of paragraph (d)(3)(vii) of this section, except as provided in § 324.132 (e)(6)(vi), and
(B) Use the historical observation period required under § 324.205(b)(2).
(v) To calculate the
CVA
Stressed
measure for purposes of paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section, the FDIC-supervised institution must:
(A) Use the
EE
i
calculated using the stress calibration in paragraph (d)(3)(viii) of this section except as provided in paragraph (e)(6)(vi) of this section.
(B) Calibrate VaR model inputs to historical data from the most severe twelve-month stress period contained within the three-year stress period used to calculate
EE
i
. The FDIC may require an FDIC-supervised institution to use a different period of significant financial stress in the calculation of the
CVA
Stressed
measure.
(vi) If an FDIC-supervised institution captures the effect of a collateral agreement on EAD using the method described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, for purposes of paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate
EE
i
using the method in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section and keep that EE constant with the maturity equal to the maximum of:
(A) Half of the longest maturity of a transaction in the netting set, and
(B) The notional weighted average maturity of all transactions in the netting set.
(vii) For purposes of paragraph (e)(6) of this section, the FDIC-supervised institution's VaR model must capture the basis between the spreads of any CDS
ind
that is used as the hedging instrument and the hedged counterparty exposure over various time periods, including benign and stressed environments. If the VaR model does not capture that basis, the FDIC-supervised institution must reflect only 50 percent of the notional amount of the CDS
ind
hedge in the VaR model.
(viii) If a FDIC-supervised institution uses the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section to calculate the EAD for any immaterial portfolios of OTC derivative contracts, the FDIC-supervised institution must use that EAD as a constant EE in the formula for the calculation of CVA with the maturity equal to the maximum of:
(A) Half of the longest maturity of a transaction in the netting set; and
(B) The notional weighted average maturity of all transactions in the netting set.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20761, Apr. 14, 2014; 80 FR 41424, July 15, 2015; 85 FR 4434, Jan. 24, 2020; 85 FR 57963, Sept. 17, 2020; 86 FR 745, Jan. 6, 2021]
§ 324.133
Cleared transactions.
(a)
General requirements
—(1)
Clearing member clients.
A FDIC-supervised institution that is a clearing member client must use the methodologies described in paragraph (b) of this section to calculate risk-weighted assets for a cleared transaction.
(2)
Clearing members.
A FDIC-supervised institution that is a clearing member must use the methodologies
described in paragraph (c) of this section to calculate its risk-weighted assets for a cleared transaction and paragraph (d) of this section to calculate its risk-weighted assets for its default fund contribution to a CCP.
(b)
Clearing member client FDIC-supervised institutions
—(1)
Risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions.
(i) To determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a cleared transaction, a FDIC-supervised institution that is a clearing member client must multiply the trade exposure amount for the cleared transaction, calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, by the risk weight appropriate for the cleared transaction, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(ii) A clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution's total risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions is the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts for all of its cleared transactions.
(2)
Trade exposure amount.
(i) For a cleared transaction that is a derivative contract or a netting set of derivative contracts, trade exposure amount equals the EAD for the derivative contract or netting set of derivative contracts calculated using the methodology used to calculate EAD for derivative contracts set forth in § 324.132(c) or (d), plus the fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution and held by the CCP or a clearing member in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote. When the FDIC-supervised institution calculates EAD for the cleared transaction using the methodology in § 324.132(d), EAD equals EAD
unstressed
.
(ii) For a cleared transaction that is a repo-style transaction or netting set of repo-style transactions, trade exposure amount equals the EAD for the repo-style transaction calculated using the methodology set forth in § 324.132(b)(2) or (3) or (d), plus the fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution and held by the CCP or a clearing member in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote. When the FDIC-supervised institution calculates EAD for the cleared transaction under § 324.132(d), EAD equals EAD
unstressed
.
(3)
Cleared transaction risk weights.
(i) For a cleared transaction with a QCCP, a clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution must apply a risk weight of:
(A) 2 percent if the collateral posted by the FDIC-supervised institution to the QCCP or clearing member is subject to an arrangement that prevents any loss to the clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution due to the joint default or a concurrent insolvency, liquidation, or receivership proceeding of the clearing member and any other clearing member clients of the clearing member; and the clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution has conducted sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintains sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that in the event of a legal challenge (including one resulting from an event of default or from liquidation, insolvency, or receivership proceedings) the relevant court and administrative authorities would find the arrangements to be legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdictions.
(B) 4 percent, if the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section are not met.
(ii) For a cleared transaction with a CCP that is not a QCCP, a clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution must apply the risk weight applicable to the CCP under subpart D of this part.
(4)
Collateral.
(i) Notwithstanding any other requirement of this section, collateral posted by a clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution that is held by a custodian (in its capacity as a custodian) in a manner that is bankruptcy remote from the CCP, clearing member, and other clearing member clients of the clearing member, is not subject to a capital requirement under this section.
(ii) A clearing member client FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a risk-weighted asset amount for any collateral provided to a CCP, clearing member or a custodian in connection with a cleared transaction in accordance with requirements under subparts E or F of this part, as applicable.
(c)
Clearing member FDIC-supervised institution
—(1)
Risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions.
(i) To determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a cleared transaction, a clearing member FDIC-supervised institution must multiply the trade exposure amount for the cleared transaction, calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section by the risk weight appropriate for the cleared transaction, determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(ii) A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution's total risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions is the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts for all of its cleared transactions.
(2)
Trade exposure amount.
A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution must calculate its trade exposure amount for a cleared transaction as follows:
(i) For a cleared transaction that is a derivative contract or a netting set of derivative contracts, trade exposure amount equals the EAD calculated using the methodology used to calculate EAD for derivative contracts set forth in § 324.132(c) or (d), plus the fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member FDIC-supervised institution and held by the CCP in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote. When the clearing member FDIC-supervised institution calculates EAD for the cleared transaction using the methodology in § 324.132(d), EAD equals EAD
unstressed
.
(ii) For a cleared transaction that is a repo-style transaction or netting set of repo-style transactions, trade exposure amount equals the EAD calculated under § 324.132(b)(2) or (3) or (d), plus the fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member FDIC-supervised institution and held by the CCP in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote. When the clearing member FDIC-supervised institution calculates EAD for the cleared transaction under § 324.132(d), EAD equals EAD
unstressed
.
(3)
Cleared transaction risk weights.
(i) A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution must apply a risk weight of 2 percent to the trade exposure amount for a cleared transaction with a QCCP.
(ii) For a cleared transaction with a CCP that is not a QCCP, a clearing member FDIC-supervised institution must apply the risk weight applicable to the CCP according to subpart D of this part.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, a clearing member FDIC-supervised institution may apply a risk weight of zero percent to the trade exposure amount for a cleared transaction with a QCCP where the clearing member FDIC-supervised institution is acting as a financial intermediary on behalf of a clearing member client, the transaction offsets another transaction that satisfies the requirements set forth in § 324.3(a), and the clearing member FDIC-supervised institution is not obligated to reimburse the clearing member client in the event of the QCCP default.
(4)
Collateral.
(i) Notwithstanding any other requirement of this section, collateral posted by a clearing member FDIC-supervised institution that is held by a custodian (in its capacity as a custodian) in a manner that is bankruptcy remote from the CCP, clearing member, and other clearing member clients of the clearing member, is not subject to a capital requirement under this section.
(ii) A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a risk-weighted asset amount for any collateral provided to a CCP, clearing member or a custodian in connection with a cleared transaction in accordance with requirements under subparts E or F of this part, as applicable.
(d)
Default fund contributions
—(1)
General requirement.
A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution must determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a default fund contribution to a CCP at least quarterly, or more frequently if, in the opinion of the FDIC-supervised institution or the FDIC, there is a material change in the financial condition of the CCP.
(2)
Risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to nonqualifying CCPs.
A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to CCPs that are not QCCPs equals the sum of such default fund contributions
multiplied by 1,250 percent, or an amount determined by the FDIC, based on factors such as size, structure, and membership characteristics of the CCP and riskiness of its transactions, in cases where such default fund contributions may be unlimited.
(3)
Risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to QCCPs.
A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to QCCPs equals the sum of its capital requirement, K
CM
for each QCCP, as calculated under the methodology set forth in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, multiplied by 12.5.
(4)
Capital requirement for default fund contributions to a QCCP.
A clearing member FDIC-supervised institution's capital requirement for its default fund contribution to a QCCP (
K
CM
) is equal to:
ER17SE20.016
(5)
Hypothetical capital requirement of a QCCP.
Where a QCCP has provided its K
CCP
, an FDIC-supervised institution must rely on such disclosed figure instead of calculating K
CCP
under this paragraph (d)(5), unless the FDIC-supervised institution determines that a more conservative figure is appropriate based on the nature, structure, or characteristics of the QCCP. The hypothetical capital requirement of a QCCP (
K
CCP
), as determined by the FDIC-supervised institution, is equal to:
K
CCP
= Σ
CMi
EAD
i
* 1.6
percent
Where:
CMi
is each clearing member of the QCCP; and
EAD
i
is the exposure amount of the QCCP to each clearing member of the QCCP, as determined under paragraph (d)(6) of this section.
(6)
EAD of a QCCP to a clearing member.
(i) The EAD of a QCCP to a clearing member is equal to the sum of the EAD for derivative contracts determined under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section and the EAD for repo-style transactions determined under paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section.
(ii) With respect to any derivative contracts between the QCCP and the clearing member that are cleared
transactions and any guarantees that the clearing member has provided to the QCCP with respect to performance of a clearing member client on a derivative contract, the EAD is equal to the exposure amount of the QCCP to the clearing member for all such derivative contracts and guarantees of derivative contracts calculated under SA-CCR in § 324.132(c) (or, with respect to a QCCP located outside the United States, under a substantially identical methodology in effect in the jurisdiction) using a value of 10 business days for purposes of § 324.132(c)(9)(iv); less the value of all collateral held by the QCCP posted by the clearing member or a client of the clearing member in connection with a derivative contract for which the clearing member has provided a guarantee to the QCCP and the amount of the prefunded default fund contribution of the clearing member to the QCCP.
(iii) With respect to any repo-style transactions between the QCCP and a clearing member that are cleared transactions, EAD is equal to:
EAD
I
= max{
EBRM
I
−
IM
i
−
DF
I
;0}
Where:
EBRM
i
is the exposure amount of the QCCP to each clearing member for all repo-style transactions between the QCCP and the clearing member, as determined under § 324.132(b)(2) and without recognition of the initial margin collateral posted by the clearing member to the QCCP with respect to the repo-style transactions or the prefunded default fund contribution of the clearing member institution to the QCCP;
IM
i
is the initial margin collateral posted by each clearing member to the QCCP with respect to the repo-style transactions; and
DF
i
is the prefunded default fund contribution of each clearing member to the QCCP that is not already deducted in paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section.
(iv) EAD must be calculated separately for each clearing member's sub-client accounts and sub-house account (
i.e.,
for the clearing member's proprietary activities). If the clearing member's collateral and its client's collateral are held in the same default fund contribution account, then the EAD of that account is the sum of the EAD for the client-related transactions within the account and the EAD of the house-related transactions within the account. For purposes of determining such EADs, the independent collateral of the clearing member and its client must be allocated in proportion to the respective total amount of independent collateral posted by the clearing member to the QCCP.
(v) If any account or sub-account contains both derivative contracts and repo-style transactions, the EAD of that account is the sum of the EAD for the derivative contracts within the account and the EAD of the repo-style transactions within the account. If independent collateral is held for an account containing both derivative contracts and repo-style transactions, then such collateral must be allocated to the derivative contracts and repo-style transactions in proportion to the respective product specific exposure amounts, calculated, excluding the effects of collateral, according to § 324.132(b) for repo-style transactions and to § 324.132(c)(5) for derivative contracts.
(vi) Notwithstanding any other provision of paragraph (d) of this section, with the prior approval of the FDIC, a FDIC-supervised institution may determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a default fund contribution to a QCCP according to § 324.35(d)(3)(ii).
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20761, Apr. 14, 2014; 80 FR 41425, July 15, 2015; 84 FR 35279, July 22, 2019; 85 FR 4440, Jan. 24, 2020; 85 FR 57963, Sept. 17, 2020]
§ 324.134
Guarantees and credit derivatives: PD substitution and LGD adjustment approaches.
(a)
Scope.
(1) This section applies to wholesale exposures for which:
(i) Credit risk is fully covered by an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative; or
(ii) Credit risk is covered on a pro rata basis (that is, on a basis in which the FDIC-supervised institution and the protection provider share losses proportionately) by an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative.
(2) Wholesale exposures on which there is a tranching of credit risk (reflecting at least two different levels of seniority) are securitization exposures subject to §§ 324.141 through 324.145.
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution may elect to recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative covering an exposure described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section by using the PD substitution approach or the LGD adjustment approach in paragraph (c) of this section or, if the transaction qualifies, using the double default treatment in § 324.135. An FDIC-supervised institution's PD and LGD for the hedged exposure may not be lower than the PD and LGD floors described in § 324.131(d)(2) and (d)(3).
(4) If multiple eligible guarantees or eligible credit derivatives cover a single exposure described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution may treat the hedged exposure as multiple separate exposures each covered by a single eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative and may calculate a separate risk-based capital requirement for each separate exposure as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(5) If a single eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative covers multiple hedged wholesale exposures described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must treat each hedged exposure as covered by a separate eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative and must calculate a separate risk-based capital requirement for each exposure as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(6) An FDIC-supervised institution must use the same risk parameters for calculating ECL as it uses for calculating the risk-based capital requirement for the exposure.
(b)
Rules of recognition.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution may only recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of eligible guarantees and eligible credit derivatives.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution may only recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of an eligible credit derivative to hedge an exposure that is different from the credit derivative's reference exposure used for determining the derivative's cash settlement value, deliverable obligation, or occurrence of a credit event if:
(i) The reference exposure ranks
pari passu
(that is, equally) with or is junior to the hedged exposure; and
(ii) The reference exposure and the hedged exposure are exposures to the same legal entity, and legally enforceable cross-default or cross-acceleration clauses are in place to assure payments under the credit derivative are triggered when the obligor fails to pay under the terms of the hedged exposure.
(c)
Risk parameters for hedged exposures
—(1)
PD substitution approach
—(i)
Full coverage.
If an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative meets the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the protection amount (P) of the guarantee or credit derivative is greater than or equal to the EAD of the hedged exposure, an FDIC-supervised institution may recognize the guarantee or credit derivative in determining the FDIC-supervised institution's risk-based capital requirement for the hedged exposure by substituting the PD associated with the rating grade of the protection provider for the PD associated with the rating grade of the obligor in the risk-based capital formula applicable to the guarantee or credit derivative in Table 1 of § 324.131 and using the appropriate LGD as described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section. If the FDIC-supervised institution determines that full substitution of the protection provider's PD leads to an inappropriate degree of risk mitigation, the FDIC-supervised institution may substitute a higher PD than that of the protection provider.
(ii)
Partial coverage.
If an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative meets the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and P of the guarantee or credit derivative is less than the EAD of the hedged exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must treat the hedged exposure as two separate exposures (protected and unprotected) in order to recognize the credit risk mitigation benefit of the guarantee or credit derivative.
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution must calculate its risk-based capital requirement for the protected exposure under § 324.131, where PD is the protection provider's PD, LGD is determined
under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, and EAD is P. If the FDIC-supervised institution determines that full substitution leads to an inappropriate degree of risk mitigation, the FDIC-supervised institution may use a higher PD than that of the protection provider.
(B) The FDIC-supervised institution must calculate its risk-based capital requirement for the unprotected exposure under § 324.131, where PD is the obligor's PD, LGD is the hedged exposure's LGD (not adjusted to reflect the guarantee or credit derivative), and EAD is the EAD of the original hedged exposure minus P.
(C) The treatment in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section is applicable when the credit risk of a wholesale exposure is covered on a partial pro rata basis or when an adjustment is made to the effective notional amount of the guarantee or credit derivative under paragraphs (d), (e), or (f) of this section.
(iii)
LGD of hedged exposures.
The LGD of a hedged exposure under the PD substitution approach is equal to:
(A) The lower of the LGD of the hedged exposure (not adjusted to reflect the guarantee or credit derivative) and the LGD of the guarantee or credit derivative, if the guarantee or credit derivative provides the FDIC-supervised institution with the option to receive immediate payout upon triggering the protection; or
(B) The LGD of the guarantee or credit derivative, if the guarantee or credit derivative does not provide the FDIC-supervised institution with the option to receive immediate payout upon triggering the protection.
(2)
LGD adjustment approach
—(i)
Full coverage.
If an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative meets the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the protection amount (P) of the guarantee or credit derivative is greater than or equal to the EAD of the hedged exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution's risk-based capital requirement for the hedged exposure is the greater of:
(A) The risk-based capital requirement for the exposure as calculated under § 324.131, with the LGD of the exposure adjusted to reflect the guarantee or credit derivative; or
(B) The risk-based capital requirement for a direct exposure to the protection provider as calculated under § 324.131, using the PD for the protection provider, the LGD for the guarantee or credit derivative, and an EAD equal to the EAD of the hedged exposure.
(ii)
Partial coverage.
If an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative meets the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the protection amount (P) of the guarantee or credit derivative is less than the EAD of the hedged exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must treat the hedged exposure as two separate exposures (protected and unprotected) in order to recognize the credit risk mitigation benefit of the guarantee or credit derivative.
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution's risk-based capital requirement for the protected exposure would be the greater of:
(
1
) The risk-based capital requirement for the protected exposure as calculated under § 324.131, with the LGD of the exposure adjusted to reflect the guarantee or credit derivative and EAD set equal to P; or
(
2
) The risk-based capital requirement for a direct exposure to the guarantor as calculated under § 324.131, using the PD for the protection provider, the LGD for the guarantee or credit derivative, and an EAD set equal to P.
(B) The FDIC-supervised institution must calculate its risk-based capital requirement for the unprotected exposure under § 324.131, where PD is the obligor's PD, LGD is the hedged exposure's LGD (not adjusted to reflect the guarantee or credit derivative), and EAD is the EAD of the original hedged exposure minus P.
(3)
M of hedged exposures.
For purposes of this paragraph (c), the M of the hedged exposure is the same as the M of the exposure if it were unhedged.
(d)
Maturity mismatch.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution that recognizes an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative in determining its risk-based capital requirement for a hedged
exposure must adjust the effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant to reflect any maturity mismatch between the hedged exposure and the credit risk mitigant.
(2) A maturity mismatch occurs when the residual maturity of a credit risk mitigant is less than that of the hedged exposure(s).
(3) The residual maturity of a hedged exposure is the longest possible remaining time before the obligor is scheduled to fulfil its obligation on the exposure. If a credit risk mitigant has embedded options that may reduce its term, the FDIC-supervised institution (protection purchaser) must use the shortest possible residual maturity for the credit risk mitigant. If a call is at the discretion of the protection provider, the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant is at the first call date. If the call is at the discretion of the FDIC-supervised institution (protection purchaser), but the terms of the arrangement at origination of the credit risk mitigant contain a positive incentive for the FDIC-supervised institution to call the transaction before contractual maturity, the remaining time to the first call date is the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant.
31
31
For example, where there is a step-up in cost in conjunction with a call feature or where the effective cost of protection increases over time even if credit quality remains the same or improves, the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant will be the remaining time to the first call.
(4) A credit risk mitigant with a maturity mismatch may be recognized only if its original maturity is greater than or equal to one year and its residual maturity is greater than three months.
(5) When a maturity mismatch exists, the FDIC-supervised institution must apply the following adjustment to the effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant: P
m
= E × (t−0.25)/(T−0.25), where:
(i) P
m
equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for maturity mismatch;
(ii) E equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant;
(iii) t equals the lesser of T or the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant, expressed in years; and
(iv) T equals the lesser of five or the residual maturity of the hedged exposure, expressed in years.
(e)
Credit derivatives without restructuring as a credit event.
If an FDIC-supervised institution recognizes an eligible credit derivative that does not include as a credit event a restructuring of the hedged exposure involving forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest, or fees that results in a credit loss event (that is, a charge-off, specific provision, or other similar debit to the profit and loss account), the FDIC-supervised institution must apply the following adjustment to the effective notional amount of the credit derivative: P
r
= P
m
× 0.60, where:
(1) P
r
equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for lack of restructuring event (and maturity mismatch, if applicable); and
(2) P
m
equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant adjusted for maturity mismatch (if applicable).
(f)
Currency mismatch.
(1) If an FDIC-supervised institution recognizes an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative that is denominated in a currency different from that in which the hedged exposure is denominated, the FDIC-supervised institution must apply the following formula to the effective notional amount of the guarantee or credit derivative: P
c
= P
r
× (1−H
FX
), where:
(i) P
c
equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for currency mismatch (and maturity mismatch and lack of restructuring event, if applicable);
(ii) P
r
equals effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant (adjusted for maturity mismatch and lack of restructuring event, if applicable); and
(iii) H
FX
equals haircut appropriate for the currency mismatch between the credit risk mitigant and the hedged exposure.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must set H
FX
equal to 8 percent unless it qualifies for the use of and uses its
own internal estimates of foreign exchange volatility based on a ten-business-day holding period and daily marking-to-market and remargining. An FDIC-supervised institution qualifies for the use of its own internal estimates of foreign exchange volatility if it qualifies for:
(i) The own-estimates haircuts in § 324.132(b)(2)(iii);
(ii) The simple VaR methodology in § 324.132(b)(3); or
(iii) The internal models methodology in § 324.132(d).
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution must adjust H
FX
calculated in paragraph (f)(2) of this section upward if the FDIC-supervised institution revalues the guarantee or credit derivative less frequently than once every ten business days using the square root of time formula provided in § 324.132(b)(2)(iii)(A)(
2
).
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 71354, Oct. 17, 2016; 85 FR 4434, Jan. 24, 2020]
§ 324.135
Guarantees and credit derivatives: Double default treatment.
(a)
Eligibility and operational criteria for double default treatment.
An FDIC-supervised institution may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of a guarantee or credit derivative covering an exposure described in § 324.134(a)(1) by applying the double default treatment in this section if all the following criteria are satisfied:
(1) The hedged exposure is fully covered or covered on a pro rata basis by:
(i) An eligible guarantee issued by an eligible double default guarantor; or
(ii) An eligible credit derivative that meets the requirements of § 324.134(b)(2) and that is issued by an eligible double default guarantor.
(2) The guarantee or credit derivative is:
(i) An uncollateralized guarantee or uncollateralized credit derivative (for example, a credit default swap) that provides protection with respect to a single reference obligor; or
(ii) An nth-to-default credit derivative (subject to the requirements of § 324.142(m)).
(3) The hedged exposure is a wholesale exposure (other than a sovereign exposure).
(4) The obligor of the hedged exposure is not:
(i) An eligible double default guarantor or an affiliate of an eligible double default guarantor; or
(ii) An affiliate of the guarantor.
(5) The FDIC-supervised institution does not recognize any credit risk mitigation benefits of the guarantee or credit derivative for the hedged exposure other than through application of the double default treatment as provided in this section.
(6) The FDIC-supervised institution has implemented a process (which has received the prior, written approval of the FDIC) to detect excessive correlation between the creditworthiness of the obligor of the hedged exposure and the protection provider. If excessive correlation is present, the FDIC-supervised institution may not use the double default treatment for the hedged exposure.
(b)
Full coverage.
If a transaction meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section and the protection amount (P) of the guarantee or credit derivative is at least equal to the EAD of the hedged exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution may determine its risk-weighted asset amount for the hedged exposure under paragraph (e) of this section.
(c)
Partial coverage.
If a transaction meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section and the protection amount (P) of the guarantee or credit derivative is less than the EAD of the hedged exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must treat the hedged exposure as two separate exposures (protected and unprotected) in order to recognize double default treatment on the protected portion of the exposure:
(1) For the protected exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must set EAD equal to P and calculate its risk-weighted asset amount as provided in paragraph (e) of this section; and
(2) For the unprotected exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must set EAD equal to the EAD of the original exposure minus P and then calculate its risk-weighted asset amount as provided in § 324.131.
(d)
Mismatches.
For any hedged exposure to which an FDIC-supervised institution applies double default treatment under this part, the FDIC-supervised institution must make applicable adjustments to the protection amount as required in §§ 324.134(d), (e), and (f).
(e)
The double default dollar risk-based capital requirement.
The dollar risk-based capital requirement for a hedged exposure to which an FDIC-supervised institution has applied double default treatment is K
DD
multiplied by the EAD of the exposure. K
DD
is calculated according to the following formula: K
DD
= K
o
× (0.15 + 160 × PD
g
),
where:
(1)
er10se13.039
(2) PD
g
equals PD of the protection provider.
(3) PD
o
equals PD of the obligor of the hedged exposure.
(4) LGD
g
equals:
(i) The lower of the LGD of the hedged exposure (not adjusted to reflect the guarantee or credit derivative) and the LGD of the guarantee or credit derivative, if the guarantee or credit derivative provides the FDIC-supervised institution with the option to receive immediate payout on triggering the protection; or
(ii) The LGD of the guarantee or credit derivative, if the guarantee or credit derivative does not provide the FDIC-supervised institution with the option to receive immediate payout on triggering the protection; and
(5) ρ
os
(asset value correlation of the obligor) is calculated according to the appropriate formula for (R) provided in Table 1 in § 324.131, with PD equal to PD
o
.
(6) b (maturity adjustment coefficient) is calculated according to the formula for b provided in Table 1 in § 324.131, with PD equal to the lesser of PD
o
and PD
g
; and
(7) M (maturity) is the effective maturity of the guarantee or credit derivative, which may not be less than one year or greater than five years.
§ 324.136
Unsettled transactions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Delivery-versus-payment (DvP) transaction means a securities or commodities transaction in which the buyer is obligated to make payment only if the seller has made delivery of the securities or commodities and the seller is obligated to deliver the securities or commodities only if the buyer has made payment.
(2) Payment-versus-payment (PvP) transaction means a foreign exchange transaction in which each counterparty is obligated to make a final transfer of one or more currencies only if the other counterparty has made a final transfer of one or more currencies.
(3) A transaction has a normal settlement period if the contractual settlement period for the transaction is equal to or less than the market standard for the instrument underlying the transaction and equal to or less than five business days.
(4) The positive current exposure of an FDIC-supervised institution for a transaction is the difference between the transaction value at the agreed settlement price and the current market price of the transaction, if the difference results in a credit exposure of the FDIC-supervised institution to the counterparty.
(b)
Scope.
This section applies to all transactions involving securities, foreign exchange instruments, and commodities that have a risk of delayed settlement or delivery. This section does not apply to:
(1) Cleared transactions that are subject to daily marking-to-market and daily receipt and payment of variation margin;
(2) Repo-style transactions, including unsettled repo-style transactions (which are addressed in §§ 324.131 and 324.132);
(3) One-way cash payments on OTC derivative contracts (which are addressed in §§ 324.131 and 324.132); or
(4) Transactions with a contractual settlement period that is longer than
the normal settlement period (which are treated as OTC derivative contracts and addressed in §§ 324.131 and 324.132).
(c)
System-wide failures.
In the case of a system-wide failure of a settlement or clearing system, or a central counterparty, the FDIC may waive risk-based capital requirements for unsettled and failed transactions until the situation is rectified.
(d)
Delivery-versus-payment (DvP) and payment-versus-payment (PvP) transactions.
An FDIC-supervised institution must hold risk-based capital against any DvP or PvP transaction with a normal settlement period if the FDIC-supervised institution's counterparty has not made delivery or payment within five business days after the settlement date. The FDIC-supervised institution must determine its risk-weighted asset amount for such a transaction by multiplying the positive current exposure of the transaction for the FDIC-supervised institution by the appropriate risk weight in Table 1 to § 324.136.
Table 1 to § 324.136—Risk Weights for Unsettled DvP and PvP Transactions
Number of business days after contractual settlement date
Risk weight to be applied to positive
current exposure
(in percent)
From 5 to 15
100
From 16 to 30
625
From 31 to 45
937.5
46 or more
1,250
(e)
Non-DvP/non-PvP (non-delivery-versus-payment/non-payment-versus-payment) transactions.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must hold risk-based capital against any non-DvP/non-PvP transaction with a normal settlement period if the FDIC-supervised institution has delivered cash, securities, commodities, or currencies to its counterparty but has not received its corresponding deliverables by the end of the same business day. The FDIC-supervised institution must continue to hold risk-based capital against the transaction until the FDIC-supervised institution has received its corresponding deliverables.
(2) From the business day after the FDIC-supervised institution has made its delivery until five business days after the counterparty delivery is due, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate its risk-based capital requirement for the transaction by treating the current fair value of the deliverables owed to the FDIC-supervised institution as a wholesale exposure.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution may use a 45 percent LGD for the transaction rather than estimating LGD for the transaction provided the FDIC-supervised institution uses the 45 percent LGD for all transactions described in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution may use a 100 percent risk weight for the transaction provided the FDIC-supervised institution uses this risk weight for all transactions described in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.
(3) If the FDIC-supervised institution has not received its deliverables by the fifth business day after the counterparty delivery was due, the FDIC-supervised institution must apply a 1,250 percent risk weight to the current fair value of the deliverables owed to the FDIC-supervised institution.
(f)
Total risk-weighted assets for unsettled transactions.
Total risk-weighted assets for unsettled transactions is the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts of all DvP, PvP, and non-DvP/non-PvP transactions.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 41425, July 15, 2015]
§§ 324.137-324.140
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Securitization Exposures
§ 324.141
Operational criteria for recognizing the transfer of risk.
(a)
Operational criteria for traditional securitizations.
An FDIC-supervised institution that transfers exposures it has originated or purchased to a securitization SPE or other third party in connection with a traditional securitization may exclude the exposures from the calculation of its risk-weighted assets only if each of the conditions in this paragraph (a) is satisfied. An FDIC-supervised institution that meets these conditions must hold
risk-based capital against any securitization exposures it retains in connection with the securitization. An FDIC-supervised institution that fails to meet these conditions must hold risk-based capital against the transferred exposures as if they had not been securitized and must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from the transaction. The conditions are:
(1) The exposures are not reported on the FDIC-supervised institution's consolidated balance sheet under GAAP;
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution has transferred to one or more third parties credit risk associated with the underlying exposures;
(3) Any clean-up calls relating to the securitization are eligible clean-up calls; and
(4) The securitization does not:
(i) Include one or more underlying exposures in which the borrower is permitted to vary the drawn amount within an agreed limit under a line of credit; and
(ii) Contain an early amortization provision.
(b)
Operational criteria for synthetic securitizations.
For synthetic securitizations, an FDIC-supervised institution may recognize for risk-based capital purposes under this subpart the use of a credit risk mitigant to hedge underlying exposures only if each of the conditions in this paragraph (b) is satisfied. An FDIC-supervised institution that meets these conditions must hold risk-based capital against any credit risk of the exposures it retains in connection with the synthetic securitization. An FDIC-supervised institution that fails to meet these conditions or chooses not to recognize the credit risk mitigant for purposes of this section must hold risk-based capital under this subpart against the underlying exposures as if they had not been synthetically securitized. The conditions are:
(1) The credit risk mitigant is:
(i) Financial collateral; or
(ii) A guarantee that meets all of the requirements of an eligible guarantee in § 324.2 except for paragraph (3) of the definition; or
(iii) A credit derivative that meets all of the requirements of an eligible credit derivative except for paragraph (3) of the definition of eligible guarantee in § 324.2.
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution transfers credit risk associated with the underlying exposures to third parties, and the terms and conditions in the credit risk mitigants employed do not include provisions that:
(i) Allow for the termination of the credit protection due to deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(ii) Require the FDIC-supervised institution to alter or replace the underlying exposures to improve the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(iii) Increase the FDIC-supervised institution's cost of credit protection in response to deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(iv) Increase the yield payable to parties other than the FDIC-supervised institution in response to a deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures; or
(v) Provide for increases in a retained first loss position or credit enhancement provided by the FDIC-supervised institution after the inception of the securitization;
(3) The FDIC-supervised institution obtains a well-reasoned opinion from legal counsel that confirms the enforceability of the credit risk mitigant in all relevant jurisdictions; and
(4) Any clean-up calls relating to the securitization are eligible clean-up calls.
(c)
Due diligence requirements for securitization exposures.
(1) Except for exposures that are deducted from common equity tier 1 capital and exposures subject to § 324.142(k), if an FDIC-supervised institution is unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDIC a comprehensive understanding of the features of a securitization exposure that would materially affect the performance of the exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 1,250 percent risk weight to the securitization exposure. The FDIC-supervised institution's analysis must be commensurate with the complexity of the securitization exposure and the materiality of the position in relation to regulatory capital according to this part.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate its comprehensive understanding of a securitization exposure under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for each securitization exposure by:
(i) Conducting an analysis of the risk characteristics of a securitization exposure prior to acquiring the exposure and document such analysis within three business days after acquiring the exposure, considering:
(A) Structural features of the securitization that would materially impact the performance of the exposure, for example, the contractual cash flow waterfall, waterfall-related triggers, credit enhancements, liquidity enhancements, fair value triggers, the performance of organizations that service the position, and deal-specific definitions of default;
(B) Relevant information regarding the performance of the underlying credit exposure(s), for example, the percentage of loans 30, 60, and 90 days past due; default rates; prepayment rates; loans in foreclosure; property types; occupancy; average credit score or other measures of creditworthiness; average loan-to-value ratio; and industry and geographic diversification data on the underlying exposure(s);
(C) Relevant market data of the securitization, for example, bid-ask spreads, most recent sales price and historical price volatility, trading volume, implied market rating, and size, depth and concentration level of the market for the securitization; and
(D) For resecuritization exposures, performance information on the underlying securitization exposures, for example, the issuer name and credit quality, and the characteristics and performance of the exposures underlying the securitization exposures; and
(ii) On an on-going basis (no less frequently than quarterly), evaluating, reviewing, and updating as appropriate the analysis required under this section for each securitization exposure.
§ 324.142
Risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures.
(a)
Hierarchy of approaches.
Except as provided elsewhere in this section and in § 324.141:
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from a securitization and must apply a 1,250 percent risk weight to the portion of any CEIO that does not constitute after tax gain-on-sale;
(2) If a securitization exposure does not require deduction or a 1,250 percent risk weight under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the FDIC-supervised institution must apply the supervisory formula approach in § 324.143 to the exposure if the FDIC-supervised institution and the exposure qualify for the supervisory formula approach according to § 324.143(a);
(3) If a securitization exposure does not require deduction or a 1,250 percent risk weight under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and does not qualify for the supervisory formula approach, the FDIC-supervised institution may apply the simplified supervisory formula approach under § 324.144;
(4) If a securitization exposure does not require deduction or a 1,250 percent risk weight under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, does not qualify for the supervisory formula approach in § 324.143, and the FDIC-supervised institution does not apply the simplified supervisory formula approach in § 324.144, the FDIC-supervised institution must apply a 1,250 percent risk weight to the exposure; and
(5) If a securitization exposure is a derivative contract (other than protection provided by an FDIC-supervised institution in the form of a credit derivative) that has a first priority claim on the cash flows from the underlying exposures (notwithstanding amounts due under interest rate or currency derivative contracts, fees due, or other similar payments), an FDIC-supervised institution may choose to set the risk-weighted asset amount of the exposure equal to the amount of the exposure as determined in paragraph (e) of this section rather than apply the hierarchy of approaches described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(b)
Total risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures.
An FDIC-supervised institution's total risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures is equal to the sum of its risk-weighted
assets calculated using §§ 324.141 through 146.
(c)
Deductions.
An FDIC-supervised institution may calculate any deduction from common equity tier 1 capital for a securitization exposure net of any DTLs associated with the securitization exposure.
(d)
Maximum risk-based capital requirement.
Except as provided in § 324.141(c), unless one or more underlying exposures does not meet the definition of a wholesale, retail, securitization, or equity exposure, the total risk-based capital requirement for all securitization exposures held by a single FDIC-supervised institution associated with a single securitization (excluding any risk-based capital requirements that relate to the FDIC-supervised institution's gain-on-sale or CEIOs associated with the securitization) may not exceed the sum of:
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution's total risk-based capital requirement for the underlying exposures calculated under this subpart as if the FDIC-supervised institution directly held the underlying exposures; and
(2) The total ECL of the underlying exposures calculated under this subpart.
(e)
Exposure amount of a securitization exposure.
(1) The exposure amount of an on-balance sheet securitization exposure that is not a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, OTC derivative contract, or cleared transaction is the FDIC-supervised institution's carrying value.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (m) of this section, the exposure amount of an off-balance sheet securitization exposure that is not an OTC derivative contract (other than a credit derivative), repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, or cleared transaction (other than a credit derivative) is the notional amount of the exposure. For an off-balance-sheet securitization exposure to an ABCP program, such as an eligible ABCP liquidity facility, the notional amount may be reduced to the maximum potential amount that the FDIC-supervised institution could be required to fund given the ABCP program's current underlying assets (calculated without regard to the current credit quality of those assets).
(3) The exposure amount of a securitization exposure that is a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, or OTC derivative contract (other than a credit derivative) or cleared transaction (other than a credit derivative) is the
EAD of the exposure as calculated in § 324.132 or § 324.133.
(f)
Overlapping exposures.
If an FDIC-supervised institution has multiple securitization exposures that provide duplicative coverage of the underlying exposures of a securitization (such as when an FDIC-supervised institution provides a program-wide credit enhancement and multiple pool-specific liquidity facilities to an ABCP program), the FDIC-supervised institution is not required to hold duplicative risk-based capital against the overlapping position. Instead, the FDIC-supervised institution may assign to the overlapping securitization exposure the applicable risk-based capital treatment under this subpart that results in the highest risk-based capital requirement.
(g)
Securitizations of non-IRB exposures.
Except as provided in § 324.141(c), if an FDIC-supervised institution has a securitization exposure where any underlying exposure is not a wholesale exposure, retail exposure, securitization exposure, or equity exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution:
(1) Must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from the securitization and apply a 1,250 percent risk weight to the portion of any CEIO that does not constitute gain-on-sale, if the FDIC-supervised institution is an originating FDIC-supervised institution;
(2) May apply the simplified supervisory formula approach in § 324.144 to the exposure, if the securitization exposure does not require deduction or a 1,250 percent risk weight under paragraph (g)(1) of this section;
(3) Must assign a 1,250 percent risk weight to the exposure if the securitization exposure does not require deduction or a 1,250 percent risk weight under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, does not qualify for the supervisory formula approach in § 324.143, and the FDIC-supervised institution
does not apply the simplified supervisory formula approach in § 324.144 to the exposure.
(h)
Implicit support.
If an FDIC-supervised institution provides support to a securitization in excess of the FDIC-supervised institution's contractual obligation to provide credit support to the securitization (implicit support):
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a risk-weighted asset amount for underlying exposures associated with the securitization as if the exposures had not been securitized and must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from the securitization; and
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution must disclose publicly:
(i) That it has provided implicit support to the securitization; and
(ii) The regulatory capital impact to the FDIC-supervised institution of providing such implicit support.
(i)
Undrawn portion of a servicer cash advance facility.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, an FDIC-supervised institution that is a servicer under an eligible servicer cash advance facility is not required to hold risk-based capital against potential future cash advance payments that it may be required to provide under the contract governing the facility.
(2) For an FDIC-supervised institution that acts as a servicer, the exposure amount for a servicer cash advance facility that is not an eligible servicer cash advance facility is equal to the amount of all potential future cash advance payments that the FDIC-supervised institution may be contractually required to provide during the subsequent 12 month period under the contract governing the facility.
(j)
Interest-only mortgage-backed securities.
Regardless of any other provisions in this part, the risk weight for a non-credit-enhancing interest-only mortgage-backed security may not be less than 100 percent.
(k)
Small-business loans and leases on personal property transferred with recourse.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subpart E, an FDIC-supervised institution that has transferred small-business loans and leases on personal property (small-business obligations) with recourse must include in risk-weighted assets only the contractual amount of retained recourse if all the following conditions are met:
(i) The transaction is a sale under GAAP.
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution establishes and maintains, pursuant to GAAP, a non-capital reserve sufficient to meet the FDIC-supervised institution's reasonably estimated liability under the recourse arrangement.
(iii) The loans and leases are to businesses that meet the criteria for a small-business concern established by the Small Business Administration under section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632
et seq.
); and
(iv) The FDIC-supervised institution is well-capitalized, as defined in subpart H of this part. For purposes of determining whether an FDIC-supervised institution is well capitalized for purposes of this paragraph (k), the FDIC-supervised institution's capital ratios must be calculated without regard to the capital treatment for transfers of small-business obligations with recourse specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section.
(2) The total outstanding amount of recourse retained by an FDIC-supervised institution on transfers of small-business obligations subject to paragraph (k)(1) of this section cannot exceed 15 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's total capital.
(3) If an FDIC-supervised institution ceases to be well capitalized or exceeds the 15 percent capital limitation in paragraph (k)(2) of this section, the preferential capital treatment specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section will continue to apply to any transfers of small-business obligations with recourse that occurred during the time that the FDIC-supervised institution was well capitalized and did not exceed the capital limit.
(4) The risk-based capital ratios of an FDIC-supervised institution must be calculated without regard to the capital treatment for transfers of small-business obligations with recourse specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section.
(l)
N
th
-
to-default credit derivatives
—(1)
Protection provider.
An FDIC-supervised institution must determine a risk
weight using the supervisory formula approach (SFA) pursuant to § 324.143 or the simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) pursuant to § 324.144 for an nth-to-default credit derivative in accordance with this paragraph (l). In the case of credit protection sold, an FDIC-supervised institution must determine its exposure in the n
th
-to-default credit derivative as the largest notional amount of all the underlying exposures.
(2) For purposes of determining the risk weight for an n
th
-to-default credit derivative using the SFA or the SSFA, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the attachment point and detachment point of its exposure as follows:
(i) The attachment point (parameter A) is the ratio of the sum of the notional amounts of all underlying exposures that are subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. For purposes of the SSFA, parameter A is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. For purposes of using the SFA to calculate the risk weight for its exposure in an n
th
-to-default credit derivative, parameter A must be set equal to the credit enhancement level (L) input to the SFA formula. In the case of a first-to-default credit derivative, there are no underlying exposures that are subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure. In the case of a second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivative, the smallest (n-1) risk-weighted asset amounts of the underlying exposure(s) are subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure.
(ii) The detachment point (parameter D) equals the sum of parameter A plus the ratio of the notional amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure in the n
th
-to-default credit derivative to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. For purposes of the SSFA, parameter W is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. For purposes of the SFA, parameter D must be set to equal L plus the thickness of tranche T input to the SFA formula.
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution that does not use the SFA or the SSFA to determine a risk weight for its exposure in an n
th
-to-default credit derivative must assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the exposure.
(4)
Protection purchaser
—(i)
First-to-default credit derivatives.
An FDIC-supervised institution that obtains credit protection on a group of underlying exposures through a first-to-default credit derivative that meets the rules of recognition of § 324.134(b) must determine its risk-based capital requirement under this subpart for the underlying exposures as if the FDIC-supervised institution synthetically securitized the underlying exposure with the lowest risk-based capital requirement and had obtained no credit risk mitigant on the other underlying exposures. An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a risk-based capital requirement for counterparty credit risk according to § 324.132 for a first-to-default credit derivative that does not meet the rules of recognition of § 324.134(b).
(ii)
Second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivatives.
(A) An FDIC-supervised institution that obtains credit protection on a group of underlying exposures through a n
th
-to-default credit derivative that meets the rules of recognition of § 324.134(b) (other than a first-to-default credit derivative) may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of the derivative only if:
(
1
) The FDIC-supervised institution also has obtained credit protection on the same underlying exposures in the form of first-through-(n-1)-to-default credit derivatives; or
(
2
) If n-1 of the underlying exposures have already defaulted.
(B) If an FDIC-supervised institution satisfies the requirements of paragraph (l)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, the FDIC-supervised institution must determine its risk-based capital requirement for the underlying exposures as if the bank had only synthetically securitized the underlying exposure with the n
th
smallest risk-based capital requirement and had obtained no credit risk mitigant on the other underlying exposures.
(C) An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a risk-based capital requirement for counterparty credit risk according to § 324.132 for a n
th
-to-default
credit derivative that does not meet the rules of recognition of § 324.134(b).
(m)
Guarantees and credit derivatives other than n
th
-
to-default credit derivatives
—(1)
Protection provider.
For a guarantee or credit derivative (other than an n
th
-to-default credit derivative) provided by an FDIC-supervised institution that covers the full amount or a pro rata share of a securitization exposure's principal and interest, the FDIC-supervised institution must risk weight the guarantee or credit derivative as if it holds the portion of the reference exposure covered by the guarantee or credit derivative.
(2)
Protection purchaser.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution that purchases an OTC credit derivative (other than an n
th
-to-default credit derivative) that is recognized under § 324.145 as a credit risk mitigant (including via recognized collateral) is not required to compute a separate counterparty credit risk capital requirement under § 324.131 in accordance with § 324.132(c)(3).
(ii) If an FDIC-supervised institution cannot, or chooses not to, recognize a purchased credit derivative as a credit risk mitigant under § 324.145, the FDIC-supervised institution must determine the exposure amount of the credit derivative under § 324.132(c).
(A) If the FDIC-supervised institution purchases credit protection from a counterparty that is not a securitization SPE, the FDIC-supervised institution must determine the risk weight for the exposure according to § 324.131.
(B) If the FDIC-supervised institution purchases the credit protection from a counterparty that is a securitization SPE, the FDIC-supervised institution must determine the risk weight for the exposure according to this section, including paragraph (a)(5) of this section for a credit derivative that has a first priority claim on the cash flows from the underlying exposures of the securitization SPE (notwithstanding amounts due under interest rate or currency derivative contracts, fees due, or other similar payments).
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20761, Apr. 14, 2014]
§ 324.143
Supervisory formula approach (SFA).
(a)
Eligibility requirements.
An FDIC-supervised institution must use the SFA to determine its risk-weighted asset amount for a securitization exposure if the FDIC-supervised institution can calculate on an ongoing basis each of the SFA parameters in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
Mechanics.
The risk-weighted asset amount for a securitization exposure equals its SFA risk-based capital requirement as calculated under paragraph (c) and (d) of this section, multiplied by 12.5.
(c)
The SFA risk-based capital requirement.
(1) If K
IRB
is greater than or equal to L + T, an exposure's SFA risk-based capital requirement equals the exposure amount.
(2) If K
IRB
is less than or equal to L, an exposure's SFA risk-based capital requirement is UE multiplied by TP multiplied by the greater of:
(i) F · T (where F is 0.016 for all securitization exposures); or
(ii) S[L + T] − S[L].
(3) If K
IRB
is greater than L and less than L + T, the FDIC-supervised institution must apply a 1,250 percent risk weight to an amount equal to UE · TP · (K
IRB
− L), and the exposure's SFA risk-based capital requirement is UE multiplied by TP multiplied by the greater of:
(i) F · (T − (K
IRB
− L)) (where F is 0.016 for all other securitization exposures); or
(ii) S[L + T] − S[K
IRB
].
(d)
The supervisory formula:
ER10SE13.040
(e)
SFA parameters.
For purposes of the calculations in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section:
(1)
Amount of the underlying exposures (UE).
UE is the EAD of any underlying exposures that are wholesale and retail exposures (including the amount of any funded spread accounts, cash collateral accounts, and other similar funded credit enhancements) plus the amount of any underlying exposures that are securitization exposures (as defined in § 324.142(e)) plus the adjusted carrying value of any underlying exposures that are equity exposures (as defined in § 324.151(b)).
(2)
Tranche percentage (TP
). TP is the ratio of the amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's securitization exposure to the amount of the tranche that contains the securitization exposure.
(3)
Capital requirement on underlying exposures (K
IRB
)
. (i) K
IRB
is the ratio of:
(A) The sum of the risk-based capital requirements for the underlying exposures plus the expected credit losses of the underlying exposures (as determined under this subpart E as if the
underlying exposures were directly held by the FDIC-supervised institution); to
(B) UE.
(ii) The calculation of K
IRB
must reflect the effects of any credit risk mitigant applied to the underlying exposures (either to an individual underlying exposure, to a group of underlying exposures, or to all of the underlying exposures).
(iii) All assets related to the securitization are treated as underlying exposures, including assets in a reserve account (such as a cash collateral account).
(4)
Credit enhancement level (L).
(i) L is the ratio of:
(A) The amount of all securitization exposures subordinated to the tranche that contains the FDIC-supervised institution's securitization exposure; to
(B) UE.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must determine L before considering the effects of any tranche-specific credit enhancements.
(iii) Any gain-on-sale or CEIO associated with the securitization may not be included in L.
(iv) Any reserve account funded by accumulated cash flows from the underlying exposures that is subordinated to the tranche that contains the FDIC-supervised institution's securitization exposure may be included in the numerator and denominator of L to the extent cash has accumulated in the account. Unfunded reserve accounts (that is, reserve accounts that are to be funded from future cash flows from the underlying exposures) may not be included in the calculation of L.
(v) In some cases, the purchase price of receivables will reflect a discount that provides credit enhancement (for example, first loss protection) for all or certain tranches of the securitization. When this arises, L should be calculated inclusive of this discount if the discount provides credit enhancement for the securitization exposure.
(5)
Thickness of tranche (T).
T is the ratio of:
(i) The amount of the tranche that contains the FDIC-supervised institution's securitization exposure; to
(ii) UE.
(6)
Effective number of exposures (N).
(i) Unless the FDIC-supervised institution elects to use the formula provided in paragraph (f) of this section,
ER10SE13.041
where EAD
i
represents the EAD associated with the i
th
instrument in the underlying exposures.
(ii) Multiple exposures to one obligor must be treated as a single underlying exposure.
(iii) In the case of a resecuritization, the FDIC-supervised institution must treat each underlying exposure as a single underlying exposure and must not look through to the originally securitized underlying exposures.
(7)
Exposure-weighted average loss given default (EWALGD).
EWALGD is calculated as:
ER10SE13.042
where LGD
i
represents the average LGD associated with all exposures to the i
th
obligor. In the case of a resecuritization, an LGD of 100 percent must be assumed for the underlying exposures that are themselves securitization exposures.
(f)
Simplified method for computing N and EWALGD.
(1) If all underlying exposures of a securitization are retail exposures, an FDIC-supervised institution may apply the SFA using the following simplifications:
(i) h = 0; and
(ii) v = 0.
(2) Under the conditions in §§ 324.143(f)(3) and (f)(4), an FDIC-supervised institution may employ a simplified method for calculating N and EWALGD.
(3) If C
1
is no more than 0.03, an FDIC-supervised institution may set EWALGD = 0.50 if none of the underlying exposures is a securitization exposure, or may set EWALGD = 1 if one or more of the underlying exposures is a securitization exposure, and may set N equal to the following amount:
ER10SE13.043
where:
(i) C
m
is the ratio of the sum of the amounts of the `m' largest underlying exposures to UE; and
(ii) The level of m is to be selected by the FDIC-supervised institution.
(4) Alternatively, if only C
1
is available and C
1
is no more than 0.03, the FDIC-supervised institution may set EWALGD = 0.50 if none of the underlying exposures is a securitization exposure, or may set EWALGD = 1 if one or more of the underlying exposures is a securitization exposure and may set N = 1/C
1
.
§ 324.144
Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA).
(a)
General requirements for the SSFA.
To use the SSFA to determine the risk weight for a securitization exposure, an FDIC-supervised institution must have data that enables it to assign accurately the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section. Data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be the most currently available data; if the contracts governing the underlying exposures of the securitization require payments on a monthly or quarterly basis, the data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be no more than 91 calendar days old. An FDIC-supervised institution that does not have the appropriate data to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the exposure.
(b)
SSFA parameters.
To calculate the risk weight for a securitization exposure using the SSFA, an FDIC-supervised institution must have accurate information on the following five inputs to the SSFA calculation:
(1) K
G
is the weighted-average (with unpaid principal used as the weight for each exposure) total capital requirement of the underlying exposures calculated using subpart D of this part. K
G
is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one (that is, an average risk weight of 100 percent represents a value of K
G
equal to 0.08).
(2) Parameter W is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. Parameter W is the ratio of the sum of the dollar amounts of any underlying exposures of the securitization that meet any of the criteria as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section to the balance, measured in dollars, of underlying exposures:
(i) Ninety days or more past due;
(ii) Subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding;
(iii) In the process of foreclosure;
(iv) Held as real estate owned;
(v) Has contractually deferred payments for 90 days or more, other than principal or interest payments deferred on:
(A) Federally-guaranteed student loans, in accordance with the terms of those guarantee programs; or
(B) Consumer loans, including non-federally-guaranteed student loans, provided that such payments are deferred pursuant to provisions included in the contract at the time funds are disbursed that provide for period(s) of deferral that are not initiated based on changes in the creditworthiness of the borrower; or
(vi) Is in default.
(3) Parameter A is the attachment point for the exposure, which represents the threshold at which credit losses will first be allocated to the exposure. Except as provided in § 324.142(l) for n
th
-to-default credit derivatives, parameter A equals the ratio of the current dollar amount of underlying exposures that are subordinated to the exposure of the FDIC-supervised institution to the current dollar amount of underlying exposures. Any reserve account funded by the accumulated cash flows from the underlying exposures
that is subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's securitization exposure may be included in the calculation of parameter A to the extent that cash is present in the account. Parameter A is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(4) Parameter D is the detachment point for the exposure, which represents the threshold at which credit losses of principal allocated to the exposure would result in a total loss of principal. Except as provided in § 324.142(l) for n
th
-to-default credit derivatives, parameter D equals parameter A plus the ratio of the current dollar amount of the securitization exposures that are
pari passu
with the exposure (that is, have equal seniority with respect to credit risk) to the current dollar amount of the underlying exposures. Parameter D is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(5) A supervisory calibration parameter, p, is equal to 0.5 for securitization exposures that are not resecuritization exposures and equal to 1.5 for resecuritization exposures.
(c)
Mechanics of the SSFA.
K
G
and W are used to calculate K
A
, the augmented value of K
G
, which reflects the observed credit quality of the underlying exposures. K
A
is defined in paragraph (d) of this section. The values of parameters A and D, relative to K
A
determine the risk weight assigned to a securitization exposure as described in paragraph (d) of this section. The risk weight assigned to a securitization exposure, or portion of a securitization exposure, as appropriate, is the larger of the risk weight determined in accordance with this paragraph (c), paragraph (d) of this section, and a risk weight of 20 percent.
(1) When the detachment point, parameter D, for a securitization exposure is less than or equal to K
A
, the exposure must be assigned a risk weight of 1,250 percent;
(2) When the attachment point, parameter A, for a securitization exposure is greater than or equal to K
A
, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the risk weight in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section;
(3) When A is less than K
A
and D is greater than K
A
, the risk weight is a weighted-average of 1,250 percent and 1,250 percent times K
SSFA
calculated in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. For the purpose of this weighted-average calculation:
ER10SE13.044
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20761, Apr. 14, 2014]
§ 324.145
Recognition of credit risk mitigants for securitization exposures.
(a)
General.
An originating FDIC-supervised institution that has obtained a credit risk mitigant to hedge its securitization exposure to a synthetic or traditional securitization that satisfies the operational criteria in § 324.141 may recognize the credit risk mitigant, but only as provided in this section. An investing FDIC-supervised institution that has obtained a credit risk mitigant to hedge a securitization exposure may recognize the credit risk
mitigant, but only as provided in this section.
(b)
Collateral
—(1)
Rules of recognition.
An FDIC-supervised institution may recognize financial collateral in determining the FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for a securitization exposure (other than a repo-style transaction, an eligible margin loan, or an OTC derivative contract for which the FDIC-supervised institution has reflected collateral in its determination of exposure amount under § 324.132) as follows. The FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for the collateralized securitization exposure is equal to the risk-weighted asset amount for the securitization exposure as calculated under the SSFA in § 324.144 or under the SFA in § 324.143 multiplied by the ratio of adjusted exposure amount (SE*) to original exposure amount (SE), where:
(i) SE* equals max {0, [SE − C × (1− H
s
− H
fx
)]};
(ii) SE equals the amount of the securitization exposure calculated under § 324.142(e);
(iii) C equals the current fair value of the collateral;
(iv) H
s
equals the haircut appropriate to the collateral type; and
(v) H
fx
equals the haircut appropriate for any currency mismatch between the collateral and the exposure.
ER10SE13.048
(3)
Standard supervisory haircuts.
Unless an FDIC-supervised institution qualifies for use of and uses own-estimates haircuts in paragraph (b)(4) of this section:
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution must use the collateral type haircuts (H
s
) in Table 1 to § 324.132 of this subpart;
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must use a currency mismatch haircut (H
fx
) of 8 percent if the exposure and the collateral are denominated in different currencies;
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution must multiply the supervisory haircuts obtained in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section by the square root of 6.5 (which equals 2.549510); and
(iv) An FDIC-supervised institution must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward on the basis of a holding period longer than 65 business days where and as appropriate to take into account the illiquidity of the collateral.
(4)
Own estimates for haircuts.
With the prior written approval of the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution may calculate haircuts using its own internal estimates of market price volatility and foreign exchange volatility, subject to § 324.132(b)(2)(iii). The minimum holding period (T
M
) for securitization exposures is 65 business days.
(c)
Guarantees and credit derivatives
—(1)
Limitations on recognition.
An FDIC-supervised institution may only recognize an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative provided by an eligible guarantor in determining the FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for a securitization exposure.
(2)
ECL for securitization exposures.
When an FDIC-supervised institution recognizes an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative provided by an eligible guarantor in determining the FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for a securitization exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must also:
(i) Calculate ECL for the protected portion of the exposure using the same
risk parameters that it uses for calculating the risk-weighted asset amount of the exposure as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section; and
(ii) Add the exposure's ECL to the FDIC-supervised institution's total ECL.
(3)
Rules of recognition.
An FDIC-supervised institution may recognize an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative provided by an eligible guarantor in determining the FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for the securitization exposure as follows:
(i)
Full coverage.
If the protection amount of the eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative equals or exceeds the amount of the securitization exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution may set the risk-weighted asset amount for the securitization exposure equal to the risk-weighted asset amount for a direct exposure to the eligible guarantor (as determined in the wholesale risk weight function described in § 324.131), using the FDIC-supervised institution's PD for the guarantor, the FDIC-supervised institution's LGD for the guarantee or credit derivative, and an EAD equal to the amount of the securitization exposure (as determined in § 324.142(e)).
(ii)
Partial coverage.
If the protection amount of the eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative is less than the amount of the securitization exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution may set the risk-weighted asset amount for the securitization exposure equal to the sum of:
(A)
Covered portion.
The risk-weighted asset amount for a direct exposure to the eligible guarantor (as determined in the wholesale risk weight function described in § 324.131), using the FDIC-supervised institution's PD for the guarantor, the FDIC-supervised institution's LGD for the guarantee or credit derivative, and an EAD equal to the protection amount of the credit risk mitigant; and
(B)
Uncovered portion.
(
1
) 1.0 minus the ratio of the protection amount of the eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative to the amount of the securitization exposure); multiplied by
(
2
) The risk-weighted asset amount for the securitization exposure without the credit risk mitigant (as determined in §§ 324.142 through 324.146).
(4)
Mismatches.
The FDIC-supervised institution must make applicable adjustments to the protection amount as required in § 324.134(d), (e), and (f) for any hedged securitization exposure and any more senior securitization exposure that benefits from the hedge. In the context of a synthetic securitization, when an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative covers multiple hedged exposures that have different residual maturities, the FDIC-supervised institution must use the longest residual maturity of any of the hedged exposures as the residual maturity of all the hedged exposures.
§§ 324.146-324.150
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Equity Exposures
§ 324.151
Introduction and exposure measurement.
(a)
General.
(1) To calculate its risk-weighted asset amounts for equity exposures that are not equity exposures to investment funds, an FDIC-supervised institution may apply either the Simple Risk Weight Approach (SRWA) in § 324.152 or, if it qualifies to do so, the Internal Models Approach (IMA) in § 324.153. An FDIC-supervised institution must use the look-through approaches provided in § 324.154 to calculate its risk-weighted asset amounts for equity exposures to investment funds.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must treat an investment in a separate account (as defined in § 324.2), as if it were an equity exposure to an investment fund as provided in § 324.154.
(3)
Stable value protection.
(i) Stable value protection means a contract where the provider of the contract is obligated to pay:
(A) The policy owner of a separate account an amount equal to the shortfall between the fair value and cost basis of the separate account when the policy owner of the separate account surrenders the policy, or
(B) The beneficiary of the contract an amount equal to the shortfall between the fair value and book value of a specified portfolio of assets.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution that purchases stable value protection on its investment in a separate account must treat the portion of the carrying value of its investment in the separate account attributable to the stable value protection as an exposure to the provider of the protection and the remaining portion of the carrying value of its separate account as an equity exposure to an investment fund.
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution that provides stable value protection must treat the exposure as an equity derivative with an adjusted carrying value determined as the sum of § 324.151(b)(1) and (2).
(b)
Adjusted carrying value.
For purposes of this subpart, the adjusted carrying value of an equity exposure is:
(1) For the on-balance sheet component of an equity exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution's carrying value of the exposure;
(2) For the off-balance sheet component of an equity exposure, the effective notional principal amount of the exposure, the size of which is equivalent to a hypothetical on-balance sheet position in the underlying equity instrument that would evidence the same change in fair value (measured in dollars) for a given small change in the price of the underlying equity instrument, minus the adjusted carrying value of the on-balance sheet component of the exposure as calculated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) For unfunded equity commitments that are unconditional, the effective notional principal amount is the notional amount of the commitment. For unfunded equity commitments that are conditional, the effective notional principal amount is the FDIC-supervised institution's best estimate of the amount that would be funded under economic downturn conditions.
§ 324.152
Simple risk weight approach (SRWA).
(a)
General.
Under the SRWA, an FDIC-supervised institution's aggregate risk-weighted asset amount for its equity exposures is equal to the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts for each of the FDIC-supervised institution's individual equity exposures (other than equity exposures to an investment fund) as determined in this section and the risk-weighted asset amounts for each of the FDIC-supervised institution's individual equity exposures to an investment fund as determined in § 324.154.
(b)
SRWA computation for individual equity exposures.
An FDIC-supervised institution must determine the risk-weighted asset amount for an individual equity exposure (other than an equity exposure to an investment fund) by multiplying the adjusted carrying value of the equity exposure or the effective portion and ineffective portion of a hedge pair (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) by the lowest applicable risk weight in this section.
(1)
Zero percent risk weight equity exposures.
An equity exposure to an entity whose credit exposures are exempt from the 0.03 percent PD floor in § 324.131(d)(2) is assigned a zero percent risk weight.
(2)
20 percent risk weight equity exposures.
An equity exposure to a Federal Home Loan Bank or the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (Farmer Mac) is assigned a 20 percent risk weight.
(3)
100 percent risk weight equity exposures.
The following equity exposures are assigned a 100 percent risk weight:
(i)
Community development equity exposures.
An equity exposure that qualifies as a community development investment under section 24 (Eleventh) of the National Bank Act, excluding equity exposures to an unconsolidated small business investment company and equity exposures held through a consolidated small business investment company described in section 302 of the Small Business Investment Act.
(ii)
Effective portion of hedge pairs.
The effective portion of a hedge pair.
(iii)
Non-significant equity exposures.
Equity exposures, excluding significant investments in the capital of an unconsolidated institution in the form of common stock and exposures to an investment firm that would meet the definition of a traditional securitization were it not for the FDIC's application of paragraph (8) of that definition in § 324.2 and has greater than immaterial
leverage, to the extent that the aggregate adjusted carrying value of the exposures does not exceed 10 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's total capital.
(A) To compute the aggregate adjusted carrying value of an FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposures for purposes of this section, the FDIC-supervised institution may exclude equity exposures described in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3)(i), and (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the equity exposure in a hedge pair with the smaller adjusted carrying value, and a proportion of each equity exposure to an investment fund equal to the proportion of the assets of the investment fund that are not equity exposures or that meet the criterion of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. If an FDIC-supervised institution does not know the actual holdings of the investment fund, the FDIC-supervised institution may calculate the proportion of the assets of the fund that are not equity exposures based on the terms of the prospectus, partnership agreement, or similar contract that defines the fund's permissible investments. If the sum of the investment limits for all exposure classes within the fund exceeds 100 percent, the FDIC-supervised institution must assume for purposes of this section that the investment fund invests to the maximum extent possible in equity exposures.
(B) When determining which of an FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposures qualifies for a 100 percent risk weight under this section, an FDIC-supervised institution first must include equity exposures to unconsolidated small business investment companies or held through consolidated small business investment companies described in section 302 of the Small Business Investment Act, then must include publicly traded equity exposures (including those held indirectly through investment funds), and then must include non-publicly traded equity exposures (including those held indirectly through investment funds).
(4)
250 percent risk weight equity exposures.
Significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in the form of common stock that are not deducted from capital pursuant to § 324.22(b)(4) are assigned a 250 percent risk weight.
(5)
300 percent risk weight equity exposures.
A publicly traded equity exposure (other than an equity exposure described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section and including the ineffective portion of a hedge pair) is assigned a 300 percent risk weight.
(6)
400 percent risk weight equity exposures.
An equity exposure (other than an equity exposure described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section) that is not publicly traded is assigned a 400 percent risk weight.
(7)
600 percent risk weight equity exposures.
An equity exposure to an investment firm that:
(i) Would meet the definition of a traditional securitization were it not for the FDIC's application of paragraph (8) of that definition in § 324.2; and
(ii) Has greater than immaterial leverage is assigned a 600 percent risk weight.
(c)
Hedge transactions
—(1)
Hedge pair.
A hedge pair is two equity exposures that form an effective hedge so long as each equity exposure is publicly traded or has a return that is primarily based on a publicly traded equity exposure.
(2)
Effective hedge.
Two equity exposures form an effective hedge if the exposures either have the same remaining maturity or each has a remaining maturity of at least three months; the hedge relationship is formally documented in a prospective manner (that is, before the FDIC-supervised institution acquires at least one of the equity exposures); the documentation specifies the measure of effectiveness (E) the FDIC-supervised institution will use for the hedge relationship throughout the life of the transaction; and the hedge relationship has an E greater than or equal to 0.8. An FDIC-supervised institution must measure E at least quarterly and must use one of three alternative measures of E:
(i) Under the dollar-offset method of measuring effectiveness, the FDIC-supervised institution must determine the ratio of value change (RVC). The RVC is the ratio of the cumulative sum of the periodic changes in value of one equity exposure to the cumulative sum of the periodic changes in the value of the other equity exposure. If RVC is
positive, the hedge is not effective and E equals zero. If RVC is negative and greater than or equal to −1 (that is, between zero and −1), then E equals the absolute value of RVC. If RVC is negative and less than −1, then E equals 2 plus RVC.
(ii) Under the variability-reduction method of measuring effectiveness:
ER10SE13.045
(iii) Under the regression method of measuring effectiveness, E equals the coefficient of determination of a regression in which the change in value of one exposure in a hedge pair is the dependent variable and the change in value of the other exposure in a hedge pair is the independent variable. However, if the estimated regression coefficient is positive, then the value of E is zero.
(3) The effective portion of a hedge pair is E multiplied by the greater of the adjusted carrying values of the equity exposures forming a hedge pair.
(4) The ineffective portion of a hedge pair is (1-E) multiplied by the greater of the adjusted carrying values of the equity exposures forming a hedge pair.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 35280, July 22, 2019]
§ 324.153
Internal models approach (IMA).
(a)
General.
An FDIC-supervised institution may calculate its risk-weighted asset amount for equity exposures using the IMA by modeling publicly traded and non-publicly traded equity exposures (in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section) or by modeling only publicly traded equity exposures (in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section).
(b)
Qualifying criteria.
To qualify to use the IMA to calculate risk-weighted assets for equity exposures, an FDIC-supervised institution must receive prior written approval from the FDIC. To receive such approval, the FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate to the FDIC's satisfaction that the FDIC-supervised institution meets the following criteria:
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution must have one or more models that:
(i) Assess the potential decline in value of its modeled equity exposures;
(ii) Are commensurate with the size, complexity, and composition of the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures; and
(iii) Adequately capture both general market risk and idiosyncratic risk.
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution's model must produce an estimate of potential losses for its modeled equity exposures that is no less than the estimate of potential losses produced by a VaR methodology employing a 99th percentile one-tailed confidence interval of the distribution of quarterly returns for a benchmark portfolio of equity exposures comparable to the
FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures using a long-term sample period.
(3) The number of risk factors and exposures in the sample and the data period used for quantification in the FDIC-supervised institution's model and benchmarking exercise must be sufficient to provide confidence in the accuracy and robustness of the FDIC-supervised institution's estimates.
(4) The FDIC-supervised institution's model and benchmarking process must incorporate data that are relevant in representing the risk profile of the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures, and must include data from at least one equity market cycle containing adverse market movements relevant to the risk profile of the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures. In addition, the FDIC-supervised institution's benchmarking exercise must be based on daily market prices for the benchmark portfolio. If the FDIC-supervised institution's model uses a scenario methodology, the FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate that the model produces a conservative estimate of potential losses on the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures over a relevant long-term market cycle. If the FDIC-supervised institution employs risk factor models, the FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate through empirical analysis the appropriateness of the risk factors used.
(5) The FDIC-supervised institution must be able to demonstrate, using theoretical arguments and empirical evidence, that any proxies used in the modeling process are comparable to the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures and that the FDIC-supervised institution has made appropriate adjustments for differences. The FDIC-supervised institution must derive any proxies for its modeled equity exposures and benchmark portfolio using historical market data that are relevant to the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures and benchmark portfolio (or, where not, must use appropriately adjusted data), and such proxies must be robust estimates of the risk of the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled equity exposures.
(c)
Risk-weighted assets calculation for an FDIC-supervised institution using the IMA for publicly traded and non-publicly traded equity exposures.
If an FDIC-supervised institution models publicly traded and non-publicly traded equity exposures, the FDIC-supervised institution's aggregate risk-weighted asset amount for its equity exposures is equal to the sum of:
(1) The risk-weighted asset amount of each equity exposure that qualifies for a 0 percent, 20 percent, or 100 percent risk weight under § 324.152(b)(1) through (b)(3)(i) (as determined under § 324.152) and each equity exposure to an investment fund (as determined under § 324.154); and
(2) The greater of:
(i) The estimate of potential losses on the FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposures (other than equity exposures referenced in paragraph (c)(1) of this section) generated by the FDIC-supervised institution's internal equity exposure model multiplied by 12.5; or
(ii) The sum of:
(A) 200 percent multiplied by the aggregate adjusted carrying value of the FDIC-supervised institution's publicly traded equity exposures that do not belong to a hedge pair, do not qualify for a 0 percent, 20 percent, or 100 percent risk weight under § 324.152(b)(1) through (b)(3)(i), and are not equity exposures to an investment fund;
(B) 200 percent multiplied by the aggregate ineffective portion of all hedge pairs; and
(C) 300 percent multiplied by the aggregate adjusted carrying value of the FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposures that are not publicly traded, do not qualify for a 0 percent, 20 percent, or 100 percent risk weight under § 324.152(b)(1) through (b)(3)(i), and are not equity exposures to an investment fund.
(d)
Risk-weighted assets calculation for an FDIC-supervised institution using the IMA only for publicly traded equity exposures.
If an FDIC-supervised institution models only publicly traded equity exposures, the FDIC-supervised institution's aggregate risk-weighted asset amount for its equity exposures is equal to the sum of:
(1) The risk-weighted asset amount of each equity exposure that qualifies for a 0 percent, 20 percent, or 100 percent risk weight under §§ 324.152(b)(1) through (b)(3)(i) (as determined under § 324.152), each equity exposure that qualifies for a 400 percent risk weight under § 324.152(b)(5) or a 600 percent risk weight under § 324.152(b)(6) (as determined under § 324.152), and each equity exposure to an investment fund (as determined under § 324.154); and
(2) The greater of:
(i) The estimate of potential losses on the FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposures (other than equity exposures referenced in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) generated by the FDIC-supervised institution's internal equity exposure model multiplied by 12.5; or
(ii) The sum of:
(A) 200 percent multiplied by the aggregate adjusted carrying value of the FDIC-supervised institution's publicly traded equity exposures that do not belong to a hedge pair, do not qualify for a 0 percent, 20 percent, or 100 percent risk weight under § 324.152(b)(1) through (b)(3)(i), and are not equity exposures to an investment fund; and
(B) 200 percent multiplied by the aggregate ineffective portion of all hedge pairs.
§ 324.154
Equity exposures to investment funds.
(a)
Available approaches.
(1) Unless the exposure meets the requirements for a community development equity exposure in § 324.152(b)(3)(i), an FDIC-supervised institution must determine the risk-weighted asset amount of an equity exposure to an investment fund under the full look-through approach in paragraph (b) of this section, the simple modified look-through approach in paragraph (c) of this section, or the alternative modified look-through approach in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) The risk-weighted asset amount of an equity exposure to an investment fund that meets the requirements for a community development equity exposure in § 324.152(b)(3)(i) is its adjusted carrying value.
(3) If an equity exposure to an investment fund is part of a hedge pair and the FDIC-supervised institution does not use the full look-through approach, the FDIC-supervised institution may use the ineffective portion of the hedge pair as determined under § 324.152(c) as the adjusted carrying value for the equity exposure to the investment fund. The risk-weighted asset amount of the effective portion of the hedge pair is equal to its adjusted carrying value.
(b)
Full look-through approach.
An FDIC-supervised institution that is able to calculate a risk-weighted asset amount for its proportional ownership share of each exposure held by the investment fund (as calculated under this subpart E of this part as if the proportional ownership share of each exposure were held directly by the FDIC-supervised institution) may either:
(1) Set the risk-weighted asset amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's exposure to the fund equal to the product of:
(i) The aggregate risk-weighted asset amounts of the exposures held by the fund as if they were held directly by the FDIC-supervised institution; and
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution's proportional ownership share of the fund; or
(2) Include the FDIC-supervised institution's proportional ownership share of each exposure held by the fund in the FDIC-supervised institution's IMA.
(c)
Simple modified look-through approach.
Under this approach, the risk-weighted asset amount for an FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposure to an investment fund equals the adjusted carrying value of the equity exposure multiplied by the highest risk weight assigned according to subpart D of this part that applies to any exposure the fund is permitted to hold under its prospectus, partnership agreement, or similar contract that defines the fund's permissible investments (excluding derivative contracts that are used for hedging rather than speculative purposes and that do not constitute a material portion of the fund's exposures).
(d)
Alternative modified look-through approach.
Under this approach, an FDIC-supervised institution may assign the adjusted carrying value of an equity exposure to an investment fund on a pro rata basis to different risk weight categories assigned according to subpart D of this part based on the
investment limits in the fund's prospectus, partnership agreement, or similar contract that defines the fund's permissible investments. The risk-weighted asset amount for the FDIC-supervised institution's equity exposure to the investment fund equals the sum of each portion of the adjusted carrying value assigned to an exposure class multiplied by the applicable risk weight. If the sum of the investment limits for all exposure types within the fund exceeds 100 percent, the FDIC-supervised institution must assume that the fund invests to the maximum extent permitted under its investment limits in the exposure type with the highest risk weight under subpart D of this part, and continues to make investments in order of the exposure type with the next highest risk weight under subpart D of this part until the maximum total investment level is reached. If more than one exposure type applies to an exposure, the FDIC-supervised institution must use the highest applicable risk weight. An FDIC-supervised institution may exclude derivative contracts held by the fund that are used for hedging rather than for speculative purposes and do not constitute a material portion of the fund's exposures.
§ 324.155
Equity derivative contracts.
(a) Under the IMA, in addition to holding risk-based capital against an equity derivative contract under this part, an FDIC-supervised institution must hold risk-based capital against the counterparty credit risk in the equity derivative contract by also treating the equity derivative contract as a wholesale exposure and computing a supplemental risk-weighted asset amount for the contract under § 324.132.
(b) Under the SRWA, an FDIC-supervised institution may choose not to hold risk-based capital against the counterparty credit risk of equity derivative contracts, as long as it does so for all such contracts. Where the equity derivative contracts are subject to a qualified master netting agreement, an FDIC-supervised institution using the SRWA must either include all or exclude all of the contracts from any measure used to determine counterparty credit risk exposure.
§§ 324.161-324.160
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Operational Risk
§ 324.161
Qualification requirements for incorporation of operational risk mitigants.
(a)
Qualification to use operational risk mitigants.
An FDIC-supervised institution may adjust its estimate of operational risk exposure to reflect qualifying operational risk mitigants if:
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk quantification system is able to generate an estimate of the FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk exposure (which does not incorporate qualifying operational risk mitigants) and an estimate of the FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk exposure adjusted to incorporate qualifying operational risk mitigants; and
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution's methodology for incorporating the effects of insurance, if the FDIC-supervised institution uses insurance as an operational risk mitigant, captures through appropriate discounts to the amount of risk mitigation:
(i) The residual term of the policy, where less than one year;
(ii) The cancellation terms of the policy, where less than one year;
(iii) The policy's timeliness of payment;
(iv) The uncertainty of payment by the provider of the policy; and
(v) Mismatches in coverage between the policy and the hedged operational loss event.
(b)
Qualifying operational risk mitigants.
Qualifying operational risk mitigants are:
(1) Insurance that:
(i) Is provided by an unaffiliated company that the FDIC-supervised institution deems to have strong capacity to meet its claims payment obligations and the obligor rating category to which the FDIC-supervised institution assigns the company is assigned a PD equal to or less than 10 basis points;
(ii) Has an initial term of at least one year and a residual term of more than 90 days;
(iii) Has a minimum notice period for cancellation by the provider of 90 days;
(iv) Has no exclusions or limitations based upon regulatory action or for the receiver or liquidator of a failed depository institution; and
(v) Is explicitly mapped to a potential operational loss event;
(2) Operational risk mitigants other than insurance for which the FDIC has given prior written approval. In evaluating an operational risk mitigant other than insurance, the FDIC will consider whether the operational risk mitigant covers potential operational losses in a manner equivalent to holding total capital.
§ 324.162
Mechanics of risk-weighted asset calculation.
(a) If an FDIC-supervised institution does not qualify to use or does not have qualifying operational risk mitigants, the FDIC-supervised institution's dollar risk-based capital requirement for operational risk is its operational risk exposure minus eligible operational risk offsets (if any).
(b) If an FDIC-supervised institution qualifies to use operational risk mitigants and has qualifying operational risk mitigants, the FDIC-supervised institution's dollar risk-based capital requirement for operational risk is the greater of:
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk exposure adjusted for qualifying operational risk mitigants minus eligible operational risk offsets (if any); or
(2) 0.8 multiplied by the difference between:
(i) The FDIC-supervised institution's operational risk exposure; and
(ii) Eligible operational risk offsets (if any).
(c) The FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for operational risk equals the FDIC-supervised institution's dollar risk-based capital requirement for operational risk determined under sections 162(a) or (b) multiplied by 12.5.
§§ 324.163-324.170
[Reserved]

# Disclosures
§ 324.171
Purpose and scope.
§§ 324.171 through 324.173 establish public disclosure requirements related to the capital requirements of an FDIC-supervised institution that is an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution.
§ 324.172
Disclosure requirements.
(a) An FDIC-supervised institution that is an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that has completed the parallel run process and that has received notification from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d) must publicly disclose each quarter its total and tier 1 risk-based capital ratios and their components as calculated under this subpart (that is, common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, tier 2 capital, total qualifying capital, and total risk-weighted assets).
(b) An FDIC-supervised institution that is an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that has completed the parallel run process and that has received notification from the FDIC pursuant to section § 324.121(d) must comply with paragraph (c) of this section unless it is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or depository institution that is subject to these disclosure requirements or a subsidiary of a non-U.S. banking organization that is subject to comparable public disclosure requirements in its home jurisdiction.
(c)(1) An FDIC-supervised institution described in paragraph (b) of this section must provide timely public disclosures each calendar quarter of the information in the applicable tables in § 324.173. If a significant change occurs, such that the most recent reported amounts are no longer reflective of the FDIC-supervised institution's capital adequacy and risk profile, then a brief discussion of this change and its likely impact must be disclosed as soon as practicable thereafter. Qualitative disclosures that typically do not change each quarter (for example, a general summary of the FDIC-supervised institution's risk management objectives and policies, reporting system, and definitions) may be disclosed annually after the end of the fourth calendar quarter, provided that any significant changes to these are disclosed in the interim. Management may provide all
of the disclosures required by this subpart in one place on the FDIC-supervised institution's public Web site or may provide the disclosures in more than one public financial report or other regulatory reports, provided that the FDIC-supervised institution publicly provides a summary table specifically indicating the location(s) of all such disclosures.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution described in paragraph (b) of this section must have a formal disclosure policy approved by the board of directors that addresses its approach for determining the disclosures it makes. The policy must address the associated internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. The board of directors and senior management are responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective internal control structure over financial reporting, including the disclosures required by this subpart, and must ensure that appropriate review of the disclosures takes place. One or more senior officers of the FDIC-supervised institution must attest that the disclosures meet the requirements of this subpart.
(3) If an FDIC-supervised institution described in paragraph (b) of this section believes that disclosure of specific commercial or financial information would prejudice seriously its position by making public information that is either proprietary or confidential in nature, the FDIC-supervised institution is not required to disclose those specific items, but must disclose more general information about the subject matter of the requirement, together with the fact that, and the reason why, the specific items of information have not been disclosed.
(d)(1) An FDIC-supervised institution that meets any of the criteria in § 324.100(b)(1) before January 1, 2015, must publicly disclose each quarter its supplementary leverage ratio and the components thereof (that is, tier 1 capital and total leverage exposure) as calculated under subpart B of this part, beginning with the first quarter in 2015. This disclosure requirement applies without regard to whether the FDIC-supervised institution has completed the parallel run process and received notification from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d).
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution that meets any of the criteria in § 324.100(b)(1) on or after January 1, 2015, or a Category III FDIC-supervised institution must publicly disclose each quarter its supplementary leverage ratio and the components thereof (that is, tier 1 capital and total leverage exposure) as calculated under subpart B of this part beginning with the calendar quarter immediately following the quarter in which the FDIC-supervised institution becomes an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution or a Category III FDIC-supervised institution. This disclosure requirement applies without regard to whether the FDIC-supervised institution has completed the parallel run process and has received notification from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d).
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 57750, Sept. 26, 2014; 80 FR 41425, July 15, 2015; 84 FR 59279, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 324.173
Disclosures by certain advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institutions and Category III FDIC-supervised institutions.
(a)(1) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution described in § 324.172(b) must make the disclosures described in Tables 1 through 12 to § 324.173.
(2) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution and a Category III FDIC-supervised institution that is required to publicly disclose its supplementary leverage ratio pursuant to § 324.172(d) must make the disclosures required under Table 13 to this section unless the FDIC-supervised institution is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or depository institution that is subject to these disclosure requirements or a subsidiary of a non-U.S. banking organization that is subject to comparable public disclosure requirements in its home jurisdiction.
(3) The disclosures described in Tables 1 through 12 to § 324.173 must be made publicly available for twelve consecutive quarters beginning on January 1, 2014, or a shorter period, as applicable, for the quarters after the FDIC-supervised institution has completed
the parallel run process and received notification from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d). The disclosures described in Table 13 to § 324.173 must be made publicly available for twelve consecutive quarters beginning on January 1, 2015, or a shorter period, as applicable, for the quarters after the FDIC-supervised institution becomes subject to the disclosure of the supplementary leverage ratio pursuant to § 324.172(d) and § 324.173(a)(2).
Table 1 to § 324.173—Scope of Application
Qualitative disclosures
(a)
The name of the top corporate entity in the group to which subpart E of this part applies.
(b)
A brief description of the differences in the basis for consolidating entities
1
for accounting and regulatory purposes, with a description of those entities:
(1) That are fully consolidated;
(2) That are deconsolidated and deducted from total capital;
(3) For which the total capital requirement is deducted; and
(4) That are neither consolidated nor deducted (for example, where the investment in the entity is assigned a risk weight in accordance with this subpart E).
(c)
Any restrictions, or other major impediments, on transfer of funds or total capital within the group.
Quantitative disclosures
(d)
The aggregate amount of surplus capital of insurance subsidiaries included in the total capital of the consolidated group.
(e)
The aggregate amount by which actual total capital is less than the minimum total capital requirement in all subsidiaries, with total capital requirements and the name(s) of the subsidiaries with such deficiencies.
1
Such entities include securities, insurance and other financial subsidiaries, commercial subsidiaries (where permitted), and significant minority equity investments in insurance, financial and commercial entities.
Table 2 to § 324.173—Capital Structure
Qualitative disclosures
(a)
Summary information on the terms and conditions of the main features of all regulatory capital instruments.
Quantitative disclosures
(b)
The amount of common equity tier 1 capital, with separate disclosure of:
(1) Common stock and related surplus;
(2) Retained earnings;
(3) Common equity minority interest;
(4) AOCI (net of tax) and other reserves; and
(5) Regulatory adjustments and deductions made to common equity tier 1 capital.
(c)
The amount of tier 1 capital, with separate disclosure of:
(1) Additional tier 1 capital elements, including additional tier 1 capital instruments and tier 1 minority interest not included in common equity tier 1 capital; and
(2) Regulatory adjustments and deductions made to tier 1 capital.
(d)
The amount of total capital, with separate disclosure of:
(1) Tier 2 capital elements, including tier 2 capital instruments and total capital minority interest not included in tier 1 capital; and
(2) Regulatory adjustments and deductions made to total capital.
(e)
(1) Whether the FDIC-supervised institution has elected to phase in recognition of the transitional amounts as defined in § 324.300(f)
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution's common equity tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital, and total capital without including the transitional amounts as defined in § 324.300(f).
Table 3 to § 324.173—Capital Adequacy
Qualitative disclosures
(a)
A summary discussion of the FDIC-supervised institution's approach to assessing the adequacy of its capital to support current and future activities.
Quantitative disclosures
(b)
Risk-weighted assets for credit risk from:
(1) Wholesale exposures;
(2) Residential mortgage exposures;
(3) Qualifying revolving exposures;
(4) Other retail exposures;
(5) Securitization exposures;
(6) Equity exposures:
(7) Equity exposures subject to the simple risk weight approach; and
(8) Equity exposures subject to the internal models approach.
(c)
Standardized market risk-weighted assets and advanced market risk-weighted assets as calculated under subpart F of this part:
(1) Standardized approach for specific risk; and
(2) Internal models approach for specific risk.
(d)
Risk-weighted assets for operational risk.
(e)
(1) Common equity tier 1, tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios reflecting the transition provisions described in § 324.300(f):
(A) For the top consolidated group; and
(2) For each depository institution subsidiary.
(f)
Common equity tier 1, tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios reflecting the full adoption of CECL:
(1) For the top consolidated group; and
(2) For each depository institution subsidiary.
(g)
Total risk-weighted assets.
Table 4 to § 324.173—Capital Conservation and Countercyclical Capital Buffers
Qualitative disclosures
(a)
The FDIC-supervised institution must publicly disclose the geographic breakdown of its private sector credit exposures used in the calculation of the countercyclical capital buffer.
Quantitative disclosures
(b)
At least quarterly, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate and publicly disclose the capital conservation buffer and the countercyclical capital buffer as described under § 324.11 of subpart B.
(c)
At least quarterly, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate and publicly disclose the buffer retained income of the FDIC-supervised institution, as described under § 324.11 of subpart B.
(d)
At least quarterly, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate and publicly disclose any limitations it has on distributions and discretionary bonus payments resulting from the capital conservation buffer and the countercyclical capital buffer framework described under § 324.11 of subpart B, including the maximum payout amount for the quarter.
(b)
General qualitative disclosure requirement.
For each separate risk area described in Tables 5 through 12 to § 324.173, the FDIC-supervised institution must describe its risk management objectives and policies, including:
(1) Strategies and processes;
(2) The structure and organization of the relevant risk management function;
(3) The scope and nature of risk reporting and/or measurement systems; and
(4) Policies for hedging and/or mitigating risk and strategies and processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges/mitigants.
Table 5
1
to § 324.173—Credit Risk: General Disclosures
Qualitative disclosures
(a)
The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to credit risk (excluding counterparty credit risk disclosed in accordance with Table 7 to § 324.173), including:
(1) Policy for determining past due or delinquency status;
(2) Policy for placing loans on nonaccrual;
(3) Policy for returning loans to accrual status;
(4) Definition of and policy for identifying impaired loans (for financial accounting purposes).
(5) Description of the methodology that the entity uses to estimate its allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable, including statistical methods used where applicable;
(6) Policy for charging-off uncollectible amounts; and
(7) Discussion of the FDIC-supervised institution's credit risk management policy
Quantitative disclosures
(b)
Total credit risk exposures and average credit risk exposures, after accounting offsets in accordance with GAAP,
2
without taking into account the effects of credit risk mitigation techniques (for example, collateral and netting not permitted under GAAP), over the period categorized by major types of credit exposure. For example, FDIC-supervised institutions could use categories similar to that used for financial statement purposes. Such categories might include, for instance:
(1) Loans, off-balance sheet commitments, and other non-derivative off-balance sheet exposures;
(2) Debt securities; and
(3) OTC derivatives.
(c)
Geographic
3
distribution of exposures, categorized in significant areas by major types of credit exposure.
(d)
Industry or counterparty type distribution of exposures, categorized by major types of credit exposure.
(e)
By major industry or counterparty type:
(1) Amount of impaired loans for which there was a related allowance under GAAP;
(2) Amount of impaired loans for which there was no related allowance under GAAP;
(3) Amount of loans past due 90 days and on nonaccrual;
(4) Amount of loans past due 90 days and still accruing;
4
(5) The balance in the allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable, at the end of each period, disaggregated on the basis of the entity's impairment method. To disaggregate the information required on the basis of impairment methodology, an entity shall separately disclose the amounts based on the requirements in GAAP; and
(6) Charge-offs during the period.
(f)
Amount of impaired loans and, if available, the amount of past due loans categorized by significant geographic areas including, if practical, the amounts of allowances related to each geographical area,
5
further categorized as required by GAAP.
(g)
Reconciliation of changes in ALLL or AACL, as applicable.
6
(h)
Remaining contractual maturity breakdown (for example, one year or less) of the whole portfolio, categorized by credit exposure.
1
Table 5 to § 324.173 does not cover equity exposures, which should be reported in Table 9 to § 324.173.
2
See,
for example, ASC Topic 815-10 and 210-20, as they may be amended from time to time.
3
Geographical areas may comprise individual countries, groups of countries, or regions within countries. An FDIC-supervised institution might choose to define the geographical areas based on the way the company's portfolio is geographically managed. The criteria used to allocate the loans to geographical areas must be specified.
4
An FDIC-supervised institution is encouraged also to provide an analysis of the aging of past-due loans.
5
The portion of the general allowance that is not allocated to a geographical area should be disclosed separately.
6
The reconciliation should include the following: a description of the allowance; the opening balance of the allowance; charge-offs taken against the allowance during the period; amounts provided (or reversed) for estimated probable loan losses during the period; any other adjustments (for example, exchange rate differences, business combinations, acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries), including transfers between allowances; and the closing balance of the allowance. Charge-offs and recoveries that have been recorded directly to the income statement should be disclosed separately.
Table 6 to § 324.173—Credit Risk: Disclosures for Portfolios Subject to IRB Risk-Based Capital Formulas
Qualitative disclosures
(a)
Explanation and review of the:
(1) Structure of internal rating systems and if the FDIC-supervised institution considers external ratings, the relation between internal and external ratings;
(2) Use of risk parameter estimates other than for regulatory capital purposes;
(3) Process for managing and recognizing credit risk mitigation (see Table 8 to § 324.173); and
(4) Control mechanisms for the rating system, including discussion of independence, accountability, and rating systems review.
(b)
(1) Description of the internal ratings process, provided separately for the following:
(i) Wholesale category;
(ii) Retail subcategories;
(iii) Residential mortgage exposures;
(iv) Qualifying revolving exposures; and
(v) Other retail exposures.
(2) For each category and subcategory above the description should include:
(i) The types of exposure included in the category/subcategories; and
(ii) The definitions, methods and data for estimation and validation of PD, LGD, and EAD, including assumptions employed in the derivation of these variables.
1
Quantitative disclosures: risk assessment
(c)
(1) For wholesale exposures, present the following information across a sufficient number of PD grades (including default) to allow for a meaningful differentiation of credit risk:
2
(i) Total EAD;
3
(ii) Exposure-weighted average LGD (percentage);
(iii) Exposure-weighted average risk weight; and
(iv) Amount of undrawn commitments and exposure-weighted average EAD including average drawdowns prior to default for wholesale exposures.
(2) For each retail subcategory, present the disclosures outlined above across a sufficient number of segments to allow for a meaningful differentiation of credit risk.
Quantitative disclosures: historical results
(d)
Actual losses in the preceding period for each category and subcategory and how this differs from past experience. A discussion of the factors that impacted the loss experience in the preceding period—for example, has the FDIC-supervised institution experienced higher than average default rates, loss rates or EADs.
(e)
The FDIC-supervised institution's estimates compared against actual outcomes over a longer period.
4
At a minimum, this should include information on estimates of losses against actual losses in the wholesale category and each retail subcategory over a period sufficient to allow for a meaningful assessment of the performance of the internal rating processes for each category/subcategory.
5
Where appropriate, the FDIC-supervised institution should further decompose this to provide analysis of PD, LGD, and EAD outcomes against estimates provided in the quantitative risk assessment disclosures above.
6
1
This disclosure item does not require a detailed description of the model in full—it should provide the reader with a broad overview of the model approach, describing definitions of the variables and methods for estimating and validating those variables set out in the quantitative risk disclosures below. This should be done for each of the four category/subcategories. The FDIC-supervised institution must disclose any significant differences in approach to estimating these variables within each category/subcategories.
2
The PD, LGD and EAD disclosures in Table 6 (c) to § 324.173 should reflect the effects of collateral, qualifying master netting agreements, eligible guarantees and eligible credit derivatives as defined under this part. Disclosure of each PD grade should include the exposure-weighted average PD for each grade. Where an FDIC-supervised institution aggregates PD grades for the purposes of disclosure, this should be a representative breakdown of the distribution of PD grades used for regulatory capital purposes.
3
Outstanding loans and EAD on undrawn commitments can be presented on a combined basis for these disclosures.
4
These disclosures are a way of further informing the reader about the reliability of the information provided in the “quantitative disclosures: risk assessment” over the long run. The disclosures are requirements from year-end 2010; in the meantime, early adoption is encouraged. The phased implementation is to allow an FDIC-supervised institution sufficient time to build up a longer run of data that will make these disclosures meaningful.
5
This disclosure item is not intended to be prescriptive about the period used for this assessment. Upon implementation, it is expected that an FDIC-supervised institution would provide these disclosures for as long a set of data as possible—for example, if an FDIC-supervised institution has 10 years of data, it might choose to disclose the average default rates for each PD grade over that 10-year period. Annual amounts need not be disclosed.
6
An FDIC-supervised institution must provide this further decomposition where it will allow users greater insight into the reliability of the estimates provided in the “quantitative disclosures: risk assessment.” In particular, it must provide this information where there are material differences between its estimates of PD, LGD or EAD compared to actual outcomes over the long run. The FDIC-supervised institution must also provide explanations for such differences.
Table 7 to § 324.173—General Disclosure for Counterparty Credit Risk of OTC Derivative Contracts, Repo-Style Transactions, and Eligible Margin Loans
Qualitative Disclosures
(a)
The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to OTC derivatives, eligible margin loans, and repo-style transactions, including:
(1) Discussion of methodology used to assign economic capital and credit limits for counterparty credit exposures;
(2) Discussion of policies for securing collateral, valuing and managing collateral, and establishing credit reserves;
(3) Discussion of the primary types of collateral taken;
(4) Discussion of policies with respect to wrong-way risk exposures; and
(5) Discussion of the impact of the amount of collateral the FDIC-supervised institution would have to provide if the FDIC-supervised institution were to receive a credit rating downgrade.
Quantitative Disclosures
(b)
Gross positive fair value of contracts, netting benefits, netted current credit exposure, collateral held (including type, for example, cash, government securities), and net unsecured credit exposure.
1
Also report measures for EAD used for regulatory capital for these transactions, the notional value of credit derivative hedges purchased for counterparty credit risk protection, and, for FDIC-supervised institutions not using the internal models methodology in § 324.132(d), the distribution of current credit exposure by types of credit exposure.
2
(c)
Notional amount of purchased and sold credit derivatives, segregated between use for the FDIC-supervised institution's own credit portfolio and for its intermediation activities, including the distribution of the credit derivative products used, categorized further by protection bought and sold within each product group.
(d)
The estimate of alpha if the FDIC-supervised institution has received supervisory approval to estimate alpha.
1
Net unsecured credit exposure is the credit exposure after considering the benefits from legally enforceable netting agreements and collateral arrangements, without taking into account haircuts for price volatility, liquidity, etc.
2
This may include interest rate derivative contracts, foreign exchange derivative contracts, equity derivative contracts, credit derivatives, commodity or other derivative contracts, repo-style transactions, and eligible margin loans.
Table 8 to § 324.173—Credit Risk Mitigation
1 2
Qualitative disclosures
(a)
The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to credit risk mitigation, including:
(1) Policies and processes for, and an indication of the extent to which the FDIC-supervised institution uses, on- or off-balance sheet netting;
(2) Policies and processes for collateral valuation and management;
(3) A description of the main types of collateral taken by the FDIC-supervised institution;
(4) The main types of guarantors/credit derivative counterparties and their creditworthiness; and
(5) Information about (market or credit) risk concentrations within the mitigation taken.
Quantitative disclosures
(b)
For each separately disclosed portfolio, the total exposure (after, where applicable, on- or off-balance sheet netting) that is covered by guarantees/credit derivatives.
1
At a minimum, an FDIC-supervised institution must provide the disclosures in Table 8 to § 324.173 in relation to credit risk mitigation that has been recognized for the purposes of reducing capital requirements under this subpart. Where relevant, FDIC-supervised institutions are encouraged to give further information about mitigants that have not been recognized for that purpose.
2
Credit derivatives and other credit mitigation that are treated for the purposes of this subpart as synthetic securitization exposures should be excluded from the credit risk mitigation disclosures (in Table 8 to § 324.173) and included within those relating to securitization (in Table 9 to § 324.173).
Table 9 to § 324.173—Securitization
Qualitative disclosures
(a)
The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to securitization (including synthetic securitizations), including a discussion of:
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution's objectives for securitizing assets, including the extent to which these activities transfer credit risk of the underlying exposures away from the FDIC-supervised institution to other entities and including the type of risks assumed and retained with resecuritization activity;
1
(2) The nature of the risks (e.g. liquidity risk) inherent in the securitized assets;
(3) The roles played by the FDIC-supervised institution in the securitization process
2
and an indication of the extent of the FDIC-supervised institution's involvement in each of them;
(4) The processes in place to monitor changes in the credit and market risk of securitization exposures including how those processes differ for resecuritization exposures;
(5) The FDIC-supervised institution's policy for mitigating the credit risk retained through securitization and resecuritization exposures; and
(6) The risk-based capital approaches that the FDIC-supervised institution follows for its securitization exposures including the type of securitization exposure to which each approach applies.
(b)
A list of:
(1) The type of securitization SPEs that the FDIC-supervised institution, as sponsor, uses to securitize third-party exposures. The FDIC-supervised institution must indicate whether it has exposure to these SPEs, either on- or off- balance sheet; and
(2) Affiliated entities:
(i) That the FDIC-supervised institution manages or advises; and
(ii) That invest either in the securitization exposures that the FDIC-supervised institution has securitized or in securitization SPEs that the FDIC-supervised institution sponsors.
3
(c)
Summary of the FDIC-supervised institution's accounting policies for securitization activities, including:
(1) Whether the transactions are treated as sales or financings;
(2) Recognition of gain-on-sale;
(3) Methods and key assumptions and inputs applied in valuing retained or purchased interests;
(4) Changes in methods and key assumptions and inputs from the previous period for valuing retained interests and impact of the changes;
(5) Treatment of synthetic securitizations;
(6) How exposures intended to be securitized are valued and whether they are recorded under subpart E of this part; and
(7) Policies for recognizing liabilities on the balance sheet for arrangements that could require the FDIC-supervised institution to provide financial support for securitized assets.
(d)
An explanation of significant changes to any of the quantitative information set forth below since the last reporting period.
Quantitative disclosures
(e)
The total outstanding exposures securitized
4
by the FDIC-supervised institution in securitizations that meet the operational criteria in § 324.141 (categorized into traditional/synthetic), by underlying exposure type
5
separately for securitizations of third-party exposures for which the FDIC-supervised institution acts only as sponsor.
(f)
For exposures securitized by the FDIC-supervised institution in securitizations that meet the operational criteria in § 324.141:
(1) Amount of securitized assets that are impaired
6
/past due categorized by exposure type; and
(2) Losses recognized by the FDIC-supervised institution during the current period categorized by exposure type.
7
(g)
The total amount of outstanding exposures intended to be securitized categorized by exposure type.
(h)
Aggregate amount of:
(1) On-balance sheet securitization exposures retained or purchased categorized by exposure type; and
(2) Off-balance sheet securitization exposures categorized by exposure type.
(i)
(1) Aggregate amount of securitization exposures retained or purchased and the associated capital requirements for these exposures, categorized between securitization and resecuritization exposures, further categorized into a meaningful number of risk weight bands and by risk-based capital approach (e.g. SA, SFA, or SSFA).
(2) Aggregate amount disclosed separately by type of underlying exposure in the pool of any:
(i) After-tax gain-on-sale on a securitization that has been deducted from common equity tier 1 capital; and
(ii) Credit-enhancing interest-only strip that is assigned a 1,250 percent risk weight.
(j)
Summary of current year's securitization activity, including the amount of exposures securitized (by exposure type), and recognized gain or loss on sale by asset type.
(k)
Aggregate amount of resecuritization exposures retained or purchased categorized according to:
(1) Exposures to which credit risk mitigation is applied and those not applied; and
(2) Exposures to guarantors categorized according to guarantor creditworthiness categories or guarantor name.
1
The FDIC-supervised institution must describe the structure of resecuritizations in which it participates; this description must be provided for the main categories of resecuritization products in which the FDIC-supervised institution is active.
2
For example, these roles would include originator, investor, servicer, provider of credit enhancement, sponsor, liquidity provider, or swap provider.
3
For example, money market mutual funds should be listed individually, and personal and private trusts, should be noted collectively.
4
“Exposures securitized” include underlying exposures originated by the FDIC-supervised institution, whether generated by them or purchased, and recognized in the balance sheet, from third parties, and third-party exposures included in sponsored transactions. Securitization transactions (including underlying exposures originally on the FDIC-supervised institution's balance sheet and underlying exposures acquired by the FDIC-supervised institution from third-party entities) in which the originating bank does not retain any securitization exposure should be shown separately but need only be reported for the year of inception.
5
An FDIC-supervised institution is required to disclose exposures regardless of whether there is a capital charge under this part.
6
An FDIC-supervised institution must include credit-related other than temporary impairment (OTTI).
7
For example, charge-offs/allowances (if the assets remain on the FDIC-supervised institution's balance sheet) or credit-related OTTI of I/O strips and other retained residual interests, as well as recognition of liabilities for probable future financial support required of the FDIC-supervised institution with respect to securitized assets.
Table 10 to § 324.173—Operational Risk
Qualitative disclosures
(a)
The general qualitative disclosure requirement for operational risk.
(b)
Description of the AMA, including a discussion of relevant internal and external factors considered in the FDIC-supervised institution's measurement approach.
(c)
A description of the use of insurance for the purpose of mitigating operational risk.
Table 11 to § 324.173—Equities Not Subject to Subpart F of This Part
Qualitative disclosures
(a)
The general qualitative disclosure requirement with respect to the equity risk of equity holdings not subject to subpart F of this part, including:
(1) Differentiation between holdings on which capital gains are expected and those held for other objectives, including for relationship and strategic reasons; and
(2) Discussion of important policies covering the valuation of and accounting for equity holdings not subject to subpart F of this part. This includes the accounting methodology and valuation methodologies used, including key assumptions and practices affecting valuation as well as significant changes in these practices.
Quantitative disclosures
(b)
Carrying value on the balance sheet of equity investments, as well as the fair value of those investments.
(c)
The types and nature of investments, including the amount that is:
(1) Publicly traded; and
(2) Non-publicly traded.
(d)
The cumulative realized gains (losses) arising from sales and liquidations in the reporting period.
(e)
(1) Total unrealized gains (losses)
1
(2) Total latent revaluation gains (losses)
2
(3) Any amounts of the above included in tier 1 and/or tier 2 capital.
(f)
Capital requirements categorized by appropriate equity groupings, consistent with the FDIC-supervised institution's methodology, as well as the aggregate amounts and the type of equity investments subject to any supervisory transition regarding total capital requirements.
3
1
Unrealized gains (losses) recognized in the balance sheet but not through earnings.
2
Unrealized gains (losses) not recognized either in the balance sheet or through earnings.
3
This disclosure must include a breakdown of equities that are subject to the 0 percent, 20 percent, 100 percent, 300 percent, 400 percent, and 600 percent risk weights, as applicable.
Table 12 to § 324.173—Interest Rate Risk for Non-trading Activities
Qualitative disclosures
(a)
The general qualitative disclosure requirement, including the nature of interest rate risk for non-trading activities and key assumptions, including assumptions regarding loan prepayments and behavior of non-maturity deposits, and frequency of measurement of interest rate risk for non-trading activities.
Quantitative disclosures
(b)
The increase (decline) in earnings or economic value (or relevant measure used by management) for upward and downward rate shocks according to management's method for measuring interest rate risk for non-trading activities, categorized by currency (as appropriate).
(c) Except as provided in § 324.172(b), an FDIC-supervised institution described in § 324.172(d) must make the disclosures described in Table 13 to § 324.173; provided, however, the disclosures required under this paragraph are required without regard to whether the FDIC-supervised institution has completed the parallel run process and has received notification from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d). The FDIC-supervised institution must make these disclosures publicly available beginning on January 1, 2015.
Table 13 to § 324.173—Supplementary Leverage Ratio
Dollar amounts in thousands
Tril
Bil
Mil
Thou
Part 1: Summary comparison of accounting assets and total leverage exposure
1 Total consolidated assets as reported in published financial statements
2 Adjustment for investments in banking, financial, insurance or commercial entities that are consolidated for accounting purposes but outside the scope of regulatory consolidation
3 Adjustment for fiduciary assets recognized on balance sheet but excluded from total leverage exposure
4 Adjustment for derivative exposures
5 Adjustment for repo-style transactions
6 Adjustment for off-balance sheet exposures (that is, conversion to credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet exposures)
7 Other adjustments
8 Total leverage exposure
Part 2: Supplementary leverage ratio
On-balance sheet exposures
1 On-balance sheet assets (excluding on-balance sheet assets for repo-style transactions and derivative exposures, but including cash collateral received in derivative transactions)
2 LESS: Amounts deducted from tier 1 capital
3 Total on-balance sheet exposures (excluding on-balance sheet assets for repo-style transactions and derivative exposures, but including cash collateral received in derivative transactions) (sum of lines 1 and 2)
Derivative exposures
4 Current exposure for derivative exposures (that is, net of cash variation margin)
5 Add-on amounts for potential future exposure (PFE) for derivative exposures
6 Gross-up for cash collateral posted if deducted from the on-balance sheet assets, except for cash variation margin
7 LESS: Deductions of receivable assets for cash variation margin posted in derivative transactions, if included in on-balance sheet assets
8 LESS: Exempted CCP leg of client-cleared transactions
9 Effective notional principal amount of sold credit protection
10 LESS: Effective notional principal amount offsets and PFE adjustments for sold credit protection
11 Total derivative exposures (sum of lines 4 to 10)
Repo-style transactions
12 On-balance sheet assets for repo-style transactions, except include the gross value of receivables for reverse repurchase transactions. Exclude from this item the value of securities received in a security-for-security repo-style transaction where the securities lender has not sold or re-hypothecated the securities received. Include in this item the value of securities that qualified for sales treatment that must be reversed
13 LESS: Reduction of the gross value of receivables in reverse repurchase transactions by cash payables in repurchase transactions under netting agreements
14 Counterparty credit risk for all repo-style transactions
15 Exposure for repo-style transactions where a banking organization acts as an agent
16 Total exposures for repo-style transactions (sum of lines 12 to 15)
Other off-balance sheet exposures
17 Off-balance sheet exposures at gross notional amounts
18 LESS: Adjustments for conversion to credit equivalent amounts
19 Off-balance sheet exposures (sum of lines 17 and 18)
Capital and total leverage exposure
20 Tier 1 capital
21 Total leverage exposure (sum of lines 3, 11, 16 and 19)
Supplementary leverage ratio
22 Supplementary leverage ratio
(in percent)
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 57750, Sept. 26, 2014; 80 FR 41425, July 15, 2015; 84 FR 4247, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 59279, Nov. 1, 2019; 85 FR 4442, Jan. 24, 2020]
§§ 324.174-324.200
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Risk-Weighted Assets—Market Risk
§ 324.201
Purpose, applicability, and reservation of authority.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart F establishes risk-based capital requirements for FDIC-supervised institutions with significant exposure to market risk, provides methods for these FDIC-supervised institutions to calculate their standardized measure for market risk and, if applicable, advanced measure for market risk, and establishes public disclosure requirements.
(b)
Applicability.
(1) This subpart F applies to any FDIC-supervised institution with aggregate trading assets and trading liabilities (as reported in the
FDIC-supervised institution's most recent quarterly Call Report), equal to:
(i) 10 percent or more of quarter-end total assets as reported on the most recent quarterly Call Report; or
(ii) $1 billion or more.
(2) The FDIC may apply this subpart to any FDIC-supervised institution if the FDIC deems it necessary or appropriate because of the level of market risk of the FDIC-supervised institution or to ensure safe and sound banking practices.
(3) The FDIC may exclude an FDIC-supervised institution that meets the criteria of paragraph (b)(1) of this section from application of this subpart if the FDIC determines that the exclusion is appropriate based on the level of market risk of the FDIC-supervised institution and is consistent with safe and sound banking practices.
(c)
Reservation of authority
(1) The FDIC may require an FDIC-supervised institution to hold an amount of capital greater than otherwise required under this subpart if the FDIC determines that the FDIC-supervised institution's capital requirement for market risk as calculated under this subpart is not commensurate with the market risk of the FDIC-supervised institution's covered positions. In making determinations under paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section, the FDIC will apply notice and response procedures generally in the same manner as the notice and response procedures set forth in § 324.5(c).
(2) If the FDIC determines that the risk-based capital requirement calculated under this subpart by the FDIC-supervised institution for one or more covered positions or portfolios of covered positions is not commensurate with the risks associated with those positions or portfolios, the FDIC may require the FDIC-supervised institution to assign a different risk-based capital requirement to the positions or portfolios that more accurately reflects the risk of the positions or portfolios.
(3) The FDIC may also require an FDIC-supervised institution to calculate risk-based capital requirements for specific positions or portfolios under this subpart, or under subpart D or subpart E of this part, as appropriate, to more accurately reflect the risks of the positions.
(4) Nothing in this subpart limits the authority of the FDIC under any other provision of law or regulation to take supervisory or enforcement action, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, deficient capital levels, or violations of law.
§ 324.202
Definitions.
(a) Terms set forth in § 324.2 and used in this subpart have the definitions assigned thereto in § 324.2.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, the following terms are defined as follows:
Backtesting
means the comparison of an FDIC-supervised institution's internal estimates with actual outcomes during a sample period not used in model development. For purposes of this subpart, backtesting is one form of out-of-sample testing.
Commodity position
means a position for which price risk arises from changes in the price of a commodity.
Corporate debt position
means a debt position that is an exposure to a company that is not a sovereign entity, the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, a multilateral development bank, a depository institution, a foreign bank, a credit union, a public sector entity, a GSE, or a securitization.
Correlation trading position
means:
(1) A securitization position for which all or substantially all of the value of the underlying exposures is based on the credit quality of a single company for which a two-way market exists, or on commonly traded indices based on such exposures for which a two-way market exists on the indices; or
(2) A position that is not a securitization position and that hedges a position described in paragraph (1) of this definition; and
(3) A correlation trading position does not include:
(i) A resecuritization position;
(ii) A derivative of a securitization position that does not provide a pro
rata share in the proceeds of a securitization tranche; or
(iii) A securitization position for which the underlying assets or reference exposures are retail exposures, residential mortgage exposures, or commercial mortgage exposures.
Covered position
means the following positions:
(1) A trading asset or trading liability (whether on- or off-balance sheet),
32
as reported on Call Report, that meets the following conditions:
32
Securities subject to repurchase and lending agreements are included as if they are still owned by the lender.
(i) The position is a trading position or hedges another covered position;
33
and
33
A position that hedges a trading position must be within the scope of the bank's hedging strategy as described in paragraph (a)(2) of § 324.203.
(ii) The position is free of any restrictive covenants on its tradability or the FDIC-supervised institution is able to hedge the material risk elements of the position in a two-way market;
(2) A foreign exchange or commodity position, regardless of whether the position is a trading asset or trading liability (excluding any structural foreign currency positions that the FDIC-supervised institution chooses to exclude with prior supervisory approval); and
(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition, a covered position does not include:
(i) An intangible asset, including any servicing asset;
(ii) Any hedge of a trading position that the FDIC determines to be outside the scope of the FDIC-supervised institution's hedging strategy required in paragraph (a)(2) of § 324.203;
(iii) Any position that, in form or substance, acts as a liquidity facility that provides support to asset-backed commercial paper;
(iv) A credit derivative the FDIC-supervised institution recognizes as a guarantee for risk-weighted asset amount calculation purposes under subpart D or subpart E of this part;
(v) Any position that is recognized as a credit valuation adjustment hedge under § 324.132(e)(5) or § 324.132(e)(6), except as provided in § 324.132(e)(6)(vii);
(vi) Any equity position that is not publicly traded, other than a derivative that references a publicly traded equity and other than a position in an investment company as defined in and registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act, provided that all the underlying equities held by the investment company are publicly traded;
(vii) Any equity position that is not publicly traded, other than a derivative that references a publicly traded equity and other than a position in an entity not domiciled in the United States (or a political subdivision thereof) that is supervised and regulated in a manner similar to entities described in paragraph (3)(vi) of this definition;
(viii) Any position an FDIC-supervised institution holds with the intent to securitize; or
(ix) Any direct real estate holding.
Debt position
means a covered position that is not a securitization position or a correlation trading position and that has a value that reacts primarily to changes in interest rates or credit spreads.
Default by a sovereign entity
has the same meaning as the term sovereign default under § 324.2.
Equity position
means a covered position that is not a securitization position or a correlation trading position and that has a value that reacts primarily to changes in equity prices.
Event risk
means the risk of loss on equity or hybrid equity positions as a result of a financial event, such as the announcement or occurrence of a company merger, acquisition, spin-off, or dissolution.
Foreign exchange position
means a position for which price risk arises from changes in foreign exchange rates.
General market risk
means the risk of loss that could result from broad market movements, such as changes in the general level of interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, or commodity prices.
Hedge
means a position or positions that offset all, or substantially all, of one or more material risk factors of another position.
Idiosyncratic risk
means the risk of loss in the value of a position that
arises from changes in risk factors unique to that position.
Incremental risk
means the default risk and credit migration risk of a position. Default risk means the risk of loss on a position that could result from the failure of an obligor to make timely payments of principal or interest on its debt obligation, and the risk of loss that could result from bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar proceeding. Credit migration risk means the price risk that arises from significant changes in the underlying credit quality of the position.
Market risk
means the risk of loss on a position that could result from movements in market prices.
Resecuritization position
means a covered position that is:
(1) An on- or off-balance sheet exposure to a resecuritization; or
(2) An exposure that directly or indirectly references a resecuritization exposure in paragraph (1) of this definition.
Securitization
means a transaction in which:
(1) All or a portion of the credit risk of one or more underlying exposures is transferred to one or more third parties;
(2) The credit risk associated with the underlying exposures has been separated into at least two tranches that reflect different levels of seniority;
(3) Performance of the securitization exposures depends upon the performance of the underlying exposures;
(4) All or substantially all of the underlying exposures are financial exposures (such as loans, commitments, credit derivatives, guarantees, receivables, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, other debt securities, or equity securities);
(5) For non-synthetic securitizations, the underlying exposures are not owned by an operating company;
(6) The underlying exposures are not owned by a small business investment company described in section 302 of the Small Business Investment Act;
(7) The underlying exposures are not owned by a firm an investment in which qualifies as a community development investment under section 24(Eleventh) of the National Bank Act;
(8) The FDIC may determine that a transaction in which the underlying exposures are owned by an investment firm that exercises substantially unfettered control over the size and composition of its assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet exposures is not a securitization based on the transaction's leverage, risk profile, or economic substance;
(9) The FDIC may deem an exposure to a transaction that meets the definition of a securitization, notwithstanding paragraph (5), (6), or (7) of this definition, to be a securitization based on the transaction's leverage, risk profile, or economic substance; and
(10) The transaction is not:
(i) An investment fund;
(ii) A collective investment fund (as defined in 12 CFR 344.3 (state nonmember bank) and 12 CFR 390.203 (state savings association));
(iii) An employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of ERISA, a “governmental plan” (as defined in 29 USC 1002(32)) that complies with the tax deferral qualification requirements provided in the Internal Revenue Code, or any similar employee benefit plan established under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction; or
(iv) Registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act or foreign equivalents thereof.
Securitization position
means a covered position that is:
(1) An on-balance sheet or off-balance sheet credit exposure (including credit-enhancing representations and warranties) that arises from a securitization (including a resecuritization); or
(2) An exposure that directly or indirectly references a securitization exposure described in paragraph (1) of this definition.
Sovereign debt position
means a direct exposure to a sovereign entity.
Specific risk
means the risk of loss on a position that could result from factors other than broad market movements and includes event risk, default risk, and idiosyncratic risk.
Structural position in a foreign currency
means a position that is not a trading position and that is:
(1) Subordinated debt, equity, or minority interest in a consolidated subsidiary that is denominated in a foreign currency;
(2) Capital assigned to foreign branches that is denominated in a foreign currency;
(3) A position related to an unconsolidated subsidiary or another item that is denominated in a foreign currency and that is deducted from the FDIC-supervised institution's tier 1 or tier 2 capital; or
(4) A position designed to hedge an FDIC-supervised institution's capital ratios or earnings against the effect on paragraphs (1), (2), or (3) of this definition of adverse exchange rate movements.
Term repo-style transaction
means a repo-style transaction that has an original maturity in excess of one business day.
Trading position
means a position that is held by the FDIC-supervised institution for the purpose of short-term resale or with the intent of benefiting from actual or expected short-term price movements, or to lock in arbitrage profits.
Two-way market
means a market where there are independent bona fide offers to buy and sell so that a price reasonably related to the last sales price or current bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations can be determined within one day and settled at that price within a relatively short time frame conforming to trade custom.
Value-at-Risk (VaR)
means the estimate of the maximum amount that the value of one or more positions could decline due to market price or rate movements during a fixed holding period within a stated confidence interval.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 71354, Oct. 17, 2016; 84 FR 35280, July 22, 2019; 85 FR 4434, Jan. 24, 2020]
§ 324.203
Requirements for application of this subpart F.
(a)
Trading positions
—(1)
Identification of trading positions.
An FDIC-supervised institution must have clearly defined policies and procedures for determining which of its trading assets and trading liabilities are trading positions and which of its trading positions are correlation trading positions. These policies and procedures must take into account:
(i) The extent to which a position, or a hedge of its material risks, can be marked-to-market daily by reference to a two-way market; and
(ii) Possible impairments to the liquidity of a position or its hedge.
(2)
Trading and hedging strategies.
An FDIC-supervised institution must have clearly defined trading and hedging strategies for its trading positions that are approved by senior management of the FDIC-supervised institution.
(i) The trading strategy must articulate the expected holding period of, and the market risk associated with, each portfolio of trading positions.
(ii) The hedging strategy must articulate for each portfolio of trading positions the level of market risk the FDIC-supervised institution is willing to accept and must detail the instruments, techniques, and strategies the FDIC-supervised institution will use to hedge the risk of the portfolio.
(b)
Management of covered positions
—(1)
Active management.
An FDIC-supervised institution must have clearly defined policies and procedures for actively managing all covered positions. At a minimum, these policies and procedures must require:
(i) Marking positions to market or to model on a daily basis;
(ii) Daily assessment of the FDIC-supervised institution's ability to hedge position and portfolio risks, and of the extent of market liquidity;
(iii) Establishment and daily monitoring of limits on positions by a risk control unit independent of the trading business unit;
(iv) Daily monitoring by senior management of information described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iii) of this section;
(v) At least annual reassessment of established limits on positions by senior management; and
(vi) At least annual assessments by qualified personnel of the quality of market inputs to the valuation process, the soundness of key assumptions, the reliability of parameter estimation in pricing models, and the stability and
accuracy of model calibration under alternative market scenarios.
(2)
Valuation of covered positions.
The FDIC-supervised institution must have a process for prudent valuation of its covered positions that includes policies and procedures on the valuation of positions, marking positions to market or to model, independent price verification, and valuation adjustments or reserves. The valuation process must consider, as appropriate, unearned credit spreads, close-out costs, early termination costs, investing and funding costs, liquidity, and model risk.
(c)
Requirements for internal models.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must obtain the prior written approval of the FDIC before using any internal model to calculate its risk-based capital requirement under this subpart.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must meet all of the requirements of this section on an ongoing basis. The FDIC-supervised institution must promptly notify the FDIC when:
(i) The FDIC-supervised institution plans to extend the use of a model that the FDIC has approved under this subpart to an additional business line or product type;
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution makes any change to an internal model approved by the FDIC under this subpart that would result in a material change in the FDIC-supervised institution's risk-weighted asset amount for a portfolio of covered positions; or
(iii) The FDIC-supervised institution makes any material change to its modeling assumptions.
(3) The FDIC may rescind its approval of the use of any internal model (in whole or in part) or of the determination of the approach under § 324.209(a)(2)(ii) for an FDIC-supervised institution's modeled correlation trading positions and determine an appropriate capital requirement for the covered positions to which the model would apply, if the FDIC determines that the model no longer complies with this subpart or fails to reflect accurately the risks of the FDIC-supervised institution's covered positions.
(4) The FDIC-supervised institution must periodically, but no less frequently than annually, review its internal models in light of developments in financial markets and modeling technologies, and enhance those models as appropriate to ensure that they continue to meet the FDIC's standards for model approval and employ risk measurement methodologies that are most appropriate for the FDIC-supervised institution's covered positions.
(5) The FDIC-supervised institution must incorporate its internal models into its risk management process and integrate the internal models used for calculating its VaR-based measure into its daily risk management process.
(6) The level of sophistication of an FDIC-supervised institution's internal models must be commensurate with the complexity and amount of its covered positions. An FDIC-supervised institution's internal models may use any of the generally accepted approaches, including but not limited to variance-covariance models, historical simulations, or Monte Carlo simulations, to measure market risk.
(7) The FDIC-supervised institution's internal models must properly measure all the material risks in the covered positions to which they are applied.
(8) The FDIC-supervised institution's internal models must conservatively assess the risks arising from less liquid positions and positions with limited price transparency under realistic market scenarios.
(9) The FDIC-supervised institution must have a rigorous and well-defined process for re-estimating, re-evaluating, and updating its internal models to ensure continued applicability and relevance.
(10) If an FDIC-supervised institution uses internal models to measure specific risk, the internal models must also satisfy the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of § 324.207.
(d)
Control, oversight, and validation mechanisms.
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution must have a risk control unit that reports directly to senior management and is independent from the business trading units.
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution must validate its internal models initially and on an ongoing basis. The FDIC-supervised institution's validation process must be independent of
the internal models' development, implementation, and operation, or the validation process must be subjected to an independent review of its adequacy and effectiveness. Validation must include:
(i) An evaluation of the conceptual soundness of (including developmental evidence supporting) the internal models;
(ii) An ongoing monitoring process that includes verification of processes and the comparison of the FDIC-supervised institution's model outputs with relevant internal and external data sources or estimation techniques; and
(iii) An outcomes analysis process that includes backtesting. For internal models used to calculate the VaR-based measure, this process must include a comparison of the changes in the FDIC-supervised institution's portfolio value that would have occurred were end-of-day positions to remain unchanged (therefore, excluding fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income, and intraday trading) with VaR-based measures during a sample period not used in model development.
(3) The FDIC-supervised institution must stress test the market risk of its covered positions at a frequency appropriate to each portfolio, and in no case less frequently than quarterly. The stress tests must take into account concentration risk (including but not limited to concentrations in single issuers, industries, sectors, or markets), illiquidity under stressed market conditions, and risks arising from the FDIC-supervised institution's trading activities that may not be adequately captured in its internal models.
(4) The FDIC-supervised institution must have an internal audit function independent of business-line management that at least annually assesses the effectiveness of the controls supporting the FDIC-supervised institution's market risk measurement systems, including the activities of the business trading units and independent risk control unit, compliance with policies and procedures, and calculation of the FDIC-supervised institution's measures for market risk under this subpart. At least annually, the internal audit function must report its findings to the FDIC-supervised institution's board of directors (or a committee thereof).
(e)
Internal assessment of capital adequacy.
The FDIC-supervised institution must have a rigorous process for assessing its overall capital adequacy in relation to its market risk. The assessment must take into account risks that may not be captured fully in the VaR-based measure, including concentration and liquidity risk under stressed market conditions.
(f)
Documentation.
The FDIC-supervised institution must adequately document all material aspects of its internal models, management and valuation of covered positions, control, oversight, validation and review processes and results, and internal assessment of capital adequacy.
§ 324.204
Measure for market risk.
(a)
General requirement.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate its standardized measure for market risk by following the steps described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution also must calculate an advanced measure for market risk by following the steps in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Measure for market risk.
An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the standardized measure for market risk, which equals the sum of the VaR-based capital requirement, stressed VaR-based capital requirement, specific risk add-ons, incremental risk capital requirement, comprehensive risk capital requirement, and capital requirement for
de minimis
exposures all as defined under this paragraph (a)(2), (except, that the FDIC-supervised institution may not use the SFA in § 324.210(b)(2)(vii)(B) for purposes of this calculation), plus any additional capital requirement established by the FDIC. An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that has completed the parallel run process and that has received notifications from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d) also must calculate the advanced measure for market risk, which equals the sum of the VaR-based capital requirement,
stressed VaR-based capital requirement, specific risk add-ons, incremental risk capital requirement, comprehensive risk capital requirement, and capital requirement for
de minimis
exposures as defined under this paragraph (a)(2), plus any additional capital requirement established by the FDIC.
(i)
VaR-based capital requirement.
An FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based capital requirement equals the greater of:
(A) The previous day's VaR-based measure as calculated under § 324.205; or
(B) The average of the daily VaR-based measures as calculated under § 324.205 for each of the preceding 60 business days multiplied by three, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii)
Stressed VaR-based capital requirement.
An FDIC-supervised institution's stressed VaR-based capital requirement equals the greater of:
(A) The most recent stressed VaR-based measure as calculated under § 324.206; or
(B) The average of the stressed VaR-based measures as calculated under § 324.206 for each of the preceding 12 weeks multiplied by three, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(iii)
Specific risk add-ons.
An FDIC-supervised institution's specific risk add-ons equal any specific risk add-ons that are required under § 324.207 and are calculated in accordance with § 324.210.
(iv)
Incremental risk capital requirement.
An FDIC-supervised institution's incremental risk capital requirement equals any incremental risk capital requirement as calculated under § 324.208.
(v)
Comprehensive risk capital requirement.
An FDIC-supervised institution's comprehensive risk capital requirement equals any comprehensive risk capital requirement as calculated under § 324.209.
(vi)
Capital requirement for de minimis exposures.
An FDIC-supervised institution's capital requirement for
de minimis
exposures equals:
(A) The absolute value of the fair value of those
de minimis
exposures that are not captured in the FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based measure or under paragraph (a)(2)(vi)(B) of this section; and
(B) With the prior written approval of the FDIC, the capital requirement for any
de minimis
exposures using alternative techniques that appropriately measure the market risk associated with those exposures.
(b)
Backtesting.
An FDIC-supervised institution must compare each of its most recent 250 business days' trading losses (excluding fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income, and intraday trading) with the corresponding daily VaR-based measures calibrated to a one-day holding period and at a one-tail, 99.0 percent confidence level. An FDIC-supervised institution must begin backtesting as required by this paragraph (b) no later than one year after the later of January 1, 2014, and the date on which the FDIC-supervised institution becomes subject to this subpart. In the interim, consistent with safety and soundness principles, an FDIC-supervised institution subject to this subpart as of January 1, 2014 should continue to follow backtesting procedures in accordance with the FDIC's supervisory expectations.
(1) Once each quarter, the FDIC-supervised institution must identify the number of exceptions (that is, the number of business days for which the actual daily net trading loss, if any, exceeds the corresponding daily VaR-based measure) that have occurred over the preceding 250 business days.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must use the multiplication factor in Table 1 to § 324.204 that corresponds to the number of exceptions identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to determine its VaR-based capital requirement for market risk under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and to determine its stressed VaR-based capital requirement for market risk under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section until it obtains the next quarter's backtesting results, unless the FDIC notifies the FDIC-supervised institution in writing that a different adjustment or other action is appropriate.
Table 1 to § 324.204—Multiplication Factors Based on Results of Backtesting
Number of exceptions
Multiplication
factor
4 or fewer
3.00
5
3.40
6
3.50
7
3.65
8
3.75
9
3.85
10 or more
4.00
§ 324.205
VaR-based measure.
(a)
General requirement.
An FDIC-supervised institution must use one or more internal models to calculate daily a VaR-based measure of the general market risk of all covered positions. The daily VaR-based measure also may reflect the FDIC-supervised institution's specific risk for one or more portfolios of debt and equity positions, if the internal models meet the requirements of § 324.207(b)(1). The daily VaR-based measure must also reflect the FDIC-supervised institution's specific risk for any portfolio of correlation trading positions that is modeled under § 324.209. An FDIC-supervised institution may elect to include term repo-style transactions in its VaR-based measure, provided that the FDIC-supervised institution includes all such term repo-style transactions consistently over time.
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution's internal models for calculating its VaR-based measure must use risk factors sufficient to measure the market risk inherent in all covered positions. The market risk categories must include, as appropriate, interest rate risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and commodity price risk. For material positions in the major currencies and markets, modeling techniques must incorporate enough segments of the yield curve—in no case less than six—to capture differences in volatility and less than perfect correlation of rates along the yield curve.
(2) The VaR-based measure may incorporate empirical correlations within and across risk categories, provided the FDIC-supervised institution validates and demonstrates the reasonableness of its process for measuring correlations. If the VaR-based measure does not incorporate empirical correlations across risk categories, the FDIC-supervised institution must add the separate measures from its internal models used to calculate the VaR-based measure for the appropriate market risk categories (interest rate risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange rate risk, and/or commodity price risk) to determine its aggregate VaR-based measure.
(3) The VaR-based measure must include the risks arising from the nonlinear price characteristics of options positions or positions with embedded optionality and the sensitivity of the fair value of the positions to changes in the volatility of the underlying rates, prices, or other material risk factors. An FDIC-supervised institution with a large or complex options portfolio must measure the volatility of options positions or positions with embedded optionality by different maturities and/or strike prices, where material.
(4) The FDIC-supervised institution must be able to justify to the satisfaction of the FDIC the omission of any risk factors from the calculation of its VaR-based measure that the FDIC-supervised institution uses in its pricing models.
(5) The FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDIC the appropriateness of any proxies used to capture the risks of the FDIC-supervised institution's actual positions for which such proxies are used.
(b)
Quantitative requirements for VaR-based measure.
(1) The VaR-based measure must be calculated on a daily basis using a one-tail, 99.0 percent confidence level, and a holding period equivalent to a 10-business-day movement in underlying risk factors, such as rates, spreads, and prices. To calculate VaR-based measures using a 10-business-day holding period, the FDIC-supervised institution may calculate 10-business-day measures directly or may convert VaR-based measures using holding periods other than 10 business days to the equivalent of a 10-business-day holding period. An FDIC-supervised institution that converts its VaR-based measure in such a manner must be able to justify the reasonableness of its approach to the satisfaction of the FDIC.
(2) The VaR-based measure must be based on a historical observation period of at least one year. Data used to determine the VaR-based measure must be relevant to the FDIC-supervised institution's actual exposures and of sufficient quality to support the calculation of risk-based capital requirements. The FDIC-supervised institution must update data sets at least monthly or more frequently as changes in market conditions or portfolio composition warrant. For an FDIC-supervised institution that uses a weighting scheme or other method for the historical observation period, the FDIC-supervised institution must either:
(i) Use an effective observation period of at least one year in which the average time lag of the observations is at least six months; or
(ii) Demonstrate to the FDIC that its weighting scheme is more effective than a weighting scheme with an average time lag of at least six months representing the volatility of the FDIC-supervised institution's trading portfolio over a full business cycle. An FDIC-supervised institution using this option must update its data more frequently than monthly and in a manner appropriate for the type of weighting scheme.
(c) An FDIC-supervised institution must divide its portfolio into a number of significant subportfolios approved by the FDIC for subportfolio backtesting purposes. These subportfolios must be sufficient to allow the FDIC-supervised institution and the FDIC to assess the adequacy of the VaR model at the risk factor level; the FDIC will evaluate the appropriateness of these subportfolios relative to the value and composition of the FDIC-supervised institution's covered positions. The FDIC-supervised institution must retain and make available to the FDIC the following information for each subportfolio for each business day over the previous two years (500 business days), with no more than a 60-day lag:
(1) A daily VaR-based measure for the subportfolio calibrated to a one-tail, 99.0 percent confidence level;
(2) The daily profit or loss for the subportfolio (that is, the net change in price of the positions held in the portfolio at the end of the previous business day); and
(3) The p-value of the profit or loss on each day (that is, the probability of observing a profit that is less than, or a loss that is greater than, the amount reported for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section based on the model used to calculate the VaR-based measure described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section).
§ 324.206
Stressed VaR-based measure.
(a)
General requirement.
At least weekly, an FDIC-supervised institution must use the same internal model(s) used to calculate its VaR-based measure to calculate a stressed VaR-based measure.
(b)
Quantitative requirements for stressed VaR-based measure.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a stressed VaR-based measure for its covered positions using the same model(s) used to calculate the VaR-based measure, subject to the same confidence level and holding period applicable to the VaR-based measure under § 324.205, but with model inputs calibrated to historical data from a continuous 12-month period that reflects a period of significant financial stress appropriate to the FDIC-supervised institution's current portfolio.
(2) The stressed VaR-based measure must be calculated at least weekly and be no less than the FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based measure.
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution must have policies and procedures that describe how it determines the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the FDIC-supervised institution's stressed VaR-based measure under this section and must be able to provide empirical support for the period used. The FDIC-supervised institution must obtain the prior approval of the FDIC for, and notify the FDIC if the FDIC-supervised institution makes any material changes to, these policies and procedures. The policies and procedures must address:
(i) How the FDIC-supervised institution links the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the stressed VaR-based measure to the composition and directional bias of its current portfolio; and
(ii) The FDIC-supervised institution's process for selecting, reviewing, and updating the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the stressed VaR-based measure and for monitoring the appropriateness of the period to the FDIC-supervised institution's current portfolio.
(4) Nothing in this section prevents the FDIC from requiring an FDIC-supervised institution to use a different period of significant financial stress in the calculation of the stressed VaR-based measure.
§ 324.207
Specific risk.
(a)
General requirement.
An FDIC-supervised institution must use one of the methods in this section to measure the specific risk for each of its debt, equity, and securitization positions with specific risk.
(b)
Modeled specific risk.
An FDIC-supervised institution may use models to measure the specific risk of covered positions as provided in § 324.205(a) (therefore, excluding securitization positions that are not modeled under § 324.209). An FDIC-supervised institution must use models to measure the specific risk of correlation trading positions that are modeled under § 324.209.
(1)
Requirements for specific risk modeling.
(i) If an FDIC-supervised institution uses internal models to measure the specific risk of a portfolio, the internal models must:
(A) Explain the historical price variation in the portfolio;
(B) Be responsive to changes in market conditions;
(C) Be robust to an adverse environment, including signaling rising risk in an adverse environment; and
(D) Capture all material components of specific risk for the debt and equity positions in the portfolio. Specifically, the internal models must:
(
1
) Capture event risk and idiosyncratic risk; and
(
2
) Capture and demonstrate sensitivity to material differences between positions that are similar but not identical and to changes in portfolio composition and concentrations.
(ii) If an FDIC-supervised institution calculates an incremental risk measure for a portfolio of debt or equity positions under § 324.208, the FDIC-supervised institution is not required to capture default and credit migration risks in its internal models used to measure the specific risk of those portfolios.
(2)
Specific risk fully modeled for one or more portfolios.
If the FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based measure captures all material aspects of specific risk for one or more of its portfolios of debt, equity, or correlation trading positions, the FDIC-supervised institution has no specific risk add-on for those portfolios for purposes of § 324.204(a)(2)(iii).
(c)
Specific risk not modeled.
(1) If the FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based measure does not capture all material aspects of specific risk for a portfolio of debt, equity, or correlation trading positions, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a specific-risk add-on for the portfolio under the standardized measurement method as described in § 324.210.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a specific risk add-on under the standardized measurement method as described in § 324.210 for all of its securitization positions that are not modeled under § 324.209.
§ 324.208
Incremental risk.
(a)
General requirement.
An FDIC-supervised institution that measures the specific risk of a portfolio of debt positions under § 324.207(b) using internal models must calculate at least weekly an incremental risk measure for that portfolio according to the requirements in this section. The incremental risk measure is the FDIC-supervised institution's measure of potential losses due to incremental risk over a one-year time horizon at a one-tail, 99.9 percent confidence level, either under the assumption of a constant level of risk, or under the assumption of constant positions. With the prior approval of the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution may choose to include portfolios of equity positions in its incremental risk model, provided that it consistently includes such equity positions in a manner that is consistent with how the FDIC-supervised institution internally measures and manages the incremental risk of such positions at the portfolio level. If equity positions are included
in the model, for modeling purposes default is considered to have occurred upon the default of any debt of the issuer of the equity position. An FDIC-supervised institution may not include correlation trading positions or securitization positions in its incremental risk measure.
(b)
Requirements for incremental risk modeling.
For purposes of calculating the incremental risk measure, the incremental risk model must:
(1) Measure incremental risk over a one-year time horizon and at a one-tail, 99.9 percent confidence level, either under the assumption of a constant level of risk, or under the assumption of constant positions.
(i) A constant level of risk assumption means that the FDIC-supervised institution rebalances, or rolls over, its trading positions at the beginning of each liquidity horizon over the one-year horizon in a manner that maintains the FDIC-supervised institution's initial risk level. The FDIC-supervised institution must determine the frequency of rebalancing in a manner consistent with the liquidity horizons of the positions in the portfolio. The liquidity horizon of a position or set of positions is the time required for an FDIC-supervised institution to reduce its exposure to, or hedge all of its material risks of, the position(s) in a stressed market. The liquidity horizon for a position or set of positions may not be less than the shorter of three months or the contractual maturity of the position.
(ii) A constant position assumption means that the FDIC-supervised institution maintains the same set of positions throughout the one-year horizon. If an FDIC-supervised institution uses this assumption, it must do so consistently across all portfolios.
(iii) An FDIC-supervised institution's selection of a constant position or a constant risk assumption must be consistent between the FDIC-supervised institution's incremental risk model and its comprehensive risk model described in § 324.209, if applicable.
(iv) An FDIC-supervised institution's treatment of liquidity horizons must be consistent between the FDIC-supervised institution's incremental risk model and its comprehensive risk model described in § 324.209, if applicable.
(2) Recognize the impact of correlations between default and migration events among obligors.
(3) Reflect the effect of issuer and market concentrations, as well as concentrations that can arise within and across product classes during stressed conditions.
(4) Reflect netting only of long and short positions that reference the same financial instrument.
(5) Reflect any material mismatch between a position and its hedge.
(6) Recognize the effect that liquidity horizons have on dynamic hedging strategies. In such cases, an FDIC-supervised institution must:
(i) Choose to model the rebalancing of the hedge consistently over the relevant set of trading positions;
(ii) Demonstrate that the inclusion of rebalancing results in a more appropriate risk measurement;
(iii) Demonstrate that the market for the hedge is sufficiently liquid to permit rebalancing during periods of stress; and
(iv) Capture in the incremental risk model any residual risks arising from such hedging strategies.
(7) Reflect the nonlinear impact of options and other positions with material nonlinear behavior with respect to default and migration changes.
(8) Maintain consistency with the FDIC-supervised institution's internal risk management methodologies for identifying, measuring, and managing risk.
(c)
Calculation of incremental risk capital requirement.
The incremental risk capital requirement is the greater of:
(1) The average of the incremental risk measures over the previous 12 weeks; or
(2) The most recent incremental risk measure.
§ 324.209
Comprehensive risk.
(a)
General requirement.
(1) Subject to the prior approval of the FDIC, an FDIC-supervised institution may use the method in this section to measure comprehensive risk, that is, all price risk, for one or more portfolios of correlation trading positions.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution that measures the price risk of a portfolio of correlation trading positions using internal models must calculate at least weekly a comprehensive risk measure that captures all price risk according to the requirements of this section. The comprehensive risk measure is either:
(i) The sum of:
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution's modeled measure of all price risk determined according to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(B) A surcharge for the FDIC-supervised institution's modeled correlation trading positions equal to the total specific risk add-on for such positions as calculated under § 324.210 multiplied by 8.0 percent; or
(ii) With approval of the FDIC and provided the FDIC-supervised institution has met the requirements of this section for a period of at least one year and can demonstrate the effectiveness of the model through the results of ongoing model validation efforts including robust benchmarking, the greater of:
(A) The FDIC-supervised institution's modeled measure of all price risk determined according to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(B) The total specific risk add-on that would apply to the bank's modeled correlation trading positions as calculated under § 324.210 multiplied by 8.0 percent.
(b)
Requirements for modeling all price risk.
If an FDIC-supervised institution uses an internal model to measure the price risk of a portfolio of correlation trading positions:
(1) The internal model must measure comprehensive risk over a one-year time horizon at a one-tail, 99.9 percent confidence level, either under the assumption of a constant level of risk, or under the assumption of constant positions.
(2) The model must capture all material price risk, including but not limited to the following:
(i) The risks associated with the contractual structure of cash flows of the position, its issuer, and its underlying exposures;
(ii) Credit spread risk, including nonlinear price risks;
(iii) The volatility of implied correlations, including nonlinear price risks such as the cross-effect between spreads and correlations;
(iv) Basis risk;
(v) Recovery rate volatility as it relates to the propensity for recovery rates to affect tranche prices; and
(vi) To the extent the comprehensive risk measure incorporates the benefits of dynamic hedging, the static nature of the hedge over the liquidity horizon must be recognized. In such cases, an FDIC-supervised institution must:
(A) Choose to model the rebalancing of the hedge consistently over the relevant set of trading positions;
(B) Demonstrate that the inclusion of rebalancing results in a more appropriate risk measurement;
(C) Demonstrate that the market for the hedge is sufficiently liquid to permit rebalancing during periods of stress; and
(D) Capture in the comprehensive risk model any residual risks arising from such hedging strategies;
(3) The FDIC-supervised institution must use market data that are relevant in representing the risk profile of the FDIC-supervised institution's correlation trading positions in order to ensure that the FDIC-supervised institution fully captures the material risks of the correlation trading positions in its comprehensive risk measure in accordance with this section; and
(4) The FDIC-supervised institution must be able to demonstrate that its model is an appropriate representation of comprehensive risk in light of the historical price variation of its correlation trading positions.
(c)
Requirements for stress testing.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must at least weekly apply specific, supervisory stress scenarios to its portfolio of correlation trading positions that capture changes in:
(i) Default rates;
(ii) Recovery rates;
(iii) Credit spreads;
(iv) Correlations of underlying exposures; and
(v) Correlations of a correlation trading position and its hedge.
(2)
Other requirements.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution must retain and make available to the FDIC the results of the supervisory stress testing, including comparisons with the capital requirements generated by the FDIC-supervised institution's comprehensive risk model.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution must report to the FDIC promptly any instances where the stress tests indicate any material deficiencies in the comprehensive risk model.
(d)
Calculation of comprehensive risk capital requirement.
The comprehensive risk capital requirement is the greater of:
(1) The average of the comprehensive risk measures over the previous 12 weeks; or
(2) The most recent comprehensive risk measure.
§ 324.210
Standardized measurement method for specific risk.
(a)
General requirement.
An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a total specific risk add-on for each portfolio of debt and equity positions for which the FDIC-supervised institution's VaR-based measure does not capture all material aspects of specific risk and for all securitization positions that are not modeled under § 324.209. An FDIC-supervised institution must calculate each specific risk add-on in accordance with the requirements of this section. Notwithstanding any other definition or requirement in this subpart, a position that would have qualified as a debt position or an equity position but for the fact that it qualifies as a correlation trading position under paragraph (2) of the definition of correlation trading position in § 324.2, shall be considered a debt position or an equity position, respectively, for purposes of this § 324.210.
(1) The specific risk add-on for an individual debt or securitization position that represents sold credit protection is capped at the notional amount of the credit derivative contract. The specific risk add-on for an individual debt or securitization position that represents purchased credit protection is capped at the current fair value of the transaction plus the absolute value of the present value of all remaining payments to the protection seller under the transaction. This sum is equal to the value of the protection leg of the transaction.
(2) For debt, equity, or securitization positions that are derivatives with linear payoffs, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a specific risk-weighting factor to the fair value of the effective notional amount of the underlying instrument or index portfolio, except for a securitization position for which the FDIC-supervised institution directly calculates a specific risk add-on using the SFA in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(B) of this section. A swap must be included as an effective notional position in the underlying instrument or portfolio, with the receiving side treated as a long position and the paying side treated as a short position. For debt, equity, or securitization positions that are derivatives with nonlinear payoffs, an FDIC-supervised institution must risk weight the fair value of the effective notional amount of the underlying instrument or portfolio multiplied by the derivative's delta.
(3) For debt, equity, or securitization positions, an FDIC-supervised institution may net long and short positions (including derivatives) in identical issues or identical indices. An FDIC-supervised institution may also net positions in depositary receipts against an opposite position in an identical equity in different markets, provided that the FDIC-supervised institution includes the costs of conversion.
(4) A set of transactions consisting of either a debt position and its credit derivative hedge or a securitization position and its credit derivative hedge has a specific risk add-on of zero if:
(i) The debt or securitization position is fully hedged by a total return swap (or similar instrument where there is a matching of swap payments and changes in fair value of the debt or securitization position);
(ii) There is an exact match between the reference obligation of the swap and the debt or securitization position;
(iii) There is an exact match between the currency of the swap and the debt or securitization position; and
(iv) There is either an exact match between the maturity date of the swap
and the maturity date of the debt or securitization position; or, in cases where a total return swap references a portfolio of positions with different maturity dates, the total return swap maturity date must match the maturity date of the underlying asset in that portfolio that has the latest maturity date.
(5) The specific risk add-on for a set of transactions consisting of either a debt position and its credit derivative hedge or a securitization position and its credit derivative hedge that does not meet the criteria of paragraph (a)(4) of this section is equal to 20.0 percent of the capital requirement for the side of the transaction with the higher specific risk add-on when:
(i) The credit risk of the position is fully hedged by a credit default swap or similar instrument;
(ii) There is an exact match between the reference obligation of the credit derivative hedge and the debt or securitization position;
(iii) There is an exact match between the currency of the credit derivative hedge and the debt or securitization position; and
(iv) There is either an exact match between the maturity date of the credit derivative hedge and the maturity date of the debt or securitization position; or, in the case where the credit derivative hedge has a standard maturity date:
(A) The maturity date of the credit derivative hedge is within 30 business days of the maturity date of the debt or securitization position; or
(B) For purchased credit protection, the maturity date of the credit derivative hedge is later than the maturity date of the debt or securitization position, but is no later than the standard maturity date for that instrument that immediately follows the maturity date of the debt or securitization position. The maturity date of the credit derivative hedge may not exceed the maturity date of the debt or securitization position by more than 90 calendar days.
(6) The specific risk add-on for a set of transactions consisting of either a debt position and its credit derivative hedge or a securitization position and its credit derivative hedge that does not meet the criteria of either paragraph (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section, but in which all or substantially all of the price risk has been hedged, is equal to the specific risk add-on for the side of the transaction with the higher specific risk add-on.
(b)
Debt and securitization positions.
(1) The total specific risk add-on for a portfolio of debt or securitization positions is the sum of the specific risk add-ons for individual debt or securitization positions, as computed under this section. To determine the specific risk add-on for individual debt or securitization positions, an FDIC-supervised institution must multiply the absolute value of the current fair value of each net long or net short debt or securitization position in the portfolio by the appropriate specific risk-weighting factor as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(vii) of this section.
(2) For the purpose of this section, the appropriate specific risk-weighting factors include:
(i)
Sovereign debt positions.
(A) In accordance with Table 1 to § 324.210, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a specific risk-weighting factor to a sovereign debt position based on the CRC applicable to the sovereign, and, as applicable, the remaining contractual maturity of the position, or if there is no CRC applicable to the sovereign, based on whether the sovereign entity is a member of the OECD. Notwithstanding any other provision in this subpart, sovereign debt positions that are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States are treated as having a CRC of 0.
Table 1 to § 324.210—Specific Risk-Weighting Factors for Sovereign Debt Positions
Specific risk-weighting factor (in percent)
CRC
0-1
0.0
2-3
Remaining contractual maturity of 6 months or less
0.25
Remaining contractual maturity of greater than 6 and up to and including 24 months
1.0
Remaining contractual maturity exceeds 24 months
1.6
4-6
8.0
7
12.0
OECD Member with No CRC
0.0
Non-OECD Member with No CRC
8.0
Sovereign Default
12.0
(B) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution may assign to a sovereign debt position a specific risk-weighting factor that is lower than the applicable specific risk-weighting factor in Table 1 to § 324.210 if:
(
1
) The position is denominated in the sovereign entity's currency;
(
2
) The FDIC-supervised institution has at least an equivalent amount of liabilities in that currency; and
(
3
) The sovereign entity allows banks under its jurisdiction to assign the lower specific risk-weighting factor to the same exposures to the sovereign entity.
(C) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 12.0 percent specific risk-weighting factor to a sovereign debt position immediately upon determination a default has occurred; or if a default has occurred within the previous five years.
(D) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 0.0 percent specific risk-weighting factor to a sovereign debt position if the sovereign entity is a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC assigned to it, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
(E) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign an 8.0 percent specific risk-weighting factor to a sovereign debt position if the sovereign is not a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC assigned to it, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
(ii)
Certain supranational entity and multilateral development bank debt positions.
An FDIC-supervised institution may assign a 0.0 percent specific risk-weighting factor to a debt position that is an exposure to the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, or an MDB.
(iii)
GSE debt positions.
An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 1.6 percent specific risk-weighting factor to a debt position that is an exposure to a GSE. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign an 8.0 percent specific risk-weighting factor to preferred stock issued by a GSE.
(iv)
Depository institution, foreign bank, and credit union debt positions.
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a specific risk-weighting factor to a debt position that is an exposure to a depository institution, a foreign bank, or a credit union, in accordance with Table
2 to § 324.210 of this section, based on the CRC that corresponds to that entity's home country or the OECD membership status of that entity's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the entity's home country, and, as applicable, the remaining contractual maturity of the position.
Table 2 to § 324.210—Specific Risk-weighting Factors for Depository Institution, Foreign Bank, and Credit Union Debt Positions
Specific risk-weighting factor
Percent
CRC 0-2 or OECD Member with No CRC
Remaining contractual maturity of 6 months or less
0.25
Remaining contractual maturity of greater than 6 and up to and including 24 months
1.0
Remaining contractual maturity exceeds 24 months
1.6
CRC 3
8.0
CRC 4-7
12.0
Non-OECD Member with No CRC
8.0
Sovereign Default
12.0
(B) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a specific risk-weighting factor of 8.0 percent to a debt position that is an exposure to a depository institution or a foreign bank that is includable in the depository institution's or foreign bank's regulatory capital and that is not subject to deduction as a reciprocal holding under § 324.22.
(C) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 12.0 percent specific risk-weighting factor to a debt position that is an exposure to a foreign bank immediately upon determination that a default by the foreign bank's home country has occurred or if a default by the foreign bank's home country has occurred within the previous five years.
(v)
PSE debt positions.
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(v)(B) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a specific risk-weighting factor to a debt position that is an exposure to a PSE in accordance with Tables 3 and 4 to § 324.210 depending on the position's categorization as a general obligation or revenue obligation based on the CRC that corresponds to the PSE's home country or the OECD membership status of the PSE's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the PSE's home country, and, as applicable, the remaining contractual maturity of the position, as set forth in Tables 3 and 4 to § 324.210.
(B) An FDIC-supervised institution may assign a lower specific risk-weighting factor than would otherwise apply under Tables 3 and 4 to § 324.210 to a debt position that is an exposure to a foreign PSE if:
(
1
) The PSE's home country allows banks under its jurisdiction to assign a lower specific risk-weighting factor to such position; and
(
2
) The specific risk-weighting factor is not lower than the risk weight that corresponds to the PSE's home country in Table 1 to § 324.210.
(C) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a 12.0 percent specific risk-weighting factor to a PSE debt position immediately upon determination that a default by the PSE's home country has occurred or if a default by the PSE's home country has occurred within the previous five years.
Table 3 to § 324.210—Specific Risk-weighting Factors for PSE General Obligation Debt Positions
General obligation specific risk-weighting factor
Percent
CRC 0-2 or OECD Member with No CRC
Remaining contractual maturity of 6 months or less
0.25
Remaining contractual maturity of greater than 6 and up to and including 24 months
1.0
Remaining contractual maturity exceeds 24 months
1.6
CRC 3
8.0
CRC 4-7
12.0
Non-OECD Member with No CRC
8.0
Sovereign Default
12.0
Table 4 to § 324.210—Specific Risk-weighting Factors for PSE Revenue Obligation Debt Positions
Revenue obligation specific risk-weighting factor
Percent
CRC 0-1 or OECD Member with No CRC
Remaining contractual maturity of 6 months or less
0.25
Remaining contractual maturity of greater than 6 and up to and including 24 months
1.0
Remaining contractual maturity exceeds 24 months
1.6
CRC 2-3
8.0
CRC 4-7
12.0
Non-OECD Member with No CRC
8.0
Sovereign Default
12.0
(vi)
Corporate debt positions.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(2)(vi)(B) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a specific risk-weighting factor to a corporate debt position in accordance with the investment grade methodology in paragraph (b)(2)(vi)(A) of this section.
(A)
Investment grade methodology.
(
1
) For corporate debt positions that are exposures to entities that have issued and outstanding publicly traded instruments, an FDIC-supervised institution must assign a specific risk-weighting factor based on the category and remaining contractual maturity of the position, in accordance with Table 5 to § 324.210. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(vi)(A)(
1
), the FDIC-supervised institution must determine whether the position is in the investment grade or not investment grade category.
Table 5 to § 324.210—Specific Risk-weighting Factors for Corporate Debt Positions Under the Investment Grade Methodology
Category
Remaining contractual maturity
Specific risk-weighting factor
(in percent)
Investment Grade
6 months or less
0.50
Greater than 6 and up to and including 24 months
2.00
Greater than 24 months
4.00
Non-investment Grade
12.00
(
2
) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign an 8.0 percent specific risk-weighting factor for corporate debt positions that are exposures to entities that do not have publicly traded instruments outstanding.
(B)
Limitations.
(
1
) An FDIC-supervised institution must assign a specific risk-weighting factor of at least 8.0 percent to an interest-only mortgage-backed security that is not a securitization position.
(
2
) An FDIC-supervised institution shall not assign a corporate debt position a specific risk-weighting factor that is lower than the specific risk-weighting factor that corresponds to the CRC of the issuer's home country, if applicable, in Table 1 to § 324.210.
(vii)
Securitization positions.
(A) General requirements. (
1
) An FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must assign a specific risk-weighting factor to a securitization position using either the simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(C) of this section (and § 324.211) or assign a specific risk-weighting factor of 100 percent to the position.
(
2
) An FDIC-supervised institution that is an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must calculate a specific risk add-on for a securitization position in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(B) of this section if the FDIC-supervised institution and the securitization position each qualifies to use the SFA in § 324.143. An FDIC-supervised institution that is an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution with a securitization position that does not qualify for the SFA under paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(B) of this section may assign a specific risk-weighting factor to the securitization position using the SSFA in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(C) of this section or assign a specific risk-weighting factor of 100 percent to the position.
(
3
) An FDIC-supervised institution must treat a short securitization position as if it is a long securitization position solely for calculation purposes when using the SFA in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(B) of this section or the SSFA in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(C) of this section.
(B)
SFA.
To calculate the specific risk add-on for a securitization position using the SFA, an FDIC-supervised institution that is an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must set the specific risk add-on for the position equal to the risk-based capital requirement as calculated under § 324.143.
(C)
SSFA.
To use the SSFA to determine the specific risk-weighting factor for a securitization position, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the specific risk-weighting factor in accordance with § 324.211.
(D)
N
th
-to-default credit derivatives.
An FDIC-supervised institution must determine a specific risk add-on using the SFA in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(B) of this section, or assign a specific risk-weighting factor using the SSFA in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(C) of this section to an n
th
-to-default credit derivative in accordance with this paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(D), regardless of whether the FDIC-supervised institution is a net protection buyer or net protection seller. An FDIC-supervised institution must determine its position in the n
th
-to-default credit derivative as the largest notional amount of all the underlying exposures.
(
1
) For purposes of determining the specific risk add-on using the SFA in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(B) of this section or the specific risk-weighting factor for an n
th
-to-default credit derivative using the SSFA in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(C) of this section the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate
the attachment point and detachment point of its position as follows:
(
i
) The attachment point (parameter A) is the ratio of the sum of the notional amounts of all underlying exposures that are subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's position to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. For purposes of the SSFA, parameter A is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. For purposes of using the SFA in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(B) of this section to calculate the specific add-on for its position in an n
th
-to-default credit derivative, parameter A must be set equal to the
credit enhancement level
(L) input to the SFA formula in § 324.143. In the case of a first-to-default credit derivative, there are no underlying exposures that are subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's position. In the case of a second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivative, the smallest (n-1) notional amounts of the underlying exposure(s) are subordinated to the FDIC-supervised institution's position.
(
ii
) The detachment point (parameter D) equals the sum of parameter A plus the ratio of the notional amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's position in the n
th
-to-default credit derivative to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. For purposes of the SSFA, parameter A is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. For purposes of using the SFA in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(B) of this section to calculate the specific risk add-on for its position in an n
th
-to-default credit derivative, parameter D must be set to equal the L input plus the
thickness of tranche
(T) input to the SFA formula in § 324.143.
(
2
) An FDIC-supervised institution that does not use the SFA in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(B) of this section to determine a specific risk-add on, or the SSFA in paragraph (b)(2)(vii)(C) of this section to determine a specific risk-weighting factor for its position in an n
th
-to-default credit derivative must assign a specific risk-weighting factor of 100 percent to the position.
(c)
Modeled correlation trading positions.
For purposes of calculating the comprehensive risk measure for modeled correlation trading positions under either paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii) of § 324.209, the total specific risk add-on is the greater of:
(1) The sum of the FDIC-supervised institution's specific risk add-ons for each net long correlation trading position calculated under this section; or
(2) The sum of the FDIC-supervised institution's specific risk add-ons for each net short correlation trading position calculated under this section.
(d)
Non-modeled securitization positions.
For securitization positions that are not correlation trading positions and for securitizations that are correlation trading positions not modeled under § 324.209, the total specific risk add-on is the greater of:
(1) The sum of the FDIC-supervised institution's specific risk add-ons for each net long securitization position calculated under this section; or
(2) The sum of the FDIC-supervised institution's specific risk add-ons for each net short securitization position calculated under this section.
(e)
Equity positions.
The total specific risk add-on for a portfolio of equity positions is the sum of the specific risk add-ons of the individual equity positions, as computed under this section. To determine the specific risk add-on of individual equity positions, an FDIC-supervised institution must multiply the absolute value of the current fair value of each net long or net short equity position by the appropriate specific risk-weighting factor as determined under this paragraph (e):
(1) The FDIC-supervised institution must multiply the absolute value of the current fair value of each net long or net short equity position by a specific risk-weighting factor of 8.0 percent. For equity positions that are index contracts comprising a well-diversified portfolio of equity instruments, the absolute value of the current fair value of each net long or net short position is multiplied by a specific risk-weighting factor of 2.0 percent.
34
34
A portfolio is well-diversified if it contains a large number of individual equity positions, with no single position representing a substantial portion of the portfolio's total fair value.
(2) For equity positions arising from the following futures-related arbitrage
strategies, an FDIC-supervised institution may apply a 2.0 percent specific risk-weighting factor to one side (long or short) of each position with the opposite side exempt from an additional capital requirement:
(i) Long and short positions in exactly the same index at different dates or in different market centers; or
(ii) Long and short positions in index contracts at the same date in different, but similar indices.
(3) For futures contracts on main indices that are matched by offsetting positions in a basket of stocks comprising the index, an FDIC-supervised institution may apply a 2.0 percent specific risk-weighting factor to the futures and stock basket positions (long and short), provided that such trades are deliberately entered into and separately controlled, and that the basket of stocks is comprised of stocks representing at least 90.0 percent of the capitalization of the index.
(f)
Due diligence requirements for securitization positions.
(1) An FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDIC a comprehensive understanding of the features of a securitization position that would materially affect the performance of the position by conducting and documenting the analysis set forth in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The FDIC-supervised institution's analysis must be commensurate with the complexity of the securitization position and the materiality of the position in relation to capital.
(2) An FDIC-supervised institution must demonstrate its comprehensive understanding for each securitization position by:
(i) Conducting an analysis of the risk characteristics of a securitization position prior to acquiring the position and document such analysis within three business days after acquiring position, considering:
(A) Structural features of the securitization that would materially impact the performance of the position, for example, the contractual cash flow waterfall, waterfall-related triggers, credit enhancements, liquidity enhancements, fair value triggers, the performance of organizations that service the position, and deal-specific definitions of default;
(B) Relevant information regarding the performance of the underlying credit exposure(s), for example, the percentage of loans 30, 60, and 90 days past due; default rates; prepayment rates; loans in foreclosure; property types; occupancy; average credit score or other measures of creditworthiness; average loan-to-value ratio; and industry and geographic diversification data on the underlying exposure(s);
(C) Relevant market data of the securitization, for example, bid-ask spreads, most recent sales price and historical price volatility, trading volume, implied market rating, and size, depth and concentration level of the market for the securitization; and
(D) For resecuritization positions, performance information on the underlying securitization exposures, for example, the issuer name and credit quality, and the characteristics and performance of the exposures underlying the securitization exposures.
(ii) On an on-going basis (no less frequently than quarterly), evaluating, reviewing, and updating as appropriate the analysis required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section for each securitization position.
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20761, Apr. 14, 2014; 81 FR 71354, Oct. 17, 2016; 84 FR 35280, July 22, 2019; 85 FR 4434, Jan. 24, 2020]
§ 324.211
Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA).
(a)
General requirements.
To use the SSFA to determine the specific risk-weighting factor for a securitization position, an FDIC-supervised institution must have data that enables it to assign accurately the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section. Data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be the most currently available data; if the contracts governing the underlying exposures of the securitization require payments on a monthly or quarterly basis, the data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be no more than 91 calendar days old. An FDIC-supervised institution that does not have
the appropriate data to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must assign a specific risk-weighting factor of 100 percent to the position.
(b)
SSFA parameters.
To calculate the specific risk-weighting factor for a securitization position using the SSFA, an FDIC-supervised institution must have accurate information on the five inputs to the SSFA calculation described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.
(1) K
G
is the weighted-average (with unpaid principal used as the weight for each exposure) total capital requirement of the underlying exposures calculated using subpart D. K
G
is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one (that is, an average risk weight of 100 percent represents a value of K
G
equal to 0.08).
(2) Parameter W is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. Parameter W is the ratio of the sum of the dollar amounts of any underlying exposures of the securitization that meet any of the criteria as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section to the balance, measured in dollars, of underlying exposures:
(i) Ninety days or more past due;
(ii) Subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding;
(iii) In the process of foreclosure;
(iv) Held as real estate owned;
(v) Has contractually deferred payments for 90 days or more, other than principal or interest payments deferred on:
(A) Federally-guaranteed student loans, in accordance with the terms of those guarantee programs; or
(B) Consumer loans, including non-federally-guaranteed student loans, provided that such payments are deferred pursuant to provisions included in the contract at the time funds are disbursed that provide for period(s) of deferral that are not initiated based on changes in the creditworthiness of the borrower; or
(vi) Is in default.
(3) Parameter A is the attachment point for the position, which represents the threshold at which credit losses will first be allocated to the position. Except as provided in § 324.210(b)(2)(vii)(D) for n
th
-to-default credit derivatives, parameter A equals the ratio of the current dollar amount of underlying exposures that are subordinated to the position of the FDIC-supervised institution to the current dollar amount of underlying exposures. Any reserve account funded by the accumulated cash flows from the underlying exposures that is subordinated to the position that contains the FDIC-supervised institution's securitization exposure may be included in the calculation of parameter A to the extent that cash is present in the account. Parameter A is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(4) Parameter D is the detachment point for the position, which represents the threshold at which credit losses of principal allocated to the position would result in a total loss of principal. Except as provided in § 324.210(b)(2)(vii)(D) for n
th
-to-default credit derivatives, parameter D equals parameter A plus the ratio of the current dollar amount of the securitization positions that are
pari passu
with the position (that is, have equal seniority with respect to credit risk) to the current dollar amount of the underlying exposures. Parameter D is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(5) A supervisory calibration parameter, p, is equal to 0.5 for securitization positions that are not resecuritization positions and equal to 1.5 for resecuritization positions.
(c)
Mechanics of the SSFA.
K
G
and W are used to calculate K
A
, the augmented value of K
G
, which reflects the observed credit quality of the underlying exposures. K
A
is defined in paragraph (d) of this section. The values of parameters A and D, relative to K
A
determine the specific risk-weighting factor assigned to a position as described in this paragraph (c) and paragraph (d) of this section. The specific risk-weighting factor assigned to a securitization position, or portion of a position, as appropriate, is the larger of the specific risk-weighting factor determined in accordance with this paragraph (c), paragraph (d) of this section, and a specific risk-weighting factor of 1.6 percent.
(1) When the detachment point, parameter D, for a securitization position
is less than or equal to K
A
, the position must be assigned a specific risk-weighting factor of 100 percent.
(2) When the attachment point, parameter A, for a securitization position is greater than or equal to K
A
, the FDIC-supervised institution must calculate the specific risk-weighting factor in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) When A is less than K
A
and D is greater than K
A
, the specific risk-weighting factor is a weighted-average of 1.00 and K
SSFA
calculated under paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section. For the purpose of this calculation:
ER10SE13.046
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 20761, Apr. 14, 2014]
§ 324.212
Market risk disclosures.
(a)
Scope.
An FDIC-supervised institution must comply with this section unless it is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company or a depository institution that is subject to these requirements or of a non-U.S. banking organization that is subject to comparable public disclosure requirements in its home jurisdiction. An FDIC-supervised institution must make timely public disclosures each calendar quarter. If a significant change occurs, such that the most recent reporting amounts are no longer reflective of the FDIC-supervised institution's capital adequacy and risk profile, then a brief discussion of this change and its likely impact must be provided as soon as practicable thereafter. Qualitative disclosures that typically do not change each quarter may be disclosed annually, provided any significant changes are disclosed in the interim. If an FDIC-supervised institution believes that disclosure of specific commercial or financial information would prejudice seriously its position by making public certain information that is either proprietary or confidential in nature, the FDIC-supervised institution is not required to disclose these specific items, but must disclose more general information about the subject matter of the requirement, together with the fact that, and the reason why, the specific items of information have not been disclosed. The FDIC-supervised institution's management may provide all of the disclosures required by this section in one place on the FDIC-supervised institution's public Web site or may provide the disclosures in more than one public financial report or other regulatory reports, provided that the FDIC-supervised institution publicly provides a summary table specifically indicating the location(s) of all such disclosures.
(b)
Disclosure policy.
The FDIC-supervised institution must have a formal disclosure policy approved by the board of directors that addresses the FDIC-supervised institution's approach for determining its market risk disclosures. The policy must address the associated internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. The board of directors and senior management must ensure that appropriate verification of the disclosures takes place and that effective internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. One or more senior officers of the FDIC-supervised institution must attest that the disclosures meet the requirements of this subpart, and the board of directors and senior management are responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective internal control structure over financial reporting, including the disclosures required by this section.
(c)
Quantitative disclosures.
(1) For each material portfolio of covered positions, the FDIC-supervised institution must provide timely public disclosures of the following information at least quarterly:
(i) The high, low, and mean VaR-based measures over the reporting period and the VaR-based measure at period-end;
(ii) The high, low, and mean stressed VaR-based measures over the reporting period and the stressed VaR-based measure at period-end;
(iii) The high, low, and mean incremental risk capital requirements over the reporting period and the incremental risk capital requirement at period-end;
(iv) The high, low, and mean comprehensive risk capital requirements over the reporting period and the comprehensive risk capital requirement at period-end, with the period-end requirement broken down into appropriate risk classifications (for example, default risk, migration risk, correlation risk);
(v) Separate measures for interest rate risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and commodity price risk used to calculate the VaR-based measure; and
(vi) A comparison of VaR-based estimates with actual gains or losses experienced by the FDIC-supervised institution, with an analysis of important outliers.
(2) In addition, the FDIC-supervised institution must disclose publicly the following information at least quarterly:
(i) The aggregate amount of on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet securitization positions by exposure type; and
(ii) The aggregate amount of correlation trading positions.
(d)
Qualitative disclosures.
For each material portfolio of covered positions, the FDIC-supervised institution must provide timely public disclosures of the following information at least annually after the end of the fourth calendar quarter, or more frequently in the event of material changes for each portfolio:
(1) The composition of material portfolios of covered positions;
(2) The FDIC-supervised institution's valuation policies, procedures, and methodologies for covered positions including, for securitization positions, the methods and key assumptions used for valuing such positions, any significant changes since the last reporting period, and the impact of such change;
(3) The characteristics of the internal models used for purposes of this subpart. For the incremental risk capital requirement and the comprehensive risk capital requirement, this must include:
(i) The approach used by the FDIC-supervised institution to determine liquidity horizons;
(ii) The methodologies used to achieve a capital assessment that is consistent with the required soundness standard; and
(iii) The specific approaches used in the validation of these models;
(4) A description of the approaches used for validating and evaluating the accuracy of internal models and modeling processes for purposes of this subpart;
(5) For each market risk category (that is, interest rate risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk, foreign exchange risk, and commodity price risk), a description of the stress tests applied to the positions subject to the factor;
(6) The results of the comparison of the FDIC-supervised institution's internal estimates for purposes of this subpart with actual outcomes during a sample period not used in model development;
(7) The soundness standard on which the FDIC-supervised institution's internal capital adequacy assessment under this subpart is based, including a description of the methodologies used to achieve a capital adequacy assessment that is consistent with the soundness standard;
(8) A description of the FDIC-supervised institution's processes for monitoring changes in the credit and market risk of securitization positions, including how those processes differ for resecuritization positions; and
(9) A description of the FDIC-supervised institution's policy governing the use of credit risk mitigation to mitigate the risks of securitization and resecuritization positions.
§§ 324.213-324.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Transition Provisions
§ 324.300
Transitions.
(a)
Capital conservation and countercyclical capital buffer.
(1) From January 1, 2014, through December 31, 2015, an FDIC-supervised institution is not subject to limits on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 324.11 notwithstanding the amount of its capital conservation buffer or any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount.
(2) Beginning January 1, 2016, through December 31, 2018, an FDIC-supervised institution's maximum payout ratio shall be determined as set forth in Table 1 to § 324.300.
Table 1 to § 324.300
Transition period
Capital conservation buffer
Maximum payout ratio (as a percentage of eligible retained income)
Calendar year 2016
Greater than 0.625 percent (plus 25 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
No payout ratio limitation applies under this section.
Less than or equal to 0.625 percent (plus 25 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount), and greater than 0.469 percent (plus 17.25 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
60 percent.
Less than or equal to 0.469 percent (plus 17.25 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount), and greater than 0.313 percent (plus 12.5 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
40 percent.
Less than or equal to 0.313 percent (plus 12.5 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount), and greater than 0.156 percent (plus 6.25 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
20 percent.
Less than or equal to 0.156 percent (plus 6.25 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
0 percent.
Calendar year 2017
Greater than 1.25 percent (plus 50 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
No payout ratio limitation applies under this section.
Less than or equal to 1.25 percent (plus 50 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount), and greater than 0.938 percent (plus 37.5 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
60 percent.
Less than or equal to 0.938 percent (plus 37.5 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount), and greater than 0.625 percent (plus 25 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
40 percent.
Less than or equal to 0.625 percent (plus 25 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount), and greater than 0.313 percent (plus 12.5 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
20 percent.
Less than or equal to 0.313 percent (plus 12.5 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
0 percent.
Calendar year 2018
Greater than 1.875 percent (plus 75 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
No payout ratio limitation applies under this section.
Less than or equal to 1.875 percent (plus 75 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount), and greater than 1.406 percent (plus 56.25 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
60 percent.
Less than or equal to 1.406 percent (plus 56.25 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount), and greater than 0.938 percent (plus 37.5 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
40 percent.
Less than or equal to 0.938 percent (plus 37.5 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount), and greater than 0.469 percent (plus 18.75 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
20 percent.
Less than or equal to 0.469 percent (plus 18.75 percent of any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount)
0 percent.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Non-qualifying capital instruments. Depository institutions.
(1) Beginning on January 1, 2014, a depository institution that is an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution, and beginning on January 1, 2015, all other depository institutions may include in regulatory capital debt or equity instruments issued prior to September 12, 2010, that do not meet the criteria for additional tier 1 or tier 2 capital instruments in § 324.20 but that were included in tier 1 or tier 2 capital respectively as of September 12, 2010 (non-qualifying capital instruments issued prior to September 12, 2010) up to the percentage of the outstanding principal amount of such non-qualifying capital instruments as of January 1, 2014 in accordance with Table 8 to § 324.300.
(2) Table 8 to § 324.300 applies separately to tier 1 and tier 2 non-qualifying capital instruments.
(3) The amount of non-qualifying capital instruments that cannot be included in additional tier 1 capital under this section may be included in tier 2 capital without limitation, provided that the instruments meet the criteria for tier 2 capital instruments under § 324.20(d).
Table 8 to § 324.300
Transition period
(calendar year)
Percentage of non-qualifying capital instruments includable in additional tier 1 or tier 2 capital
Calendar year 2014
80
Calendar year 2015
70
Calendar year 2016
60
Calendar year 2017
50
Calendar year 2018
40
Calendar year 2019
30
Calendar year 2020
20
Calendar year 2021
10
Calendar year 2022 and thereafter
0
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Prompt corrective action.
For purposes of subpart H of this part, an FDIC-supervised institution must calculate its capital measures and tangible equity ratio in accordance with the transition provisions in this section.
(f) An FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution may apply the treatment under §§ 324.21 and 324.22(c)(2), (5), (6), and (d)(2) applicable to an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution during the calendar quarter beginning January 1, 2020. During the quarter beginning January 1, 2020, an FDIC-supervised institution that makes such an election must deduct 80 percent of the amount otherwise required to be deducted under § 324.22(d)(2) and must apply a 100 percent risk weight to assets not deducted under § 324.22(d)(2). In addition, during the quarter beginning January 1, 2020, an FDIC-supervised institution that makes such an election must include in its regulatory capital 20 percent of any minority interest that exceeds the amount of minority interest includable in regulatory capital under § 324.21 as it applies to an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution. An FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches institution must apply the treatment under §§ 324.21 and 324.22 applicable to an FDIC-supervised institution that is a non-advanced approaches institution beginning April 1, 2020, and thereafter.
(g)
SA-CCR.
An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution may use CEM rather than SA-CCR for purposes of §§ 324.34(a) and 324.132(c) until January 1, 2022. A FDIC-supervised institution must provide prior notice to the FDIC if it decides to begin using SA-CCR before January 1, 2022. On January 1, 2022, and thereafter, an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution must use SA-CCR for purposes of §§ 324.34(a), 324.132(c), and 324.133(d). Once an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution has begun to use SA-CCR, the advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution may not change to use CEM.
(h)
Default fund contributions.
Prior to January 1, 2022, a FDIC-supervised institution that calculates the exposure amounts of its derivative contracts under the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk in § 324.132(c) may calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for a default fund contribution to a QCCP under either method 1 under § 324.35(d)(3)(i) or method 2 under § 324.35(d)(3)(ii), rather than under § 324.133(d).
[78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 82 FR 55317, Nov. 21, 2017; 84 FR 35280, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 61808, Nov. 13, 2019; 85 FR 4443, Jan. 24, 2020]
§ 324.301
Current expected credit losses (CECL) transition.
(a)
CECL transition provision.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution may elect to use a CECL transition provision pursuant to this section only if the FDIC-supervised institution records a reduction in retained earnings due to the adoption of CECL as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the FDIC-supervised institution adopts CECL.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution that elects to use the CECL
transition provision must elect to use the CECL transition provision in the first Call Report that includes CECL filed by the FDIC-supervised institution after it adopts CECL.
(3) An FDIC-supervised institution that does not elect to use the CECL transition provision as of the first Call Report that includes CECL filed as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section may not elect to use the CECL transition provision in subsequent reporting periods.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Transition period
means the three-year period, beginning the first day of the fiscal year in which an FDIC-supervised institution adopts CECL and reflects CECL in its first Call Report filed after that date; or, for the 2020 CECL transition provision under paragraph (d) of this section, the five-year period beginning on the earlier of the date an FDIC-supervised institution was required to adopt CECL for accounting purposes under GAAP (as in effect January 1, 2020), or the first day of the fiscal year that begins during the 2020 calendar year in which the FDIC-supervised institution files regulatory reports that include CECL.
(2)
CECL transitional amount
means the difference, net of any DTAs, in the amount of an FDIC-supervised institution's retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the FDIC-supervised institution adopts CECL from the amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's retained earnings as of the closing of the fiscal year-end immediately prior to the FDIC-supervised institution's adoption of CECL.
(3)
DTA transitional amount
means the difference in the amount of an FDIC-supervised institution's DTAs arising from temporary differences as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the FDIC-supervised institution adopts CECL from the amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's DTAs arising from temporary differences as of the closing of the fiscal year-end immediately prior to the FDIC-supervised institution's adoption of CECL.
(4)
AACL transitional amount
means the difference in the amount of an FDIC-supervised institution's AACL as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the FDIC-supervised institution adopts CECL and the amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's ALLL as of the closing of the fiscal year-end immediately prior to the FDIC-supervised institution's adoption of CECL.
(5)
Eligible credit reserves transitional amount
means the difference in the amount of an FDIC-supervised institution's eligible credit reserves as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the FDIC-supervised institution adopts CECL from the amount of the FDIC-supervised institution's eligible credit reserves as of the closing of the fiscal year-end immediately prior to the FDIC-supervised institution's adoption of CECL.
(c)
Calculation of the three-year CECL transition provision.
(1) For purposes of the election described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must make the following adjustments in its calculation of regulatory capital ratios:
(i) Increase retained earnings by seventy-five percent of its CECL transitional amount during the first year of the transition period, increase retained earnings by fifty percent of its CECL transitional amount during the second year of the transition period, and increase retained earnings by twenty-five percent of its CECL transitional amount during the third year of the transition period;
(ii) Decrease amounts of DTAs arising from temporary differences by seventy-five percent of its DTA transitional amount during the first year of the transition period, decrease amounts of DTAs arising from temporary differences by fifty percent of its DTA transitional amount during the second year of the transition period, and decrease amounts of DTAs arising from temporary differences by twenty-five percent of its DTA transitional amount during the third year of the transition period;
(iii) Decrease amounts of AACL by seventy-five percent of its AACL transitional amount during the first year of the transition period, decrease amounts of AACL by fifty percent of its AACL transitional amount during
the second year of the transition period, and decrease amounts of AACL by twenty-five percent of its AACL transitional amount during the third year of the transition period; and
(iv) Increase average total consolidated assets as reported on the Call Report for purposes of the leverage ratio by seventy-five percent of its CECL transitional amount during the first year of the transition period, increase average total consolidated assets as reported on the Call Report for purposes of the leverage ratio by fifty percent of its CECL transitional amount during the second year of the transition period, and increase average total consolidated assets as reported on the Call Report for purposes of the leverage ratio by twenty-five percent of its CECL transitional amount during the third year of the transition period.
(2) For purposes of the election described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an advanced approaches or Category III FDIC-supervised institution must make the following additional adjustments to its calculation of its applicable regulatory capital ratios:
(i) Increase total leverage exposure for purposes of the supplementary leverage ratio by seventy-five percent of its CECL transitional amount during the first year of the transition period, increase total leverage exposure for purposes of the supplementary leverage ratio by fifty percent of its CECL transitional amount during the second year of the transition period, and increase total leverage exposure for purposes of the supplementary leverage ratio by twenty-five percent of its CECL transitional amount during the third year of the transition period; and
(ii) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that has completed the parallel run process and that has received notification from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d) must decrease amounts of eligible credit reserves by seventy-five percent of its eligible credit reserves transitional amount during the first year of the transition period, decrease amounts of eligible credit reserves by fifty percent of its eligible credit reserves transitional amount during the second year of the transition provision, and decrease amounts of eligible credit reserves by twenty-five percent of its eligible credit reserves transitional amount during the third year of the transition period.
(d)
2020 CECL transition provision.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution that adopts CECL for accounting purposes under GAAP as of the first day of a fiscal year that begins during the 2020 calendar year may elect to use the transitional amounts and modified transitional amounts in paragraph (d)(1) of this section with the 2020 CECL transition provision calculation in paragraph (d)(2) of this section to adjust its calculation of regulatory capital ratios during each quarter of the transition period in which an FDIC-supervised institution uses CECL for purposes of its Call Report. An FDIC supervised-institution may use the transition provision in this paragraph (d) if it has a positive modified CECL transitional amount during any quarter ending in 2020 and makes the election in the Call Report filed for the same quarter. An FDIC-supervised institution that does not calculate a positive modified CECL transitional amount in any quarter is not required to apply the adjustments in its calculation of regulatory capital ratios in paragraph (d)(2) of this section in that quarter.
(1)
Definitions.
For purposes of the 2020 CECL transition provision calculation in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the following definitions apply:
(i)
Modified CECL transitional amount
means:
(A) During the first two years of the transition period, the difference between AACL as reported in the most recent Call Report and the AACL as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the FDIC-supervised institution adopts CECL, multiplied by 0.25, plus the CECL transitional amount; and
(B) During the last three years of the transition period, the difference between AACL as reported in the Call Report at the end of the second year of the transition period and the AACL as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the FDIC-supervised institution adopts CECL, multiplied by 0.25, plus the CECL transitional amount.
(ii)
Modified AACL transitional amount
means:
(A) During the first two years of the transition period, the difference between AACL as reported in the most recent Call Report, and the AACL as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the FDIC-supervised institution adopts CECL, multiplied by 0.25, plus the AACL transitional amount; and
(B) During the last three years of the transition period, the difference between AACL as reported in the Call Report at the end of the second year of the transition period and the AACL as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the FDIC-supervised institution adopts CECL, multiplied by 0.25, plus the AACL transitional amount.
(2)
Calculation of 2020 CECL transition provision.
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution that has elected the 2020 CECL transition provision described in this paragraph (d) may make the following adjustments in its calculation of regulatory capital ratios:
(A) Increase retained earnings by one-hundred percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the first year of the transition period, increase retained earnings by one hundred percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the second year of the transition period, increase retained earnings by seventy-five percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the third year of the transition period, increase retained earnings by fifty percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the fourth year of the transition period, and increase retained earnings by twenty-five percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the fifth year of the transition period;
(B) Decrease amounts of DTAs arising from temporary differences by one-hundred percent of its DTA transitional amount during the first year of the transition period, decrease amounts of DTAs arising from temporary differences by one hundred percent of its DTA transitional amount during the second year of the transition period, decrease amounts of DTAs arising from temporary differences by seventy-five percent of its DTA transitional amount during the third year of the transition period, decrease amounts of DTAs arising from temporary differences by fifty percent of its DTA transitional amount during the fourth year of the transition period, and decrease amounts of DTAs arising from temporary differences by twenty-five percent of its DTA transitional amount during the fifth year of the transition period;
(C) Decrease amounts of AACL by one-hundred percent of its modified AACL transitional amount during the first year of the transition period, decrease amounts of AACL by one hundred percent of its modified AACL transitional amount during the second year of the transition period, decrease amounts of AACL by seventy-five percent of its modified AACL transitional amount during the third year of the transition period, decrease amounts of AACL by fifty percent of its modified AACL transitional amount during the fourth year of the transition period, and decrease amounts of AACL by twenty-five percent of its modified AACL transitional amount during the fifth year of the transition period; and
(D) Increase average total consolidated assets as reported on the Call Report for purposes of the leverage ratio by one-hundred percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the first year of the transition period, increase average total consolidated assets as reported on the Call Report for purposes of the leverage ratio by one hundred percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the second year of the transition period, increase average total consolidated assets as reported on the Call Report for purposes of the leverage ratio by seventy-five percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the third year of the transition period, increase average total consolidated assets as reported on the Call Report for purposes of the leverage ratio by fifty percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the fourth year of the transition period, and increase average total consolidated assets as reported on the Call Report for purposes of the leverage ratio by twenty-five percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the fifth year of the transition period.
(ii) An advanced approaches or Category III FDIC-supervised institution
that has elected the 2020 CECL transition provision described in this paragraph (d) may make the following additional adjustments to its calculation of its applicable regulatory capital ratios:
(A) Increase total leverage exposure for purposes of the supplementary leverage ratio by one-hundred percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the first year of the transition period, increase total leverage exposure for purposes of the supplementary leverage ratio by one hundred percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the second year of the transition period, increase total leverage exposure for purposes of the supplementary leverage ratio by seventy-five percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the third year of the transition period, increase total leverage exposure for purposes of the supplementary leverage ratio by fifty percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the fourth year of the transition period, and increase total leverage exposure for purposes of the supplementary leverage ratio by twenty-five percent of its modified CECL transitional amount during the fifth year of the transition period; and
(B) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that has completed the parallel run process and that has received notification from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d) must decrease amounts of eligible credit reserves by one-hundred percent of its eligible credit reserves transitional amount during the first year of the transition period, decrease amounts of eligible credit reserves by one hundred percent of its eligible credit reserves transitional amount during the second year of the transition period, decrease amounts of eligible credit reserves by seventy-five percent of its eligible credit reserves transitional amount during the third year of the transition period, decrease amounts of eligible credit reserves by fifty percent of its eligible credit reserves transitional amount during the fourth year of the transition period, and decrease amounts of eligible credit reserves by twenty-five percent of its eligible credit reserves transitional amount during the fifth year of the transition period.
(e)
Eligible credit reserves shortfall.
An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution that has completed the parallel run process and that has received notification from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d), whose amount of expected credit loss exceeded its eligible credit reserves immediately prior to the adoption of CECL, and that has an increase in common equity tier 1 capital as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which it adopts CECL after including the first year portion of the CECL transitional amount (or modified CECL transitional amount) must decrease its CECL transitional amount used in paragraph (c) of this section (or modified CECL transitional amount used in paragraph (d) of this section) by the full amount of its DTA transitional amount.
(f)
Business combinations.
Notwithstanding any other requirement in this section, for purposes of this paragraph (f), in the event of a business combination involving an FDIC-supervised institution where one or both FDIC-supervised institutions have elected the treatment described in this section:
(1) If the acquirer FDIC-supervised institution (as determined under GAAP) elected the treatment described in this section, the acquirer FDIC-supervised institution must continue to use the transitional amounts (unaffected by the business combination) that it calculated as of the date that it adopted CECL through the end of its transition period.
(2) If the acquired insured depository institution (as determined under GAAP) elected the treatment described in this section, any transitional amount of the acquired insured depository institution does not transfer to the resulting FDIC-supervised institution.
[85 FR 61591, Sept. 30, 2020]
§ 324.302
Exposures Related the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility.
Notwithstanding any other section of this part, an FDIC-supervised institution may exclude exposures acquired pursuant to a non-recourse loan that is provided as part of the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, announced by the Federal Reserve on
March 18, 2020, from total leverage exposure, average total consolidated assets, advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets, and standardized total risk-weighted assets, as applicable.
For the purpose of this provision, an FDIC-supervised institution's liability under the facility must be reduced by the purchase price of the assets acquired with funds advanced from the facility.
[85 FR 16237, Mar. 23, 2020]
§ 324.303
Temporary changes to the community bank leverage ratio framework.
(a)(1) An FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution and that meets all the criteria to be a qualifying community banking organization under § 324.12(a)(2) but for § 324.12(a)(2)(i) is a qualifying community banking organization if it has a leverage ratio equal to or greater than 8 percent.
(2) Notwithstanding § 324.12(a)(1), a qualifying community banking organization that has made an election to use the community bank leverage ratio framework under § 324.12(a)(3) shall be considered to have met the minimum capital requirements under § 324.10, the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category under § 324.403(b)(1) of this part, and any other capital or leverage requirements to which the qualifying community banking organization is subject, if it has a leverage ratio equal to or greater than 8 percent.
(b) Notwithstanding § 324.12(c)(6) and subject to § 324.12(c)(5), a qualifying community banking organization that has a leverage ratio of 7 percent or greater has the grace period described in § 324.12(c)(1) through (4). An FDIC-supervised institution that has a leverage ratio of less than 7 percent does not have a grace period and must comply with the minimum capital requirements under § 324.10(a)(1) and must report the required capital measures under § 324.10(a)(1) for the quarter in which it reports a leverage ratio of less than 7 percent.
(c) Pursuant to section 4012 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, the requirements provided under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are effective during the period beginning on April 23, 2020 and ending on the sooner of:
(1) The termination date of the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease outbreak declared by the President on March 13, 2020, under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
); or
(2) December 31, 2020.
(d) Upon the termination of the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a qualifying community banking organization, as defined in § 324.12(a)(2), is subject to the following:
(1) Through December 31, 2020:
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution and that meets all the criteria to be a qualifying community banking organization under § 324.12(a)(2) but for § 324.12(a)(2)(i) is a qualifying banking organization if it has a leverage ratio greater than 8 percent.
(ii) Notwithstanding § 324.12(a)(1), a qualifying community banking organization that has made an election to use the community bank leverage ratio framework under § 324.12(a)(3) shall be considered to have met the minimum capital requirements under § 324.10, the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category under § 324.403(b)(1) of this part, and any other capital or leverage requirements to which the qualifying community banking organization is subject, if it has a leverage ratio greater than 8 percent.
(iii) Notwithstanding § 324.12(c)(6) and subject to § 324.12(c)(5), a qualifying community banking organization that has a leverage ratio of greater than 7 percent has the grace period described in § 324.12(c)(1) through (4). An FDIC-supervised institution that has a leverage ratio of 7 percent or less does not have a grace period and must comply with the minimum capital requirements under § 324.10(a)(1) and must report the required capital measures under § 324.10(a)(1) for the quarter in which it reports a leverage ratio of 7 percent or less.
(2) From January 1, 2021, through December 31, 2021:
(i) An FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution and that meets all the criteria to be a qualifying community banking organization under § 324.12(a)(2) but for § 324.12(a)(2)(i) is a qualifying banking organization if it has a leverage ratio greater than 8.5 percent.
(ii) Notwithstanding § 324.12(a)(1), a qualifying community banking organization that has made an election to use the community bank leverage ratio framework under § 324.12(a)(3) shall be considered to have met the minimum capital requirements under § 324.10, the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category under § 324.403(b)(1) of this part, and any other capital or leverage requirements to which the qualifying community banking organization is subject, if it has a leverage ratio greater than 8.5 percent.
(iii) Notwithstanding § 324.12(c)(6) and subject to § 3247.12(c)(5), a qualifying community banking organization that has a leverage ratio of greater than 7.5 percent has the grace period described in § 324.12(c)(1) through (4). An FDIC-supervised institution that has a leverage ratio of 7.5 percent or less does not have a grace period and must comply with the minimum capital requirements under § 324.10(a)(1) and must report the required capital measures under § 324.10(a)(1) for the quarter in which it reports a leverage ratio of 7.5 percent or less.
[85 FR 22929, Apr. 23, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 22938, Apr. 23, 2020]
§ 324.304
Temporary exclusions from total leverage exposure.
(a)
In general.
Subject to paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, and notwithstanding any other requirement in this part, an FDIC-supervised institution, when calculating on-balance sheet assets as of each day of a reporting quarter for purposes of determining the FDIC-supervised institution's total leverage exposure under § 324.10(c), may exclude the balance sheet carrying value of the following items:
(1) U.S. Treasury securities; and
(2) Funds on deposit at a Federal Reserve Bank.
(b)
Opt-in period.
Before applying the relief provided in paragraph (a) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution must first notify the appropriate regional director of the FDIC Division of Risk Management Supervision before July 1, 2020.
(c)
Calculation of relief.
When calculating on-balance sheet assets as of each day of a reporting quarter, the relief provided in paragraph (a) of this section applies from the beginning of the reporting quarter in which the FDIC-supervised institution filed an opt-in notice through the termination date specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Termination of exclusions.
This section shall cease to be effective after the reporting period that ends March 31, 2021.
(e)
Custody bank.
A custody bank must reduce the amount in § 324.10(c)(2)(x)(A) (to no less than zero) by any amount excluded under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(f)
Disclosure.
Notwithstanding Table 13 to § 324.173, an FDIC-supervised institution that is required to make the disclosures pursuant to § 324.173 must exclude the items excluded pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section from Table 13 to § 324.173.
(g)
FDIC approval for distributions.
During the calendar quarter beginning on July 1, 2020, and until March 31, 2021, no FDIC-supervised institution that has opted in to the relief provided under paragraph (a) of this section may make a distribution, or create an obligation to make such a distribution, without prior FDIC approval. When reviewing a request under this paragraph (g), the FDIC will consider all relevant factors, including whether the distribution would be contrary to the safety and soundness of the FDIC-supervised institution; the nature, purpose, and extent of the request; and the particular circumstances giving rise to the request.
[85 FR 32990, June 1, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 745, Jan. 6, 2021]
§ 324.305
Exposures related to the Paycheck Protection Program Lending Facility.
Notwithstanding any other section of this part, an FDIC-supervised institution may exclude exposures pledged as collateral for a non-recourse loan that
is provided as part of the Paycheck Protection Program Lending Facility, announced by the Federal Reserve on April 7, 2020, from total leverage exposure, average total consolidated assets, advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets, and standardized total risk-weighted assets, as applicable. For the purpose of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution's liability under the facility must be reduced by the principal amount of the loans pledged as collateral for funds advanced under the facility.
[85 FR 20394, Apr. 13, 2020. Redesignated at 85 FR 32990, June 1, 2020]
§§ 324.306-324.399
[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Prompt Corrective Action
§ 324.401
Authority, purpose, scope, other supervisory authority, disclosure of capital categories, and transition procedures.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart H is issued by the FDIC pursuant to section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act), as added by section 131 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (Pub. L. 102-242, 105 Stat. 2236 (1991)) (12 U.S.C. 1831o).
(b)
Purpose.
Section 38 of the FDI Act establishes a framework of supervisory actions for insured depository institutions that are not adequately capitalized. The principal purpose of this subpart is to define, for FDIC-supervised institutions, the capital measures and capital levels, and for insured branches of foreign banks, comparable asset-based measures and levels, that are used for determining the supervisory actions authorized under section 38 of the FDI Act. This subpart also establishes procedures for submission and review of capital restoration plans and for issuance and review of directives and orders pursuant to section 38 of the FDI Act.
(c)
Scope.
Until January 1, 2015, subpart B of part 325 of this chapter will continue to apply to banks and insured branches of foreign banks for which the FDIC is the appropriate Federal banking agency. Until January 1, 2015, subpart Y of part 390 of this chapter will continue to apply to state savings associations. Beginning on, and thereafter, January 1, 2015, this subpart H implements the provisions of section 38 of the FDI Act as they apply to FDIC-supervised institutions and insured branches of foreign banks for which the FDIC is the appropriate Federal banking agency. Certain of these provisions also apply to officers, directors and employees of those insured institutions. In addition, certain provisions of this subpart apply to all insured depository institutions that are deemed critically undercapitalized.
(d)
Other supervisory authority.
Neither section 38 of the FDI Act nor this subpart H in any way limits the authority of the FDIC under any other provision of law to take supervisory actions to address unsafe or unsound practices, deficient capital levels, violations of law, unsafe or unsound conditions, or other practices. Action under section 38 of the FDI Act and this subpart H may be taken independently of, in conjunction with, or in addition to any other enforcement action available to the FDIC, including issuance of cease and desist orders, capital directives, approval or denial of applications or notices, assessment of civil money penalties, or any other actions authorized by law.
(e)
Disclosure of capital categories.
The assignment of an FDIC-supervised institution or an insured branch of a foreign bank for which the FDIC is the appropriate Federal banking agency under this subpart H within a particular capital category is for purposes of implementing and applying the provisions of section 38 of the FDI Act. Unless permitted by the FDIC or otherwise required by law, no FDIC-supervised institution or insured branch of a foreign bank for which the FDIC is the appropriate Federal banking agency may state in any advertisement or promotional material its capital category under this subpart H or that the FDIC or any other Federal banking agency has assigned it to a particular capital category.
(f)
Transition procedures
—(1)
Definitions applicable before January 1, 2015, for certain FDIC-supervised institutions.
Before January 1, 2015, notwithstanding any other requirement in this
subpart H and with respect to any FDIC-supervised institution that is not an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution:
(i) The definitions of leverage ratio, tangible equity, tier 1 capital, tier 1 risk-based capital, and total risk-based capital as calculated or defined under Appendix A to part 325 or Appendix B to part 325, as applicable, remain in effect for purposes of this subpart H; and
(ii) The term total assets shall have the meaning provided in 12 CFR 325.2(x).
(2)
Timing.
The calculation of the definitions of common equity tier 1 capital, the common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, the leverage ratio, the supplementary leverage ratio, tangible equity, tier 1 capital, the tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, total assets, total leverage exposure, the total risk-based capital ratio, and total risk-weighted assets under this subpart H is subject to the timing provisions at 12 CFR 324.1(f) and the transitions at 12 CFR part 324, subpart G.
(g) For purposes of subpart H, as of January 1, 2015, total assets means quarterly average total assets as reported in an FDIC-supervised institution's Call Report, minus amounts deducted from tier 1 capital under § 324.22(a), (c), and (d). At its discretion, the FDIC may calculate total assets using an FDIC-supervised institution's period-end assets rather than quarterly average assets.
§ 324.402
Notice of capital category.
(a)
Effective date of determination of capital category.
An FDIC-supervised institution shall be deemed to be within a given capital category for purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act and this subpart H as of the date the FDIC-supervised institution is notified of, or is deemed to have notice of, its capital category, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Notice of capital category.
An FDIC-supervised institution shall be deemed to have been notified of its capital levels and its capital category as of the most recent date:
(1) A Call Report is required to be filed with the FDIC;
(2) A final report of examination is delivered to the FDIC-supervised institution; or
(3) Written notice is provided by the FDIC to the FDIC-supervised institution of its capital category for purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act and this subpart or that the FDIC-supervised institution's capital category has changed as provided in § 324.403(d).
(c)
Adjustments to reported capital levels and capital category
—(1)
Notice of adjustment by bank or state savings association.
An FDIC-supervised institution shall provide the appropriate FDIC regional director with written notice that an adjustment to the FDIC-supervised institution's capital category may have occurred no later than 15 calendar days following the date that any material event has occurred that would cause the FDIC-supervised institution to be placed in a lower capital category from the category assigned to the FDIC-supervised institution for purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act and this subpart H on the basis of the FDIC-supervised institution's most recent Call Report or report of examination.
(2)
Determination by the FDIC to change capital category.
After receiving notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the FDIC shall determine whether to change the capital category of the FDIC-supervised institution and shall notify the bank or state savings association of the FDIC's determination.
§ 324.403
Capital measures and capital category definitions.
(a)
Capital measures.
(1) For purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act and this subpart H, the relevant capital measures are:
(i) Total Risk-Based Capital Measure: The total risk-based capital ratio;
(ii) Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Measure: The tier 1 risk-based capital ratio;
(iii) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Measure: The common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio; and
(iv) Leverage Measure:
(A) The leverage ratio; and
(B) With respect to an advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institutions, on January 1, 2018, and thereafter, the supplementary leverage ratio.
(2) For a qualifying community banking organization (as defined under § 324.12), that has elected to use the community bank leverage ratio framework (as defined under § 324.12), the leverage ratio calculated in accordance with § 324.12(b) is used to determine the well capitalized capital category under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.
(b)
Capital categories.
For purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act and this subpart, an FDIC-supervised institution shall be deemed to be:
(1)(i) “Well capitalized” if:
(A) Total Risk-Based Capital Measure: The FDIC-supervised institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0 percent or greater; and
(B) Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Measure: The FDIC-supervised institution has a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0 percent or greater; and
(C) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Measure: The FDIC-supervised institution has a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.5 percent or greater; and
(D) The FDIC-supervised institution has a leverage ratio of 5.0 percent or greater; and
(E) The FDIC-supervised institution is not subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by the FDIC pursuant to section 8 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1818), the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (12 U.S.C. 3907), or the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1464(t)(6)(A)(ii)), or section 38 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o), or any regulation thereunder, to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure.
(ii) An FDIC-supervised institution that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important bank holding company will be deemed to be well capitalized if the FDIC-supervised institution satisfies paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (E) of this section and has a supplementary leverage ratio of 6.0 percent or greater. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)(ii), global systemically important bank holding company has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.402.
(iii) A qualifying community banking organization, as defined under § 324.12, that has elected to use the community bank leverage ratio framework under § 324.12 shall be considered to have met the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.
(2) “Adequately capitalized” if it:
(i) Has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0 percent or greater; and
(ii) Has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0 percent or greater; and
(iii) Has a common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5 percent or greater; and
(iv) Has a leverage ratio of 4.0 percent or greater; and
(v) Does not meet the definition of “well capitalized” in this section.
(vi) Beginning January 1, 2018, an advanced approaches or Category III FDIC-supervised institution will be deemed to be “adequately capitalized” if it satisfies paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section and has a supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0 percent or greater, as calculated in accordance with § 324.10.
(3) “Undercapitalized” if it:
(i) Has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 8.0 percent; or
(ii) Has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6.0 percent; or
(iii) Has a common equity tier 1 capital ratio that is less than 4.5 percent; or
(iv) Has a leverage ratio that is less than 4.0 percent.
(v) Beginning January 1, 2018, an advanced approaches or Category III FDIC-supervised institution will be deemed to be “undercapitalized” if it has a supplementary leverage ratio of less than 3.0 percent, as calculated in accordance with § 324.10.
(4) “Significantly undercapitalized” if it has:
(i) A total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6.0 percent; or
(ii) A Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 4.0 percent; or
(iii) A common equity tier 1 capital ratio that is less than 3.0 percent; or
(iv) A leverage ratio that is less than 3.0 percent.
(5) “Critically undercapitalized” if the insured depository institution has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2.0 percent.
(c)
Capital categories for insured branches of foreign banks.
For purposes of the provisions of section 38 of the FDI Act and this subpart H, an insured branch of a foreign bank shall be deemed to be:
(1) “Well capitalized” if the insured branch:
(i) Maintains the pledge of assets required under § 347.209 of this chapter; and
(ii) Maintains the eligible assets prescribed under § 347.210 of this chapter at 108 percent or more of the preceding quarter's average book value of the insured branch's third-party liabilities; and
(iii) Has not received written notification from:
(A) The OCC to increase its capital equivalency deposit pursuant to 12 CFR 28.15, or to comply with asset maintenance requirements pursuant to 12 CFR 28.20; or
(B) The FDIC to pledge additional assets pursuant to § 347.209 of this chapter or to maintain a higher ratio of eligible assets pursuant to § 347.210 of this chapter.
(2) “Adequately capitalized” if the insured branch:
(i) Maintains the pledge of assets required under § 347.209 of this chapter; and
(ii) Maintains the eligible assets prescribed under § 347.210 of this chapter at 106 percent or more of the preceding quarter's average book value of the insured branch's third-party liabilities; and
(iii) Does not meet the definition of a well capitalized insured branch.
(3) “Undercapitalized” if the insured branch:
(i) Fails to maintain the pledge of assets required under § 347.209 of this chapter; or
(ii) Fails to maintain the eligible assets prescribed under § 347.210 of this chapter at 106 percent or more of the preceding quarter's average book value of the insured branch's third-party liabilities.
(4) “Significantly undercapitalized” if it fails to maintain the eligible assets prescribed under § 347.210 of this chapter at 104 percent or more of the preceding quarter's average book value of the insured branch's third-party liabilities.
(5) “Critically undercapitalized” if it fails to maintain the eligible assets prescribed under § 347.210 of this chapter at 102 percent or more of the preceding quarter's average book value of the insured branch's third-party liabilities.
(d)
Reclassifications based on supervisory criteria other than capital.
The FDIC may reclassify a well capitalized FDIC-supervised institution as adequately capitalized and may require an adequately capitalized FDIC-supervised institution or an undercapitalized FDIC-supervised institution to comply with certain mandatory or discretionary supervisory actions as if the FDIC-supervised institution were in the next lower capital category (except that the FDIC may not reclassify a significantly undercapitalized FDIC-supervised institution as critically undercapitalized) (each of these actions are hereinafter referred to generally as “reclassifications”) in the following circumstances:
(1)
Unsafe or unsound condition.
The FDIC has determined, after notice and opportunity for hearing pursuant to § 308.202(a) of this chapter, that the FDIC-supervised institution is in unsafe or unsound condition; or
(2)
Unsafe or unsound practice.
The FDIC has determined, after notice and opportunity for hearing pursuant to § 308.202(a) of this chapter, that, in the most recent examination of the FDIC-supervised institution, the FDIC-supervised institution received and has not corrected a less-than-satisfactory rating for any of the categories of asset quality, management, earnings, or liquidity.
[81 FR 22173, Apr. 15, 2016, as amended at 79 FR 24541, May 1, 2014; 83 FR 17617, Apr. 23, 2018; 84 FR 61803, Nov. 13, 2019; 85 FR 5303, Jan. 30, 2020; 85 FR 32990, June 1, 2020; 85 FR 74259, Nov. 20, 2020]
§ 324.404
Capital restoration plans.
(a)
Schedule for filing plan
—(1)
In general.
An FDIC-supervised institution shall file a written capital restoration plan with the appropriate FDIC regional director within 45 days of the date that the FDIC-supervised institution receives notice or is deemed to
have notice that the FDIC-supervised institution is undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized, unless the FDIC notifies the FDIC-supervised institution in writing that the plan is to be filed within a different period. An adequately capitalized FDIC-supervised institution that has been required pursuant to § 324.403(d) to comply with supervisory actions as if the FDIC-supervised institution were undercapitalized is not required to submit a capital restoration plan solely by virtue of the reclassification.
(2)
Additional capital restoration plans.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an FDIC-supervised institution that has already submitted and is operating under a capital restoration plan approved under section 38 and this subpart H is not required to submit an additional capital restoration plan based on a revised calculation of its capital measures or a reclassification of the institution under § 324.403 unless the FDIC notifies the FDIC-supervised institution that it must submit a new or revised capital plan. An FDIC-supervised institution that is notified that it must submit a new or revised capital restoration plan shall file the plan in writing with the appropriate FDIC regional director within 45 days of receiving such notice, unless the FDIC notifies it in writing that the plan must be filed within a different period.
(b)
Contents of plan.
All financial data submitted in connection with a capital restoration plan shall be prepared in accordance with the instructions provided on the Call Report, unless the FDIC instructs otherwise. The capital restoration plan shall include all of the information required to be filed under section 38(e)(2) of the FDI Act. An FDIC-supervised institution that is required to submit a capital restoration plan as a result of its reclassification pursuant to § 324.403(d) shall include a description of the steps the FDIC-supervised institution will take to correct the unsafe or unsound condition or practice. No plan shall be accepted unless it includes any performance guarantee described in section 38(e)(2)(C) of the FDI Act by each company that controls the FDIC-supervised institution.
(c)
Review of capital restoration plans.
Within 60 days after receiving a capital restoration plan under this subpart, the FDIC shall provide written notice to the FDIC-supervised institution of whether the plan has been approved. The FDIC may extend the time within which notice regarding approval of a plan shall be provided.
(d)
Disapproval of capital plan.
If a capital restoration plan is not approved by the FDIC, the FDIC-supervised institution shall submit a revised capital restoration plan within the time specified by the FDIC. Upon receiving notice that its capital restoration plan has not been approved, any undercapitalized FDIC-supervised institution (as defined in § 324.403(b)) shall be subject to all of the provisions of section 38 of the FDI Act and this subpart H applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions. These provisions shall be applicable until such time as a new or revised capital restoration plan submitted by the FDIC-supervised institution has been approved by the FDIC.
(e)
Failure to submit capital restoration plan.
An FDIC-supervised institution that is undercapitalized (as defined in § 324.403(b)) and that fails to submit a written capital restoration plan within the period provided in this section shall, upon the expiration of that period, be subject to all of the provisions of section 38 and this subpart applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions.
(f)
Failure to implement capital restoration plan.
Any undercapitalized FDIC-supervised institution that fails in any material respect to implement a capital restoration plan shall be subject to all of the provisions of section 38 of the FDI Act and this subpart H applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions.
(g)
Amendment of capital restoration plan.
An FDIC-supervised institution that has filed an approved capital restoration plan may, after prior written notice to and approval by the FDIC, amend the plan to reflect a change in circumstance. Until such time as a proposed amendment has been approved, the FDIC-supervised institution shall implement the capital restoration plan
as approved prior to the proposed amendment.
(h)
Performance guarantee by companies that control an FDIC-supervised institution
—(1)
Limitation on liability
—(i)
Amount limitation.
The aggregate liability under the guarantee provided under section 38 and this subpart H for all companies that control a specific FDIC-supervised institution that is required to submit a capital restoration plan under this subpart H shall be limited to the lesser of:
(A) An amount equal to 5.0 percent of the FDIC-supervised institution's total assets at the time the FDIC-supervised institution was notified or deemed to have notice that the FDIC-supervised institution was undercapitalized; or
(B) The amount necessary to restore the relevant capital measures of the FDIC-supervised institution to the levels required for the FDIC-supervised institution to be classified as adequately capitalized, as those capital measures and levels are defined at the time that the FDIC-supervised institution initially fails to comply with a capital restoration plan under this subpart H.
(ii)
Limit on duration.
The guarantee and limit of liability under section 38 of the FDI Act and this subpart H shall expire after the FDIC notifies the FDIC-supervised institution that it has remained adequately capitalized for each of four consecutive calendar quarters. The expiration or fulfillment by a company of a guarantee of a capital restoration plan shall not limit the liability of the company under any guarantee required or provided in connection with any capital restoration plan filed by the same FDIC-supervised institution after expiration of the first guarantee.
(iii)
Collection on guarantee.
Each company that controls a given FDIC-supervised institution shall be jointly and severally liable for the guarantee for such FDIC-supervised institution as required under section 38 and this subpart H, and the FDIC may require and collect payment of the full amount of that guarantee from any or all of the companies issuing the guarantee.
(2)
Failure to provide guarantee.
In the event that an FDIC-supervised institution that is controlled by any company submits a capital restoration plan that does not contain the guarantee required under section 38(e)(2) of the FDI Act, the FDIC-supervised institution shall, upon submission of the plan, be subject to the provisions of section 38 and this subpart H that are applicable to FDIC-supervised institutions that have not submitted an acceptable capital restoration plan.
(3)
Failure to perform guarantee.
Failure by any company that controls an FDIC-supervised institution to perform fully its guarantee of any capital plan shall constitute a material failure to implement the plan for purposes of section 38(f) of the FDI Act. Upon such failure, the FDIC-supervised institution shall be subject to the provisions of section 38 and this subpart H that are applicable to FDIC-supervised institutions that have failed in a material respect to implement a capital restoration plan.
§ 324.405
Mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions.
(a)
Mandatory supervisory actions
—(1)
Provisions applicable to all FDIC-supervised institutions.
All FDIC-supervised institutions are subject to the restrictions contained in section 38(d) of the FDI Act on payment of capital distributions and management fees.
(2)
Provisions applicable to undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized FDIC-supervised institution.
Immediately upon receiving notice or being deemed to have notice, as provided in § 324.402, that the FDIC-supervised institution is undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized, it shall become subject to the provisions of section 38 of the FDI Act:
(i) Restricting payment of capital distributions and management fees (section 38(d) of the FDI Act);
(ii) Requiring that the FDIC monitor the condition of the FDIC-supervised institution (section 38(e)(1) of the FDI Act);
(iii) Requiring submission of a capital restoration plan within the schedule established in this subpart (section 38(e)(2) of the FDI Act);
(iv) Restricting the growth of the FDIC-supervised institution's assets (section 38(e)(3) of the FDI Act); and
(v) Requiring prior approval of certain expansion proposals (section 38(e)(4) of the FDI Act).
(3)
Additional provisions applicable to significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized FDIC-supervised institutions.
In addition to the provisions of section 38 of the FDI Act described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, immediately upon receiving notice or being deemed to have notice, as provided in § 324.402, that the FDIC-supervised institution is significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized, or that the FDIC-supervised institution is subject to the provisions applicable to institutions that are significantly undercapitalized because the FDIC-supervised institution failed to submit or implement in any material respect an acceptable capital restoration plan, the FDIC-supervised institution shall become subject to the provisions of section 38 of the FDI Act that restrict compensation paid to senior executive officers of the institution (section 38(f)(4) of the FDI Act).
(4)
Additional provisions applicable to critically undercapitalized institutions.
(i) In addition to the provisions of section 38 of the FDI Act described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, immediately upon receiving notice or being deemed to have notice, as provided in § 324.402, that the insured depository institution is critically undercapitalized, the institution is prohibited from doing any of the following without the FDIC's prior written approval:
(A) Entering into any material transaction other than in the usual course of business, including any investment, expansion, acquisition, sale of assets, or other similar action with respect to which the depository institution is required to provide notice to the appropriate Federal banking agency;
(B) Extending credit for any highly leveraged transaction;
(C) Amending the institution's charter or bylaws, except to the extent necessary to carry out any other requirement of any law, regulation, or order;
(D) Making any material change in accounting methods;
(E) Engaging in any covered transaction (as defined in section 23A(b) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c(b)));
(F) Paying excessive compensation or bonuses;
(G) Paying interest on new or renewed liabilities at a rate that would increase the institution's weighted average cost of funds to a level significantly exceeding the prevailing rates of interest on insured deposits in the institution's normal market areas; and
(H) Making any principal or interest payment on subordinated debt beginning 60 days after becoming critically undercapitalized except that this restriction shall not apply, until July 15, 1996, with respect to any subordinated debt outstanding on July 15, 1991, and not extended or otherwise renegotiated after July 15, 1991.
(ii) In addition, the FDIC may further restrict the activities of any critically undercapitalized institution to carry out the purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act.
(iii) The FDIC-supervised institution must remain in compliance with the plan or is operating under a written agreement with the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(b) Discretionary supervisory actions. In taking any action under section 38 of the FDI Act that is within the FDIC's discretion to take in connection with:
(1) An insured depository institution that is deemed to be undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized, or has been reclassified as undercapitalized, or significantly undercapitalized; or
(2) An officer or director of such institution, the FDIC shall follow the procedures for issuing directives under §§ 308.201 and 308.203 of this chapter, unless otherwise provided in section 38 of the FDI Act or this subpart H.
Pt. 325

# PART 325—STRESS TESTING
Sec.
325.1
Authority, purpose, and reservation of authority.
325.2
Definitions.
325.3
Applicability.
325.4
Periodic stress tests required.
325.5
Methodologies and practices.
325.6
Required reports of stress test results to the FDIC and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
325.7
Publication of stress test results.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(2); 12 U.S.C. 5412(b)(2)(C); 12 U.S.C. 1818, 12 U.S.C. 1819(a)(Tenth), 12 U.S.C. 1831o, and 12 U.S.C. 1831p-1.

# Source:
77 FR 62424, Oct. 15, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 325.1
Authority, purpose, and reservation of authority.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “Corporation” or “FDIC”) under 12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(2), 12 U.S.C. 5412(b)(2)(B), 12 U.S.C. 1818, 12 U.S.C. 1819(a)(Tenth), 12 U.S.C. 1831o, and 12 U.S.C. 1831p-1.
(b)
Purpose.
This part implements 12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(2), which requires the Corporation (in coordination with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) and the Federal Insurance Office) to issue regulations that require each covered bank to conduct periodic stress tests, and establishes a definition of stress test, methodologies for conducting stress tests, and reporting and disclosure requirements.
(c)
Reservation of authority.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this part, the Corporation may modify some or all of the requirements of this part.
(1) The Corporation may accelerate or extend any deadline for stress testing, reporting, or publication of the stress test results.
(2) The Corporation may require different or additional tests not otherwise required by this part or may require or permit different or additional analytical techniques and methodologies, different or additional scenarios (including components for the scenarios), or different assumptions for the covered bank to use in meeting the requirements of this part. In addition, the FDIC may specify a different as-of date for any or all categories of financial data used by the stress test.
(3) The Corporation may modify the reporting requirements of a report under this part or may require additional reports. The Corporation may modify the publication requirements of this part and or may require different or additional publication disclosures.
(4) The Corporation may also exempt a covered bank from the requirement to conduct a stress test in a particular reporting year.
(5) Factors considered: Any exercise of authority under this section by the Corporation will be in writing and will consider the activities, level of complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, and the regulatory capital of the covered bank, in addition to any other relevant factors.
(6) Notice and comment procedures: In exercising its authority to require different or additional stress tests and different or additional scenarios (including components for the scenarios) under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Corporation will apply notice and response procedures in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures in 12 CFR 324.5, as appropriate.
(7) Nothing in this part limits the authority of the Corporation under any other provision of law or regulation to take supervisory or enforcement action, including action to address unsafe and unsound practices or conditions, or violations of law or regulation.
[77 FR 62424, Oct. 15, 2012. Redesignated and amended at 83 FR 17740, Apr. 24, 2018; 84 FR 56933, Oct. 24, 2019; 84 FR 64985, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 325.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part
—
(a)
Average total consolidated assets
means the average of the covered bank's total consolidated assets, as reported on the covered bank's Consolidated Report of Condition and Income (Call Report) for the four most recent consecutive quarters. If the covered bank has not filed a Call Report for each of the four most recent consecutive quarters, the covered bank's average total consolidated assets means the average of the covered bank's total consolidated assets, as reported on the covered bank's Call Reports, for the most recent one or more consecutive quarters. The date on which the state nonmember bank or the state savings association becomes a covered bank will be the as-of date of the most recent Call Report used in the calculation of the average.
(b)
Baseline scenario
means a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered bank, and that reflect the consensus views of the economic and financial outlook.
(c)
Covered bank
means any state nonmember bank or state savings association with average total consolidated assets calculated as required under this part that are greater than $250 billion.
(d)
Planning horizon
means the period of at least nine quarters over which the relevant projections extend.
(e)
Pre-provision net revenue
means the sum of net interest income and non-interest income, less expenses, before adjusting for loss provisions.
(f)
Provision for credit losses
means:
(1) Until December 31, 2019:
(i) With respect to a state nonmember bank or state savings association that has not adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the provision for loan and lease losses as reported on the Call Report in the current stress test cycle; and,
(ii) With respect to a state nonmember bank or state savings association that has adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for loan and lease losses, as would be calculated and reported on the Call Report by a state nonmember bank or state savings association that has not adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP; and
(2) Beginning January 1, 2020:
(i) With respect to a state nonmember bank or state savings association that has adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for credit losses, as reported in the Call Report in the current stress test cycle; and
(ii) With respect to a state nonmember bank or state savings association that has not adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for loan and lease losses as would be reported in the Call Report in the current stress test cycle.
(g)
Regulatory capital ratio
means a capital ratio for which the Corporation established minimum requirements by regulation or order, including the leverage ratio and tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios applicable to that covered bank as calculated under the Corporation's regulations.
(h)
Reporting year
means the calendar year in which a covered institution must conduct, report, and publish its stress test, as required under 12 CFR 325.4(d).
(i)
Scenarios
are those sets of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered bank that the Corporation determines are appropriate for use in the company-run stress tests, including, but not limited to, baseline and severely adverse scenarios.
(j)
Severely adverse scenario
means a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered bank and that overall are significantly more severe than those associated with the baseline scenario and may include trading or other additional components.
(k)
State nonmember bank
and
state savings association
have the same meanings as those terms are defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
(l)
Stress test
means the process to assess the potential impact of scenarios on the consolidated earnings, losses, and capital of a covered bank over the planning horizon, taking into account the current condition of the covered bank and the covered bank's risks, exposures, strategies, and activities.
(m)
Stress test cycle
means the period beginning January 1 of a reporting year and ending on December 31 of that reporting year.
[77 FR 62424, Oct. 15, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 69368, Nov. 21, 2014. Redesignated at 83 FR 17740, Apr. 24, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 4249, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 56933, Oct. 24, 2019]
§ 325.3
Applicability.
(a)
Covered banks subject to stress testing.
(1) A state nonmember bank or state savings association that is a covered bank as of December 31, 2019, is subject to the requirements of this part for the 2020 reporting year.
(2) A state nonmember bank or state savings association that becomes a covered bank after December 31, 2019, shall conduct its first stress test under
this part in the first reporting year that begins more than three calendar quarters after the date the state nonmember bank or state savings association becomes a covered bank, unless otherwise determined by the Corporation in writing.
(b)
Ceasing to be a covered bank.
A covered bank shall remain subject to the stress test requirements of this part unless and until total consolidated assets of the covered bank falls to $250 billion or less for each of four consecutive quarters as reported on the covered bank's most recent Call Reports. The calculation will be effective on the as-of date of the fourth consecutive Call Report.
(c)
Covered bank subsidiaries of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company subject to periodic stress test requirements.
(1) Notwithstanding the requirements applicable to covered banks under this section, a covered bank that is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company that is required to conduct a periodic company-run stress test under applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may elect to conduct its stress test and report to the FDIC on the same timeline as its parent bank holding company or savings and loan holding company.
(2) A covered bank that elects to conduct its stress test under paragraph (c)(1) of this section will remain subject to the same timeline requirements of its parent company until otherwise approved by the FDIC.
[84 FR 56933, Oct. 24, 2019; 84 FR 64985, Nov. 26, 2019]
§ 325.4
Periodic stress tests required.
Each covered bank must conduct the periodic stress test under this part subject to the following requirements:
(a)
Financial data.
A covered bank must use financial data as of December 31 of the calendar year prior to the reporting year.
(b)
Scenarios provided by the Corporation.
In conducting the stress test under this part, each covered bank must use the scenarios provided by the Corporation. The scenarios provided by the Corporation will reflect a minimum of two sets of economic and financial conditions, including baseline and severely adverse scenarios. The Corporation will provide a description of the scenarios required to be used by each covered bank no later than February 15 of the reporting year.
(c)
Significant trading activities.
The Corporation may require a covered bank with significant trading activities, as determined by the Corporation, to include trading and counterparty components in its severely adverse scenarios. The trading and counterparty position data used in this component will be as of a date between October 1 of the year preceding the reporting year and March 1 of the reporting year, and the Corporation will communicate a description of the component to the covered bank no later than March 1 of the reporting year.
(d)
Frequency.
A covered bank that is consolidated under a holding company that is required, pursuant to applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, to conduct a stress test at least once every calendar year must treat every calendar year as a reporting year, unless otherwise determined by the Corporation. All other covered banks must treat every even-numbered calendar year beginning January 1, 2020 (
i.e.,
2022, 2024, 2026, etc.), as a reporting year, unless otherwise determined by the Corporation.
[84 FR 56934, Oct. 24, 2019]
§ 325.5
Methodologies and practices.
(a)
Potential impact on capital.
In conducting a stress test under this part, during each quarter of the planning horizon, each covered bank must estimate the following for each scenario required to be used:
(1) Pre-provision net revenues, losses, provision for credit losses, and net income; and
(2) The potential impact on the regulatory capital levels and ratios applicable to the covered bank, and any other capital ratios specified by the Corporation, incorporating the effects of any capital action over the planning horizon and maintenance of an allowance for loan losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as appropriate, for credit exposures throughout the planning horizon.
(b)
Controls and oversight of stress testing processes.
(1) The senior management of a covered bank must establish and maintain a system of controls, oversight, and documentation, including policies and procedures, that are designed to ensure that its stress test processes satisfy the requirements in this part. These policies and procedures must, at a minimum, describe the covered bank's stress test practices and methodologies, and processes for validating and updating the covered bank's stress test practices and methodologies consistent with applicable laws and regulations.
(2) The board of directors, or a committee thereof, of a covered bank must approve and review the policies and procedures of the stress testing processes as frequently as economic conditions or the condition of the covered bank may warrant, but no less than once every reporting year. The board of directors and senior management of the covered bank must receive a summary of the results of the stress test.
(3) The board of directors and senior management of each covered bank must consider the results of the stress tests in the normal course of business, including but not limited to, the covered bank's capital planning, assessment of capital adequacy, and risk management practices.
[77 FR 62424, Oct. 15, 2012. Redesignated and amended at 83 FR 17740, Apr. 24, 2018; 84 FR 4249, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 56933, 56934, Oct. 24, 2019]
§ 325.6
Required reports of stress test results to the FDIC and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(a)
Report required for periodic stress test results.
A covered bank must report to the FDIC and to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, on or before April 5 of the reporting year, the results of the stress test in the manner and form specified by the FDIC.
(b)
Content of reports.
(1) The reports required under paragraph (a) of this section must include under the baseline scenario, severely adverse scenario, and any other scenario required by the Corporation under this part, a description of the types of risks being included in the stress test, a summary description of the methodologies used in the stress test, and, for each quarter of the planning horizon, estimates of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, provision for loan and lease losses, net income, and pro forma capital ratios (including regulatory and any other capital ratios specified by the FDIC). In addition, the report must include an explanation of the most significant causes for the changes in regulatory capital ratios and any other information required by the Corporation.
(2) The description of aggregate losses and net income must include the cumulative losses and cumulative net income over the planning horizon, and the description of each regulatory capital ratio must include the beginning value, ending value, and minimum value of each ratio over the planning horizon.
(c)
Confidential treatment of information submitted.
The confidentiality of information submitted to the Corporation under this part and related materials will be determined in accordance with applicable law including any available exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)) and the FDIC's Rules and Regulations regarding the Disclosure of Information (12 CFR part 309).
[84 FR 56934, Oct. 24, 2019]
§ 325.7
Publication of stress test results.
(a)
Publication date.
A covered bank must publish a summary of the results of its stress tests in the period starting June 15 and ending July 15 of the reporting year, provided:
(1) Unless the Corporation determines otherwise, if the covered bank is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company subject to supervisory stress tests conducted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under 12 CFR part 252, then, within the June 15 to July 15 period, such covered bank may not publish the required summary of its periodic stress test earlier than the date that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System publishes the supervisory stress test results of the covered bank's parent holding company.
(2) If the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System publishes the supervisory stress test results of the covered bank's parent holding company prior to June 15, then such covered bank may publish its stress test results prior to June 15, but no later than July 15, through actual publication by the covered bank or through publication by the parent holding company under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Publication method.
The summary required under this section may be published on the covered bank's website or in any other forum that is reasonably accessible to the public. A covered bank that is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company that is required to conduct a company-run stress test under applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System will be deemed to have satisfied the public disclosure requirements under this part if it publishes a summary of its stress test results with its parent bank holding company's or savings and loan holding company's summary of stress test results. Subsidiary covered banks electing to satisfy their public disclosure requirement in this manner must include a summary of changes in regulatory capital ratios of such covered bank over the planning horizon, and an explanation of the most significant causes for the changes in regulatory capital ratios.
(c)
Information to be disclosed in the summary.
A covered bank must disclose the following information regarding the severely adverse scenario if it is not a consolidated subsidiary of a parent bank holding company or savings and loan holding company that has elected to make its disclosure under 12 CFR 325.3(d):
(1) A description of the types of risks included in the stress test;
(2) A summary description of the methodologies used in the stress test;
(3) Estimates of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, provision for credit losses, net income, and pro forma capital ratios (including regulatory and any other capital ratios specified by the FDIC); and
(4) An explanation of the most significant causes for the changes in the regulatory capital ratios.
(d)
Content of results.
(1) The disclosure of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, provisions for credit losses, and net income under this section must be on a cumulative basis over the planning horizon.
(2) The disclosure of regulatory capital ratios and any other capital ratios specified by the Corporation under this section must include the beginning value, ending value, and minimum value of each ratio over the planning horizon.
[77 FR 62424, Oct. 15, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 69369, Nov. 21, 2014. Redesignated at 83 FR 17740, Apr. 24, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 4249, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 56934, Oct. 24, 2019; 84 FR 64985, Nov. 26, 2019]
Pt. 326

# PART 326—MINIMUM SECURITY DEVICES AND PROCEDURES AND BANK SECRECY ACT
1

# COMPLIANCE
1
In its original form, subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31 U.S.C., was part of Pub. L. 91-508 which requires recordkeeping for and reporting of currency transactions by banks and others and is commonly known as the
Bank Secrecy Act.

# Subpart A—Minimum Security Procedures
Sec.
326.0
Authority, purpose, and scope.
326.1
Definitions.
326.2
Designation of security officer.
326.3
Security program.
326.4
Reports.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Monitoring Bank Secrecy Act Complianace
326.8
Bank Secrecy Act compliance.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1813, 1815, 1817, 1818, 1819 (Tenth), 1881-1883, 5412; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314, 5316-5332.2.

# Subpart A—Minimum Security Procedures

# Source:
83 FR 13842, Apr. 2, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 326.0
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a) This part is issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”) pursuant to section 3 of the Bank Protection Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1882). It applies to FDIC-supervised insured depository institutions. It requires each institution to adopt appropriate security procedures to discourage robberies, burglaries, and larcenies and to assist in identifying and apprehending persons who commit such acts.
(b) It is the responsibility of the institution's board of directors to comply with this part and ensure that a written security program for the institution's main office and branches is developed and implemented.
§ 326.1
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part—
(a) The term
FDIC-supervised institution
or
institution
means any entity for which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is the appropriate Federal banking agency pursuant to section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(q).
(b) The term
banking office
includes any branch of an institution and, in the case of an FDIC-supervised insured depository institution; it includes the main office of that institution.
(c) The term
branch
for an institution chartered under the laws of any state of the United States includes any branch institution, branch office, branch agency, additional office, or any branch place of business located in any state or territory of the United States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands or the Virgin Islands at which deposits are received or checks paid or money lent. In the case of a foreign bank defined in § 347.202 of this chapter, the term branch has the meaning given in § 347.202 of this chapter.
(d) The term
State savings association
has the same meaning as in section (3)(b)(3) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(3).
[83 FR 13842, Apr. 2, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 3246, Jan. 21, 2020]
§ 326.2
Designation of security officer.
Upon the issuance of Federal deposit insurance, the board of directors of each institution shall designate a security officer who shall have the authority, subject to the approval of the board of directors, to develop, within a reasonable time, but no later than 180 days, and to administer a written security program for each banking office.
§ 326.3
Security program.
(a)
Contents of security program.
The security program shall:
(1) Establish procedures for opening and closing for business and for the safekeeping of all currency, negotiable securities, and similar valuables at all times;
(2) Establish procedures that will assist in identifying persons committing crimes against the institution and that will preserve evidence that may aid in their identification and prosecution; such procedures may include, but are not limited to:
(i) Retaining a record of any robbery, burglary, or larceny committed against the institution;
(ii) Maintaining a camera that records activity in the banking office; and
(iii) Using identification devices, such as prerecorded serial-numbered bills, or chemical and electronic devices;
(3) Provide for initial and periodic training of officers and employees in their responsibilities under the security program and in proper employee conduct during and after a robbery, burglar or larceny; and
(4) Provide for selecting, testing, operating and maintaining appropriate security devices, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Security devices.
Each institution shall have, at a minimum, the following security devices:
(1) A means of protecting cash or other liquid assets, such as a vault, safe, or other secure space;
(2) A lighting system for illuminating, during the hours of darkness, the area around the vault, if the vault is visible from outside the banking office;
(3) An alarm system or other appropriate device for promptly notifying the nearest responsible law enforcement officers of an attempted or perpetrated robbery or burglary;
(4) Tamper-resistant locks on exterior doors and exterior windows that may be opened; and
(5) Such other devices as the security officer determines to be appropriate, taking into consideration:
(i) The incidence of crimes against financial institutions in the area;
(ii) The amount of currency or other valuables exposed to robbery, burglary, and larceny;
(iii) The distance of the banking office from the nearest responsible law enforcement officers;
(iv) The cost of the security devices;
(v) Other security measures in effect at the banking office; and
(vi) The physical characteristics of the structure of the banking office and its surroundings.
§ 326.4
Reports.
The security officer for each institution shall report at least annually to the institution's board of directors on the implementation, administration, and effectiveness of the security program.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Monitoring Bank Secrecy Act Compliance
§ 326.8
Bank Secrecy Act compliance.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart is issued to assure that all FDIC-supervised institutions as defined in 12 CFR 326.1 establish and maintain procedures reasonably designed to assure and monitor their compliance with the requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code, and the implementing regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of Treasury at 31 CFR Chapter X.
(b)
Compliance procedures
—(1)
Program requirement.
Each institution shall develop and provide for the continued administration of a program reasonably designed to assure and monitor compliance with recordkeeping and reporting requirements set forth in subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code, and the implementing regulations issued by the Department of Treasury at 31 CFR Chapter X. The compliance program shall be written, approved by the institution's board of directors, and noted in the minutes.
(2)
Customer identification program.
Each institution is subject to the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) and the implementing regulation jointly promulgated by the FDIC and the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR 1020.220.
(c)
Contents of compliance program.
The compliance program shall, at a minimum:
(1) Provide for a system of internal controls to assure ongoing compliance;
(2) Provide for independent testing for compliance to be conducted by institution personnel or by an outside party;
(3) Designate an individual or individuals responsible for coordinating and monitoring day-to-day compliance; and
(4) Provide training for appropriate personnel.
[85 FR 3246, Jan. 21, 2020]
Pt. 327

# PART 327—ASSESSMENTS

# Subpart A—In General
Sec.
327.1
Purpose and scope.
327.2
Certified statements.
327.3
Payment of assessments.
327.4
Assessment rates.
327.5
Assessment base.
327.6
Mergers and consolidations; other terminations of insurance.
327.7
Payment of interest on assessment underpayments and overpayments.
327.8
Definitions.
327.9
[Reserved]
327.10
Assessment rate schedules.
327.11
Surcharges and assessments required to raise the reserve ratio of the DIF to 1.35 percent.
327.12
Prepayment of quarterly risk-based assessments.
327.13
Special Assessment Pursuant to March 12, 2023, Systemic Risk Determination.
327.15
Emergency special assessments.
327.16
Assessment pricing methods—beginning the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent.
327.17
Mitigating the Deposit Insurance Assessment Effect of Participation in the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility, and the Paycheck Protection Program.
Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 327—Method to Derive Pricing Multipliers and Uniform Amount
Appendix B to Subpart A of Part 327—Conversion of Scorecard Measures into Score
Appendix C to Subpart A of Part 327—Description of Concentration Measures
Appendix D to Subpart A of Part 327—Description of the Loss Severity Measure
Appendix E to Subpart A of Part 327—Mitigating the Deposit Insurance Assessment Effect of Participation in the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility, and the Paycheck Protection Program

# Subpart B—Implementation of One-Time Assessment Credit
327.30
Purpose and scope.
327.31
Definitions.
327.32
Determination of aggregate credit amount.
327.33
Determination of eligible institution's credit amount.
327.34
Transferability of credits.
327.35
Application of credits.
327.36
Requests for review of credit amount.

# Subpart C—Implementation of Dividend Requirements
327.50
Dividends.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1813, 1815, 1817-19, 1821, 1823.

# Source:
54 FR 51374, Dec. 15, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—In General

# Source:
Sections 327.1 through 327.8 appear at 71 FR 69277, Nov. 30, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 327.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Scope.
This part 327 applies to any insured depository institution, including any insured branch of a foreign bank.
(b)
Purpose.
(1) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, this part 327 sets forth the rules for:
(i) The time and manner of filing certified statements by insured depository institutions;
(ii) The time and manner of payment of assessments by such institutions;
(iii) The payment of assessments by depository institutions whose insured status has terminated;
(iv) The classification of depository institutions for risk; and
(v) The processes for review of assessments.
(2) Deductions from the assessment base of an insured branch of a foreign bank are stated in subpart B part 347 of this chapter.
§ 327.2
Certified statements.
(a)
Required.
(1) The certified statement shall also be known as the quarterly certified statement invoice. Each insured depository institution shall file and certify its quarterly certified statement invoice in the manner and form set forth in this section.
(2) The quarterly certified statement invoice shall reflect the institution's risk assignment, assessment base, assessment computation, and assessment amount, for each quarterly assessment period.
(b)
Availability and access.
(1) The Corporation shall make available to each insured depository institution via the FDIC's e-business Web site FDIC
connect
a quarterly certified statement invoice each assessment period.
(2) Insured depository institutions shall access their quarterly certified statement invoices via FDIC
connect
, unless the FDIC provides notice to insured depository institutions of a successor system. In the event of a contingency, the FDIC may employ an alternative means of delivering the quarterly certified statement invoices. A quarterly certified statement invoice delivered by any alternative means will be treated as if it had been downloaded from FDIC
connect.
(3) Institutions that do not have Internet access may request a renewable one-year exemption from the requirement that quarterly certified statement invoices be accessed through FDIC
connect.
Any exemption request must be submitted in writing to the Manager of the Assessments Section.
(4) Each assessment period, the FDIC will provide courtesy e-mail notification to insured depository institutions indicating that new quarterly certified statement invoices are available and may be accessed on FDIC
connect.
E-
mail notification will be sent to all individuals with FDIC
connect
access to quarterly certified statement invoices.
(5) E-mail notification may be used by the FDIC to communicate with insured depository institutions regarding quarterly certified statement invoices and other assessment-related matters.
(c)
Review by institution.
The president of each insured depository institution, or such other officer as the institution's president or board of directors or trustees may designate, shall review the information shown on each quarterly certified statement invoice.
(d)
Retention by institution.
If the appropriate officer of the insured depository institution agrees that, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, the information shown on the quarterly certified statement invoice is true, correct, and complete and in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and the regulations issued under it, the institution shall pay the amount specified on the quarterly certified statement invoice and shall retain it in the institution's files for three years as specified in section 7(b)(4) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
(e)
Amendment by institution.
If the appropriate officer of the insured depository institution determines that, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, the information shown on the quarterly certified statement invoice is not true, correct, and complete and in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and the regulations issued under it, the institution shall pay the amount specified on the quarterly certified statement invoice, and may:
(1) Amend its report of condition, or other similar report, to correct any data believed to be inaccurate on the quarterly certified statement invoice; amendments to such reports timely filed under section 7(g) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act but not permitted to be made by an institution's primary federal regulator may be filed with the FDIC for consideration in determining deposit insurance assessments; or
(2) Amend and sign its quarterly certified statement invoice to correct a calculation believed to be inaccurate and return it to the FDIC by the applicable payment date specified in § 327.3(b)(2).
(f)
Certification.
Data used by the Corporation to complete the quarterly certified statement invoice has been previously attested to by the institution in its reports of condition, or other similar reports, filed with the institution's primary federal regulator. When an insured institution pays the amount shown on the quarterly certified statement invoice and does not correct that invoice as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the information on that invoice shall be deemed true, correct, complete, and certified for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section and section 7(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
(g)
Requests for revision of assessment computation.
(1) The timely filing of an amended report of condition or other similar report under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, or the timely filing of an amended quarterly certified statement invoice under paragraph (e)(2), that will result in a change to deposit insurance assessments owed or paid by an insured depository institution, shall be treated as a timely filed request for revision of computation of quarterly assessment payment under § 327.3(f).
(2) The assessment rate on the quarterly certified statement invoice shall be amended only if it is inconsistent with the assessment risk assignment(s) provided to the institution by the Corporation for the assessment period in question pursuant to § 327.4(a). Agreement with the assessment rate shall not be deemed to constitute agreement with the assessment risk assignment. An institution may request review of an assessment risk assignment it believes to be incorrect pursuant to § 327.4(c).
§ 327.3
Payment of assessments.
(a)
Required
—(1)
In general.
Each insured depository institution shall pay to the Corporation for each assessment period an assessment determined in accordance with this part 327.
(2)
Notice of designated deposit account.
For the purpose of making such payments, each insured depository institution shall designate a deposit account for direct debit by the Corporation. No
later than 30 days prior to the next payment date specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, each institution shall provide notice to the Corporation via FDIC
connect
of the account designated, including all information and authorizations needed by the Corporation for direct debit of the account. After the initial notice of the designated account, no further notice is required unless the institution designates a different account for assessment debit by the Corporation, in which case the requirements of the preceding sentence apply.
(3)
Transition Rule for Financing Corporation (FICO) Payments.
Quarterly FICO payments shall be collected by the FDIC without interruption during the assessment system transitional period in 2007. All insured depository institutions shall make scheduled quarterly FICO payments on January 2, 2007 (unless prepaid on December 30, 2006), and March 30, 2007, based upon, respectively, their September 30, 2006, and December 31, 2006 reported assessment bases, which shall be the final assessment bases calculated pursuant to 12 CFR 327.5(a) and (b) (2006). Simultaneous collection of deposit insurance assessments and FICO assessments will resume in June of 2007, based on the March 31, 2007 reported assessment base.
(b)
Assessment payment
—(1)
Quarterly certified statement invoice.
Starting with the first assessment period of 2007, no later than 15 days prior to the payment date specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Corporation will provide to each insured depository institution a quarterly certified statement invoice showing the amount of the assessment payment due from the institution for the prior quarter (net of credits or dividends, if any), and the computation of that amount. Subject to paragraph (e) of this section and § 327.17, the invoiced amount on the quarterly certified statement invoice shall be the product of the following: The assessment base of the institution for the prior quarter computed in accordance with § 327.5 multiplied by the institution's rate for that prior quarter as assigned to the institution pursuant to §§ 327.4(a) and 327.16.
(2)
Quarterly payment date and manner.
The Corporation will cause the amount stated in the applicable quarterly certified statement invoice to be directly debited on the appropriate payment date from the deposit account designated by the insured depository institution for that purpose, as follows:
(i) In the case of the assessment payment for the quarter that begins on January 1, the payment date is the following June 30;
(ii) In the case of the assessment payment for the quarter that begins on April 1, the payment date is the following September 30;
(iii) In the case of the assessment payment for the quarter that begins on July 1, the payment date is the following December 30; and
(iv) In the case of the assessment payment for the quarter that begins on October 1, the payment date is the following March 30.
(c)
Necessary action, sufficient funding by institution.
Each insured depository institution shall take all actions necessary to allow the Corporation to debit assessments from the insured depository institution's designated deposit account. Each insured depository institution shall, prior to each payment date indicated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, ensure that funds in an amount at least equal to the amount on the quarterly certified statement invoice are available in the designated account for direct debit by the Corporation. Failure to take any such action or to provide such funding of the account shall be deemed to constitute nonpayment of the assessment. Penalties for failure to timely pay assessments will be calculated and published in accordance with 12 CFR 308.132(d).
(d)
Business days.
If a payment date specified in paragraph (b)(2) falls on a date that is not a business day, the applicable date shall be the previous business day.
(e)
Payment adjustments in succeeding quarters.
Quarterly certified statement invoices provided by the Corporation may reflect adjustments, initiated by the Corporation or an institution, resulting from such factors as amendments to prior quarterly reports of condition, retroactive revision of the
institution's assessment risk assignment, and revision of the Corporation's assessment computations for prior quarters.
(f)
Request for revision of computation of quarterly assessment payment
—(1)
In general.
An institution may submit a written request for revision of the computation of the institution's quarterly assessment payment as shown on the quarterly certified statement invoice in the following circumstances:
(i) The institution disagrees with the computation of the assessment base as stated on the quarterly certified statement invoice;
(ii) The institution determines that the rate applied by the Corporation is inconsistent with the assessment risk assignment(s) provided to the institution in writing by the Corporation for the assessment period for which the payment is due; or
(iii) The institution believes that the quarterly certified statement invoice does not fully or accurately reflect adjustments provided for in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2)
Inapplicability.
This paragraph (f) is not applicable to requests for review of an institution's assessment risk assignment, which are covered by § 327.4(c) of this part.
(3)
Requirements.
Any such request for revision must be submitted within 90 days from the date the computation being challenged appears on the institution's quarterly certified statement invoice. The request for revision shall be submitted to the Manager of the Assessments Section and shall provide documentation sufficient to support the change sought by the institution. If additional information is requested by the Corporation, such information shall be provided by the institution within 21 days of the date of the request for additional information. Any institution submitting a timely request for revision will receive written notice from the Corporation regarding the outcome of its request. Upon completion of a review, the DOF Director (or designee) shall promptly notify the institution in writing of his or her determination of whether revision is warranted. If the institution requesting revision disagrees with that determination, it may appeal to the FDIC's Assessment Appeals Committee. Notice of the procedures applicable to appeals will be included with the written determination.
(g)
Quarterly certified statement invoice unavailable.
Any institution whose quarterly certified statement invoice is unavailable on FDIC
connect
by the fifteenth day of the month in which the payment is due shall promptly notify the Corporation. Failure to provide prompt notice to the Corporation shall not affect the institution's obligation to make full and timely assessment payment. Unless otherwise directed by the Corporation, the institution shall preliminarily pay the amount shown on its quarterly certified statement invoice for the preceding assessment period, subject to subsequent correction.
[54 FR 51374, Dec. 15, 1989, as amended at 74 FR 9550, Mar. 4, 2009; 81 FR 32201, May 20, 2016; 81 FR 42243, June 29, 2016; 83 FR 61115, Nov. 28, 2018; 85 FR 38292, June 26, 2020]
§ 327.4
Assessment rates.
(a)
Assessment risk assignment.
For the purpose of determining the annual assessment rate for insured depository institutions under § 327.16, each insured depository institution will be provided an assessment risk assignment. Notice of an institution's current assessment risk assignment will be provided to the institution with each quarterly certified statement invoice. Adjusted assessment risk assignments for prior periods may also be provided by the Corporation. Notice of the procedures applicable to reviews will be included with the notice of assessment risk assignment provided pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b)
Payment of assessment at rate assigned.
Institutions shall make timely payment of assessments based on the assessment risk assignment in the notice provided to the institution pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. Timely payment is required notwithstanding any request for review filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. Assessment risk assignments remain in effect for future assessment periods until changed. If the risk assignment in the notice is subsequently changed, any excess assessment paid by the institution will be credited by the
Corporation, with interest, and any additional assessment owed shall be paid by the institution, with interest, in the next assessment payment after such subsequent assignment or change. Interest payable under this paragraph shall be determined in accordance with § 327.7.
(c)
Requests for review.
An institution that believes any assessment risk assignment provided by the Corporation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is incorrect and seeks to change it must submit a written request for review of that risk assignment. An institution cannot request review through this process of the CAMELS ratings assigned by its primary federal regulator or challenge the appropriateness of any such rating; each federal regulator has established procedures for that purpose. An institution may also request review of a determination by the FDIC to assess the institution as a large, highly complex, or a small institution (§ 327.16(f)(3)) or a determination by the FDIC that the institution is a new institution (§ 327.16(g)(5)). Any request for review must be submitted within 90 days from the date the assessment risk assignment being challenged pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section appears on the institution's quarterly certified statement invoice. The request shall be submitted to the Corporation's Director of the Division of Insurance and Research in Washington, DC, and shall include documentation sufficient to support the change sought by the institution. If additional information is requested by the Corporation, such information shall be provided by the institution within 21 days of the date of the request for additional information. Any institution submitting a timely request for review will receive written notice from the Corporation regarding the outcome of its request. Upon completion of a review, the Director of the Division of Insurance and Research (or designee) or the Director of the Division of Supervision and Consumer Protection (or designee) or any successor divisions, as appropriate, shall promptly notify the institution in writing of his or her determination of whether a change is warranted. If the institution requesting review disagrees with that determination, it may appeal to the FDIC's Assessment Appeals Committee. Notice of the procedures applicable to appeals will be included with the written determination.
(d)
Disclosure restrictions.
The portion of an assessment risk assignment provided to an institution by the Corporation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section that reflects any supervisory evaluation or confidential information is deemed to be exempt information within the scope of § 309.5(g)(8) of this chapter and, accordingly, is governed by the disclosure restrictions set out at § 309.6 of this chapter.
(e)
Limited use of assessment risk assignment.
Any assessment risk assignment provided to a depository institution under this part 327 is for purposes of implementing and operating the FDIC's risk-based assessment system. Unless permitted by the Corporation or otherwise required by law, no institution may state in any advertisement or promotional material, or in any other public place or manner, the assessment risk assignment provided to it pursuant to this part.
(f)
Effective date for changes to risk assignment.
Changes to an insured institution's risk assignment resulting from a supervisory ratings change become effective as of the date of written notification to the institution by its primary federal regulator or state authority of its supervisory rating (even when the CAMELS component ratings have not been disclosed to the institution), if the FDIC, after taking into account other information that could affect the rating, agrees with the rating. If the FDIC does not agree, the FDIC will notify the institution of the FDIC's supervisory rating; resulting changes to an insured institution's risk assignment become effective as of the date of written notification to the institution by the FDIC.
(g)
Designated Reserve Ratio.
The designated reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund is 2 percent.
[71 FR 69277, 69326, Nov. 30, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 79293, Dec. 20, 2010; 76 FR 10704, Feb. 25, 2011; 81 FR 32201, May 20, 2016; 87 FR 64334, Oct. 24, 2022]
§ 327.5
Assessment base.
(a)
Assessment base for all insured depository institutions.
Except as provided
in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the assessment base for an insured depository institution shall equal the average consolidated total assets of the insured depository institution during the assessment period minus the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period.
(1)
Average consolidated total assets defined and calculated.
Average consolidated total assets are defined in the schedule of quarterly averages in the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income, using either a daily averaging method or a weekly averaging method as described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. The amounts to be reported as daily averages are the sum of the gross amounts of consolidated total assets for each calendar day during the quarter divided by the number of calendar days in the quarter. The amounts to be reported as weekly averages are the sum of the gross amounts of consolidated total assets for each Wednesday during the quarter divided by the number of Wednesdays in the quarter. For days that an office of the reporting institution (or any of its subsidiaries or branches) is closed (e.g., Saturdays, Sundays, or holidays), the amounts outstanding from the previous business day will be used. An office is considered closed if there are no transactions posted to the general ledger as of that date. For institutions that begin operating during the calendar quarter, the amounts to be reported as daily averages are the sum of the gross amounts of consolidated total assets for each calendar day the institution was operating during the quarter divided by the number of calendar days the institution was operating during the quarter.
(i)
Institutions that must report average consolidated total assets using a daily averaging method.
All insured depository institutions that report $1 billion or more in quarter-end consolidated total assets on their March 31, 2011 Consolidated Report of Condition and Income or Thrift Financial Report (or successor report), and all institutions that become insured after March 31, 2011, shall report average consolidated total assets as of the close of business for each day of the calendar quarter.
(ii)
Institutions that may report average consolidated total assets using a weekly averaging method.
All insured depository institutions that report less than $1 billion in quarter-end consolidated total assets on their March 31, 2011, Consolidated Report of Condition and Income or Thrift Financial Report may report average consolidated total assets as an average of the balances as of the close of business on each Wednesday during the calendar quarter, or may at any time opt permanently to report average consolidated total assets on a daily basis as set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. Once an institution that reports average consolidated total assets using a weekly average reports average consolidated total assets equal to or greater than $1 billion for two consecutive quarters, it shall permanently report average consolidated total assets using daily averaging starting in the next quarter.
(iii)
Mergers and consolidations.
The average calculation of the assets of the surviving or resulting institution in a merger or consolidation shall include the assets of all the merged or consolidated institutions for the days in the quarter prior to the merger or consolidation, whether reported by the daily or weekly method.
(2)
Average tangible equity defined and calculated.
Tangible equity is defined as Tier 1 capital.
(i)
Calculation of average tangible equity.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, average tangible equity shall be calculated using monthly averaging. Monthly averaging means the average of the three month-end balances within the quarter.
(ii)
Alternate calculation of average tangible equity.
Institutions that report less than $1 billion in quarter-end consolidated total assets on their March 31, 2011 Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income or Thrift Financial Reports may report average tangible equity using an end-of-quarter balance or may at any time opt permanently to report average tangible equity using a monthly average balance. An institution that reports average tangible equity using an end-of-quarter balance and reports average daily or weekly consolidated assets of $1 billion or
more for two consecutive quarters shall permanently report average tangible equity using monthly averaging starting in the next quarter. Newly insured institutions shall report using monthly averaging.
(iii)
Calculation of average tangible equity for the surviving institution in a merger or consolidation.
For the surviving institution in a merger or consolidation, Tier 1 capital shall be calculated as if the merger occurred on the first day of the quarter in which the merger or consolidation occurred.
(3)
Consolidated subsidiaries
—(i)
Reporting for insured depository institutions with consolidated subsidiaries that are not insured depository institutions.
For insured institutions with consolidated subsidiaries that are not insured depository institutions, assets, including assets eliminated in consolidation, shall be calculated using a daily or weekly averaging method, corresponding to the daily or weekly averaging requirement of the parent institution. The Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income instructions in effect for the quarter for which data is being reported shall govern calculation of the average amount of subsidiaries' assets, including those assets eliminated in consolidation. An insured depository institution that reports average tangible equity using a monthly averaging method and that has subsidiaries that are not insured depository institutions shall use monthly average reporting for the subsidiaries. The monthly average data for these subsidiaries, however, may be calculated for the current quarter or for the prior quarter consistent with the method used to report average consolidated total assets and in conformity with Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income requirements. Once the method of reporting the subsidiaries' assets and tangible equity is chosen, however (current quarter or prior quarter), insured depository institutions cannot change the reporting method from quarter to quarter. An institution that reports consolidated assets and tangible equity using data for the prior quarter may switch to concurrent reporting on a permanent basis.
(ii)
Reporting for insured depository institutions with consolidated insured depository subsidiaries.
Insured depository institutions that consolidate with other insured depository institutions for financial reporting purposes shall report for the parent and for each subsidiary individually, daily average consolidated total assets or weekly average consolidated total assets, as appropriate under paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) above, and tangible equity, without consolidating their insured depository institution subsidiaries into the calculations. Investments in insured depository institution subsidiaries should be included in total assets using the equity method of accounting.
(b)
Assessment base for banker's banks
—(1)
Bankers bank defined.
A banker's bank for purposes of calculating deposit insurance assessments shall meet the definition of banker's bank as that term is used in 12 U.S.C. 24. Banker's banks that have funds from government capital infusion programs (such as TARP and the Small Business Lending Fund), and stock owned by the FDIC resulting from banks failures, as well as non-bank-owned stock resulting from equity compensation programs, are not thereby excluded from the definition of banker's banks.
(2)
Self-certification.
Institutions that meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall so certify to that effect each quarter on the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income or Thrift Financial Report or successor report.
(3)
Assessment base calculation for banker's banks.
A banker's bank shall pay deposit insurance assessments on its assessment base as calculated in paragraph (a) of this section provided that it conducts 50 percent or more of its business with entities other than its parent holding company or entities other than those controlled (control has the same meaning as in section 3(w)(5) of the FDI Act) either directly or indirectly by its parent holding company. The assessment base will exclude the average (daily or weekly depending on how the institution calculates its average consolidated total assets) amount of reserve balances passed through to the Federal Reserve, the average amount of reserve balances held at the Federal Reserve for its own
account (including all balances due from the Federal Reserve as described in the instructions to line 4 of Schedule RC-A of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income as of December 31, 2010), and the average amount of the institution's federal funds sold, but in no case shall the amount excluded exceed the sum of the bank's average amount of total deposits of commercial banks and other depository institutions in the United States and the average amount of its federal funds purchased.
(c)
Assessment base for custodial banks
—(1)
Custodial bank defined.
A custodial bank for purposes of calculating deposit insurance assessments shall be an insured depository institution with previous calendar-year trust assets (fiduciary and custody and safekeeping assets, as described in the instructions to Schedule RC-T of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income) of at least $50 billion or an insured depository institution that derived more than 50 percent of its total revenue (interest income plus non-interest income) from trust activity over the previous calendar year.
(2)
Assessment base calculation for custodial banks.
A custodial bank shall pay deposit insurance assessments on its assessment base as calculated in paragraph (a) of this section, but the FDIC will exclude from that assessment base the daily or weekly average (depending on how the bank reports its average consolidated total assets) of all asset types described in the instructions to lines 1, 2, and 3 of Schedule RC of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income with a standardized approach risk weight of 0 percent, regardless of maturity, plus 50 percent of those asset types described in the instructions to lines 1, 2, and 3 of Schedule RC of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income, with a standardized approach risk-weight greater than 0 and up to and including 20 percent, regardless of maturity, subject to the limitation that the daily or weekly average (depending on how the bank reports its average consolidated total assets) value of all assets that serve as the basis for a deduction under this section cannot exceed the daily or weekly average value of those deposits that are classified as transaction accounts in the instructions to Schedule RC-E of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income and that are identified by the institution as being directly linked to a fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping account asset.
(d)
Assessment base for insured branches of foreign banks.
Average consolidated total assets for an insured branch of a foreign bank are defined as total assets of the branch (including net due from related depository institutions) in accordance with the schedule of assets and liabilities in the Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks as of the assessment period for which the assessment is being calculated, but measured using the definition for reporting total assets in the schedule of quarterly averages in the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income, and calculated using the appropriate daily or weekly averaging method under paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. Tangible equity for an insured branch of a foreign bank is eligible assets (determined in accordance with § 347.210 of the FDIC's regulations) less the book value of liabilities (exclusive of liabilities due to the foreign bank's head office, other branches, agencies, offices, or wholly owned subsidiaries) calculated on a monthly or end-of-quarter basis, according to the branch's size.
(e)
Newly insured institutions.
A newly insured institution shall pay an assessment for the assessment period during which it became insured. The FDIC will prorate the newly insured institution's assessment amount to reflect the number of days it was insured during the period.
[76 FR 10704, Feb. 25, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 70437, Nov. 26, 2014]
§ 327.6
Mergers and consolidations; other terminations of insurance.
(a)
Final quarterly certified invoice for acquired institution.
An institution that is not the resulting or surviving institution in a merger or consolidation must file a report of condition for every assessment period prior to the assessment period in which the merger or consolidation occurs. The surviving
or resulting institution shall be responsible for ensuring that these reports of condition are filed and shall be liable for any unpaid assessments on the part of the institution that is not the resulting or surviving institution.
(b)
Assessment for quarter in which the merger or consolidation occurs.
For an assessment period in which a merger or consolidation occurs, consolidated total assets for the surviving or resulting institution shall include the consolidated total assets of all insured depository institutions that are parties to the merger or consolidation as if the merger or consolidation occurred on the first day of the assessment period. Tier 1 capital shall be reported in the same manner.
(c)
Other termination.
When the insured status of an institution is terminated, and the deposit liabilities of such institution are not assumed by another insured depository institution—
(1)
Payment of assessments; quarterly certified statement invoices.
The depository institution whose insured status is terminating shall continue to file and certify its quarterly certified statement invoice and pay assessments for the assessment period its deposits are insured. Such institution shall not be required to certify its quarterly certified statement invoice and pay further assessments after it has paid in full its deposit liabilities and the assessment to the Corporation required to be paid for the assessment period in which its deposit liabilities are paid in full, and after it, under applicable law, goes out of business or transfers all or substantially all of its assets and liabilities to other institutions or otherwise ceases to be obliged to pay subsequent assessments.
(2)
Payment of deposits; certification to Corporation.
When the deposit liabilities of the depository institution have been paid in full, the depository institution shall certify to the Corporation that the deposit liabilities have been paid in full and give the date of the final payment. When the depository institution has unclaimed deposits, the certification shall further state the amount of the unclaimed deposits and the disposition made of the funds to be held to meet the claims. For assessment purposes, the following will be considered as payment of the unclaimed deposits:
(i) The transfer of cash funds in an amount sufficient to pay the unclaimed and unpaid deposits to the public official authorized by law to receive the same; or
(ii) If no law provides for the transfer of funds to a public official, the transfer of cash funds or compensatory assets to an insured depository institution in an amount sufficient to pay the unclaimed and unpaid deposits in consideration for the assumption of the deposit obligations by the insured depository institution.
(3)
Notice to depositors.
(i) The depository institution whose insured status is terminating shall give sufficient advance notice of the intended transfer to the owners of the unclaimed deposits to enable the depositors to obtain their deposits prior to the transfer. The notice shall be mailed to each depositor and shall be published in a local newspaper of general circulation. The notice shall advise the depositors of the liquidation of the depository institution, request them to call for and accept payment of their deposits, and state the disposition to be made of their deposits if they fail to promptly claim the deposits.
(ii) If the unclaimed and unpaid deposits are disposed of as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, a certified copy of the public official's receipt issued for the funds shall be furnished to the Corporation.
(iii) If the unclaimed and unpaid deposits are disposed of as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, an affidavit of the publication and of the mailing of the notice to the depositors, together with a copy of the notice and a certified copy of the contract of assumption, shall be furnished to the Corporation.
(4)
Notice to Corporation.
The depository institution whose insured status is terminating shall advise the Corporation of the date on which it goes out of business or transfers all or substantially all of its assets and liabilities to other institutions or otherwise ceases to be obligated to pay subsequent assessments and the method whereby the termination has been effected.
(d)
Resumption of insured status before insurance of deposits ceases.
If a depository institution whose insured status has been terminated is permitted by the Corporation to continue or resume its status as an insured depository institution before the insurance of its deposits has ceased, the institution will be deemed, for assessment purposes, to continue as an insured depository institution and must thereafter file and certify its quarterly certified statement invoices and pay assessments as though its insured status had not been terminated. The procedure for applying for the continuance or resumption of insured status is set forth in § 303.248 of this chapter.
[76 FR 10706, Feb. 25, 2011]
§ 327.7
Payment of interest on assessment underpayments and overpayments.
(a)
Payment of interest
—(1)
Payment by institutions.
Each insured depository institution shall pay interest to the Corporation on any underpayment of the institution's assessment.
(2)
Payment by Corporation.
The Corporation will pay interest on any overpayment by the institution of its assessment.
(3)
Accrual of interest.
(i) Interest on an amount owed to or by the Corporation for the underpayment or overpayment of an assessment shall accrue interest at the relevant interest rate.
(ii) Interest on an amount specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section shall begin to accrue on the day following the regular payment date, as provided for in § 327.3(b)(2), for the amount so overpaid or underpaid, provided, however, that interest shall not begin to accrue on any overpayment until the day following the date such overpayment was received by the Corporation. Interest shall continue to accrue through the date on which the overpayment or underpayment (together with any interest thereon) is discharged.
(iii) The relevant interest rate shall be redetermined for each quarterly assessment interval. A quarterly assessment interval begins on the day following a regular payment date, as specified in § 327.3(b)(2), and ends on the immediately following regular payment date.
(b)
Interest rates.
(1) The relevant interest rate for a quarterly assessment interval that includes the month of January, April, July, and October, respectively, is the coupon equivalent yield of the average discount rate set on the 3-month Treasury bill at the last auction held by the United States Treasury Department during the preceding December, March, June, and September, respectively.
(2) The relevant interest rate for a quarterly assessment interval will apply to any amounts overpaid or underpaid on the payment date immediately prior to the beginning of the quarterly assessment interval. The relevant interest rate will also apply to any amounts owed for previous overpayments or underpayments (including any interest thereon) that remain outstanding, after any adjustments to such overpayments or underpayments have been made thereon, at the end of the regular payment date immediately prior to the beginning of the quarterly assessment interval. Interest will be compounded daily.
§ 327.8
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part 327:
(a)
Deposits.
The term
deposit
has the meaning specified in section 3(
l
) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
(b)
Quarterly report of condition.
The term
quarterly report of condition
means a report required to be filed pursuant to section 7(a)(3) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
(c)
Assessment period
—
In general.
The term
assessment period
means a period beginning on January 1 of any calendar year and ending on March 31 of the same year, or a period beginning on April 1 of any calendar year and ending on June 30 of the same year; or a period beginning on July 1 of any calendar year and ending on September 30 of the same year; or a period beginning on October 1 of any calendar year and ending on December 31 of the same year.
(d)
Acquiring institution.
The term
acquiring institution
means an insured depository institution that assumes some or all of the deposits of another insured depository institution in a terminating transfer.
(e)
Small institution.
(1) An insured depository institution with assets of less than $10 billion, excluding assets as described in § 327.17(e), as of December 31, 2006, and an insured branch of a foreign institution shall be classified as a small institution.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section and § 327.17(e), if, after December 31, 2006, an institution classified as large under paragraph (f) of this section (other than an institution classified as large for purposes of § 327.16(f)) reports assets of less than $10 billion in its quarterly reports of condition for four consecutive quarters, excluding assets as described in § 327.17(e), the FDIC will reclassify the institution as small beginning the following quarter.
(3) An insured depository institution that elects to use the community bank leverage ratio framework under 12 CFR 3.12(a)(3), 12 CFR 217.12(a)(3), or 12 CFR 324.12(a)(3), shall be classified as a small institution, even if that institution otherwise would be classified as a large institution under paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)
Large institution.
An institution classified as large for purposes of § 327.16(f) or an insured depository institution with assets of $10 billion or more, excluding assets as described in § 327.17(e), as of December 31, 2006 (other than an insured branch of a foreign bank or a highly complex institution) shall be classified as a large institution. If, after December 31, 2006, an institution classified as small under paragraph (e) of this section reports assets of $10 billion or more in its quarterly reports of condition for four consecutive quarters, excluding assets as described in § 327.17(e), the FDIC will reclassify the institution as large beginning the following quarter.
(g)
Highly complex institution.
(1) A highly complex institution is:
(i) An insured depository institution (excluding a credit card bank) that has had $50 billion or more in total assets for at least four consecutive quarters, excluding assets as described in § 327.17(e), that is controlled by a U.S. parent holding company that has had $500 billion or more in total assets for four consecutive quarters, or controlled by one or more intermediate U.S. parent holding companies that are controlled by a U.S. holding company that has had $500 billion or more in assets for four consecutive quarters; or
(ii) A processing bank or trust company.
(2) Control has the same meaning as in section 3(w)(5) of the FDI Act. A U.S. parent holding company is a parent holding company incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States or any State, as the term “State” is defined in section 3(a)(3) of the FDI Act. If, after December 31, 2010, an institution classified as highly complex under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section falls below $50 billion in total assets in its quarterly reports of condition for four consecutive quarters, or its parent holding company or companies fall below $500 billion in total assets for four consecutive quarters, the FDIC will reclassify the institution beginning the following quarter. If, after December 31, 2010, an institution classified as highly complex under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section falls below $10 billion in total assets for four consecutive quarters, the FDIC will reclassify the institution beginning the following quarter.
(h)
CAMELS composite and CAMELS component ratings.
The terms
CAMELS composite ratings
and
CAMELS component ratings
shall have the same meaning as in the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System as published by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council.
(i)
ROCA supervisory ratings.
ROCA supervisory ratings rate risk management, operational controls, compliance, and asset quality.
(j)
New depository institution.
A new insured depository institution is a bank or savings association that has been federally insured for less than five years as of the last day of any quarter for which it is being assessed.
(k)
Established depository institution.
An established insured depository institution is a bank or savings association that has been federally insured for at least five years as of the last day of any quarter for which it is being assessed.
(1)
Merger or consolidation involving new and established institution(s).
Subject to paragraphs (k)(2) through (5) of
this section and § 327.16(g)(3) and (4), when an established institution merges into or consolidates with a new institution, the resulting institution is a new institution unless:
(i) The assets of the established institution, as reported in its report of condition for the quarter ending immediately before the merger, exceeded the assets of the new institution, as reported in its report of condition for the quarter ending immediately before the merger; and
(ii) Substantially all of the management of the established institution continued as management of the resulting or surviving institution.
(2)
Consolidation involving established institutions.
When established institutions consolidate, the resulting institution is an established institution.
(3)
Grandfather exception.
If a new institution merges into an established institution, and the merger agreement was entered into on or before July 11, 2006, the resulting institution shall be deemed to be an established institution for purposes of this part.
(4)
Subsidiary exception.
Subject to paragraph (k)(5) of this section, a new institution will be considered established if it is a wholly owned subsidiary of:
(i) A company that is a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 or a savings and loan holding company under the Home Owners' Loan Act, and:
(A) At least one eligible depository institution (as defined in 12 CFR 303.2(r)) that is owned by the holding company has been chartered as a bank or savings association for at least five years as of the date that the otherwise new institution was established; and
(B) The holding company has a composite rating of at least “2” for bank holding companies or an above average or “A” rating for savings and loan holding companies and at least 75 percent of its insured depository institution assets are assets of eligible depository institutions, as defined in 12 CFR 303.2(r); or
(ii) An eligible depository institution, as defined in 12 CFR 303.2(r), that has been chartered as a bank or savings association for at least five years as of the date that the otherwise new institution was established.
(5)
Effect of credit union conversion.
In determining whether an insured depository institution is new or established, the FDIC will include any period of time that the institution was a federally insured credit union.
(l)
Risk assignment.
Under § 327.16, for all new small institutions and insured branches of foreign banks, risk assignment includes assignment to Risk Category I, II, III, or IV, and for insured branches of foreign banks within Risk Category I, assignment to an assessment rate or rates. For all established small institutions, and all large institutions and all highly complex institutions, risk assignment includes assignment to an assessment rate.
(m)
Unsecured debt.
For purposes of the unsecured debt adjustment as set forth in § 327.16(e)(1) and the depository institution debt adjustment as set forth in § 327.16(e)(2), unsecured debt shall include senior unsecured liabilities and subordinated debt.
(n)
Senior unsecured liability.
For purposes of the unsecured debt adjustment as set forth in § 327.16(e)(1) and the depository institution debt adjustment as set forth in § 327.16(e)(2), senior unsecured liabilities shall be the unsecured portion of other borrowed money as defined in the quarterly report of condition for the reporting period as defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(o)
Subordinated debt.
For purposes of the unsecured debt adjustment as set forth in § 327.16(e)(1) and the depository institution debt adjustment as set forth in § 327.16(e)(2), subordinated debt shall be as defined in the quarterly report of condition for the reporting period; however, subordinated debt shall also include limited-life preferred stock as defined in the quarterly report of condition for the reporting period.
(p)
Long-term unsecured debt.
For purposes of the unsecured debt adjustment as set forth in § 327.16(e)(1) and the depository institution debt adjustment as set forth in § 327.16(e)(2), long-term unsecured debt shall be unsecured debt with at least one year remaining until maturity; however, any such debt where the holder of the debt has a redemption option that is exercisable within one year of the reporting date
shall not be deemed long-term unsecured debt.
(q)
Brokered reciprocal deposits.
Reciprocal deposits as defined in § 337.6(e)(2)(v) that are not excepted from the institution's brokered deposits pursuant to § 337.6(e).
(r)
Parent holding company
—A parent holding company has the same meaning as “depository institution holding company,” as defined in § 3(w) of the FDI Act.
(s)
Processing bank or trust company.
A processing bank or trust company is an institution whose last three years' non-lending interest income, fiduciary revenues, and investment banking fees, combined, exceed 50 percent of total revenues (and its last three years fiduciary revenues are non-zero), and whose total fiduciary assets total $500 billion or more, and whose total assets for at least four consecutive quarters have been $10 billion or more.
(t)
Credit card bank.
A credit card bank is a bank for which credit card receivables plus securitized receivables exceed 50 percent of assets plus securitized receivables.
(u)
Control.
Control has the same meaning as in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 12 U.S.C. 1841(a)(2).
(v)
Established small institution.
An established small institution is a “small institution” as defined under paragraph (e) of this section that meets the definition of “established depository institution” under paragraph (k) of this section.
(w)
New small institution.
A new small institution is a “small institution” as defined under paragraph (e) of this section that meets the definition of “new depository institution” under paragraph (j) of this section.
(x)
Deposit Insurance Fund and DIF.
The Deposit Insurance Fund as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(y)(1).
(y)
Reserve ratio of the DIF.
The reserve ratio as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(y)(3).
(z)
Well capitalized, adequately capitalized, and undercapitalized.
For any insured depository institution other than an insured branch of a foreign bank, Well Capitalized, Adequately Capitalized, and Undercapitalized have the same meaning as in: 12 CFR 6.4 (for national banks and Federal savings associations), as either may be amended from time to time, except that 12 CFR 6.4(b)(1)(i)(E) and (e), as they may be amended from time to time, shall not apply; 12 CFR 208.43 (for state member institutions), as either may be amended from time to time, except that 12 CFR 208.43(b)(1)(i)(E) and (c), as they may be amended from time to time, shall not apply; and 12 CFR 324.403 (for state nonmember institutions and state savings associations), as either may be amended from time to time, except that 12 CFR 324.403(b)(1)(i)(E) and (d), as they may be amended from time to time, shall not apply.
[54 FR 51374, Dec. 15, 1989, as amended at 74 FR 9551, Mar. 4, 2009; 76 FR 10707, Feb. 25, 2011; 81 FR 32201, May 20, 2016; 83 FR 14568, Apr. 5, 2018; 84 FR 1353, Feb. 4, 2019; 84 FR 66838, Dec. 6, 2019; 85 FR 38292, June 26, 2020; 87 FR 64334, Oct. 24, 2022]
§ 327.9
[Reserved]
§ 327.10
Assessment rate schedules.
(a) Assessment rate schedules for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions applicable in the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent, and in all subsequent assessment periods through the assessment period ending December 31, 2022, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is less than 2 percent.
(1)
Initial base assessment rate schedule for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions.
In the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent, and for all subsequent assessment periods through the assessment period ending December 31, 2022, where the reserve ratio as of the end of the prior assessment period is less than 2 percent, the initial base assessment rate for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be the rate prescribed in the schedule in the following table:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)(1) Introductory Text—Initial Base Assessment Rate Schedule Beginning the First Assessment Period After June 30, 2016, Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Has Reached 1.15 Percent, and for All Subsequent Assessment Periods Through the Assessment Period Ending December 31, 2022, Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Is Less Than 2 Percent
1
Established small institutions
CAMELS composite
1 or 2
3
4 or 5
Large
highly complex
institutions
Initial Base Assessment Rate
3 to 16
6 to 30
16 to 30
3 to 30
1
All amounts are in basis points annually. Initial base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(i)
CAMELS composite 1- and 2-rated established small institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 1 or 2 shall range from 3 to 16 basis points.
(ii)
CAMELS composite 3-rated established small institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 3 shall range from 6 to 30 basis points.
(iii)
CAMELS composite 4- and 5-rated established small institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 4 or 5 shall range from 16 to 30 basis points.
(iv)
Large and highly complex institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all large and highly complex institutions shall range from 3 to 30 basis points.
(2)
Total base assessment rate schedule after adjustments.
In the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, that the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent, and for all subsequent assessment periods through the assessment period ending December 31, 2022, where the reserve ratio for the prior assessment period is less than 2 percent, the total base assessment rates after adjustments for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be as prescribed in the schedule in the following table:
Table 2 to Paragraph (
a
)(2) Introductory Text—Total Base Assessment Rate Schedule (After Adjustments)
1
Beginning the First Assessment Period, Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Has Reached 1.15 Percent, and for All Subsequent Assessment Periods Through the Assessment Period Ending December 31, 2022, Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Is Less Than 2 Percent
2
Established small institutions
CAMELS composite
1 or 2
3
4 or 5
Large
highly complex
institutions
Initial Base Assessment Rate
3 to 16
6 to 30
16 to 30
3 to 30
Unsecured Debt Adjustment
−5 to 0
−5 to 0
−5 to 0
−5 to 0
Brokered Deposit Adjustment
N/A
N/A
N/A
0 to 10
Total Base Assessment Rate
1.5 to 16
3 to 30
11 to 30
1.5 to 40
1
The depository institution debt adjustment, which is not included in the table, can increase total base assessment rates above the maximum assessment rates shown in the table.
2
All amounts are in basis points annually. Total base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(i)
CAMELS composite 1- and 2-rated established small institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 1 or 2 shall range from 1.5 to 16 basis points.
(ii)
CAMELS composite 3-rated established small institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 3 shall range from 3 to 30 basis points.
(iii)
CAMELS composite 4- and 5-rated established small institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 4 or 5 shall range from 11 to 30 basis points.
(iv)
Large and highly complex institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all large and highly complex institutions shall range from 1.5 to 40 basis points.
(b) Assessment rate schedules for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions beginning the first assessment period of 2023, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is less than 2 percent.
(1)
Initial base assessment rate schedule for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions.
Beginning the first assessment period of 2023, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is less than 2 percent, the initial base assessment rate for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be the rate prescribed in the schedule in the following table:
Table 3 to Paragraph (
b
)(1) Introductory Text—Initial Base Assessment Rate Schedule Beginning the First Assessment Period of 2023, Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Is Less Than 2 Percent
1
Established small institutions
CAMELS composite
1 or 2
3
4 or 5
Large
highly complex
institutions
Initial Base Assessment Rate
5 to 18
8 to 32
18 to 32
5 to 32
1
All amounts are in basis points annually. Initial base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(i)
CAMELS composite 1- and 2-rated established small institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 1 or 2 shall range from 5 to 18 basis points.
(ii)
CAMELS composite 3-rated established small institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 3 shall range from 8 to 32 basis points.
(iii)
CAMELS composite 4- and 5-rated established small institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 4 or 5 shall range from 18 to 32 basis points.
(iv)
Large and highly complex institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all large and highly complex institutions shall range from 5 to 32 basis points.
(2)
Total base assessment rate schedule after adjustments.
Beginning the first assessment period of 2023, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is less than 2 percent, the total base assessment rates after adjustments for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be as prescribed in the schedule in the following table:
Table 4 to Paragraph (
b
)(2) Introductory Text—Total Base Assessment Rate Schedule (After Adjustments)
1
Beginning the First Assessment Period of 2023, Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Is Less Than 2 Percent
2
Established small institutions
CAMELS composite
1 or 2
3
4 or 5
Large
Highly Complex Institutions
Initial Base Assessment Rate
5 to 18
8 to 32
18 to 32
5 to 32
Unsecured Debt Adjustment
−5 to 0
−5 to 0
−5 to 0
−5 to 0
Brokered Deposit Adjustment
N/A
N/A
N/A
0 to 10
Total Base Assessment Rate
2.5 to 18
4 to 32
13 to 32
2.5 to 42
1
The depository institution debt adjustment, which is not included in the table, can increase total base assessment rates above the maximum assessment rates shown in the table.
2
All amounts are in basis points annually. Total base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(i)
CAMELS composite 1- and 2-rated established small institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 1 or 2 shall range from 2.5 to 18 basis points.
(ii)
CAMELS composite 3-rated established small institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 3 shall range from 4 to 32 basis points.
(iii)
CAMELS composite 4- and 5-rated established small institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 4 or 5 shall range from 13 to 32 basis points.
(iv)
Large and highly complex institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all large and highly complex institutions shall range from 2.5 to 42 basis points.
(c)
Assessment rate schedules if the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is equal to or greater than 2 percent and less than 2.5 percent
—(1)
Initial base assessment rate schedule for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions.
If the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is equal to or greater than 2 percent and less than 2.5 percent, the initial base assessment rate for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be the rate prescribed in the following schedule:
Initial Base Assessment Rate Schedule if the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Is Equal to or Greater Than 2 Percent But Less Than 2.5 Percent
1
Established small institutions
CAMELS composite
1 or 2
3
4 or 5
Large
highly
complex
institutions
Initial Base Assessment Rate
2 to 14
5 to 28
14 to 28
2 to 28.
1
All amounts for all risk categories are in basis points annually. Initial base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(i)
CAMELS composite 1- and 2-rated established small institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 1 or 2 shall range from 2 to 14 basis points.
(ii)
CAMELS composite 3-rated established small institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 3 shall range from 5 to 28 basis points.
(iii)
CAMELS composite 4- and 5-rated established small institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 4 or 5 shall range from 14 to 28 basis points.
(iv)
Large and highly complex institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all large and highly complex institutions shall range from 2 to 28 basis points.
(2)
Total base assessment rate schedule after adjustments for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions.
If the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is equal to or greater than 2 percent and less than 2.5 percent, the total base assessment rates after adjustments for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be as prescribed in the following schedule:
Total Base Assessment Rate Schedule (After Adjustments)
1
If the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Is Equal To or Greater Than 2 Percent but Less Than 2.5 Percent
2
Established small institutions
CAMELS composite
1 or 2
3
4 or 5
Large
highly
complex
institutions
Initial Base Assessment Rate
2 to 14
5 to 28
14 to 28
2 to 28.
Unsecured Debt Adjustment
−5 to 0
−5 to 0
−5 to 0
−5 to 0.
Brokered Deposit Adjustment
N/A
N/A
N/A
0 to 10.
Total Base Assessment Rate
1 to 14
2.5 to 28
9 to 28
1 to 38.
1
The depository institution debt adjustment, which is not included in the table, can increase total base assessment rates above the maximum assessment rates shown in the table.
2
All amounts for all risk categories are in basis points annually. Total base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(i)
CAMELS composite 1- and 2-rated established small institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 1 or 2 shall range from 1 to 14 basis points.
(ii)
CAMELS composite 3-rated established small institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 3 shall range from 2.5 to 28 basis points.
(iii)
CAMELS composite 4- and 5-rated established small institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 4 or 5 shall range from 9 to 28 basis points.
(iv)
Large and highly complex institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all large and highly complex institutions shall range from 1 to 38 basis points.
(d)
Assessment rate schedules if the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is greater than 2.5 percent
—(1)
Initial base assessment rate schedule.
If the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is greater than 2.5 percent, the initial base assessment rate for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be the rate prescribed in the following schedule:
Initial Base Assessment Rate Schedule if the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Is Greater Than or Equal to 2.5 Percent
1
Established small institutions
CAMELS composite
1 or 2
3
4 or 5
Large
highly
complex
institutions
Initial Base Assessment Rate
1 to 13
4 to 25
13 to 25
1 to 25.
1
All amounts for all risk categories are in basis points annually. Initial base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(i)
CAMELS composite 1- and 2-rated established small institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 1 or 2 shall range from 1 to 13 basis points.
(ii)
CAMELS composite 3-rated established small institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 3 shall range from 4 to 25 basis points.
(iii)
CAMELS composite 4- and 5-rated established small institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 4 or 5 shall range from 13 to 25 basis points.
(iv)
Large and highly complex institutions initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all large and highly complex institutions shall range from 1 to 25 basis points.
(2)
Total base assessment rate schedule after adjustments.
If the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is greater than 2.5 percent, the total base assessment rates after adjustments for established small institutions and large and highly complex institutions, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be the rate prescribed in the following schedule:
Total Base Assessment Rate Schedule (After Adjustments)
1
If the Reserve Ratio as ofthe End of the Prior Assessment Period is Greater Than or Equal to 2.5 Percent
2
Established small institutions
CAMELS composite
1 or 2
3
4 or 5
Large
highly
complex
institutions
Initial Base Assessment Rate
1 to 13
4 to 25
13 to 25
1 to 25.
Unsecured Debt Adjustment
−5 to 0
−5 to 0
−5 to 0
−5 to 0.
Brokered Deposit Adjustment
N/A
N/A
N/A
0 to 10.
Total Base Assessment Rate
0.5 to 13
2 to 25
8 to 25
0.5 to 35.
1
The depository institution debt adjustment, which is not included in the table, can increase total base assessment rates above the maximum assessment rates shown in the table.
2
All amounts for all risk categories are in basis points annually. Total base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(i)
CAMELS composite 1- and 2-rated established small institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 1 or 2 shall range from 0.5 to 13 basis points.
(ii)
CAMELS composite 3-rated established small institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 3 shall range from 2 to 25 basis points.
(iii)
CAMELS composite 4- and 5-rated established small institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all established small institutions with a CAMELS composite rating of 4 or 5 shall range from 8 to 25 basis points.
(iv)
Large and highly complex institutions total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates
for all large and highly complex institutions shall range from 0.5 to 35 basis points.
(e)
Assessment rate schedules for new institutions and insured branches of foreign banks.
(1) New depository institutions, as defined in § 327.8(j), shall be subject to the assessment rate schedules as follows:
(i)
Assessment rate schedules for new large and highly complex institutions once the DIF reserve ratio first reaches 1.15 percent on or after June 30, 2016, and through the assessment period ending December 31, 2022.
In the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent, and for all subsequent assessment periods through the assessment period ending December 31, 2022, new large and new highly complex institutions shall be subject to the initial and total base assessment rate schedules provided for in paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii)
Assessment rate schedules for new large and highly complex institutions beginning the first assessment period of 2023 and for all subsequent periods.
Beginning in the first assessment period of 2023 and for all subsequent assessment periods, new large and new highly complex institutions shall be subject to the initial and total base assessment rate schedules provided for in paragraph (b) of this section.
(iii)
Assessment rate schedules for new small institutions beginning the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent, and for all subsequent assessment periods through the assessment period ending December 31, 2022
—(A)
Initial base assessment rate schedule for new small institutions.
In the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent, and for all subsequent assessment periods through the assessment period ending December 31, 2022, the initial base assessment rate for a new small institution shall be the rate prescribed in the schedule in the following table:
Table 9 to Paragraph
(e)(1)(iii)
(A) Introductory Text—Initial Base Assessment Rate Schedule Beginning the First Assessment Period, Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Has Reached 1.15 Percent, and for All Subsequent Assessment Periods Through the Assessment Period Ending December 31, 2022
1
Risk category I
Risk category II
Risk category III
Risk category IV
Initial Assessment Rate
7
12
19
30
1
All amounts for all risk categories are in basis points annually.
(
1
)
Risk category I initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all new small institutions in Risk Category I shall be 7 basis points.
(
2
)
Risk category II, III, and IV initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all new small institutions in Risk Categories II, III, and IV shall be 12, 19, and 30 basis points, respectively.
(B)
Total base assessment rate schedule for new small institutions.
In the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, that the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent, and for all subsequent assessment periods through the assessment period ending December 31, 2022, the total base assessment rates after adjustments for a new small institution shall be the rate prescribed in the schedule in the following table:
Table 10 to Paragraph
(e)(1)(iii)(B)
Introductory Text—Total Base Assessment Rate Schedule (After Adjustments)
1
Beginning the First Assessment Period After June 30, 2016, Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Has Reached 1.15 Percent, and for All Subsequent Assessment Periods Through the Assessment Period Ending December 31, 2022
2
Risk category I
Risk category II
Risk category III
Risk category IV
Initial Assessment Rate
7
12
19
30
Brokered Deposit Adjustment (added)
N/A
0 to 10
0 to 10
0 to 10
Total Base Assessment Rate
7
12 to 22
19 to 29
30 to 40
1
The depository institution debt adjustment, which is not included in the table, can increase total base assessment rates above the maximum assessment rates shown in the table.
2
All amounts for all risk categories are in basis points annually. Total base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(
1
)
Risk category I total assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all new small institutions in Risk Category I shall be 7 basis points.
(
2
)
Risk category II total assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all new small institutions in Risk Category II shall range from 12 to 22 basis points.
(
3
)
Risk category III total assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all new small institutions in Risk Category III shall range from 19 to 29 basis points.
(
4
)
Risk category IV total assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all new small institutions in Risk Category IV shall range from 30 to 40 basis points.
(iv)
Assessment rate schedules for new small institutions beginning the first assessment period of 2023 and for all subsequent assessment periods
—(A)
Initial base assessment rate schedule for new small institutions.
Beginning in the first assessment period of 2023 and for all subsequent assessment periods, the initial base assessment rate for a new small institution shall be the rate prescribed in the schedule in the following table, even if the reserve ratio equals or exceeds 2 percent or 2.5 percent:
Table 11 to Paragraph
(e)(1)(iv)(A)
Introductory Text—Initial Base Assessment Rate Schedule Beginning the First Assessment Period of 2023 and for All Subsequent Assessment Periods
1
Risk category I
Risk category II
Risk category III
Risk category IV
Initial Assessment Rate
9
14
21
32
1
All amounts for all risk categories are in basis points annually.
(
1
)
Risk category I initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all new small institutions in Risk Category I shall be 9 basis points.
(
2
)
Risk category II, III, and IV initial base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial base assessment rates for all new small institutions in Risk Categories II, III, and IV shall be 14, 21, and 32 basis points, respectively.
(B)
Total base assessment rate schedule for new small institutions.
Beginning in the first assessment period of 2023 and for all subsequent assessment periods, the total base assessment rates after adjustments for a new small institution shall be the rate prescribed in the schedule in the following table, even if the reserve ratio equals or exceeds 2 percent or 2.5 percent:
Table 12 to Paragraph
(e)(1)(iv)(B)
Introductory Text—Total Base Assessment Rate Schedule (After Adjustments)
1
Beginning the First Assessment Period of 2023 and for All Subsequent Assessment Periods
2
Risk category I
Risk category II
Risk category III
Risk category IV
Initial Assessment Rate
9
14
21
32
Brokered Deposit Adjustment (added)
N/A
0 to 10
0 to 10
0 to 10
Total Base Assessment Rate
9
14 to 24
21 to 31
32 to 42
1
The depository institution debt adjustment, which is not included in the table, can increase total base assessment rates above the maximum assessment rates shown in the table.
2
All amounts for all risk categories are in basis points annually. Total base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(
1
)
Risk category I total assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all new small institutions in Risk Category I shall be 9 basis points.
(
2
)
Risk category II total assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all new small institutions in Risk Category II shall range from 14 to 24 basis points.
(
3
)
Risk category III total assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all new small institutions in Risk Category III shall range from 21 to 31 basis points.
(
4
)
Risk category IV total assessment rate schedule.
The annual total base assessment rates for all new small institutions in Risk Category IV shall range from 32 to 42 basis points.
(2)
Insured branches of foreign banks
—(i)
Beginning the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent, and for all subsequent assessment periods through the assessment period ending December 31, 2022, where the reserve ratio as of the end of the prior assessment period is less than 2 percent.
In the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent, and for all subsequent assessment periods through the assessment period ending December 31, 2022, where the reserve ratio as of the end of the prior assessment period is less than 2 percent, the initial and total base assessment rates for an insured branch of a foreign bank, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be the rate prescribed in the schedule in the following table:
Table 13 to Paragraph
(e)(2)(i)
Introductory Text—Initial and Total Base Assessment Rate Schedule
1
Beginning the First Assessment Period After June 30, 2016, Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Has Reached 1.15 Percent, and for All Subsequent Assessment Periods Through the Assessment Period Ending December 31, 2022, Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Is Less Than 2 Percent
2
Risk category I
Risk category II
Risk category III
Risk category IV
Initial and Total Assessment Rate
3 to 7
12
19
30
1
The depository institution debt adjustment, which is not included in the table, can increase total base assessment rates above the maximum assessment rates shown in the table.
2
All amounts for all risk categories are in basis points annually. Initial and total base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(A)
Risk category I initial and total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial and total base assessment rates for an insured branch of a foreign bank in Risk Category I shall range from 3 to 7 basis points.
(B)
Risk category II, III, and IV initial and total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial and total base assessment rates for Risk Categories II, III, and IV shall be 12, 19, and 30 basis points, respectively.
(C) All insured branches of foreign banks in any one risk category, other than Risk Category I, will be charged
the same initial base assessment rate, subject to adjustment as appropriate.
(ii)
Assessment rate schedule for insured branches of foreign banks beginning the first assessment period of 2023, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is less than 2 percent.
Beginning the first assessment period of 2023, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is less than 2 percent, the initial and total base assessment rates for an insured branch of a foreign bank, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be the rate prescribed in the schedule in the following table:
Table 14 to Paragraph
(e)(2)(ii)
Introductory Text—Initial and Total Base Assessment Rate Schedule
1
Beginning the First Assessment Period of 2023, Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period is Less Than 2 Percent
2
Risk category I
Risk category II
Risk category III
Risk category IV
Initial and Total Assessment Rate
5 to 9
14
21
32
1
The depository institution debt adjustment, which is not included in the table, can increase total base assessment rates above the maximum assessment rates shown in the table.
2
All amounts for all risk categories are in basis points annually. Initial and total base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(A)
Risk category I initial and total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial and total base assessment rates for an insured branch of a foreign bank in Risk Category I shall range from 5 to 9 basis points.
(B)
Risk category II, III, and IV initial and total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial and total base assessment rates for Risk Categories II, III, and IV shall be 14, 21, and 32 basis points, respectively.
(C)
Same initial base assessment rate.
All insured branches of foreign banks in any one risk category, other than Risk Category I, will be charged the same initial base assessment rate, subject to adjustment as appropriate.
(iii)
Assessment rate schedule for insured branches of foreign banks if the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is equal to or greater than 2 percent and less than 2.5 percent.
If the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is equal to or greater than 2 percent and less than 2.5 percent, the initial and total base assessment rates for an insured branch of a foreign bank, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be the rate prescribed in the following schedule:
Initial and Total Base Assessment Rate Schedule
1
if the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period is Equal to or Greater Than 2 Percent but Less Than 2.5 Percent
2
Risk Category
I
Risk Category
II
Risk Category
III
Risk Category
IV
Initial and Total Assessment Rate
2 to 6
10
17
28
1
The depository institution debt adjustment, which is not included in the table, can increase total base assessment rates above the maximum assessment rates shown in the table.
2
All amounts for all risk categories are in basis points annually. Initial and total base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(A)
Risk category I initial and total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial and total base assessment rates for an insured branch of a foreign bank in Risk Category I shall range from 2 to 6 basis points.
(B)
Risk category II, III, and IV initial and total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial and total base assessment rates for Risk Categories II, III, and IV shall be 10, 17, and 28 basis points, respectively.
(C) All insured branches of foreign banks in any one risk category, other than Risk Category I, will be charged the same initial base assessment rate, subject to adjustment as appropriate.
(iv)
Assessment rate schedule for insured branches of foreign banks if the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is greater than 2.5 percent.
If the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period is greater than 2.5 percent, the initial and total base assessment rate for an insured branch of foreign bank, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be the rate prescribed in the following schedule:
Initial and Total Base Assessment Rate Schedule
1
If the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Is Greater Than or Equal to 2.5 Percent
2
Risk Category
I
Risk Category
II
Risk Category
III
Risk Category
IV
Initial Assessment Rate
1 to 5
9
15
25
1
The depository institution debt adjustment, which is not included in the table, can increase total base assessment rates above the maximum assessment rates shown in the table.
2
All amounts for all risk categories are in basis points annually. Initial and total base rates that are not the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates.
(A)
Risk category I initial and total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial and total base assessment rates for an insured branch of a foreign bank in Risk Category I shall range from 1 to 5 basis points.
(B)
Risk category II, III, and IV initial and total base assessment rate schedule.
The annual initial and total base assessment rates for Risk Categories II, III, and IV shall be 9, 15, and 25 basis points, respectively.
(C) All insured branches of foreign banks in any one risk category, other than Risk Category I, will be charged the same initial base assessment rate, subject to adjustment as appropriate.
(f)
Total base assessment rate schedule adjustments and procedures
—(1)
Board rate adjustments.
The Board may increase or decrease the total base assessment rate schedule in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section up to a maximum increase of 2 basis points or a fraction thereof or a maximum decrease of 2 basis points or a fraction thereof (after aggregating increases and decreases), as the Board deems necessary. Any such adjustment shall apply uniformly to each rate in the total base assessment rate schedule. In no case may such rate adjustments result in a total base assessment rate that is mathematically less than zero or in a total base assessment rate schedule that, at any time, is more than 2 basis points above or below the total base assessment schedule for the Deposit Insurance Fund in effect pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, nor may any one such adjustment constitute an increase or decrease of more than 2 basis points.
(2)
Amount of revenue.
In setting assessment rates, the Board shall take into consideration the following:
(i) Estimated operating expenses of the Deposit Insurance Fund;
(ii) Case resolution expenditures and income of the Deposit Insurance Fund;
(iii) The projected effects of assessments on the capital and earnings of the institutions paying assessments to the Deposit Insurance Fund;
(iv) The risk factors and other factors taken into account pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1817(b)(1); and
(v) Any other factors the Board may deem appropriate.
(3)
Adjustment procedure.
Any adjustment adopted by the Board pursuant to this paragraph (f) will be adopted by rulemaking, except that the Corporation may set assessment rates as necessary to manage the reserve ratio, within set parameters not exceeding cumulatively 2 basis points, pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, without further rulemaking.
(4)
Announcement.
The Board shall announce the assessment schedules and the amount and basis for any adjustment thereto not later than 30 days before the quarterly certified statement invoice date specified in § 327.3(b) for the first assessment period for which the adjustment shall be effective. Once set, rates will remain in effect until changed by the Board.
[76 FR 10717, Feb. 25, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 32201, May 20, 2016; 87 FR 64335, Oct. 24, 2022]
§ 327.11
Surcharges and assessments required to raise the reserve ratio of the DIF to 1.35 percent.
(a)
Surcharge
—(1)
Institutions subject to surcharge.
The following insured depository institutions are subject to the surcharge described in this paragraph:
(i) Large institutions, as defined in § 327.8(f);
(ii) Highly complex institutions, as defined in § 327.8(g); and
(iii) Insured branches of foreign banks whose assets are equal to or exceed $10 billion, as reported in Schedule RAL of the branch's most recent quarterly Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks.
(2)
Surcharge period.
The surcharge period shall begin the later of the first day of the assessment period following the assessment period in which the reserve ratio of the DIF first reaches or exceeds 1.15 percent, or the assessment period beginning on July 1, 2016. The surcharge period shall continue through the earlier of the assessment period ending December 31, 2018, or the end of the assessment period in which the reserve ratio of the DIF first reaches or exceeds 1.35 percent.
(3)
Notification of surcharge.
The FDIC shall notify each insured depository institution subject to the surcharge of the amount of such surcharge no later than 15 days before such surcharge is due, as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(4)
Payment of any surcharge.
Each insured depository institution subject to the surcharge shall pay to the Corporation any surcharge imposed under paragraph (a) of this section in compliance with and subject to the provisions of §§ 327.3, 327.6 and 327.7. The payment date for any surcharge shall be the date provided in § 327.3(b)(2) for the institution's quarterly certified statement invoice for the assessment period in which the surcharge was imposed.
(5)
Calculation of surcharge.
An insured depository institution's surcharge for each assessment period during the surcharge period shall be determined by multiplying 1.125 basis points times the institution's surcharge base for the assessment period.
(i)
Surcharge base—Insured depository institution that has no affiliated insured depository institution subject to the surcharge.
The surcharge base for an assessment period for an insured depository institution subject to the surcharge that has no affiliated insured depository institution subject to the surcharge shall equal:
(A) The institution's deposit insurance assessment base for the assessment period, determined according to § 327.5; plus
(B) The greater of the increase amount determined according to paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section or zero; minus
(C) $10 billion; provided, however, that an institution's surcharge base for an assessment period cannot be negative.
(ii)
Surcharge base—insured depository institution that has one or more affiliated insured depository institutions subject to the surcharge.
The surcharge base for an assessment period for an insured depository institution subject to the surcharge that has one or more affiliated insured depository institutions subject to the surcharge shall equal:
(A) The institution's deposit insurance assessment base for the assessment period, determined according to § 327.5; plus
(B) The greater of the institution's portion, determined according to paragraph (a)(5)(v) of this section, of the increase amount determined according to paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section or zero; minus
(C) The institution's portion, determined according to paragraph (a)(5)(v) of this section, of $10 billion; provided, however, that an institution's surcharge base for an assessment period cannot be negative.
(iii)
Surcharge base—determination of increase amount.
The increase amount for an assessment period shall equal:
(A) The amount of the aggregate deposit insurance assessment bases for the assessment period, determined according to § 327.5, of all of the institution's affiliated insured depository institutions that are not subject to the surcharge, minus
(B) The product of the increase multiplier set out in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section and the aggregate deposit
insurance assessment bases, determined according to § 327.5, as of December 31, 2015, of all of the small institutions, as defined in § 327.8(e), that were the institution's affiliated insured depository institutions for the assessment period ending December 31, 2015.
(iv)
Increase multiplier for the assessment periods during the surcharge period.
During the surcharge period, the increase multiplier shall be the amount prescribed in the following schedule:
Increase Multipliers for the Assessment Periods During the Surcharge Period
For the assessment period ending—
September 30, 2016
1.0740995
December 31, 2016
1.1000000
March 31, 2017
1.1265251
June 30, 2017
1.1536897
September 30, 2017
1.1815094
December 31, 2017
1.2100000
March 31, 2018
1.2391776
June 30, 2018
1.2690587
September 30, 2018
1.2996604
December 31, 2018
1.3310000
(A) For the assessment period ending September 30, 2016, the increase multiplier shall be 1.0740995.
(B) For the assessment period ending December 31, 2016, the increase multiplier shall be 1.1000000.
(C) For the assessment period ending March 31, 2017, the increase multiplier shall be 1.1265251.
(D) For the assessment period ending June 30, 2017, the increase multiplier shall be 1.1536897.
(E) For the assessment period ending September 30, 2017, the increase multiplier shall be 1.1815094.
(F) For the assessment period ending December 31, 2017, the increase multiplier shall be 1.2100000.
(G) For the assessment period ending March 31, 2018, the increase multiplier shall be 1.2391776.
(H) For the assessment period ending June 30, 2018, the increase multiplier shall be 1.2690587.
(I) For the assessment period ending September 30, 2018, the increase multiplier shall be 1.2996604.
(J) For the assessment period ending December 31, 2018, the increase multiplier shall be 1.33100000.
(v)
Surcharge base—institution's portion.
For purposes of paragraphs (a)(5)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section, an institution's portion shall equal the ratio of the institution's deposit insurance assessment base for the assessment period, determined according to § 327.5, to the sum of the institution's deposit insurance assessment base for the assessment period, determined according to § 327.5, and the deposit insurance assessment bases for the assessment period, determined according to § 327.5, of all of the institution's affiliated insured depository institutions subject to the surcharge.
(vi) For the purposes of this section, an affiliated insured depository institution is an insured depository institution that meets the definition of “affiliate” in section 3 of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(w)(6).
(6)
Effect of mergers and consolidations on surcharge base.
(i) If an insured depository institution acquires another insured depository institution through merger or consolidation during the surcharge period, the acquirer's surcharge base will be calculated consistent with § 327.6 and § 327.11(a)(5). For the purposes of the surcharge, a merger or consolidation means any transaction in which an insured depository institution merges or consolidates with any other insured depository institution, and includes transactions in which an insured depository institution either directly or indirectly acquires all or substantially all of the assets, or assumes all or substantially all of the deposit liabilities of any other insured depository institution where there is not a legal merger or consolidation of the two insured depository institutions.
(ii) If an insured depository institution not subject to the surcharge is the surviving or resulting institution in a merger or consolidation with an insured depository institution that is subject to the surcharge or acquires all or substantially all of the assets, or assumes all or substantially all of the deposit liabilities, of an insured depository institution subject to the surcharge, then the surviving or resulting insured deposit institution or the insured depository institution that acquires such assets or assumes such deposit liabilities is subject to the surcharge.
(b)
Shortfall assessment
—(1)
Institutions subject to shortfall assessment.
Any
insured depository institution that was subject to a surcharge under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, in any assessment period during the surcharge period described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall be subject to the shortfall assessment described in this paragraph (b). If surcharges under paragraph (a) of this section have not been in effect, the insured depository institutions subject to the shortfall assessment described in this paragraph (b) will be the insured depository institutions described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section as of the assessment period in which the reserve ratio of the DIF reaches or exceeds 1.15 percent.
(2)
Notification of shortfall.
The FDIC shall notify each insured depository institution subject to the shortfall assessment of the amount of such institution's share of the shortfall assessment described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section no later than 15 days before such shortfall assessment is due, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3)
Payment of any shortfall assessment.
Each insured depository institution subject to the shortfall assessment shall pay to the Corporation such institution's share of any shortfall assessment as described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section in compliance with and subject to the provisions of §§ 327.3, 327.6 and 327.7. The payment date for any shortfall assessment shall be the date provided in § 327.3(b)(2) for the institution's quarterly certified statement invoice for the assessment period in which the shortfall assessment is imposed.
(4)
Amount of aggregate shortfall assessment.
(i) If the reserve ratio of the DIF is at least 1.15 percent but has not reached or exceeded 1.35 percent as of December 31, 2018, the shortfall assessment shall be imposed on March 31, 2019, and shall equal 1.35 percent of estimated insured deposits as of December 31, 2018, minus the actual DIF balance as of that date.
(ii) If the reserve ratio of the DIF is less than 1.15 percent and has not reached or exceeded 1.35 percent by December 31, 2018, the shortfall assessment shall be imposed at the end of the assessment period immediately following the assessment period that occurs after December 31, 2018, during which the reserve ratio first reaches or exceeds 1.15 percent and shall equal 0.2 percent of estimated insured deposits as of the end of the calendar quarter in which the reserve ratio first reaches or exceeds 1.15 percent.
(5)
Institutions' shares of aggregate shortfall assessment.
Each insured depository institution's share of the aggregate shortfall assessment shall be determined by apportioning the aggregate amount of the shortfall assessment among all institutions subject to the shortfall assessment in proportion to each institution's shortfall assessment base as described in this paragraph.
(i)
Shortfall assessment base if surcharges have been in effect.
If surcharges have been in effect, an institution's shortfall assessment base shall equal the average of the institution's surcharge bases during the surcharge period. For purposes of determining the average surcharge base, if an institution was not subject to the surcharge during any assessment period of the surcharge period, its surcharge base shall equal zero for that assessment period.
(ii)
Shortfall assessment base if surcharges have not been in effect.
If surcharges have not been in effect, an institution's shortfall assessment base shall equal the average of what its surcharge bases would have been over the four assessment periods ending with the assessment period in which the reserve ratio first reaches or exceeds 1.15 percent. If an institution would not have been subject to a surcharge during one of those assessment periods, its surcharge base shall equal zero for that assessment period.
(6)
Effect of mergers and consolidations on shortfall assessment.
(i) If an insured depository institution, through merger or consolidation, acquires another insured depository institution that paid surcharges for one or more assessment periods, the acquirer will be subject to a shortfall assessment and its average surcharge base will be increased by the average surcharge base of the acquired institution, consistent with paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(ii) For the purposes of the shortfall assessment, a merger or consolidation
means any transaction in which an insured depository institution merges or consolidates with any other insured depository institution, and includes transactions in which an insured depository institution either directly or indirectly acquires all or substantially all of the assets, or assumes all or substantially all of the deposit liabilities of any other insured depository institution where there is not a legal merger or consolidation of the two insured depository institutions.
(c)
Assessment credits.
(1)(i)
Eligible Institutions.
For the purposes of this paragraph (c) an insured depository institution will be considered an eligible institution, if, for at least one assessment period during the credit calculation period, the institution was a credit accruing institution.
(ii)
Credit accruing institutions.
A credit accruing institution is an institution that, for a particular assessment period, is not:
(A) A large institution, as defined in § 327.8(f);
(B) A highly complex institution, as defined in § 327.8(g); or
(C) An insured branch of a foreign bank whose assets are equal to or exceed $10 billion, as reported in Schedule RAL of the branch's most recent quarterly Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks.
(2)
Credit calculation period.
The credit calculation period shall begin the first day of the assessment period after the reserve ratio of the DIF reaches or exceeds 1.15 percent, and shall continue through the earlier of the assessment period that the reserve ratio of the DIF reaches or exceeds 1.35 percent or the assessment period that ends December 31, 2018.
(3)
Determination of aggregate assessment credit awards to all eligible institutions.
The FDIC shall award an aggregate amount of assessment credits equal to the product of the
fraction of quarterly regular deposit insurance assessments paid by credit accruing institutions
during the credit calculation period and the amount by which the
DIF increase,
as determined under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section, exceeds total surcharges imposed under paragraph (b) of this section; provided, however, that the aggregate amount of assessment credits cannot exceed the aggregate amount of quarterly deposit insurance assessments paid by credit accruing institutions during the credit calculation period.
(i)
Fraction of quarterly regular deposit insurance assessments paid by credit accruing institutions.
The fraction of assessments paid by credit accruing institutions shall equal quarterly deposit insurance assessments, as determined under § 327.16, paid by such institutions for each assessment period during the credit calculation period, divided by the total amount of quarterly deposit insurance assessments paid by all insured depository institutions during the credit calculation period, excluding the aggregate amount of surcharges imposed under paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii)
DIF increase if the DIF reserve ratio has reached 1.35 percent by December 31, 2018.
If the DIF reserve ratio has reached 1.35 percent by December 31, 2018, the DIF increase shall equal 0.2 percent of estimated insured deposits as of the date that the DIF reserve ratio first reaches or exceeds 1.35 percent.
(iii)
DIF Increase if the DIF reserve ratio has not reached 1.35 percent by December 31, 2018.
If the DIF reserve ratio has not reached 1.35 percent by December 31, 2018, the DIF increase shall equal the DIF balance on December 31, 2018, minus 1.15 percent of estimated insured deposits on that date.
(4)
Determination of individual eligible institutions' shares of aggregate assessment Credit
—(i)
Assessment credit share.
To determine an eligible institution's assessment credit share, the aggregate assessment credits awarded by the FDIC shall be apportioned among all eligible institutions in proportion to their respective assessment credit bases, as described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Assessment credit base.
An eligible institution's assessment credit base shall equal the average of its quarterly deposit insurance assessment bases, as determined under § 327.5, during the credit calculation period, as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. An eligible institution's credit base shall be
deemed to equal zero for any assessment period during which the institution was not a credit accruing institution.
(iii)
Limitation.
The assessment credits awarded to an eligible institution shall not exceed the total amount of quarterly deposit insurance assessments paid by that institution for assessment periods during the credit calculation period in which it was a credit accruing institution.
(5)
Effect of merger or consolidation on assessment credit base.
If an eligible institution acquires another eligible institution through merger or consolidation before the reserve ratio of the DIF reaches 1.35 percent, the acquirer's quarterly deposit insurance assessment base (for purposes of calculating the acquirer's assessment credit base) shall be deemed to include the acquired institution's deposit insurance assessment base for the assessment periods during the credit calculation period that were prior to the merger or consolidation and in which the acquired institution was a credit accruing institution.
(6)
Effect of call report amendments.
Amendments to the quarterly Reports of Condition and Income or the quarterly Reports of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks that occur subsequent to the payment date for the final assessment period of the credit calculation period shall not affect an eligible institution's credit share.
(7)
Award and notice of assessment credits
—(i)
Award of assessment credits.
As soon as practicable after the earlier of either December 31, 2018, or the date on which the reserve ratio of the DIF reaches 1.35 percent, the FDIC shall notify an eligible institution of the FDIC's preliminary estimate of such institution's assessment credits and the manner in which the FDIC calculated such credits.
(ii)
Notice of assessment credits.
The FDIC shall provide eligible institutions with periodic updated notices reflecting adjustments to the institution's assessment credits resulting from requests for review or appeals, mergers or consolidations, or the FDIC's application of credits to an institution's quarterly deposit insurance assessments.
(8)
Requests for review and appeal of assessment credits.
Any institution that disagrees with the FDIC's computation of or basis for its assessment credits, as determined under this paragraph (c), may request review of the FDIC's determination or appeal that determination. Such requests for review or appeal shall be filed pursuant to the procedures set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(9)
Successors.
If an insured depository institution acquires an eligible institution through merger or consolidation after the reserve ratio of the DIF reaches 1.35 percent, the acquirer is successor to any assessment credits of the acquired institution.
(10)
Mergers and consolidation include only legal mergers and consolidation.
For the purposes of this paragraph (c), a merger or consolidation does not include transactions in which an insured depository institution either directly or indirectly acquires the assets of, or assumes liability to pay any deposits made in, any other insured depository institution, but there is not a legal merger or consolidation of the two insured depository institutions.
(11)
Use of credits.
(i) Effective as of July 1, 2019, the FDIC will apply assessment credits awarded under this paragraph (c) to an institution's deposit insurance assessments, as calculated under this part 327, beginning in the first assessment period in which the reserve ratio of the DIF is at least 1.38 percent, and in each assessment period thereafter in which the reserve ratio of the DIF is at least 1.35 percent, for no more than three additional assessment periods.
(ii) The FDIC shall apply assessment credits to reduce an institution's quarterly deposit insurance assessments by each institution's remaining credits. The assessment credit applied to each institution's deposit insurance assessment for any assessment period shall not exceed the institution's total deposit insurance assessment for that assessment period.
(12)
Transfer or sale of credits.
Other than through merger or consolidation, credits may not be sold or transferred.
(13)
Remittance of credits.
After assessment credits awarded under this paragraph (c) have been applied for four assessment periods, the FDIC will remit the full nominal value of an institution's remaining assessment credits in a single lump-sum payment to such institution in the next assessment period in which the reserve ratio is at least 1.35 percent.
(d)
Request for review and appeals of assessment credits.
(1) An institution that disagrees with the basis for its assessment credits, or the Corporation's computation of its assessments credits under paragraph (c) of this section and seeks to change it must submit a written request for review and any supporting documentation to the FDIC's Director of the Division of Finance.
(2)
Timing.
(i) Any request for review under this paragraph must be submitted within 30 days from
(A) The initial notice provided by the FDIC to the insured depository institution under paragraph (c)(7) of this section stating the FDIC's preliminary estimate of an eligible institution's assessment credit and the manner in which the assessment credit was calculated; or
(B) Any updated notice provided by the FDIC to the insured depository institution under paragraph (c)(7) of this section.
(ii) Any requests submitted after the deadline in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section will be considered untimely filed and the institution will be subsequently barred from submitting a request for review of its assessment credit.
(3)
Process of review.
(i) Upon receipt of a request for review, the FDIC shall temporarily freeze the amount of the assessment credit being reviewed until a final determination is made by the Corporation.
(ii) The FDIC may request, as part of its review, additional information from the insured depository institution involved in the request and any such information must be submitted to the FDIC within 21 days of the FDIC's request;
(iii) The FDIC's Director of the Division of Finance, or his or her designee, will notify the requesting institution of his or her determination of whether a change is warranted within 60 days of receipt by the FDIC of the request for review, or if additional information had been requested from the FDIC, within 60 days of receipt of any such additional information.
(4)
Appeal.
If the requesting institution disagrees with the final determination from the Director of the Division of Finance, that institution may appeal its assessment credit determination to the FDIC's Assessment Appeals Committee within 30 days from the date of the Director's written determination. Notice of the procedures applicable to an appeal before the Assessment Appeals Committee will be included in the Director's written determination.
(5)
Adjustments to assessment credits.
Once the Director of the Division of Finance, or the Assessment Appeals Committee, as appropriate, has notified the requesting bank of its final determination, the FDIC will make appropriate adjustments to assessment credit amounts consistent with that determination. Adjustments to an insured depository institution's assessment credit amounts will not be applied retroactively to reduce or increase the quarterly deposit insurance assessment for a prior assessment period.
[81 FR 16069, Mar. 25, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 14568, Apr. 5, 2018; 84 FR 65275, Nov. 27, 2019; 87 FR 64339, Oct. 24, 2022]
§ 327.12
Prepayment of quarterly risk-based assessments.
(a)
Requirement to prepay assessment.
On December 30, 2009, each insured depository institution shall pay to the FDIC a prepaid assessment, which shall equal its estimated quarterly risk-based assessments aggregated for the fourth quarter of 2009, and all of 2010, 2011, and 2012 (the “prepayment period”).
(b)
Calculation of prepaid assessment
—(1)
Prepaid assessment
—(i)
Fourth quarter 2009 and all of 2010.
An institution's prepaid assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010 shall be determined by multiplying its prepaid assessment rate as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section times the corresponding prepaid assessment base for each quarter as determined pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(ii)
All of 2011 and 2012.
An institution's prepaid assessment for each quarter of 2011 and 2012 shall be determined by multiplying the sum of its prepaid assessment rate as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, plus .75 basis points (which implements the 3 basis point increase in annual assessment rates adopted by the Board on September 29, 2009), times the corresponding prepaid assessment base for each quarter determined pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2)
Prepaid assessment rate.
For each quarter of the prepayment period, an institution's prepaid assessment rate shall equal the total base assessment rate that the institution would have paid for the third quarter of 2009 had the institution's CAMELS ratings in effect on September 30, 2009, and, where applicable, long-term debt issuer ratings in effect on September 30, 2009, been in effect for the entire third quarter of 2009.
(3)
Prepaid assessment base.
For each quarter of the prepayment period, an institution's prepaid assessment base shall be calculated by increasing its third quarter 2009 assessment base at an annual rate of 5 percent.
(4)
Finality of prepaid assessment.
The prepaid assessment rate and prepaid assessment base defined in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section shall be determined based upon data in the FDIC's computer systems as of December 24, 2009. Changes to data underlying an institution's adjusted total base assessment rate or assessment base, whether by amendment to a report of condition or otherwise, received by the FDIC after December 24, 2009, shall not affect an institution's prepaid assessment.
(5)
Prepaid assessment rates for mergers and consolidations.
For mergers and consolidations recorded in the FDIC's computer systems no later than December 24, 2009, the acquired institution's prepaid assessment rate under paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be the prepaid assessment rate of the acquiring institution.
(c)
Invoicing of prepaid assessment.
The FDIC shall advise each insured depository institution of the amount and calculation of its prepaid assessment at the same time the FDIC provides the institution's quarterly certified statement invoice for the third quarter of 2009. The FDIC will re-invoice through FDICconnect based upon any data changes as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(d)
Payment of prepaid assessment.
Each insured depository institution shall pay to the Corporation the amount of its prepaid assessment as required under paragraph (a) of this section in compliance with and subject to the provisions of §§ 327.3 and 327.7 of subpart A.
(1)
Exception to ACH payment.
If an institution's prepaid assessment is greater than $99 million, the institution shall make payment by wire transfer to the FDIC, rather than by funding its designated deposit account for payment via ACH as provided in § 327.3 of subpart A.
(2)
One-time assessment credits.
The FDIC will not apply an institution's one-time assessment credit under subpart B of this part 327 to reduce an institution's prepaid assessment. The FDIC will apply an institution's remaining one-time assessment credits under Part 327 subpart B to its quarterly deposit insurance assessments before applying its prepaid assessments.
(e)
Use of prepaid assessments.
Prepaid assessments shall only be used to offset regular quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessments payable under this subpart A. The FDIC will begin offsetting regular quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessments against prepaid assessments on March 30, 2010. The FDIC will continue to make such offsets until the earlier of the exhaustion of the institution's prepaid assessment or June 30, 2013. Any prepaid assessment remaining after collection of the amount due on June 30, 2013, shall be returned to the institution. If the FDIC, in its discretion, determines that its liquidity needs allow, it may return any remaining prepaid assessment to the institution prior to June 30, 2013.
(f)
Transfers.
An insured depository institution may enter into an agreement to transfer, but not pledge, any portion of that institution's prepaid assessment to another insured depository institution, provided that the parties
to the agreement notify the FDIC's Division of Finance and submit a written agreement, signed by legal representatives of both institutions. The parties must include documentation stating that each representative has the legal authority to bind the institution. The institution transferring its prepaid assessment shall submit the required notice and documentation through FDIC
connect.
That information will be presented by the FDIC through FDIC
connect
to the institution acquiring the prepaid assessments for its acceptance. The adjustment to the amount of the prepaid assessment for each institution involved in the transfer will be made in the next assessment invoice that is sent at least 10 days after the FDIC's receipt of acceptance by the institution acquiring the prepaid assessments.
(g)
Prepaid assessments following a merger.
In the event that an insured depository institution merges with, or consolidates into, another insured depository institution, the surviving or resulting institution will be entitled to use any unused portion of the acquired institution's prepaid assessment not otherwise transferred pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section.
(h)
Disposition in the event of failure or termination of insured status.
In the event of failure of an insured depository institution, any amount of its prepaid assessment remaining (other than any amounts needed to satisfy its assessment obligations not yet offset against the prepaid amount) will be refunded to the institution's receiver. In the event that an insured depository institution's insured status terminates, any amount of its prepaid assessment remaining (other than any amounts needed to satisfy its assessment obligations not yet offset against the prepaid amount) will be refunded to the institution, subject to the provisions of § 327.6 of subpart A.
(i)
Exemptions
—(1)
Exemption without application.
The FDIC, after consultation with an institution's primary federal regulator, will exercise its discretion as supervisor and insurer to exempt an institution from the prepayment requirement under paragraph (a) of this section if the FDIC determines that the prepayment would adversely affect the safety and soundness of that institution. No application is required for this review and the FDIC will notify any affected institution of its exemption by November 23, 2009.
(2)
Application for exemption.
An institution may also apply to the FDIC for an exemption from the prepayment requirement under paragraph (a) of this section if the prepayment would significantly impair the institution's liquidity, or would otherwise create extraordinary hardship. Written applications for exemption from the prepayment obligation must be submitted to the Director of the Division of Supervision and Consumer Protection on or before December 1, 2009, by electronic mail (
prepaidassessment@fdic.gov
) or fax (202-898-6676). The application must contain a full explanation of the need for the exemption and provide supporting documentation, including current financial statements, cash flow projections, and any other relevant information, including any information the FDIC may request. The FDIC will exercise its discretion in deciding whether to exempt an institution that files an application for exemption. An application shall be deemed denied unless the FDIC notifies an applying institution by December 15, 2009, either that the institution is exempt from the prepaid assessment or the FDIC has postponed determination under paragraph (i)(4) of this section. The FDIC's denial of applications for exemption will be final and not subject to further agency review.
(3)
Application for withdrawal of exemption.
An institution that has received an exemption under paragraph (i)(1) of this section may request that the FDIC withdraw the exemption. Written applications for withdrawal of exemption must be submitted to the Director of the Division of Supervision and Consumer Protection on or before December 1, 2009, by electronic mail (
prepaidassessment@fdic.gov
) or fax (202-898-6676). The application must contain a full explanation of the reasons the exemption is not needed and provide supporting documentation, including current financial statements, cash flow projections, and any other relevant information, including any information the FDIC may request. The FDIC, after
consultation with the institution's primary Federal regulator, will exercise its discretion in deciding whether to withdraw the exemption. The FDIC will notify an institution of its decision to withdraw the exemption by December 15, 2009; that determination will be final and not subject to further agency review. An application shall be deemed denied unless the FDIC notifies an applying institution by December 15, 2009, that the exemption is withdrawn.
(4)
Postponement of determination.
The FDIC may postpone making a determination on any application for exemption filed under paragraph (i)(2) of this section until no later than January 14, 2010. An institution notified by the FDIC of such postponement will not have to pay the prepaid assessment calculated under paragraph (b) of this section on December 30, 2009. If the FDIC denies the application for exemption, the FDIC will notify the institution of the denial and of the date by which the institution must pay the prepaid assessment. The due date for payment of the prepaid assessment after such a denial will be no less than 15 days after the date of the notice of denial.
(5)
Obligation to pay third quarter 2009 assessment.
Any institution exempted from the prepayment requirement or any institution whose application for exemption has been postponed under this section shall pay to the Corporation on December 30, 2009, any amount due for the third quarter of 2009 as shown on the certified statement invoice for that quarter.
[74 FR 59065, Nov. 17, 2009]
§ 327.13
Special Assessment Pursuant to March 12, 2023, Systemic Risk Determination.
(a)
Special Assessment.
A special assessment shall be imposed on each insured depository institution to recover losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, resulting from the March 12, 2023, systemic risk determination pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1823(c)(4)(G). The special assessment shall be collected from each insured depository institution on a quarterly basis as described in this section during the initial special assessment period as defined in paragraph (i) of this section and, if necessary, the extended special assessment period as defined in paragraph (j) of this section, and if further necessary, on a one-time basis as described in paragraph (m) of this section.
(b)
Losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund.
As used in this section, “losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund” refers to losses incurred by the Deposit Insurance Fund resulting from actions taken by the FDIC under the March 12, 2023, systemic risk determination, as may be revised from time to time.
(c)
Calculation of quarterly special assessment amount.
An insured depository institution's special assessment for each quarter during the initial special assessment period and extended special assessment period shall be calculated by multiplying the special assessment rate defined in paragraph (i)(2) or (j)(3) of this section, as appropriate, by the institution's special assessment base as defined in paragraph (i)(3) or (j)(4) of this section, as appropriate.
(d)
Invoicing of special assessment.
For each assessment period in which the special assessment is imposed, the FDIC shall advise each insured depository institution of the amount and calculation of any special assessment payment due in a form that notifies the institution of the special assessment base and special assessment rate exclusive of any other assessments imposed under this part. The FDIC shall also advise each insured depository institution subject to the special assessment of any revisions, if any, to losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund as defined in paragraph (b) of this section. This information shall be provided at the same time as the institution's quarterly certified statement invoice under § 327.2 for the assessment period in which the special assessment was imposed.
(e)
Payment of quarterly special assessment amount.
Each insured depository institution shall pay to the Corporation any special assessment imposed under this section in compliance with and subject to the provisions of §§ 327.3, 327.6, and 327.7. The date for any special assessment payment shall be the date
provided in § 327.3(b)(2) for the institution's quarterly certified statement invoice for the calendar quarter in which the special assessment was imposed.
(f)
Uninsured deposits.
For purposes of this section, the term “uninsured deposits” means an institution's estimated uninsured deposits as reported in Memoranda Item 2 on Schedule RC-O, Other Data For Deposit Insurance Assessments in the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Report) or Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks (FFIEC 002) for the quarter ended December 31, 2022, reported as of the later of:
(1) November 2, 2023, adjusted for mergers prior to March 12, 2023; or
(2) The date of the institution's most recent amendment to its Call Report or FFIEC 002 for the quarter ended December 31, 2022, if such amendment arises from, or is confirmed through, the FDIC's Assessment Reporting Review. Institutions with less than $1 billion in total assets as of June 30, 2021, were not required to report such items; therefore, for purposes of calculating the special assessment or a shortfall special assessment under this section, the amount of uninsured deposits for such institutions as of December 31, 2022, is zero.
(g)
$5 billion deduction from the special assessment base—institution's portion.
For purposes of this section, an institution's portion of the $5 billion deduction shall equal the ratio of the institution's uninsured deposits to the sum of the institution's uninsured deposits and the uninsured deposits of all of the institution's affiliated insured depository institutions, multiplied by $5 billion.
(h)
Affiliates.
For the purposes of this section, an affiliated insured depository institution is an insured depository institution that meets the definition of “affiliate” in section 3 of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(w)(6).
(i)
Special assessment during initial special assessment period
—(1)
Initial special assessment period.
The initial special assessment period shall begin with the first quarterly assessment period of 2024 and end the earlier of the last quarterly assessment period of 2025 or the first quarterly assessment period that the aggregate amount of special assessments collected under this section meets or exceeds the losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund, where amounts collected and losses are compared on a quarterly basis.
(2)
Special assessment rate during initial special assessment period.
The special assessment rate during the initial special assessment period is 3.36 basis points on a quarterly basis.
(3)
Special assessment base during initial special assessment period
—(i) The special assessment base for an insured depository institution during the initial special assessment period that has no affiliated insured depository institution shall equal:
(A) The institution's uninsured deposits; minus
(B) $5 billion; provided, however, that an institution's assessment base cannot be negative.
(ii) The special assessment base for an insured depository institution during the initial special assessment period that has one or more affiliated insured depository institutions shall equal:
(A) The institution's uninsured deposits; minus
(B) The institution's portion of the $5 billion deduction; provided, however, that an institution's special assessment base cannot be negative.
(j)
Special assessment during extended special assessment period
—(1)
Shortfall amount.
The shortfall amount is the amount of losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund, as reviewed and revised as of the last quarterly assessment period of 2025, that exceed the aggregate amount of special assessments collected during the initial special assessment period.
(2)
Extended special assessment period.
If there is a shortfall amount after the last quarterly assessment period of 2025, the special assessment period will be extended, with at least 30 day notice to insured depository institutions, to collect the shortfall amount. The length of the extended special assessment period shall be the minimum number of quarters required to recover the shortfall amount at a rate under paragraph (j)(3) of this section that is at or below 3.36 basis points per quarter.
(3)
Assessment rate during extended special assessment period.
The quarterly assessment rate during the extended special assessment period will be the shortfall amount, divided by the total amount of uninsured deposits, adjusted for mergers, consolidation, and termination of insurance as of the last quarterly assessment period of 2025, minus the $5 billion deduction for each insured depository institution or each institution's portion of the $5 billion deduction, divided by the minimum number of quarters that results in the quarterly rate being no greater than 3.36 basis points.
(4)
Assessment base during the extended special assessment period.
(i) The special assessment base for an insured depository institution during the extended special assessment period that has no affiliated insured depository institution shall equal:
(A) The institution's uninsured deposits; minus
(B) $5 billion; provided, however, that an institution's special assessment base cannot be negative.
(ii) The special assessment base for an insured depository institution during the extended special assessment period that has one or more affiliated insured depository institutions shall equal:
(A) The institution's uninsured deposits; minus
(B) The institution's portion of the $5 billion deduction, adjusted for termination of insurance as of the last assessment period of 2025; provided, however, that an institution's special assessment base cannot be negative.
(k)
Effect of mergers, consolidations, and other terminations of insurance on the special assessment
—(1)
Final quarterly certified invoice for acquired institution.
The surviving or resulting insured depository institution in a merger or consolidation shall be liable for any unpaid special assessment or one-time final shortfall special assessment outstanding at the time of the merger or consolidation on the part of the institution that is not the resulting or surviving institution consistent with § 327.6.
(2)
Special assessment for quarter in which the merger or consolidation occurs and subsequent quarters.
If an insured depository institution is the surviving or resulting institution in a merger or consolidation or acquires all or substantially all of the assets, or assumes all or substantially all of the deposit liabilities, of an insured depository institution, then the surviving or resulting insured depository institution or the insured depository institution that acquires such assets or assumes such deposit liabilities, shall be liable for the acquired institutions' special assessment from the quarter of the acquisition through the remainder of the initial and extended special assessment period, including any one-time final shortfall special assessment.
(3)
Other termination.
When the insured status of an institution is terminated, and the deposit liabilities of such institution are not assumed by another insured depository institution, the special assessment and any shortfall special assessment shall be paid consistent with § 327.6(c). When an insured depository institution voluntarily terminates its deposit insurance, the institution shall be liable for any unpaid special assessment or one-time final shortfall special assessment outstanding at the time of the termination and all future special assessments, if any, the institution would have been invoiced through the remainder of the initial or extended special assessment period, as applicable, including any one-time final shortfall special assessment for which the institution has been given notice before termination. Any special assessment or one-time final shortfall special assessment liabilities will be included, in full, on the final quarterly assessment invoice following voluntary termination.
(l)
Corrective reporting amendments
—(1)
Recalculation of quarterly special assessment amount.
Corrective amendments to an institution's uninsured deposits that arise from, or are confirmed through, the FDIC's Assessment Reporting Review will apply retroactively beginning the first quarterly collection period of the initial special assessment period. An institution's special assessment base and portion of the $5 billion deduction, along with the portion of the $5 billion deduction allocated to
the institution's affiliated insured depository institutions, will be recalculated for prior collection quarters. Any overpayment or underpayment in prior collection quarters as a result of the recalculation will be invoiced as described in paragraph (l)(2) of this section.
(2)
Invoicing overpayment and underpayment.
Any underpayment of the special assessment by an institution as the result of corrective amendments to uninsured deposits will be included, in full and with interest, on the invoice for the quarter following the date a corrective amendment is filed. If a corrective amendment results in an overpayment of the special assessment, the institution will be credited the overpayment amount, with interest, and such amount will be applied to the institution's subsequent special assessment invoices beginning in the quarter following the date of the amendment. If any excess credit amount remains after the end of the initial and any extended special assessment period(s), the excess credit amount shall be refunded to the institution. Payment and collection of interest on amounts resulting from overpayment and underpayment of the special assessment shall be consistent with § 327.7.
(m)
One-time final shortfall special assessment.
If the aggregate amount of the special assessment collected during the initial and any extended special assessment period(s) do not meet or exceed the losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund, as calculated after the receiverships resulting from the March 12, 2023, systemic risk determination are terminated, insured depository institutions shall pay a one-time final shortfall special assessment in accordance with this paragraph.
(1)
Notification of one-time final shortfall special assessment.
The FDIC shall notify each insured depository institution of the amount of such institution's one-time final shortfall special assessment no later than 45 days before such shortfall assessment is due.
(2)
Aggregate one-time final shortfall special assessment amount.
The aggregate amount of the one-time final shortfall special assessment imposed across all insured depository institutions shall equal the losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund, as of termination of the receiverships to which the March 12, 2023, systemic risk determination applied, minus the aggregate amount of the special assessment collected under this section through initial and extended special assessment periods, including the net amount of interest paid or received as a result of overpayments and underpayments.
(3)
One-time final shortfall special assessment rate.
The final shortfall special assessment rate shall be the aggregate final shortfall special assessment amount divided by the total amount of uninsured deposits, as described in paragraph (f) of this section, adjusted for mergers, consolidation, and termination of insurance as of the assessment period preceding the final shortfall special assessment period, minus the $5 billion deduction for each insured depository institution or each institution's portion of the $5 billion deduction.
(4)
One-time final shortfall special assessment base
—(i) The one-time final shortfall special assessment base for an insured depository institution that has no affiliated insured depository institution shall equal:
(A) The institution's uninsured deposits; minus
(B) $5 billion; provided, however, that an institution's one-time final shortfall special assessment base cannot be negative.
(ii) The one-time final shortfall special assessment base for an insured depository institution that has one or more affiliated insured depository institutions shall equal:
(A) The institution's uninsured deposits; minus
(B) The institution's portion of the $5 billion deduction, adjusted for termination of insurance as of the assessment period preceding the final shortfall assessment period; provided, however, that an institution's one-time final shortfall special assessment base cannot be negative.
(5)
Calculation of one-time final shortfall special assessment.
An insured depository institution's final shortfall special assessment shall be calculated
by multiplying the final shortfall special assessment rate by the institution's one-time final shortfall special assessment base.
(6)
One-time final special assessment.
The one-time final shortfall special assessment shall be collected on a one-time quarterly basis after losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund are determined after termination of the receiverships to which the March 12, 2023, systemic risk determination applied.
(7)
Payment, invoicing, and mergers.
Paragraphs (d), (e), and (k) of this section are applicable to the one-time shortfall special assessment.
(n)
Request for revisions.
An insured depository institution may submit a written request for revision of the computation of any special assessment or shortfall special assessment pursuant to this part consistent with § 327.3(f).
(o)
Special assessment collection in excess of losses.
Any special assessment collected under this section that exceeds the losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund, as of termination of the receiverships to which the March 12, 2023, systemic risk determination applied, shall be placed in the Deposit Insurance Fund.
(p)
Rule of construction.
Nothing in this section shall prevent the FDIC from imposing additional special assessments as required to recover current or future losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund resulting from any systemic risk determination under 12 U.S.C. 1823(c)(4)(G).
[88 FR 83347, Nov. 29, 2023]
§ 327.15
Emergency special assessments.
(a)
Emergency special assessment imposed on June 30, 2009.
On June 30, 2009, the FDIC shall impose an emergency special assessment of 20 basis points on each insured depository institution based on the institution's assessment base calculated pursuant to § 327.5 for the second assessment period of 2009.
(b)
Emergency special assessments after June 30, 2009.
After June 30, 2009, if the reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund is estimated to fall to a level that that the Board believes would adversely affect public confidence or to a level which shall be close to zero or negative at the end of a calendar quarter, an emergency special assessment of up to 10 basis points may be imposed by a vote of the Board on all insured depository institutions based on each institution's assessment base calculated pursuant to § 327.5 for the corresponding assessment period.
(1)
Estimation process.
For purposes of any emergency special assessment under this paragraph (b), the FDIC shall estimate the reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund for the applicable calendar quarter end from available data on, or estimates of, insurance fund assessment income, investment income, operating expenses, other revenue and expenses, and loss provisions, including provisions for anticipated failures. The FDIC will assume that estimated insured deposits will increase during the quarter at the average quarterly rate over the previous four quarters.
(2)
Imposition and announcement of emergency special assessments.
Any emergency special assessment under this paragraph (b) shall be on the last day of a calendar quarter and shall be announced by the end of such quarter. As soon as practicable after announcement, the FDIC will have a notice published in the
Federal Register
of the emergency special assessment.
(c)
Invoicing of any emergency special assessments.
The FDIC shall advise each insured depository institution of the amount and calculation of any emergency special assessment imposed under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. This information shall be provided at the same time as the institution's quarterly certified statement invoice for the assessment period in which the emergency special assessment was imposed.
(d)
Payment of any emergency special assessment.
Each insured depository institution shall pay to the Corporation any emergency special assessment imposed under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section in compliance with and subject to the provisions of §§ 327.3, 327.6 and 327.7 of subpart A, and the provisions of subpart B. The payment date for any emergency special assessment shall be the date provided in § 327.3(b)(2) for the institution's quarterly certified statement invoice for the calendar quarter
in which the emergency special assessment was imposed.
[74 FR 9341, Mar. 3, 2009]
§ 327.16
Assessment pricing methods—beginning the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent.
Subject to the modifications described in § 327.17, the following pricing methods shall apply beginning in the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent, and for all subsequent assessment periods.
(a)
Established small institutions.
Beginning the first assessment period after June 30, 2016, where the reserve ratio of the DIF as of the end of the prior assessment period has reached or exceeded 1.15 percent, and for all subsequent assessment periods, an established small institution shall have its initial base assessment rate determined by using the financial ratios methods set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(1) Under the financial ratios method, each of seven financial ratios and a weighted average of CAMELS component ratings will be multiplied by a corresponding pricing multiplier. The sum of these products will be added to a uniform amount. The resulting sum shall equal the institution's initial base assessment rate; provided, however, that no institution's initial base assessment rate shall be less than the minimum initial base assessment rate in effect for established small institutions with a particular CAMELS composite rating for that assessment period nor greater than the maximum initial base assessment rate in effect for established small institutions with a particular CAMELS composite rating for that assessment period. An institution's initial base assessment rate, subject to adjustment pursuant to paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, as appropriate (resulting in the institution's total base assessment rate, which in no case can be lower than 50 percent of the institution's initial base assessment rate), and adjusted for the actual assessment rates set by the Board under § 327.10(f), will equal an institution's assessment rate. The seven financial ratios are: Leverage Ratio (%); Net Income before Taxes/Total Assets (%); Nonperforming Loans and Leases/Gross Assets (%); Other Real Estate Owned/Gross Assets (%); Brokered Deposit Ratio (%); One Year Asset Growth (%); and Loan Mix Index. The ratios and the weighted average of CAMELS component ratings are defined in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. The ratios will be determined for an assessment period based upon information contained in an institution's report of condition filed as of the last day of the assessment period as set out in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The weighted average of CAMELS component ratings is created by multiplying each component by the following percentages and adding the products: Capital adequacy—25%, Asset quality—20%, Management—25%, Earnings—10%, Liquidity—10%, and Sensitivity to market risk—10%. The following tables set forth the values of the pricing multipliers:
Pricing Multipliers Applicable Beginning the First Assessment Period After June 30, 2016, Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Has Reached 1.15 Percent, and for All Subsequent Assessment Periods Where the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Is Less Than 2 Percent
Risk measures
1
Pricing
multipliers
2
Leverage ratio
−1.264
Net Income before Taxes/Total Assets
−0.720
Nonperforming Loans and Leases/Gross Assets
0.942
Other Real Estate Owned/Gross Assets
0.533
Brokered Deposit Ratio
0.264
One Year Asset Growth
0.061
Loan Mix Index
0.081
Weighted Average CAMELS Component Rating
1.519
1
Ratios are expressed as percentages.
2
Multipliers are rounded to three decimal places.
Pricing Multipliers Applicable When the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Is Equal to or Greater Than 2 Percent but Less Than 2.5 Percent
Risk measures
1
Pricing
multipliers
2
Leverage Ratio
−1.217
Net Income before Taxes/Total Assets
−0.694
Nonperforming Loans and Leases/Gross Assets
0.907
Other Real Estate Owned/Gross Assets
0.513
Brokered Deposit Ratio
0.254
One Year Asset Growth
0.059
Loan Mix Index
0.078
Weighted Average CAMELS Component Rating
1.463
1
Ratios are expressed as percentages.
2
Multipliers are rounded to three decimal places.
Pricing Multipliers Applicable When the Reserve Ratio as of the End of the Prior Assessment Period Is Greater Than or Equal to 2.5 Percent
Risk measures
1
Pricing
multipliers
2
Leverage Ratio
−1.123
Net Income before Taxes/Total Assets
−0.640
Nonperforming Loans and Leases/Gross Assets
0.837
Other Real Estate Owned/Gross Assets
0.474
Brokered Deposit Ratio
0.235
One Year Asset Growth
0.054
Loan Mix Index
0.072
Weighted Average CAMELS Component Rating
1.350
1
Ratios are expressed as percentages.
2
Multipliers are rounded to three decimal places.
(i)
Uniform amount.
Except as adjusted for the actual assessment rates set by the Board under § 327.10(f), the uniform amount shall be:
(A) 7.352 whenever the assessment rate schedule set forth in § 327.10(a) is in effect;
(B) 9.352 whenever the assessment rate schedule set forth in § 327.10(b) is in effect;
(C) 6.188 whenever the assessment rate schedule set forth in § 327.10(c) is in effect; or
(D) 4.870 whenever the assessment rate schedule set forth in § 327.10(d) is in effect.
(ii)
Definitions of measures used in the financial ratios method
—(A)
Definitions.
The following table lists and defines the measures used in the financial ratios method:
Definitions of Measures Used in the Financial Ratios Method
Variables
Description
Leverage Ratio (%)
Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average assets. (Numerator and denominator are both based on the definition for prompt corrective action.)
Net Income before Taxes/Total Assets (%)
Income (before applicable income taxes and discontinued operations) for the most recent twelve months divided by total assets.
1
Nonperforming Loans and Leases/Gross Assets (%)
Sum of total loans and lease financing receivables past due 90 or more days and still accruing interest and total nonaccrual loans and lease financing receivables (excluding, in both cases, the maximum amount recoverable from the U.S. Government, its agencies or government-sponsored enterprises, under guarantee or insurance provisions) divided by gross assets.
2
Other Real Estate Owned/Gross Assets (%)
Other real estate owned divided by gross assets.
2
Brokered Deposit Ratio
The ratio of the difference between brokered deposits and 10 percent of total assets to total assets. For institutions that are well capitalized and have a CAMELS composite rating of 1 or 2, brokered reciprocal deposits as defined in § 327.8(q) are deducted from brokered deposits. If the ratio is less than zero, the value is set to zero.
Weighted Average of C, A, M, E, L, and S Component Ratings
The weighted sum of the “C,” “A,” “M,” “E”, “L”, and “S” CAMELS components, with weights of 25 percent each for the “C” and “M” components, 20 percent for the “A” component, and 10 percent each for the “E”, “L”, and “S” components.
Loan Mix Index
A measure of credit risk described paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section.
One-Year Asset Growth (%)
Growth in assets (adjusted for mergers
3
) over the previous year in excess of 10 percent.
4
If growth is less than 10 percent, the value is set to zero.
1
The ratio of Net Income before Taxes to Total Assets is bounded below by (and cannot be less than) −25 percent and is bounded above by (and cannot exceed) 3 percent.
2
Gross assets are total assets plus the allowance for loan and lease financing receivable losses (ALLL) or allowance for credit losses, as applicable.
3
Growth in assets is also adjusted for acquisitions of failed banks.
4
The maximum value of the Asset Growth measure is 230 percent; that is, asset growth (merger adjusted) over the previous year in excess of 240 percent (230 percentage points in excess of the 10 percent threshold) will not further increase a bank's assessment rate.
(B)
Definition of loan mix index.
The Loan Mix Index assigns loans in an institution's loan portfolio to the categories of loans described in the following table. The Loan Mix Index is calculated by multiplying the ratio of an institution's amount of loans in a particular loan category to its total assets by the associated weighted average charge-off rate for that loan category, and summing the products for all loan categories. The table gives the weighted average charge-off rate for each category of loan. The Loan Mix Index excludes credit card loans.
Loan Mix Index Categories and Weighted Charge-Off Rate Percentages
Weighted
charge-off
rate
(percent)
Construction
Development
4.4965840
Commercial
Industrial
1.5984506
Leases
1.4974551
Other Consumer
1.4559717
Real Estate Loans Residual
1.0169338
Multifamily Residential
0.8847597
Nonfarm Nonresidential
0.7286274
1-4 Family Residential
0.6973778
Loans to Depository Banks
0.5760532
Agricultural Real Estate
0.2376712
Agriculture
0.2432737
(iii)
Implementation of CAMELS rating changes
—(A)
Composite rating change.
If, during an assessment period, a CAMELS composite rating change occurs in a way that changes the institution's initial base assessment rate, then the institution's initial base assessment rate for the portion of the assessment period prior to the change shall be determined using the assessment schedule for the appropriate CAMELS composite rating in effect before the change, including any minimum or maximum initial base assessment rates, and subject to adjustment pursuant to paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, as appropriate, and adjusted for actual assessment rates set by the Board under § 327.10(f). For the portion of the assessment period after the CAMELS composite rating change, the institution's initial base assessment rate shall be determined using the assessment schedule for the applicable CAMELS composite rating in effect, including any minimum or maximum initial base assessment rates, and subject to adjustment pursuant to paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, as appropriate, and adjusted for actual assessment rates set by the Board under § 327.10(f).
(B)
Component ratings changes.
If, during an assessment period, a CAMELS component rating change occurs in a way that changes the institution's initial base assessment rate, the initial base assessment rate for the period before the change shall be determined under the financial ratios method using the CAMELS component ratings in effect before the change, subject to adjustment under paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, as appropriate. Beginning on the date of the CAMELS component rating change, the initial base assessment rate for the remainder of the assessment period shall be determined under the financial ratios method using the CAMELS component ratings in effect after the change, again subject to adjustment under paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, as appropriate.
(iv)
No CAMELS composite rating or no CAMELS component ratings
—(A)
No CAMELS composite rating.
If, during an assessment period, an institution has no CAMELS composite rating, its initial assessment rate will be 2 basis points above the minimum initial assessment rate for established small institutions until it receives a CAMELS composite rating.
(B)
No CAMELS component ratings.
If, during an assessment period, an institution has a CAMELS composite rating but no CAMELS component ratings, the initial base assessment rate for that institution shall be determined under the financial ratios method using the CAMELS composite rating for its weighted average CAMELS component rating and, if the institution has not yet filed four quarterly reports of condition, by annualizing, where appropriate, financial ratios obtained from all quarterly reports of condition that have been filed.
(2)
Applicable quarterly reports of condition.
The financial ratios used to determine the assessment rate for an established small institution shall be based upon information contained in an institution's Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (or successor report, as appropriate) dated as of
March 31 for the assessment period beginning the preceding January 1; dated as of June 30 for the assessment period beginning the preceding April 1; dated as of September 30 for the assessment period beginning the preceding July 1; and dated as of December 31 for the assessment period beginning the preceding October 1.
(b)
Large and highly complex institutions
—(1)
Assessment scorecard for large institutions (other than highly complex institutions).
(i) A large institution other than a highly complex institution shall have its initial base assessment rate determined using the scorecard for large institutions.
Scorecard for Large Institutions
Scorecard measures and components
Measure weights
(percent)
Component weights
(percent)
P
Performance Score
P.1
Weighted Average CAMELS Rating
100
30
P.2
Ability to Withstand Asset-Related Stress
50
Leverage ratio
10
Concentration Measure
35
Core Earnings/Average Quarter-End Total Assets
1
20
Credit Quality Measure
35
P.3
Ability to Withstand Funding-Related Stress
20
Core Deposits/Total Liabilities
60
Balance Sheet Liquidity Ratio
40
L
Loss Severity Score
L.1
Loss Severity Measure
100
1
Average of five quarter-end total assets (most recent and four prior quarters).
(ii) The scorecard for large institutions produces two scores: Performance score and loss severity score.
(A)
Performance score for large institutions.
The performance score for large institutions is a weighted average of the scores for three measures: The weighted average CAMELS rating score, weighted at 30 percent; the ability to withstand asset-related stress score, weighted at 50 percent; and the ability to withstand funding-related stress score, weighted at 20 percent.
(
1
)
Weighted average CAMELS rating score.
(
i
) To compute the weighted average CAMELS rating score, a weighted average of an institution's CAMELS component ratings is calculated using the following weights:
CAMELS component
Weight
(%)
C
25
A
20
M
25
E
10
L
10
S
10
(
ii
) A weighted average CAMELS rating converts to a score that ranges from 25 to 100. A weighted average rating of 1 equals a score of 25 and a weighted average of 3.5 or greater equals a score of 100. Weighted average CAMELS ratings between 1 and 3.5 are assigned a score between 25 and 100. The score increases at an increasing rate as the weighted average CAMELS rating increases. Appendix B of this subpart describes the conversion of a weighted average CAMELS rating to a score.
(
2
)
Ability to withstand asset-related stress score.
(
i
) The ability to withstand asset-related stress score is a weighted average of the scores for four measures: Leverage ratio; concentration measure; the ratio of core earnings to average quarter-end total assets; and the credit quality measure. Appendices A and C of this subpart define these measures.
(
ii
) The Leverage ratio and the ratio of core earnings to average quarter-end total assets are described in appendix A and the method of calculating the scores is described in appendix C of this subpart.
(
iii
) The score for the concentration measure is the greater of the higher-risk assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves score or the growth-adjusted portfolio concentrations score. Both ratios are described in appendix C of this subpart.
(
iv
) The score for the credit quality measure is the greater of the criticized and classified items to Tier 1 capital and reserves score or the underperforming assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves score.
(
v
) The following table shows the cutoff values and weights for the measures used to calculate the ability to withstand asset-related stress score. Appendix B of this subpart describes how each measure is converted to a score between 0 and 100 based upon the minimum and maximum cutoff values, where a score of 0 reflects the lowest risk and a score of 100 reflects the highest risk.
Cutoff Values and Weights for Measures To Calculate Ability To Withstand Asset-Related Stress Score
Measures of the ability to withstand asset-related stress
Cutoff values
Minimum
(percent)
Maximum
(percent)
Weights
(percent)
Leverage ratio
6
13
10
Concentration Measure
35
Higher-Risk Assets to Tier 1 Capital and Reserves; or
0
135
Growth-Adjusted Portfolio Concentrations
4
56
Core Earnings/Average Quarter-End Total Assets
1
0
2
20
Credit Quality Measure
35
Criticized and Classified Items/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves; or
7
100
Underperforming Assets/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves
2
35
1
Average of five quarter-end total assets (most recent and four prior quarters).
(
vi
) The score for each measure in the table in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A)(
2
)(
v
) of this section is multiplied by its respective weight and the resulting weighted score is summed to arrive at the score for an ability to withstand asset-related stress, which can range from 0 to 100, where a score of 0 reflects the lowest risk and a score of 100 reflects the highest risk.
(
3
)
Ability to withstand funding-related stress score.
Two measures are used to compute the ability to withstand funding-related stress score: A core deposits to total liabilities ratio, and a balance sheet liquidity ratio. Appendix A of this subpart describes these measures. Appendix B of this subpart describes how these measures are converted to a score between 0 and 100, where a score of 0 reflects the lowest risk and a score of 100 reflects the highest risk. The ability to withstand funding-related stress score is the weighted average of the scores for the two measures. In the following table, cutoff values and weights are used to derive an institution's ability to withstand funding-related stress score:
Cutoff Values and Weights To Calculate Ability To Withstand Funding-Related Stress Score
Measures of the ability to withstand funding-related stress
Cutoff values
Minimum
(percent)
Maximum
(percent)
Weights
(percent)
Core Deposits/Total Liabilities
5
87
60
Balance Sheet Liquidity Ratio
7
243
40
(
4
)
Calculation of performance score.
In paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A)(
3
) of this section, the scores for the weighted average CAMELS rating, the ability to withstand asset-related stress, and the ability to withstand funding-related stress are multiplied by their respective weights (30 percent, 50 percent and 20 percent, respectively) and the results are summed to arrive at the performance score. The performance score cannot be less than 0 or more than 100, where a score of 0 reflects the lowest risk and a score of 100 reflects the highest risk.
(B)
Loss severity score.
The loss severity score is based on a loss severity measure that is described in appendix D of this subpart. Appendix B of this subpart also describes how the loss severity measure is converted to a score between 0 and 100. The loss severity score cannot be less than 0 or more than 100, where a score of 0 reflects the lowest risk and a score of 100 reflects the highest risk. Cutoff values for the loss severity measure are:
Cutoff Values To Calculate Loss Severity Score
Measure of loss severity
Cutoff values
Minimum
(percent)
Maximum
(percent)
Loss Severity
0
28
(C)
Total score.
(
1
) The performance and loss severity scores are combined to produce a total score. The loss severity score is converted into a loss severity factor that ranges from 0.8 (score of 5 or lower) to 1.2 (score of 85 or higher). Scores at or below the minimum cutoff of 5 receive a loss severity factor of 0.8, and scores at or above the maximum cutoff of 85 receive a loss severity factor of 1.2. The following linear interpolation converts loss severity scores between the cutoffs into a loss severity factor:
(Loss Severity Factor = 0.8 + [0.005 * (Loss Severity Score − 5)]
(
2
) The performance score is multiplied by the loss severity factor to produce a total score (total score = performance score * loss severity factor). The total score can be up to 20 percent higher or lower than the performance score but cannot be less than 30 or more than 90. The total score is subject to adjustment, up or down, by a maximum of 15 points, as set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The resulting total score after adjustment cannot be less than 30 or more than 90.
(D)
Initial base assessment rate.
A large institution with a total score of 30 pays the minimum initial base assessment rate and an institution with a total score of 90 pays the maximum initial base assessment rate. For total scores between 30 and 90, initial base assessment rates rise at an increasing rate as the total score increases, calculated according to the following formula:
ER20MY16.166
Where:
Rate is the initial base assessment rate (expressed in basis points);
Maximum Rate is the maximum initial base assessment rate then in effect (expressed in basis points); and
Minimum Rate is the minimum initial base assessment rate then in effect (expressed in basis points). Initial base assessment rates are subject to adjustment pursuant to paragraphs (b)(3) and (e)(1) and (2) of this section; large institutions that are not well capitalized or have a CAMELS composite rating of 3, 4 or 5 shall be subject to the adjustment at paragraph (e)(3) of this section; these adjustments shall result in the institution's total base assessment rate, which in no case can be lower than 50 percent of the institution's initial base assessment rate.
(2)
Assessment scorecard for highly complex institutions.
(i) A highly complex institution shall have its initial base assessment rate determined using the scorecard for highly complex institutions.
Scorecard for Highly Complex Institutions
Measures and components
Measure
weights
(percent)
Component
weights
(percent)
P
Performance Score
P.1
Weighted Average CAMELS Rating
100
30
P.2
Ability To Withstand Asset-Related Stress
50
Leverage ratio
10
Concentration Measure
35
Core Earnings/Average Quarter-End Total Assets
20
Credit Quality Measure and Market Risk Measure
35
P.3
Ability To Withstand Funding-Related Stress
20
Core Deposits/Total Liabilities
50
Balance Sheet Liquidity Ratio
30
Average Short-Term Funding/Average Total Assets
20
L
Loss Severity Score
L.1
Loss Severity
100
(ii) The scorecard for highly complex institutions produces two scores: Performance and loss severity.
(A) Performance score for highly complex institutions. The performance score for highly complex institutions is the weighted average of the scores for three components: Weighted average CAMELS rating, weighted at 30 percent; ability to withstand asset-related stress score, weighted at 50 percent; and ability to withstand funding-related stress score, weighted at 20 percent.
(
1
)
Weighted average CAMELS rating score.
(
i
) To compute the score for the weighted average CAMELS rating, a weighted average of an institution's CAMELS component ratings is calculated using the following weights:
CAMELS component
Weight
(%)
C
25
A
20
M
25
E
10
L
10
S
10
(
ii
) A weighted average CAMELS rating converts to a score that ranges from 25 to 100. A weighted average rating of 1 equals a score of 25 and a weighted average of 3.5 or greater equals a score of 100. Weighted average CAMELS ratings between 1 and 3.5 are assigned a score between 25 and 100. The score increases at an increasing rate as the weighted average CAMELS rating increases. Appendix B of this subpart describes the conversion of a weighted average CAMELS rating to a score.
(
2
)
Ability to withstand asset-related stress score.
(
i
) The ability to withstand asset-related stress score is a weighted average of the scores for four measures: Leverage ratio; concentration measure; ratio of core earnings to average quarter-end total assets; credit quality measure and market risk measure. Appendix A of this subpart describes these measures.
(
ii
) The Leverage ratio and the ratio of core earnings to average quarter-end total assets are described in appendix A of this subpart and the method of calculating the scores is described in appendix B of this subpart.
(
iii
) The score for the concentration measure for highly complex institutions is the greatest of the higher-risk assets to the sum of Tier 1 capital and reserves score, the top 20 counterparty exposure to the sum of Tier 1 capital and reserves score, or the largest counterparty exposure to the sum of Tier 1 capital and reserves score. Each ratio is described in appendix A of this subpart. The method used to convert the concentration measure into a score is described in appendix C of this subpart.
(
iv
) The credit quality score is the greater of the criticized and classified items to Tier 1 capital and reserves score or the underperforming assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves score. The market risk score is the weighted average of three scores—the trading revenue volatility to Tier 1 capital score,
the market risk capital to Tier 1 capital score, and the level 3 trading assets to Tier 1 capital score. All of these ratios are described in appendix A of this subpart and the method of calculating the scores is described in appendix B of this subpart. Each score is multiplied by its respective weight, and the resulting weighted score is summed to compute the score for the market risk measure. An overall weight of 35 percent is allocated between the scores for the credit quality measure and market risk measure. The allocation depends on the ratio of average trading assets to the sum of average securities, loans and trading assets (trading asset ratio) as follows:
(
v
) Weight for credit quality score = 35 percent * (1−trading asset ratio); and,
(
vi
) Weight for market risk score = 35 percent * trading asset ratio.
(
vii
) Each of the measures used to calculate the ability to withstand asset-related stress score is assigned the following cutoff values and weights:
Cutoff Values and Weights for Measures To Calculate the Ability To Withstand Asset-Related Stress Score
Measures of the ability to withstand asset-related stress
Cutoff values
Minimum
(percent)
Maximum
(percent)
Market risk
measure
(percent)
Weights
(percent)
Leverage ratio
6
13
10.
Concentration Measure
35.
Higher Risk Assets/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves;
0
135
Top 20 Counterparty Exposure/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves; or
0
125
Largest Counterparty Exposure/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves
0
20
Core Earnings/Average Quarter-end Total Assets
0
2
20.
Credit Quality Measure
1
35* (1−Trading Asset Ratio).
Criticized and Classified Items to Tier 1 Capital and Reserves; or
7
100
Underperforming Assets/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves
2
35
Market Risk Measure
1
35* Trading Asset Ratio.
Trading Revenue Volatility/Tier 1 Capital
0
2
60
Market Risk Capital/Tier 1 Capital
0
10
20
Level 3 Trading Assets/Tier 1 Capital
0
35
20
1
Combined, the credit quality measure and the market risk measure are assigned a 35 percent weight. The relative weight of each of the two scores depends on the ratio of average trading assets to the sum of average securities, loans and trading assets (trading asset ratio).
(
viii
) [Reserved]
(
ix
) The score of each measure is multiplied by its respective weight and the resulting weighted score is summed to compute the ability to withstand asset-related stress score, which can range from 0 to 100, where a score of 0 reflects the lowest risk and a score of 100 reflects the highest risk.
(
3
)
Ability to withstand funding related stress score.
Three measures are used to calculate the score for the ability to withstand funding-related stress: A core deposits to total liabilities ratio, a balance sheet liquidity ratio, and average short-term funding to average total assets ratio. Appendix A of this subpart describes these ratios. Appendix B of this subpart describes how each measure is converted to a score. The ability to withstand funding-related stress score is the weighted average of the scores for the three measures. In the following table, cutoff values and weights are used to derive an institution's ability to withstand funding-related stress score:
Cutoff Values and Weights To Calculate Ability To Withstand Funding-Related Stress Measures
Measures of the ability to withstand funding-related stress
Cutoff values
Minimum
(percent)
Maximum
(percent)
Weights
(percent)
Core Deposits/Total Liabilities
5
87
50
Balance Sheet Liquidity Ratio
7
243
30
Average Short-term Funding/Average Total Assets
2
19
20
(
4
)
Calculation of performance score.
The weighted average CAMELS score, the ability to withstand asset-related stress score, and the ability to withstand funding-related stress score are multiplied by their respective weights (30 percent, 50 percent and 20 percent, respectively) and the results are summed to arrive at the performance score, which cannot be less than 0 or more than 100.
(B)
Loss severity score.
The loss severity score is based on a loss severity measure described in appendix D of this subpart. Appendix B of this subpart also describes how the loss severity measure is converted to a score between 0 and 100. Cutoff values for the loss severity measure are:
Cutoff Values for Loss Severity Measure
Measure of loss severity
Cutoff values
Minimum
(percent)
Maximum
(percent)
Loss Severity
0
28
(C)
Total score.
The performance and loss severity scores are combined to produce a total score. The loss severity score is converted into a loss severity factor that ranges from 0.8 (score of 5 or lower) to 1.2 (score of 85 or higher). Scores at or below the minimum cutoff of 5 receive a loss severity factor of 0.8, and scores at or above the maximum cutoff of 85 receive a loss severity factor of 1.2. The following linear interpolation converts loss severity scores between the cutoffs into a loss severity factor: (Loss Severity Factor = 0.8 + [0.005 * (Loss Severity Score − 5)]. The performance score is multiplied by the loss severity factor to produce a total score (total score = performance score * loss severity factor). The total score can be up to 20 percent higher or lower than the performance score but cannot be less than 30 or more than 90. The total score is subject to adjustment, up or down, by a maximum of 15 points, as set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The resulting total score after adjustment cannot be less than 30 or more than 90.
(D)
Initial base assessment rate.
A highly complex institution with a total score of 30 pays the minimum initial base assessment rate and an institution with a total score of 90 pays the maximum initial base assessment rate. For total scores between 30 and 90, initial base assessment rates rise at an increasing rate as the total score increases, calculated according to the following formula:
ER20MY16.167
Where:
Rate is the initial base assessment rate (expressed in basis points);
Maximum Rate is the maximum initial base assessment rate then in effect (expressed in basis points); and
Minimum Rate is the minimum initial base assessment rate then in effect (expressed in basis points). Initial base assessment rates are subject to adjustment pursuant to paragraphs (b)(3) and (e)(1) and (2) of this section; highly complex institutions that are not well capitalized or have a CAMELS composite rating of 3, 4 or 5 shall be subject to the adjustment at paragraph (e)(3) of this section; these adjustments shall result in the institution's total base assessment rate, which in no case can be lower than 50 percent of the institution's initial base assessment rate.
(3)
Adjustment to total score for large institutions and highly complex institutions.
The total score for large institutions and highly complex institutions is subject to adjustment, up or down, by a maximum of 15 points, based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the appropriate scorecard. In making such adjustments, the FDIC may consider such information as financial performance and condition information and other market or supervisory information. The FDIC will also consult with an institution's primary federal regulator and, for state chartered institutions, state banking supervisor.
(i)
Prior notice of adjustments
—(A)
Prior notice of upward adjustment.
Prior to making any upward adjustment to an institution's total score because of considerations of additional risk information, the FDIC will formally notify the institution and its primary federal regulator and provide an opportunity to respond. This notification will include the reasons for the adjustment and when the adjustment will take effect.
(B)
Prior notice of downward adjustment.
Prior to making any downward adjustment to an institution's total score because of considerations of additional risk information, the FDIC will formally notify the institution's primary federal regulator and provide an opportunity to respond.
(ii)
Determination whether to adjust upward; effective period of adjustment.
After considering an institution's and the primary federal regulator's responses to the notice, the FDIC will determine whether the adjustment to an institution's total score is warranted, taking into account any revisions to scorecard measures, as well as any actions taken by the institution to address the FDIC's concerns described in the notice. The FDIC will evaluate the need for the adjustment each subsequent assessment period. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, the amount of adjustment cannot exceed the proposed adjustment amount contained in the initial notice unless additional notice is provided so that the primary federal regulator and the institution may respond.
(iii)
Determination whether to adjust downward; effective period of adjustment.
After considering the primary federal regulator's responses to the notice, the FDIC will determine whether the adjustment to total score is warranted, taking into account any revisions to scorecard measures. Any downward adjustment in an institution's total score will remain in effect for subsequent assessment periods until the FDIC determines that an adjustment is no longer warranted. Downward adjustments will be made without notification to the institution. However, the FDIC will provide advance notice to an institution and its primary federal regulator and give them an opportunity to respond before removing a downward adjustment.
(iv)
Adjustment without notice.
Notwithstanding the notice provisions set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the FDIC may change an institution's total score without advance notice, if the institution's supervisory ratings or the scorecard measures deteriorate.
(c)
New small institutions
—(1)
Risk categories.
Each new small institution shall be assigned to one of the following four Risk Categories based upon the institution's capital evaluation and supervisory evaluation as defined in this section.
(i)
Risk category I.
New small institutions in Supervisory Group A that are Well Capitalized will be assigned to Risk Category I.
(ii)
Risk category II.
New small institutions in Supervisory Group A that are Adequately Capitalized, and new
small institutions in Supervisory Group B that are either Well Capitalized or Adequately Capitalized will be assigned to Risk Category II.
(iii)
Risk category III.
New small institutions in Supervisory Groups A and B that are Undercapitalized, and new small institutions in Supervisory Group C that are Well Capitalized or Adequately Capitalized will be assigned to Risk Category III.
(iv)
Risk category IV.
New small institutions in Supervisory Group C that are Undercapitalized will be assigned to Risk Category IV.
(2)
Capital evaluations.
Each new small institution will receive one of the following three capital evaluations on the basis of data reported in the institution's Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income or Thrift Financial Report (or successor report, as appropriate) dated as of the last day of each assessment period: Well Capitalized, Adequately Capitalized, or Undercapitalized as defined in § 327.8(z) of this chapter.
(3)
Supervisory evaluations.
Each new small institution will be assigned to one of three Supervisory Groups based on the Corporation's consideration of supervisory evaluations provided by the institution's primary federal regulator. The supervisory evaluations include the results of examination findings by the primary federal regulator, as well as other information that the primary federal regulator determines to be relevant. In addition, the Corporation will take into consideration such other information (such as state examination findings, as appropriate) as it determines to be relevant to the institution's financial condition and the risk posed to the Deposit Insurance Fund. The three Supervisory Groups are:
(i)
Supervisory group “A.”
This Supervisory Group consists of financially sound institutions with only a few minor weaknesses;
(ii)
Supervisory group “B.”
This Supervisory Group consists of institutions that demonstrate weaknesses which, if not corrected, could result in significant deterioration of the institution and increased risk of loss to the Deposit Insurance Fund; and
(iii)
Supervisory group “C.”
This Supervisory Group consists of institutions that pose a substantial probability of loss to the Deposit Insurance Fund unless effective corrective action is taken.
(4)
Assessment method for new small institutions in risk category I
—(i)
Maximum initial base assessment rate for risk category I new small institutions.
A new small institution in Risk Category I shall be assessed the maximum initial base assessment rate for Risk Category I small institutions in the relevant assessment period.
(ii)
New small institutions not subject to certain adjustments.
No new small institution in any risk category shall be subject to the adjustment in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(iii)
Implementation of CAMELS rating changes
—(A)
Changes between risk categories.
If, during an assessment period, a CAMELS composite rating change occurs that results in a Risk Category I institution moving from Risk Category I to Risk Category II, III or IV, the institution's initial base assessment rate for the portion of the assessment period that it was in Risk Category I shall be the maximum initial base assessment rate for the relevant assessment period, subject to adjustment pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, as appropriate, and adjusted for the actual assessment rates set by the Board under § 327.10(f). For the portion of the assessment period that the institution was not in Risk Category I, the institution's initial base assessment rate, which shall be subject to adjustment pursuant to paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this section, as appropriate, shall be determined under the assessment schedule for the appropriate Risk Category. If, during an assessment period, a CAMELS composite rating change occurs that results in an institution moving from Risk Category II, III or IV to Risk Category I, then the maximum initial base assessment rate for new small institutions in Risk Category I shall apply for the portion of the assessment period that it was in Risk Category I, subject to adjustment pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, as appropriate, and adjusted for the actual assessment rates set by the Board under § 327.10(f).
For the portion of the assessment period that the institution was not in Risk Category I, the institution's initial base assessment rate, which shall be subject to adjustment pursuant to paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this section shall be determined under the assessment schedule for the appropriate Risk Category.
(B) [Reserved]
(d)
Insured branches of foreign banks
—(1)
Risk categories for insured branches of foreign banks.
Insured branches of foreign banks shall be assigned to risk categories as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(2)
Capital evaluations for insured branches of foreign banks.
Each insured branch of a foreign bank will receive one of the following three capital evaluations on the basis of data reported in the institution's Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks dated as of March 31 for the assessment period beginning the preceding January 1; dated as of June 30 for the assessment period beginning the preceding April 1; dated as of September 30 for the assessment period beginning the preceding July 1; and dated as of December 31 for the assessment period beginning the preceding October 1.
(i)
Well Capitalized.
An insured branch of a foreign bank is Well Capitalized if the insured branch:
(A) Maintains the pledge of assets required under § 347.209 of this chapter; and
(B) Maintains the eligible assets prescribed under § 347.210 of this chapter at 108 percent or more of the average book value of the insured branch's third-party liabilities for the quarter ending on the report date specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(ii)
Adequately Capitalized.
An insured branch of a foreign bank is Adequately Capitalized if the insured branch:
(A) Maintains the pledge of assets required under § 347.209 of this chapter; and
(B) Maintains the eligible assets prescribed under § 347.210 of this chapter at 106 percent or more of the average book value of the insured branch's third-party liabilities for the quarter ending on the report date specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and
(C) Does not meet the definition of a Well Capitalized insured branch of a foreign bank.
(iii)
Undercapitalized.
An insured branch of a foreign bank is undercapitalized institution if it does not qualify as either Well Capitalized or Adequately Capitalized under paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(3)
Supervisory evaluations for insured branches of foreign banks.
Each insured branch of a foreign bank will be assigned to one of three supervisory groups as set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(4)
Assessment method for insured branches of foreign banks in risk category I.
Insured branches of foreign banks in Risk Category I shall be assessed using the weighted average ROCA component rating.
(i)
Weighted average ROCA component rating.
The weighted average ROCA component rating shall equal the sum of the products that result from multiplying ROCA component ratings by the following percentages: Risk Management—35%, Operational Controls—25%, Compliance—25%, and Asset Quality—15%. The weighted average ROCA rating will be multiplied by 5.076 (which shall be the pricing multiplier). To this result will be added a uniform amount. The resulting sum—the initial base assessment rate—will equal an institution's total base assessment rate; provided, however, that no institution's total base assessment rate will be less than the minimum total base assessment rate in effect for Risk Category I institutions for that assessment period nor greater than the maximum total base assessment rate in effect for Risk Category I institutions for that assessment period.
(ii)
Uniform amount.
Except as adjusted for the actual assessment rates set by the Board under § 327.10(f), the uniform amount for all insured branches of foreign banks shall be:
(A) −5.127 whenever the assessment rate schedule set forth in § 327.10(a) is in effect;
(B) −3.127 whenever the assessment rate schedule set forth in § 327.10(b) is in effect;
(C) −6.127 whenever the assessment rate schedule set forth in § 327.10(c) is in effect; or
(D) −7.127 whenever the assessment rate schedule set forth in § 327.10(d) is in effect.
(iii)
Insured branches of foreign banks not subject to certain adjustments.
No insured branch of a foreign bank in any risk category shall be subject to the adjustments in paragraph (b)(3) or (e)(1) or (3) of this section.
(iv)
Implementation of changes between risk categories for insured branches of foreign banks.
If, during an assessment period, a ROCA rating change occurs that results in an insured branch of a foreign bank moving from Risk Category I to Risk Category II, III or IV, the institution's initial base assessment rate for the portion of the assessment period that it was in Risk Category I shall be determined using the weighted average ROCA component rating. For the portion of the assessment period that the institution was not in Risk Category I, the institution's initial base assessment rate shall be determined under the assessment schedule for the appropriate Risk Category. If, during an assessment period, a ROCA rating change occurs that results in an insured branch of a foreign bank moving from Risk Category II, III or IV to Risk Category I, the institution's assessment rate for the portion of the assessment period that it was in Risk Category I shall equal the rate determined as provided using the weighted average ROCA component rating. For the portion of the assessment period that the institution was not in Risk Category I, the institution's initial base assessment rate shall be determined under the assessment schedule for the appropriate Risk Category.
(v)
Implementation of changes within risk category I for insured branches of foreign banks.
If, during an assessment period, an insured branch of a foreign bank remains in Risk Category I, but a ROCA component rating changes that will affect the institution's initial base assessment rate, separate assessment rates for the portion(s) of the assessment period before and after the change(s) shall be determined under this paragraph (d)(4).
(e)
Adjustments
—(1)
Unsecured debt adjustment to initial base assessment rate for all institutions.
All institutions, except new institutions as provided under paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section and insured branches of foreign banks as provided under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section, shall be subject to an adjustment of assessment rates for unsecured debt. Any unsecured debt adjustment shall be made after any adjustment under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(i)
Application of unsecured debt adjustment.
The unsecured debt adjustment shall be determined as the sum of the initial base assessment rate plus 40 basis points; that sum shall be multiplied by the ratio of an insured depository institution's long-term unsecured debt to its assessment base. The amount of the reduction in the assessment rate due to the adjustment is equal to the dollar amount of the adjustment divided by the amount of the assessment base.
(ii)
Limitation.
No unsecured debt adjustment for any institution shall exceed the lesser of 5 basis points or 50 percent of the institution's initial base assessment rate.
(iii)
Applicable quarterly reports of condition.
Unsecured debt adjustment ratios for any given quarter shall be calculated from quarterly reports of condition (Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income and Thrift Financial Reports, or any successor reports to either, as appropriate) filed by each institution as of the last day of the quarter.
(2)
Depository institution debt adjustment to initial base assessment rate for all institutions.
All institutions shall be subject to an adjustment of assessment rates for unsecured debt held that is issued by another depository institution. Any such depository institution debt adjustment shall be made after any adjustment under paragraphs (b)(3) and (e)(1) of this section.
(i)
Application of depository institution debt adjustment.
An insured depository institution shall pay a 50 basis point adjustment on the amount of unsecured debt it holds that was issued by another insured depository institution to the extent that such debt exceeds 3 percent of the institution's Tier 1 capital. The amount of long-term unsecured debt issued by another insured depository institution shall be calculated using the same valuation
methodology used to calculate the amount of such debt for reporting on the asset side of the balance sheets.
(ii)
Applicable quarterly reports of condition.
Depository institution debt adjustment ratios for any given quarter shall be calculated from quarterly reports of condition (Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income and Thrift Financial Reports, or any successor reports to either, as appropriate) filed by each institution as of the last day of the quarter.
(3)
Brokered deposit adjustment.
All new small institutions in Risk Categories II, III, and IV, all large institutions and all highly complex institutions, except large and highly complex institutions (including new large and new highly complex institutions) that are well capitalized and have a CAMELS composite rating of 1 or 2, shall be subject to an assessment rate adjustment for brokered deposits. Any such brokered deposit adjustment shall be made after any adjustment under paragraphs (b)(3) and (e)(1) and (2) of this section. The brokered deposit adjustment includes all brokered deposits as defined in Section 29 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831f), and 12 CFR 337.6, including brokered reciprocal deposits as defined in § 327.8(q), and brokered deposits that consist of balances swept into an insured institution from another institution. The adjustment under this paragraph is limited to those institutions whose ratio of brokered deposits to domestic deposits is greater than 10 percent; asset growth rates do not affect the adjustment. Insured branches of foreign banks are not subject to the brokered deposit adjustment as provided in paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section.
(i)
Application of brokered deposit adjustment.
The brokered deposit adjustment shall be determined by multiplying 25 basis points by the ratio of the difference between an insured depository institution's brokered deposits and 10 percent of its domestic deposits to its assessment base.
(ii)
Limitation.
The maximum brokered deposit adjustment will be 10 basis points; the minimum brokered deposit adjustment will be 0.
(iii)
Applicable quarterly reports of condition.
The brokered deposit adjustment for any given quarter shall be calculated from the quarterly reports of condition (Call Reports and Thrift Financial Reports, or any successor reports to either, as appropriate) filed by each institution as of the last day of the quarter.
(f)
Request to be treated as a large institution
—(1)
Procedure.
Any small institution with assets of between $5 billion and $10 billion, excluding assets as described in § 327.17(e), may request that the FDIC determine its assessment rate as a large institution. The FDIC will consider such a request provided that it has sufficient information to do so. Any such request must be made to the FDIC's Division of Insurance and Research. Any approved change will become effective within one year from the date of the request. If an institution whose request has been granted subsequently reports assets of less than $5 billion in its report of condition for four consecutive quarters, excluding assets as described in § 327.17(e), the institution shall be deemed a small institution for assessment purposes.
(2)
Time limit on subsequent request for alternate method.
An institution whose request to be assessed as a large institution is granted by the FDIC shall not be eligible to request that it be assessed as a small institution for a period of three years from the first quarter in which its approved request to be assessed as a large institution became effective. Any request to be assessed as a small institution must be made to the FDIC's Division of Insurance and Research.
(3)
Request for review.
An institution that disagrees with the FDIC's determination that it is a large, highly complex, or small institution may request review of that determination pursuant to § 327.4(c).
(g)
New and established institutions and exceptions
—(1)
New small institutions.
A new small Risk Category I institution shall be assessed the Risk Category I maximum initial base assessment rate for the relevant assessment period. No new small institution in any risk category shall be subject to the unsecured debt adjustment as determined under paragraph (e)(1) of this
section. All new small institutions in any Risk Category shall be subject to the depository institution debt adjustment as determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section. All new small institutions in Risk Categories II, III, and IV shall be subject to the brokered deposit adjustment as determined under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2)
New large institutions and new highly complex institutions.
All new large institutions and all new highly complex institutions shall be assessed under the appropriate method provided at paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section and subject to the adjustments provided at paragraphs (b)(3) and (e)(2) and (3) of this section. No new highly complex or large institutions are entitled to adjustment under paragraph (e)(1) of this section. If a large or highly complex institution has not yet received CAMELS ratings, it will be given a weighted CAMELS rating of 2 for assessment purposes until actual CAMELS ratings are assigned.
(3)
CAMELS ratings for the surviving institution in a merger or consolidation.
When an established institution merges with or consolidates into a new institution, if the FDIC determines the resulting institution to be an established institution under § 327.8(k)(1), its CAMELS ratings for assessment purposes will be based upon the established institution's ratings prior to the merger or consolidation until new ratings become available.
(4)
Rate applicable to institutions subject to subsidiary or credit union exception
—(i)
Established small institutions.
A small institution that is established under § 327.8(k)(4) or (5) shall be assessed as follows:
(A) If the institution does not have a CAMELS composite rating, its initial base assessment rate shall be 2 basis points above the minimum initial base assessment rate applicable to established small institutions until it receives a CAMELS composite rating.
(B) If the institution has a CAMELS composite rating but no CAMELS component ratings, its initial assessment rate shall be determined using the financial ratios method, as set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but its CAMELS composite rating will be substituted for its weighted average CAMELS component rating and, if the institution has not filed four quarterly reports of condition, then the assessment rate will be determined by annualizing, where appropriate, financial ratios from all quarterly reports of condition that have been filed.
(ii)
Large or highly complex institutions.
If a large or highly complex institution is considered established under § 327.8(k)(4) or (5), but does not have CAMELS component ratings, it will be given a weighted CAMELS rating of 2 for assessment purposes until actual CAMELS ratings are assigned.
(5)
Request for review.
An institution that disagrees with the FDIC's determination that it is a new institution may request review of that determination pursuant to § 327.4(c).
(h)
Assessment rates for bridge depository institutions and conservatorships.
Institutions that are bridge depository institutions under 12 U.S.C. 1821(n) and institutions for which the Corporation has been appointed or serves as conservator shall, in all cases, be assessed at the minimum initial base assessment rate applicable to established small institutions, which shall not be subject to adjustment under paragraph (b)(3) or (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
[81 FR 32207, May 20, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 14568, Apr. 5, 2018; 84 FR 1353, Feb. 4, 2019; 84 FR 4249, Feb. 14, 2019; 85 FR 38292, June 26, 2020; 85 FR 71228, Nov. 9, 2020; 87 FR 64339, Oct. 24, 2022]
§ 327.17
Mitigating the Deposit Insurance Assessment Effect of Participation in the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility, and the Paycheck Protection Program.
(a)
Mitigating the assessment effects of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program for established small institutions.
Applicable beginning April 1, 2020, the FDIC will take the following actions when calculating the assessment rate for established small institutions under § 327.16:
(1)
Exclusion of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program from net income before taxes ratio, nonperforming loans and leases ratio, other real estate owned ratio, brokered deposit ratio, and one-year asset growth measure.
As described in appendix E to this subpart,
the FDIC will exclude the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program, as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income, from the total assets in the calculation of the following risk measures: Net income before taxes ratio, the nonperforming loans and leases ratio, the other real estate owned ratio, the brokered deposit ratio, and the one-year asset growth measure, which are described in § 327.16(a)(1)(ii)(A).
(2)
Exclusion of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program from Loan Mix Index.
As described in appendix E to this subpart A, when calculating the loan mix index described in § 327.16(a)(1)(ii)(B), the FDIC will exclude:
(i) The outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program, as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income, from the total assets; and
(ii) The outstanding balance loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program, as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income, from an established small institution's balance of commercial and industrial loans. To the extent that the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program exceeds an established small institution's balance of commercial and industrial loans, as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income, the FDIC will exclude any remaining balance of these loans from the balance of agricultural loans, up to the amount of agricultural loans, in the calculation of the loan mix index.
(b)
Mitigating the assessment effects of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program for large or highly complex institutions.
Applicable beginning April 1, 2020, the FDIC will take the following actions when calculating the assessment rate for large institutions and highly complex institutions under § 327.16:
(1)
Exclusion of Paycheck Protection Program loans from average short-term funding ratio, core earnings ratio, growth-adjusted portfolio concentration measure, and trading asset ratio.
As described in appendix E of this subpart, the FDIC will exclude the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program, as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income, from the calculation of the average short-term funding ratio, the core earnings ratio, the growth-adjusted portfolio concentration measure, and the trading asset ratio.
(2)
Exclusion of Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility borrowings from core deposit ratio.
As described in appendix E of this subpart, the FDIC will exclude the total outstanding balance of borrowings from the Federal Reserve Banks under the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility, as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income, from the calculation of the core deposit ratio.
(3)
Exclusion of Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility borrowings from balance sheet liquidity ratio.
As described in appendix E to this subpart, when calculating the balance sheet liquidity measure described under appendix A to this subpart, the FDIC will:
(i) Include the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program that exceed total borrowings from the Federal Reserve Banks under the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility, as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income, in the amount of highly liquid assets until September 30, 2020, or, if the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Secretary of the Treasury determine to extend the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility, until such date of extension; and
(ii) Exclude the outstanding balance of borrowings from the Federal Reserve Banks under the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility with a remaining maturity of one year or less from other borrowings with a remaining maturity of one year or less, both as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income.
(4)
Exclusion of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program and Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility borrowings from loss severity measure.
As described in appendix E to this subpart, when calculating the loss
severity measure described under appendix A to this subpart, the FDIC will exclude:
(i) The total outstanding balance of borrowings from the Federal Reserve Banks under the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility, as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income, from short- and long-term secured borrowings, as appropriate; and
(ii) The outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program, as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income, from an institution's balance of commercial and industrial loans. To the extent that the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program exceeds an institution's balance of commercial and industrial loans, the FDIC will exclude any remaining balance from all other loans, up to the total amount of all other loans, followed by agricultural loans, up to the total amount of agricultural loans, as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income. To the extent that an institution's outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program exceeds its borrowings from the Federal Reserve Banks under the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility, the FDIC will add the amount of outstanding loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program in excess of borrowings under the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility to cash.
(c)
Mitigating the effects of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program and assets purchased under the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility on the unsecured adjustment, depository institution debt adjustment, and the brokered deposit adjustment to an insured depository institution's assessment rate.
As described in appendix E to this subpart, when calculating an insured depository institution's unsecured debt adjustment, depository institution debt adjustment, or the brokered deposit adjustment described in § 327.16(e), as applicable, the FDIC will exclude the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program and the quarterly average amount of assets purchased under the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, both as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income.
(d)
Mitigating the effects on the assessment base attributable to loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program and participation in the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility.
As described in appendix E to this subpart, when calculating an insured depository institution's quarterly deposit insurance assessment payment due under this part, the FDIC will provide an offset to an institution's assessment for the increase to its assessment base attributable to participation in the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility and loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program.
(1)
Calculation of offset amount.
(i) To determine the offset amount, the FDIC will take the sum of the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program and the quarterly average amount of assets purchased under the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, both as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income, and multiply the sum by an institution's total base assessment rate, as calculated under § 327.16, including any adjustments under § 327.16(e).
(ii) To the extent that an institution does not report the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program, such as in an insured branch's Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks, the FDIC will take the sum of either the quarterly average amount of loans pledged to the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility as reported in the Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks, or the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program, as such certified data is provided to the FDIC, and the quarterly average amount of assets purchased under the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, as reported in the Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks, and multiply the
sum by an institution's total base assessment rate, as calculated under § 327.16.
(2)
Calculation of assessment amount due.
The FDIC will subtract the offset amount described in § 327.17(d)(1) from an insured depository institution's total assessment amount, consistent with § 327.3(b)(1).
(e)
Mitigating the effects of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program and assets purchased under the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility on the classification of insured depository institutions as small, large, or highly complex for deposit insurance purposes.
When classifying an insured depository institution as small, large, or complex for assessment purposes under § 327.8, the FDIC will exclude from an institution's total assets the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program and the balance of assets purchased under the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility outstanding, both as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income. Any institution with assets of between $5 billion and $10 billion, excluding the outstanding balance of loans provided under the Paycheck Protection Program and the balance of assets purchased under the MMLF, both as reported on the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income, may request that the FDIC determine its assessment rate as a large institution under § 327.16(f).
(f)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1)
Paycheck Protection Program.
The term “Paycheck Protection Program” means the program of that name that was created in section 1102 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act.
(2)
Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility.
The term “Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility” means the program of that name that was announced by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on April 9, 2020, and renamed as such on April 30, 2020.
(3)
Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility.
The term “Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility” means the program of that name announced by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on March 18, 2020.
[85 FR 38293, June 26, 2020]
Pt. 327, Subpt. A, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 327—Method to Derive Pricing Multipliers and Uniform Amount

# I. Introduction
The uniform amount and pricing multipliers are derived from:
• A model (the Statistical Model) that estimates the probability of failure of an institution over a three-year horizon;
• The minimum initial base assessment rate;
• The maximum initial base assessment rate;
• Thresholds marking the points at which the maximum and minimum assessment rates become effective.

# II. The Statistical Model
The Statistical Model estimates the probability of an insured depository institution failing within three years using a logistic regression and pooled time-series cross-sectional data;
1
that is, the dependent variable in the estimation is whether an insured depository institution failed during the following three-year period. Actual model parameters for the Statistical Model are an average of each of three regression estimates for each parameter. Each of the three regressions uses end-of-year data from insured depository institutions' quarterly reports of condition and income (Call Reports and Thrift Financial Reports or TFRs
2
) for every third year to estimate probability of failure within the ensuing three years. One regression (Regression 1) uses insured depository institutions' Call Report and TFR data for the end of 1985 and failures from 1986 through 1988; Call Report and TFR data for the end of 1988 and failures from 1989 through 1991; and so on, ending with Call Report data for the end of 2009 and failures from 2010 through 2012. The second regression (Regression 2) uses insured depository institutions' Call Report and TFR data for the end of 1986 and failures from 1987 through 1989, and so on, ending with Call Report data for the end of 2010 and failures from 2011 through 2013. The third regression (Regression 3) uses insured
depository institutions' Call Report and TFR data for the end of 1987 and failures from 1988 through 1990, and so on, ending with Call Report data for the end of 2011 and failures from 2012 through 2014. The regressions include only Call Report data and failures for established small institutions.
1
Tests for the statistical significance of parameters use adjustments discussed by Tyler Shumway (2001) “Forecasting Bankruptcy More Accurately: A Simple Hazard Model,” Journal of Business 74:1, 101-124.
2
Beginning in 2012, all insured depository institutions began filing quarterly Call Reports and the TFR was no longer filed.
Table A.1 lists and defines the explanatory variables (regressors) in the Statistical Model.
Table A.1—Definitions of Measures Used in the Financial Ratios Method
Variables
Description
Leverage Ratio (%)
Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average assets. (Numerator and denominator are both based on the definition for prompt corrective action.)
Net Income before Taxes/Total Assets (%)
Income (before applicable income taxes and discontinued operations) for the most recent twelve months divided by total assets.
1
Nonperforming Loans and Leases/Gross Assets (%)
Sum of total loans and lease financing receivables past due 90 or more days and still accruing interest and total nonaccrual loans and lease financing receivables (excluding, in both cases, the maximum amount recoverable from the U.S. Government, its agencies or government-sponsored enterprises, under guarantee or insurance provisions) divided by gross assets.
2
3
Other Real Estate Owned/Gross Assets (%)
Other real estate owned divided by gross assets.
2
Brokered Deposit Ratio
The ratio of the difference between brokered deposits and 10 percent of total assets to total assets. For institutions that are well capitalized and have a CAMELS composite rating of 1 or 2, reciprocal deposits are deducted from brokered deposits. If the ratio is less than zero, the value is set to zero.
Weighted Average of C, A, M, E, L, and S Component Ratings
The weighted sum of the “C,” “A,” “M,” “E”, “L”, and “S” CAMELS components, with weights of 25 percent each for the “C” and “M” components, 20 percent for the “A” component, and 10 percent each for the “E”, “L”, and “S” components. In instances where the “S” component is missing, the remaining components are scaled by a factor of 10/9.
4
Loan Mix Index
A measure of credit risk described below.
One-Year Asset Growth (%)
Growth in assets (adjusted for mergers
5
) over the previous year in excess of 10 percent.
6
If growth is less than 10 percent, the value is set to zero.
1
For purposes of calculating actual assessment rates (as opposed to model estimation), the ratio of Net Income before Taxes to Total Assets is bounded below by (and cannot be less than) -25 percent and is bounded above by (and cannot exceed) 3 percent. For purposes of model estimation only, the ratio of Net Income before Taxes to Total Assets is defined as income (before income taxes and extraordinary items and other adjustments) for the most recent twelve months divided by total assets.
2
For purposes of calculating actual assessment rates (as opposed to model estimation), “Gross assets” are total assets plus the allowance for loan and lease financing receivable losses (ALLL); for purposes of estimating the Statistical Model, for years before 2001, when allocated transfer risk was not included in ALLL in Call Reports, allocated transfer risk is included in gross assets separately.
3
Delinquency and non-accrual data on government guaranteed loans are not available for the entire estimation period. As a result, the Statistical Model is estimated without deducting delinquent or past-due government guaranteed loans from the nonperforming loans and leases to gross assets ratio.
4
The component rating for sensitivity to market risk (the “S” rating) is not available for years before 1997. As a result, and as described in the table, the Statistical Model is estimated using a weighted average of five component ratings excluding the “S” component where the component is not available.
5
Growth in assets is also adjusted for acquisitions of failed banks.
6
For purposes of calculating actual assessment rates (as opposed to model estimation), the maximum value of the One-Year Asset Growth measure is 230 percent; that is, asset growth (merger adjusted) over the previous year in excess of 240 percent (230 percentage points in excess of the 10 percent threshold) will not further increase a bank's assessment rate.
The financial variable measures used to estimate the failure probabilities are obtained from Call Reports and TFRs. The weighted average of the “C,” “A,” “M,” “E,” “L,”, and “S” component ratings measure is based on component ratings obtained from the most recent bank examination conducted within 24 months before the date of the Call Report or TFR.
The Loan Mix Index assigns loans to the categories of loans described in Table A.2. For each loan category, a charge-off rate is calculated for each year from 2001 through 2014. The charge-off rate for each year is the aggregate charge-off rate on all such loans held by small institutions in that year. A weighted average charge-off rate is then calculated for each loan category, where the weight for each year is based on the number of small-bank failures during that year.
3
A Loan Mix Index for each established small institution is calculated by: (1) multiplying
the ratio of the institution's amount of loans in a particular loan category to its total assets by the associated weighted average charge-off rate for that loan category; and (2) summing the products for all loan categories. Table A.2 gives the weighted average charge-off rate for each category of loan, as calculated through the end of 2014. The Loan Mix Index excludes credit card loans.
3
An exception is “Real Estate Loans Residual,” which consists of real estate loans held in foreign offices. Few small insured depository institutions report this item and a statistically reliable estimate of the weighted average charge-off rate could not be obtained. Instead, a weighted average of the weighted average charge-off rates of the other real estate loan categories is used. (The other categories are construction
development, multifamily residential, nonfarm nonresidential, 1-4 family residential, and agricultural real estate.) The weight for each of the other real estate loan categories is based on the aggregate amount of the loans held by small insured depository institutions as of December 31, 2014.
Table A.2—Loan Mix Index Categories
Weighted
charge-off
rate percent
Construction
Development
4.4965840
Commercial
Industrial
1.5984506
Leases
1.4974551
Other Consumer
1.4559717
Loans to Foreign Government
1.3384093
Real Estate Loans Residual
1.0169338
Multifamily Residential
0.8847597
Nonfarm Residential
0.7286274
1-4 Family Residential
0.6973778
Loans to Depository Banks
0.5760532
Agricultural Real Estate
0.2376712
Agriculture
0.2432737
For each of the three regression estimates (Regression 1, Regression 2 and Regression 3), the estimated probability of failure (over a three-year horizon) of institution
i
at time
T
is
ER24OC22.003
where
ER24OC22.004
where the β variables are parameter estimates. As stated earlier, for actual assessments, the β values that are applied are averages of each of the individual parameters over three separate regressions. Pricing multipliers (discussed in the next section) are based on
Z
iT
.
4
4
The
Z
iT
values have the same rank ordering as the probability measures P
iT
.

# III. Derivation of Uniform Amount and Pricing Multipliers
The uniform amount and pricing multipliers used to compute the annual initial base assessment rate in basis points,
R
iT
, for any such institution
i
at a given time
T
will be determined from the Statistical Model as follows:
ER24OC22.005
where
α
0
and
α
1
are a constant term and a scale factor used to convert
Z
iT
to an assessment rate,
Max
is the maximum initial base assessment rate in effect and
Min
is the minimum initial base assessment rate in effect. (R
iT
is expressed as an annual rate, but the actual rate applied in any quarter will be R
iT
/4.)
5
R
iT
is also subject to the minimum and maximum assessment rates applicable to established small institutions based upon their CAMELS composite ratings.
Solving equation 3 for minimum and maximum initial base assessment rates simultaneously,
Min = α
0
+
α
1
* Z
N
and
Max
=
α
0
+
α
1
* Z
X
where Z
X
is the value of Z
iT
above which the maximum initial assessment rate (
Max
) applies and Z
N
is the value of Z
iT
below which the minimum initial assessment rate (
Min
) applies, results in values for the constant amount,
α
0,
and the scale factor,
α
1
:
ER24OC22.006
The values for Z
X
and Z
N
will be selected to ensure that, for an assessment period shortly before adoption of a final rule, aggregate assessments for all established small institutions would have been approximately the same under the final rule as they would have been under the assessment rate schedule that—under rules in effect before adoption of the final rule—will automatically go into effect when the reserve ratio reaches 1.15 percent. As an example, using aggregate assessments for all established small institutions for the third quarter of 2013 to determine Z
X
and Z
N
, and assuming that
Min
had equaled 3 basis points and
Max
had equaled 30 basis points, the value of Z
X
would have been 0.87 and the value of Z
N
−6.36. Hence based on equations 4 and 5,
α
0
= 26.751 and
α
1
= 3.734.
Therefore from equation 3, it follows that
ER24OC22.007
Substituting equation 2 produces an annual initial base assessment rate for institution
i
at time
T,
R
iT
, in terms of the uniform amount, the pricing multipliers and model variables:
ER24OC22.008
again subject to 3≤ R
iT
≤30
6
6
As stated above, R
iT
is also subject to the minimum and maximum assessment rates applicable to established small institutions based upon their CAMELS composite ratings.
where 26.751 + 3.734 * β
0
equals the uniform amount, 3.734 * β
j
is a pricing multiplier for the associated risk measure
j,
and
T
is the date of the report of condition corresponding to the end of the quarter for which the assessment rate is computed.

# IV. Description of Scorecard Measures
Scorecard
measures
1
Description
Leverage Ratio
Tier 1 capital for Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) divided by adjusted average assets based on the definition for prompt corrective action.
Concentration Measure for Large Insured depository institutions (excluding Highly Complex Institutions)
The concentration score for large institutions is the higher of the following two scores:
(1) Higher-Risk Assets/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves
2
Sum of construction and land development (C
D) loans (funded and unfunded), higher-risk C
I loans (funded and unfunded), nontraditional mortgages, higher-risk consumer loans, and higher-risk securitizations divided by Tier 1 capital and reserves. See Appendix C for the detailed description of the ratio.
(2) Growth-Adjusted Portfolio Concentrations
2
The measure is calculated in the following steps:
(1) Concentration levels (as a ratio to Tier 1 capital and reserves) are calculated for each broad portfolio category:
• C
D,
• Other commercial real estate loans,
• First lien residential mortgages (including non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities),
• Closed-end junior liens and home equity lines of credit (HELOCs),
• Commercial and industrial loans,
• Credit card loans, and
• Other consumer loans.
(2) Risk weights are assigned to each loan category based on historical loss rates.
(3) Concentration levels are multiplied by risk weights and squared to produce a risk-adjusted concentration ratio for each portfolio.
(4) Three-year merger-adjusted portfolio growth rates are then scaled to a growth factor of 1 to 1.2 where a 3-year cumulative growth rate of 20 percent or less equals a factor of 1 and a growth rate of 80 percent or greater equals a factor of 1.2. If three years of data are not available, a growth factor of 1 will be assigned.
(5) The risk-adjusted concentration ratio for each portfolio is multiplied by the growth factor and resulting values are summed.
See Appendix C for the detailed description of the measure.
Concentration Measure for Highly Complex Institutions
Concentration score for highly complex institutions is the highest of the following three scores:
(1) Higher-Risk Assets/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves
2
Sum of C
D loans (funded and unfunded), higher-risk C
I loans (funded and unfunded), nontraditional mortgages, higher-risk consumer loans, and higher-risk securitizations divided by Tier 1 capital and reserves. See Appendix C for the detailed description of the measure.
(2) Top 20 Counterparty Exposure/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves
2
Sum of the 20 largest total exposure amounts to counterparties divided by Tier 1 capital and reserves. The total exposure amount is equal to the sum of the institution's exposure amounts to one counterparty (or borrower) for derivatives, securities financing transactions (SFTs), and cleared transactions, and its gross lending exposure (including all unfunded commitments) to that counterparty (or borrower). A counterparty includes an entity's own affiliates. Exposures to entities that are affiliates of each other are treated as exposures to one counterparty (or borrower). Counterparty exposure excludes all counterparty exposure to the U.S. Government and departments or agencies of the U.S. Government that is unconditionally guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The exposure amount for derivatives, including OTC derivatives, cleared transactions that are derivative contracts, and netting sets of derivative contracts, must be calculated using the methodology set forth in 12 CFR 324.34(b), but without any reduction for collateral other than cash collateral that is all or part of variation margin and that satisfies the requirements of 12 CFR 324.10(c)(4)(ii)(C)(
1
)(
ii
) and (
iii
) and 324.10(c)(4)(ii)(C)(
3
) through (
7
). The exposure amount associated with SFTs, including cleared transactions that are SFTs, must be calculated using the standardized approach set forth in 12 CFR 324.37(b) or (c). For both derivatives and SFT exposures, the exposure amount to central counterparties must also include the default fund contribution.
3
(3) Largest Counterparty Exposure/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves
2
The largest total exposure amount to one counterparty divided by Tier 1 capital and reserves. The total exposure amount is equal to the sum of the institution's exposure amounts to one counterparty (or borrower) for derivatives, SFTs, and cleared transactions, and its gross lending exposure (including all unfunded commitments) to that counterparty (or borrower). A counterparty includes an entity's own affiliates. Exposures to entities that are affiliates of each other are treated as exposures to one counterparty (or borrower). Counterparty exposure excludes all counterparty exposure to the U.S. Government and departments or agencies of the U.S. Government that is unconditionally guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The exposure amount for derivatives, including OTC derivatives, cleared transactions that are derivative contracts, and netting sets of derivative contracts, must be calculated using the methodology set forth in 12 CFR 324.34(b), but without any reduction for collateral other than cash collateral that is all or part of variation margin and that satisfies the requirements of 12 CFR 324.10(c)(4)(ii)(C)(
1
)(
ii
) and (
iii
) and 324.10(c)(4)(ii)(C)(
3
) through (
7
). The exposure amount associated with SFTs, including cleared transactions that are SFTs, must be calculated using the standardized approach set forth in 12 CFR 324.37(b) or (c). For both derivatives and SFT exposures, the exposure amount to central counterparties must also include the default fund contribution.
3
Core Earnings/Average Quarter-End Total Assets
Core earnings are defined as net income less extraordinary items and tax-adjusted realized gains and losses on available-for-sale (AFS) and held-to-maturity (HTM) securities, adjusted for mergers. The ratio takes a four-quarter sum of merger-adjusted core earnings and divides it by an average of five quarter-end total assets (most recent and four prior quarters). If four quarters of data on core earnings are not available, data for quarters that are available will be added and annualized. If five quarters of data on total assets are not available, data for quarters that are available will be averaged.
Credit Quality Measure
The credit quality score is the higher of the following two scores:
(1) Criticized and Classified Items/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves
2
Sum of criticized and classified items divided by the sum of Tier 1 capital and reserves. Criticized and classified items include items an institution or its primary Federal regulator have graded “Special Mention” or worse and include retail items under Uniform Retail Classification Guidelines, securities, funded and unfunded loans, other real estate owned (ORE), other assets, and marked-to-market counterparty positions, less credit valuation adjustments.
4
Criticized and classified items exclude loans and securities in trading books, and the amount recoverable from the U.S. Government, its agencies, or Government-sponsored enterprises, under guarantee or insurance provisions.
(2) Underperforming Assets/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves
2
Sum of loans that are 30 days or more past due and still accruing interest, nonaccrual loans, restructured loans
5
(including restructured 1-4 family loans), and ORE, excluding the maximum amount recoverable from the U.S. Government, its agencies, or government-sponsored enterprises, under guarantee or insurance provisions, divided by a sum of Tier 1 capital and reserves.
Core Deposits/Total Liabilities
Total domestic deposits excluding brokered deposits and uninsured non-brokered time deposits divided by total liabilities.
Balance Sheet Liquidity Ratio
Sum of cash and balances due from depository institutions, federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell, and the market value of available for sale and held to maturity agency securities (excludes agency mortgage-backed securities but includes all other agency securities issued by the U.S. Treasury, U.S. government agencies, and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises) divided by the sum of federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements, other borrowings (including FHLB) with a remaining maturity of one year or less, 5 percent of insured domestic deposits, and 10 percent of uninsured domestic and foreign deposits.
6
Potential Losses/Total Domestic Deposits (Loss Severity Measure)
7
Potential losses to the DIF in the event of failure divided by total domestic deposits. Appendix D describes the calculation of the loss severity measure in detail.
Market Risk Measure for Highly Complex Institutions
The market risk score is a weighted average of the following three scores:
(1) Trading Revenue Volatility/Tier 1 Capital
Trailing 4-quarter standard deviation of quarterly trading revenue (merger-adjusted) divided by Tier 1 capital.
(2) Market Risk Capital/Tier 1 Capital
Market risk capital divided by Tier 1 capital.
8
(3) Level 3 Trading Assets/Tier 1 Capital
Level 3 trading assets divided by Tier 1 capital.
Average Short-term Funding/Average Total Assets
Quarterly average of federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements divided by the quarterly average of total assets as reported on Schedule RC-K of the Call Reports.
1
The FDIC retains the flexibility, as part of the risk-based assessment system, without the necessity of additional notice-and-comment rulemaking, to update the minimum and maximum cutoff values for all measures used in the scorecard. The FDIC may update the minimum and maximum cutoff values for the higher-risk assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves ratio in order to maintain an approximately similar distribution of higher-risk assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves ratio scores as reported prior to April 1, 2013, or to avoid changing the overall amount of assessment revenue collected. 76 FR 10672, 10700 (February 25, 2011). The FDIC will review changes in the distribution of the higher-risk assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves ratio scores and the resulting effect on total assessments and risk differentiation between banks when determining changes to the cutoffs. The FDIC may update the cutoff values for the higher-risk assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves ratio more frequently than annually. The FDIC will provide banks with a minimum one quarter advance notice of changes in the cutoff values for the higher-risk assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves ratio with their quarterly deposit insurance invoice.
2
The applicable portions of the current expected credit loss methodology (CECL) transitional amounts attributable to the allowance for credit losses on loans and leases held for investment and added to retained earnings for regulatory capital purposes pursuant to the regulatory capital regulations, as they may be amended from time to time (12 CFR part 3, 12 CFR part 217, 12 CFR part 324, 85 FR 61577 (Sept. 30, 2020), and 84 FR 4222 (Feb. 14, 2019)), will be removed from the sum of Tier 1 capital and reserves.
3
SFTs include repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, security lending and borrowing, and margin lending transactions, where the value of the transactions depends on market valuations and the transactions are often subject to margin agreements. The default fund contribution is the funds contributed or commitments made by a clearing member to a central counterparty's mutualized loss sharing arrangement. The other terms used in this description are as defined in 12 CFR part 324, subparts A and D, unless defined otherwise in 12 CFR part 327.
4
A marked-to-market counterparty position is equal to the sum of the net marked-to-market derivative exposures for each counterparty. The net marked-to-market derivative exposure equals the sum of all positive marked-to-market exposures net of legally enforceable netting provisions and net of all collateral held under a legally enforceable CSA plus any exposure where excess collateral has been posted to the counterparty. For purposes of the Criticized and Classified Items/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves definition a marked-to-market counterparty position less any credit valuation adjustment can never be less than zero.
5
Restructured loans include troubled debt restructurings and modifications to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty, as these terms are defined in the glossary to the Call Report, as they may be amended from time to time.
6
Deposit runoff rates for the balance sheet liquidity ratio reflect changes issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in its December 2010 document, “Basel III: International Framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards, and monitoring,”
http://www.bis.org/publ/bcbs188.pdf.
7
The applicable portions of the CECL transitional amounts attributable to the allowance for credit losses on loans and leases held for investment and added to retained earnings for regulatory capital purposes will be removed from the calculation of the loss severity measure.
8
Market risk
is defined in 12 CFR 324.202.
[74 FR 9557, Mar. 4, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 10720, Feb. 25, 2011; 76 FR 17521, Mar. 30, 2011; 77 FR 66015, Oct. 31, 2012; 78 FR 55594, Sept. 10, 2013; 79 FR 70437, Nov. 26, 2014; 83 FR 17740, Apr. 24, 2018; 85 FR 4443, Jan. 24, 2020; 85 FR 71228, Nov. 9, 2020; 86 FR 11399, Feb. 25, 2021; 87 FR 64340, 64354, Oct. 24, 2022]
Pt. 327, Subpt. A, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart A of Part 327—Conversion of Scorecard Measures into Score

# 1. Weighted Average CAMELS Rating
Weighted average CAMELS ratings between 1 and 3.5 are assigned a score between 25 and 100 according to the following equation:
S
= 25 + [(20/3) * (
C
2
−1)],
where:
S
= the weighted average CAMELS score; and
C
= the weighted average CAMELS rating.

# 2. Other Scorecard Measures
For certain scorecard measures, a lower ratio implies lower risk and a higher ratio implies higher risk. These measures include:
• Concentration measure;
• Credit quality measure;
• Market risk measure;
• Average short-term funding to average total assets ratio; and
• Potential losses to total domestic deposits ratio (loss severity measure).
For those measures, a value between the minimum and maximum cutoff values is converted linearly to a score between 0 and 100, according to the following formula:
S
= (
V −
Min) * 100/(Max −Min),
where
S
is score (rounded to three decimal points),
V
is the value of the measure, Min is the minimum cutoff value and Max is the maximum cutoff value.
For other scorecard measures, a lower value represents higher risk and a higher value represents lower risk. These measures include:
• Leverage ratio;
• Core earnings to average quarter-end total assets ratio;
• Core deposits to total liabilities ratio; and
• Balance sheet liquidity ratio.
For those measures, a value between the minimum and maximum cutoff values is converted linearly to a score between 0 and 100, according to the following formula:
S
= (Max −
V
) * 100/(Max −Min),
where
S
is score (rounded to three decimal points),
V
is the value of the measure, Max is the maximum cutoff value and Min is the minimum cutoff value.
[76 FR 10720, Feb. 25, 2011]
Pt. 327, Subpt. A, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart A of Part 327—Description of Concentration Measures

# I. Concentration Measures
The concentration score for large banks is the higher of the higher-risk assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves score or the growth-adjusted portfolio concentrations score.
1
The concentration score for highly complex institutions is the highest of the higher-risk assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves score, the Top 20 counterparty exposure to Tier 1 capital and reserves score, or the largest counterparty to Tier 1 capital and reserves score.
2
The higher-risk assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves ratio and the growth-adjusted portfolio concentration measure are described herein.
1
For the purposes of this Appendix, the term “bank” means insured depository institution.
2
As described in Appendix A to this subpart, the applicable portions of the current expected credit loss methodology (CECL) transitional amounts attributable to the allowance for credit losses on loans and leases held for investment and added to retained earnings for regulatory capital purposes pursuant to the regulatory capital regulations, as they may be amended from time to time (12 CFR part 3, 12 CFR part 217, 12 CFR part 324, 85 FR 61577 (Sept. 30, 2020), and 84 FR 4222 (Feb. 14, 2019)), will be removed from the sum of Tier 1 capital and reserves throughout the large bank and highly complex bank scorecards, including in the ratio of Higher-Risk Assets to Tier 1 Capital and Reserves, the Growth-Adjusted Portfolio Concentrations Measure, the ratio of Top 20 Counterparty Exposure to Tier 1 Capital and Reserves, and the Ratio of Largest Counterparty Exposure to Tier 1 Capital and Reserves.

# A. Higher-Risk Assets/Tier 1 Capital and Reserves
The higher-risk assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves ratio is the sum of the concentrations in each of five risk areas described below and is calculated as:
ER31OC12.027
Where:
H
i
is bank
i'
s higher-risk concentration measure and
k
is a risk area.
3
The five risk areas (
k
) are: construction and land development (C
D) loans; higher-risk commercial and industrial (C
I) loans and securities; higher-risk consumer loans; nontraditional mortgage loans; and higher-risk securitizations.
3
The higher-risk concentration ratio is rounded to two decimal points.

# 1. Construction and Land Development Loans
Construction and land development loans include construction and land development loans outstanding and unfunded commitments to fund construction and land development loans, whether irrevocable or unconditionally cancellable.
4
4
Construction and land development loans are as defined in the instructions to Call Report Schedule RC-C Part I—Loans and Leases, as they may be amended from time to time, and include items reported on line items RC-C 1.a.1 (1-4 family residential construction loans), RC-C 1.a.2. (Other construction loans and all land development and other land loans), and RC-O M.10.a (Total unfunded commitments to fund construction, land development, and other land loans secured by real estate), and exclude RC-O M.10.b (Portion of unfunded commitments to fund construction, land development and other loans that are guaranteed or insured by the U.S. government, including the FDIC), RC-O M.13.a (Portion of funded construction, land development, and other land loans guaranteed or insured by the U.S. government, excluding FDIC loss sharing agreements), RC-M 13a.1.a.1 (1-4 family construction and land development loans covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC), and RC-M 13a.1.a.2 (Other construction loans and all land development loans covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC).

# 2. Higher-Risk Commercial and Industrial (C

# I) Loans and Securities

# Definitions

# Higher-Risk C

# I Loans and Securities
Higher-risk C
I loans and securities are:
(a) All commercial and industrial (C
I) loans (including funded amounts and the amount of unfunded commitments, whether irrevocable or unconditionally cancellable) owed to the reporting bank (
i.e.,
the bank filing its report of condition and income, or Call Report) by a higher-risk C
I borrower, as that term is defined herein, regardless when the loans were made;
5 6
and
5
Commercial and industrial loans are as defined as commercial and industrial loans in the instructions to Call Report Schedule RC-C Part I—Loans and Leases, as they may be amended from time to time. This definition includes purchased credit impaired loans and overdrafts.
6
Unfunded commitments are defined as unused commitments, as this term is defined in the instructions to Call Report Schedule RC-L, Derivatives and Off-Balance Sheet Items, as they may be amended from time to time.
(b) All securities, except securities classified as trading book, issued by a higher-risk C
I borrower, as that term is defined herein, that are owned by the reporting bank, without regard to when the securities were purchased; however, higher-risk C
I loans and securities exclude:
(a) The maximum amount that is recoverable from the U.S. government under guarantee or insurance provisions;
(b) Loans (including syndicated or participated loans) that are fully secured by cash collateral as provided herein;
(c) Loans that are eligible for the asset-based lending exclusion, described herein, provided the bank's primary federal regulator (PFR) has not cited a criticism (included in the Matters Requiring Attention, or MRA) of the bank's controls or administration of its asset-based loan portfolio; and
(d) Loans that are eligible for the floor plan lending exclusion, described herein, provided the bank's PFR has not cited a criticism (included in the MRA) of the bank's controls or administration of its floor plan loan portfolio.

# Higher-Risk C

# I Borrower
A “higher-risk C
I borrower” is a borrower that:
(a) Owes the reporting bank on a C
I loan originally made on or after April 1, 2013, if:
(i) The C
I loan has an original amount (including funded amounts and the amount of unfunded commitments, whether irrevocable or unconditionally cancellable) of at least $5 million;
(ii) The loan meets the purpose and materiality tests described herein; and
(iii) When the loan is made, the borrower meets the leverage test described herein; or
(b) Obtains a refinance, as that term is defined herein, of an existing C
I loan, where the refinance occurs on or after April 1, 2013, and the refinanced loan is owed to the reporting bank, if:
(i) The refinanced loan is in an amount (including funded amounts and the amount of unfunded commitments, whether irrevocable or unconditionally cancellable) of at least $5 million;
(ii) The C
I loan being refinanced met the purpose and materiality tests (described herein) when it was originally made;
(iii) The original loan was made no more than 5 years before the refinanced loan; and
(iv) When the loan is refinanced, the borrower meets the leverage test.
When a bank acquires a C
I loan originally made on or after April 1, 2013, by another lender, it must determine whether the borrower is a higher-risk borrower as a result of the loan as soon as reasonably practicable, but not later than one year after acquisition. When a bank acquires loans from another entity on a recurring or programmatic basis, however, the bank must determine whether the borrower is a higher-risk borrower as a result of the loan as soon as is practicable, but not later than three months after the date of acquisition.
A borrower ceases to be a “higher-risk C
I borrower” only if:
(a) The borrower no longer has any C
I loans owed to the reporting bank that, when originally made, met the purpose and materiality tests described herein;
(b) The borrower has such loans outstanding owed to the reporting bank, but they have all been refinanced more than 5 years after originally being made; or
(c) The reporting bank makes a new C
I loan or refinances an existing C
I loan and the borrower no longer meets the leverage test described herein.

# Original Amount
The original amount of a loan, including the amounts to aggregate for purposes of arriving at the original amount, as described herein, is:
(a) For C
I loans drawn down under lines of credit or loan commitments, the amount of the line of credit or loan commitment on the date of its most recent approval, extension or renewal prior to the date of the most recent Call Report; if, however, the amount currently outstanding on the loan as of the date of the bank's most recent Call Report exceeds this amount, then the original amount of the loan is the amount outstanding as of the date of the bank's most recent Call Report.
(b) For syndicated or participated C
I loans, the total amount of the loan, rather than just the syndicated or participated portion held by the individual reporting bank.
(c) For all other C
I loans (whether term or non-revolver loans), the total amount of the loan as of origination or the amount outstanding as of the date of the bank's most recent Call Report, whichever is larger.
For purposes of defining original amount and a higher-risk C
I borrower:
(a) All C
I loans that a borrower owes to the reporting bank that meet the purpose test when made, and that are made within six months of each other, must be aggregated to determine the original amount of the loan; however, only loans in the original amount of $1 million or more must be aggregated; and further provided, that loans made before the April 1, 2013, need not be aggregated.
(b) When a C
I loan is refinanced through more than one loan, and the loans are made within six months of each other, they must be aggregated to determine the original amount.

# Refinance
For purposes of a C
I loan, a refinance includes:
(a) Replacing an original obligation by a new or modified obligation or loan agreement;
(b) Increasing the master commitment of the line of credit (but not adjusting sub-limits under the master commitment);
(c) Disbursing additional money other than amounts already committed to the borrower;
(d) Extending the legal maturity date;
(e) Rescheduling principal or interest payments to create or increase a balloon payment;
(f) Releasing a substantial amount of collateral;
(g) Consolidating multiple existing obligations; or
(h) Increasing or decreasing the interest rate.
A refinance of a C
I loan does not include a modification or series of modifications to a commercial loan other than as described above or modifications to a commercial loan that would otherwise meet this definition of refinance, but that result in the classification of a loan as a troubled debt restructuring (TDR) or a modification to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty, as these terms are defined in the glossary of the Call Report instructions, as they may be amended from time to time.

# Purpose Test
A loan or refinance meets the purpose test if it is to finance:
(a) A buyout, defined as the purchase or repurchase by the borrower of the borrower's outstanding equity, including, but not limited to, an equity buyout or funding an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP);
(b) An acquisition, defined as the purchase by the borrower of any equity interest in another company, or the purchase of all or a substantial portion of the assets of another company; or
(c) A capital distribution, defined as a dividend payment or other transaction designed to enhance shareholder value, including, but not limited to, a repurchase of stock.
At the time of refinance, whether the original loan met the purpose test may not be easily determined by a new lender. In such a case, the new lender must use its best efforts and reasonable due diligence to determine whether the original loan met the test.

# Materiality Test
A loan or refinance meets the materiality test if:
(a) The original amount of the loan (including funded amounts and the amount of unfunded commitments, whether irrevocable or unconditionally cancellable) equals or exceeds 20 percent of the total funded debt of the borrower; total funded debt of the borrower is to be determined as of the date of the original loan and does not include the loan to which the materiality test is being applied; or
(b) Before the loan was made, the borrower had no funded debt.
When multiple loans must be aggregated to determine the original amount, the materiality test is applied as of the date of the most recent loan.
At the time of refinance, whether the original loan met the materiality test may not be easily determined by a new lender. In such a case, the new lender must use its best efforts and reasonable due diligence to determine whether the original loan met the test.

# Leverage Test
A borrower meets the leverage test if:
(a) The ratio of the borrower's total debt to trailing twelve-month EBITDA (commonly known as the operating leverage ratio) is greater than 4; or
(b) The ratio of the borrower's senior debt to trailing twelve-month EBITDA (also commonly known as the operating leverage ratio) is greater than 3.
EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization.
Total debt is defined as all interest-bearing financial obligations and includes, but is not limited to, overdrafts, borrowings, repurchase agreements (repos), trust receipts, bankers acceptances, debentures, bonds, loans (including those secured by mortgages), sinking funds, capital (finance) lease obligations (including those obligations that are convertible, redeemable or retractable), mandatory redeemable preferred and trust preferred securities accounted for as liabilities in accordance with ASC Subtopic 480-10, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity—Overall (formerly FASB Statement No. 150, “Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity”), and subordinated capital notes. Total debt excludes pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities and preferred equity.
Senior debt includes any portion of total debt that has a priority claim on any of the borrower's assets. A priority claim is a claim that entitles the holder to priority of payment over other debt holders in bankruptcy.
When calculating either of the borrower's operating leverage ratios, the only permitted EBITDA adjustments are those specifically permitted for that borrower in the loan agreement (at the time of underwriting) and only funded amounts of lines of credit must be considered debt.
The debt-to-EBITDA ratio must be calculated using the consolidated financial statements of the borrower. If the loan is made to a subsidiary of a larger organization, the debt-to-EBITDA ratio may be calculated using the financial statements of the subsidiary or, if the parent company has unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed the borrower's debt, using the consolidated financial statements of the parent company.
In the case of a merger of two companies or the acquisition of one or more companies or parts of companies, pro-forma debt is to be used as well as the trailing twelve-month pro-forma EBITDA for the combined companies. When calculating the trailing pro-forma EBITDA for the combined company, no adjustments are allowed for economies of scale or projected cost savings that may be realized subsequent to the acquisition unless specifically permitted for that borrower under the loan agreement.

# Exclusions

# Cash Collateral Exclusion
To exclude a loan based on cash collateral, the cash must be in the form of a savings or time deposit held by a bank. The bank (or lead bank or agent bank in the case of a participation or syndication) must have a perfected first priority security interest, a security agreement, and a collateral assignment of the deposit account that is irrevocable for the remaining term of the loan or commitment. In addition, the bank must place a hold on the deposit account that alerts the bank's employees to an attempted withdrawal. If the cash collateral is held at another bank or at multiple banks, a security agreement must be in place and each bank must have an account control agreement in place.
7
For the exclusion to apply to a revolving line of credit, the cash collateral must be equal to or greater than the amount of the total loan commitment (the aggregate funded and unfunded balance of the loan).
7
An account control agreement, for purposes of this Appendix, means a written agreement between the lending bank (the secured party), the borrower, and the bank that holds the deposit account serving as collateral (the depository bank), that the depository bank will comply with instructions originated by the secured party directing disposition of the funds in the deposit account without further consent by the borrower (or any other party).

# Asset-Based and Floor Plan Lending Exclusions
The FDIC retains the authority to verify that banks have sound internal controls and administration practices for asset-based and floor plan loans that are excluded from a bank's reported higher-risk C
I loans and securities totals. If the bank's PFR has cited a criticism of the bank's controls or administration of its asset-based or floor plan loan portfolios in an MRA, the bank is not eligible for the asset-based or floor plan lending exclusions.

# Asset-Based Lending Conditions
Asset-based loans (loans secured by accounts receivable and inventory) that meet all the following conditions are excluded from a bank's higher-risk C
I loan totals:
(a) The loan is managed by a loan officer or group of loan officers at the reporting bank who have experience in asset-based lending and collateral monitoring, including, but not limited to, experience in reviewing the following: Collateral reports, borrowing base certificates (which are discussed herein), collateral audit reports, loan-to-collateral values (LTV), and loan limits, using procedures common to the industry.
(b) The bank has taken, or has the legally enforceable ability to take, dominion over the borrower's deposit accounts such that proceeds of collateral are applied to the loan balance as collected. Security agreements must be in place in all cases; in addition, if a borrower's deposit account is held at a bank other than the lending bank, an account control agreement must also be in place.
(c) The bank has a perfected first priority security interest in all assets included in the borrowing base certificate.
(d) If the loan is a credit facility (revolving or term loan), it must be fully secured by self-liquidating assets such as accounts receivable and inventory.
8
Other non-self-liquidating assets may be part of the borrowing base, but the outstanding balance of the loan must be fully secured by the portion of the borrowing base that is composed of self-liquidating assets. Fully secured is defined as a 100 percent or lower LTV ratio after applying the appropriate discounts (determined by the loan agreement) to the collateral. If an over advance (including a seasonal over advance) causes the LTV to exceed 100 percent, the loan may not be excluded from higher-risk C
I loans owed by a higher-risk C
I borrower. Additionally, the bank must have the ability to withhold funding of a draw or advance if the loan amount exceeds the amount allowed by the collateral formula.
8
An asset is self-liquidating if, in the event the borrower defaults, the asset can be easily liquidated and the proceeds of the sale of the assets would be used to pay down the loan. These assets can include machinery, heavy equipment or rental equipment if the machinery or equipment is inventory for the borrower's primary business and the machinery or equipment is included in the borrowing base.
(e) A bank's lending policy or procedures must address the maintenance of an accounts receivable loan agreement with the borrower. This loan agreement must establish a maximum percentage advance, which cannot exceed 85 percent, against eligible accounts receivable, include a maximum dollar amount due from any one account debtor, address the financial strength of debtor accounts, and define eligible receivables. The definition of eligible receivables must consider the receivable quality, the turnover and dilution rates of receivables pledged, the aging of accounts receivable, the concentrations of debtor accounts, and the performance of the receivables related to their terms of sale.
Concentration of debtor accounts is the percentage value of receivables associated with one or a few customers relative to the total value of receivables. Turnover of receivables is the velocity at which receivables are collected. The dilution rate is the uncollectible accounts receivable as a percentage of sales.
Ineligibles must be established for any debtor account where there is concern that the debtor may not pay according to terms. Monthly accounts receivable agings must be received in sufficient detail to allow the bank to compute the required ineligibles. At a minimum, the following items must be deemed ineligible accounts receivable:
(i) Accounts receivable balances over 90 days beyond invoice date or 60 days past due, depending upon custom with respect to a particular industry with appropriate adjustments made for dated billings;
(ii) Entire account balances where over 50 percent of the account is over 60 days past due or 90 days past invoice date;
(iii) Accounts arising from sources other than trade (
e.g.,
royalties, rebates);
(iv) Consignment or guaranteed sales;
(v) Notes receivable;
(vi) Progress billings;
(vii) Account balances in excess of limits appropriate to account debtor's credit worthiness or unduly concentrated by industry, location or customer;
(viii) Affiliate and intercompany accounts; and
(ix) Foreign accounts receivable.
(f) Loans against inventory must be made with advance rates no more than 65 percent of eligible inventory (at the lower of cost valued on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis or market) based on an analysis of realizable value. When an appraisal is obtained, or there is a readily determinable market price
for the inventory, however, up to 85 percent of the net orderly liquidation value (NOLV) or the market price of the inventory may be financed. Inventory must be valued or appraised by an independent third-party appraiser using NOLV, fair value, or forced sale value (versus a “going concern” value), whichever is appropriate, to arrive at a net realizable value. Appraisals are to be prepared in accordance with industry standards, unless there is a readily available and determinable market price for the inventory (
e.g.,
in the case of various commodities), from a recognized exchange or third-party industry source, and a readily available market (
e.g.,
for aluminum, crude oil, steel, and other traded commodities); in that case, inventory may be valued using current market value. When relying upon current market value rather than an independent appraisal, the reporting bank's management must update the value of inventory as market prices for the product change. Valuation updates must be as frequent as needed to ensure compliance with margin requirements. In addition, appropriate mark-to-market reserves must be established to protect against excessive inventory price fluctuations. An asset has a readily identifiable and publicly available market price if the asset's price is quoted routinely in a widely disseminated publication that is readily available to the general public.
(g) A bank's lending policy or procedures must address the maintenance of an inventory loan agreement with the borrower. This loan agreement must establish a maximum percentage advance rate against acceptable inventory, address acceptable appraisal and valuation requirements, and define acceptable and ineligible inventory. Ineligibles must be established for inventory that exhibit characteristics that make it difficult to achieve a realizable value or to obtain possession of the inventory. Monthly inventory agings must be received in sufficient detail to allow the bank to compute the required ineligibles. At a minimum, ineligible inventory must include:
(i) Slow moving, obsolete inventory and items turning materially slower than industry average;
(ii) Inventory with value to the client only, which is generally work in process, but may include raw materials used solely in the client's manufacturing process;
(iii) Consigned inventory or other inventory where a perfected security interest cannot be obtained;
(iv) Off-premise inventory subject to a mechanic's or other lien; and
(v) Specialized, high technology or other inventory subject to rapid obsolescence or valuation problems.
(h) The bank must maintain documentation of borrowing base certificate reviews and collateral trend analyses to demonstrate that collateral values are actively, routinely and consistently monitored. A borrowing base certificate is a form prepared by the borrower that reflects the current status of the collateral. A new borrowing base certificate must be obtained within 30 days before or after each draw or advance on a loan. A bank is required to validate the borrowing base through asset-based tracking reports. The borrowing base validation process must include the bank requesting from the borrower a list of accounts receivable by creditor and a list of individual items of inventory and the bank certifying that the outstanding balance of the loan remains within the collateral formula prescribed by the loan agreement. Any discrepancies between the list of accounts receivable and inventory and the borrowing base certificate must be reconciled with the borrower. Periodic, but no less than annual, field examinations (audits) must also be performed by individuals who are independent of the credit origination or administration process. There must be a process in place to ensure that the bank is correcting audit exceptions.

# Floor Plan Lending Conditions
Floor plan loans may include, but are not limited to, loans to finance the purchase of various vehicles or equipment including automobiles, boat or marine equipment, recreational vehicles (RV), motorized watersports vehicles such as jet skis, or motorized lawn and garden equipment such as tractor lawnmowers. Floor plan loans that meet all the following conditions are excluded from a bank's higher-risk C
I loan totals:
(a) The loan is managed by a loan officer or a group of loan officers at the reporting bank who are experienced in floor plan lending and monitoring collateral to ensure the borrower remains in compliance with floor plan limits and repayment requirements. Loan officers must have experience in reviewing certain items, including but not limited to: Collateral reports, floor plan limits, floor plan aging reports, vehicle inventory audits or inspections, and LTV ratios. The bank must obtain and review financial statements of the borrower (
e.g.,
tax returns, company-prepared financial statements, or dealer statements) on at least a quarterly basis to ensure that adequate controls are in place. (A “dealer statement” is the standard format financial statement issued by Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and used by nationally recognized automobile dealer floor plan lenders.)
(b) For automobile floor plans, each loan advance must be made against a specific automobile under a borrowing base certificate held as collateral at no more than 100 percent of (i) dealer invoice plus freight charges (for new vehicles) or (ii) the cost of
a used automobile at auction or the wholesale value using the prevailing market guide (
e.g.,
NADA, Black Book, Blue Book). The advance rate of 100 percent of dealer invoice plus freight charges on new automobiles, and the advance rate of the cost of a used automobile at auction or the wholesale value, may only be used where there is a manufacturer repurchase agreement or an aggressive curtailment program in place that is tracked by the bank over time and subject to strong controls. Otherwise, permissible advance rates must be lower than 100 percent.
(c) Advance rates on vehicles other than automobiles must conform to industry standards for advance rates on such inventory, but may never exceed 100 percent of dealer invoice plus freight charges on new vehicles or 100 percent of the cost of a used vehicle at auction or its wholesale value.
(d) Each loan is self-liquidating (
i.e.,
if the borrower defaulted on the loan, the collateral could be easily liquidated and the proceeds of the sale of the collateral would be used to pay down the loan advance).
(e) Vehicle inventories and collateral values are closely monitored, including the completion of regular (at least quarterly) dealership automotive or other vehicle dealer inventory audits or inspections to ensure accurate accounting for all vehicles held as collateral. The lending bank or a third party must prepare inventory audit reports and inspection reports for loans to automotive dealerships, or loans to other vehicle dealers, and the lending bank must review the reports at least quarterly. The reports must list all vehicles held as collateral and verify that the collateral is in the dealer's possession.
(f) Floor plan aging reports must be reviewed by the bank as frequently as required under the loan agreement, but no less frequently than quarterly. Floor plan aging reports must reflect specific information about each automobile or vehicle being financed (
e.g.,
the make, model, and color of the automobile or other vehicle, and origination date of the loan to finance the automobile or vehicle). Curtailment programs should be instituted where necessary and banks must ensure that curtailment payments are made on stale automotive or other vehicle inventory financed under the floor plan loan.

# Detailed Reports
Examples of detailed reports that must be provided to the asset-based and floor plan lending bank include:
(a) Borrowing Base Certificates: Borrowing base certificates, along with supporting information, must include:
(i) The accounts receivable balance (rolled forward from the previous certificate);
(ii) Sales (reported as gross billings) with detailed adjustments for returns and allowances to allow for proper tracking of dilution and other reductions in collateral;
(iii) Detailed inventory information (
e.g.,
raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods); and
(iv) Detail of loan activity.
(b) Accounts Receivable and Inventory Detail: A listing of accounts receivable and inventory that is included on the borrowing base certificate. Monthly accounts receivable and inventory agings must be received in sufficient detail to allow the lender to compute the required ineligibles.
(c) Accounts Payable Detail: A listing of each accounts payable owed to the borrower. Monthly accounts payable agings must be received to monitor payable performance and anticipated working capital needs.
(d) Covenant Compliance Certificates: A listing of each loan covenant and the borrower's compliance with each one. Borrowers must submit Covenant Compliance Certificates, generally on a monthly or quarterly basis (depending on the terms of the loan agreement) to monitor compliance with the covenants outlined in the loan agreement. Non-compliance with any covenants must be promptly addressed.
(e) Dealership Automotive Inventory or Other Vehicle Inventory Audits or Inspections: The bank or a third party must prepare inventory audit reports or inspection reports for loans to automotive dealerships and other vehicle dealerships. The bank must review the reports at least quarterly. The reports must list all vehicles held as collateral and verify that the collateral is in the dealer's possession.
(f) Floor Plan Aging Reports: Borrowers must submit floor plan aging reports on a monthly or quarterly basis (depending on the terms of the loan agreement). These reports must reflect specific information about each automobile or other type of vehicle being financed (
e.g.,
the make, model, and color of the automobile or other type of vehicle, and origination date of the loan to finance the automobile or other type of vehicle).

# 3. Higher-Risk Consumer Loans

# Definitions
Higher-risk consumer loans are defined as all consumer loans where, as of origination, or, if the loan has been refinanced, as of refinance, the probability of default (PD) within two years (the two-year PD) is greater than 20 percent, excluding those consumer loans that meet the definition of a nontraditional mortgage loan.
9 10
9
For the purposes of this rule, consumer loans consist of all loans secured by 1-4 family residential properties as well as loans and leases made to individuals for household,
family, and other personal expenditures, as defined in the instructions to the Call Report, Schedule RC-C, as the instructions may be amended from time to time. Higher-risk consumer loans include purchased credit-impaired loans that meet the definition of higher-risk consumer loans.
10
The FDIC has the flexibility, as part of its risk-based assessment system, to change the 20 percent threshold for identifying higher-risk consumer loans without further notice-and-comment rulemaking as a result of reviewing data for up to the first two reporting periods after the effective date of this rule. Before making any such change, the FDIC will analyze the potential effect of changing the PD threshold on the distribution of higher-risk consumer loans among banks and the resulting effect on assessments collected from the industry. The FDIC will provide banks with at least one quarter advance notice of any such change to the PD threshold through a Financial Institution Letter.
Higher-risk consumer loans exclude:
(a) The maximum amounts recoverable from the U.S. government under guarantee or insurance provisions; and
(b) Loans fully secured by cash collateral. To exclude a loan based on cash collateral, the cash must be in the form of a savings or time deposit held by a bank. The lending bank (or lead or agent bank in the case of a participation or syndication) must, in all cases, (including instances in which cash collateral is held at another bank or banks) have a perfected first priority security interest under applicable state law, a security agreement in place, and all necessary documents executed and measures taken as required to result in such perfection and priority. In addition, the lending bank must place a hold on the deposit account that alerts the bank's employees to an attempted withdrawal. For the exclusion to apply to a revolving line of credit, the cash collateral must be equal to, or greater than, the amount of the total loan commitment (the aggregate funded and unfunded balance of the loan).
Banks must determine the PD of a consumer loan as of the date the loan was originated, or, if the loan has been refinanced, as of the date it was refinanced. The two-year PD must be estimated using an approach that conforms to the requirements detailed herein.

# Loans Originated or Refinanced Before April 1, 2013, and all Acquired Loans
For loans originated or refinanced by a bank before April 1, 2013, and all acquired loans regardless of the date of acquisition, if information as of the date the loan was originated or refinanced is not available, then the bank must use the oldest available information to determine the PD. If no information is available, then the bank must obtain recent, refreshed data from the borrower or other appropriate third party to determine the PD. Refreshed data is defined as the most recent data available, and must be as of a date that is no earlier than three months before the acquisition of the loan. In addition, for loans acquired on or after April 1, 2013, the acquiring bank shall have six months from the date of acquisition to determine the PD.
When a bank acquires loans from another entity on a recurring or programmatic basis, the acquiring bank may determine whether the loan meets the definition of a higher-risk consumer loan using the origination criteria and analysis performed by the original lender only if the acquiring bank verifies the information provided. Loans acquired from another entity are acquired on a recurring basis if a bank has acquired other loans from that entity at least once within the calendar year of the acquisition of the loans in question or in the previous calendar year. If the acquiring bank cannot or does not verify the information provided by the original lender, the acquiring bank must obtain the necessary information from the borrower or other appropriate third party to make its own determination of whether the purchased assets should be classified as a higher-risk consumer loan.

# Loans That Meet Both Higher-Risk Consumer Loans and Nontraditional Mortgage Loans Definitions
A loan that meets both the nontraditional mortgage loan and higher-risk consumer loan definitions at the time of origination, or, if the loan has been refinanced, as of refinance, must be reported only as a nontraditional mortgage loan. If, however, the loan ceases to meet the nontraditional mortgage loan definition but continues to meet the definition of a higher-risk consumer loan, the loan is to be reported as a higher-risk consumer loan.

# General Requirements for PD Estimation

# Scorable Consumer Loans
Estimates of the two-year PD for a loan must be based on the observed, stress period default rate (defined herein) for loans of a similar product type made to consumers with credit risk comparable to the borrower being evaluated. While a bank may consider additional risk factors beyond the product type and credit score (
e.g.,
geography) in estimating the PD of a loan, it must at a minimum account for these two factors. The credit risk assessment must be determined using third party or internal scores derived
using a scoring system that qualifies as
empirically derived, demonstrably and statistically sound
as defined in 12 CFR 202.2(p), as it may be amended from time to time, and has been approved by the bank's model risk oversight and governance process and internal audit mechanism. In the case of a consumer loan with a co-signer or co-borrower, the PD may be determined using the most favorable individual credit score.
In estimating the PD based on such scores, banks must adhere to the following requirements:
(a) The PD must be estimated as the average of the two, 24-month default rates observed from July 2007 to June 2009, and July 2009 to June 2011, where the average is calculated according to the following formula and DR
t
is the observed default rate over the 24-month period beginning in July of year t:
ER31OC12.028
(b) The default rate for each 24-month period must be calculated as the number of active loans that experienced at least one default event during the period divided by the total number of active loans as of the observation date (
i.e.,
the beginning of the 24-month period). An “active” loan is defined as any loan that was open and not in default as of the observation date, and on which a payment was made within the 12 months prior to the observation date.
(c) The default rate for each 24-month period must be calculated using a stratified random sample of loans that is sufficient in size to derive statistically meaningful results for the product type and credit score (and any additional risk factors) being evaluated. The product strata must be as homogenous as possible with respect to the factors that influence default, such that products with distinct risk characteristics are evaluated separately. The loans should be sampled based on the credit score as of the observation date, and each 24-month default rate must be calculated using a random sample of at least 1,200 active loans.
(d) Credit score strata must be determined by partitioning the entire credit score range generated by a given scoring system into a minimum of 15 bands. While the width of the credit score bands may vary, the scores within each band must reflect a comparable level of credit risk. Because performance data for scores at the upper and lower extremes of the population distribution is likely to be limited, however, the top and bottom bands may include a range of scores that suggest some variance in credit quality.
(e) Each credit score will need to have a unique PD associated with it. Therefore, when the number of score bands is less than the number of unique credit scores (as will almost always be the case), banks must use a linear interpolation between adjacent default rates to determine the PD for a particular score. The observed default rate for each band must be assumed to correspond to the midpoint of the range for the band. For example, if one score band ranges from 621 to 625 and has an observed default rate of 4 percent, while the next lowest band ranges from 616 to 620 and has an observed default rate of 6 percent, a 620 score must be assigned a default rate of 5.2 percent, calculated as
ER31OC12.029
When evaluating scores that fall below the midpoint of the lowest score band or above the midpoint of the highest score band, the interpolation must be based on an assumed adjacent default rate of 1 or 0, respectively.
(f) The credit scores represented in the historical sample must have been produced by the same entity, using the same or substantially similar methodology as the methodology used to derive the credit scores to which the default rates will be applied. For example, the default rate for a particular vendor score cannot be evaluated based on the score-to-default rate relationship for a different vendor, even if the range of scores under both systems is the same. On the other hand, if the current and historical scores were produced by the same vendor using slightly different versions of the same scoring system and equivalent scores represent a similar likelihood of default, then the historical experience could be applied.
(g) A loan is to be considered in default when it is 90 + days past due, charged-off, or the borrower enters bankruptcy.

# Unscorable Consumer Loans
For unscorable consumer loans—where the available information about a borrower is insufficient to determine a credit score—the bank will be unable to assign a PD to the loan according to the requirements described above. If the total outstanding balance of the unscorable consumer loans of a particular product type (including, but not limited to, student loans) exceeds 5 percent of the total outstanding balance for that product type, including both foreign and domestic loans, the excess amount shall be treated as higher risk (the de minimis approach). Otherwise, the total outstanding balance of unscorable consumer loans of a particular product type will not be considered higher risk. The consumer product types used to determine whether the 5 percent test is satisfied shall correspond to the product types listed in the table used for reporting PD estimates.
A bank may not develop PD estimates for unscorable loans based on internal data.
If, after the origination or refinance of the loan, an unscorable consumer loan becomes scorable, a bank must reclassify the loan using a PD estimated according to the general requirements above. Based upon that PD, the loan will be determined to be either higher risk or not, and that determination will remain in effect until a refinancing occurs, at which time the loan must be re-evaluated. An unscorable loan must be reviewed at least annually to determine if a credit score has become available.
Alternative Methodologies
A bank may use internally derived default rates that were calculated using fewer observations or score bands than those specified above under certain conditions. The bank must submit a written request to the FDIC either in advance of, or concurrent with, reporting under the requested approach. The request must explain in detail how the proposed approach differs from the rule specifications and the bank must provide support for the statistical appropriateness of the proposed methodology. The request must include, at a minimum, a table with the default rates and number of observations used in each score and product segment. The FDIC will evaluate the proposed methodology and may request additional information from the bank, which the bank must provide. The bank may report using its proposed approach while the FDIC evaluates the methodology. If, after reviewing the request, the FDIC determines that the bank's methodology is unacceptable, the bank will be required to amend its Call Reports and report according to the generally applicable specifications for PD estimation. The bank will be required to submit amended information for no more than the two most recently dated and filed Call Reports preceding the FDIC's determination.
Foreign Consumer Loans
A bank must estimate the PD of a foreign consumer loan according to the general requirements described above unless doing so would be unduly complex or burdensome (
e.g.,
if a bank had to develop separate PD mappings for many different countries). A bank may request to use default rates calculated using fewer observations or score bands than the specified minimums, either in advance of, or concurrent with, reporting under that methodology, but must comply with the requirements detailed above for using an alternative methodology.
When estimating a PD according to the general requirements described above would be unduly complex or burdensome, a bank that is required to calculate PDs for foreign consumer loans under the requirements of the Basel II capital framework may: (1) Use the Basel II approach discussed herein, subject to the terms discussed herein; (2) submit a written request to the FDIC to use its own methodology, but may not use the methodology until approved by the FDIC; or (3) treat the loan as an unscorable consumer loan subject to the de minimis approach described above.
When estimating a PD according to the general requirements described above would be unduly complex or burdensome, a bank that is not required to calculate PDs for foreign consumer loans under the requirements of the Basel II capital framework may: (1) Treat the loan as an unscorable consumer loan subject to the de minimis approach described above; or (2) submit a written request to the FDIC to use its own methodology, but may not use the methodology until approved by the FDIC.
When a bank submits a written request to the FDIC to use its own methodology, the FDIC may request additional information from the bank regarding the proposed methodology and the bank must provide the information. The FDIC may grant a bank tentative approval to use the methodology while the FDIC considers it in more detail. If the FDIC ultimately disapproves the methodology, the bank may be required to amend its Call Reports; however, the bank will be required to amend no more than the two most recently dated and filed Call Reports preceding the FDIC's determination. In the amended Call Reports, the bank must treat any loan whose PD had been estimated using the disapproved methodology as an unscorable domestic consumer loan subject to the de minimis approach described above.

# Basel II Approach
A bank that is required to calculate PDs for foreign consumer loans under the requirements of the Basel II capital framework may estimate the two-year PD of a foreign consumer loan based on the one-year PD used for Basel II capital purposes.
11
The bank must submit a written request to the FDIC in advance of, or concurrent with, reporting under that methodology. The request must explain in detail how one-year PDs calculated under the Basel II framework are translated to two-year PDs that meet the requirements above. While the range of acceptable approaches is potentially broad, any proposed methodology must meet the following requirements:
11
Using these Basel II PDs for this purpose does not imply that a bank's PFR has approved use of these PDs for the Basel II capital framework. If a bank's PFR requires it to revise its Basel II PD methodology, the bank must use revised Basel II PDs to calculate (or recalculate if necessary) corresponding PDs under this Basel II approach.
(a) The bank must use data on a sample of loans for which both the one-year Basel II PDs and two-year final rule PDs can be calculated. The sample may contain both foreign and domestic loans.
(b) The bank must use the sample data to demonstrate that a meaningful relationship exists between the two types of PD estimates, and the significance and nature of the relationship must be determined using accepted statistical principles and methodologies. For example, to the extent that a linear relationship exists in the sample data, the bank may use an ordinary least-squares regression to determine the best linear translation of Basel II PDs to final rule PDs. The estimated equation should fit the data reasonably well based on standard statistics such as the coefficient of determination; and
(c) The method must account for any significant variation in the relationship between the two types of PD estimates that exists across consumer products based on the empirical analysis of the data. For example, if the bank is using a linear regression to determine the relationship between PD estimates, it should test whether the parameter estimates are significantly different by product type.
The bank may report using this approach (if it first notifies the FDIC of its intention to do so), while the FDIC evaluates the methodology. If, after reviewing the methodology, the FDIC determines that the methodology is unacceptable, the bank will be required to amend its Call Reports. The bank will be required to submit amended information for no more than the two most recently dated and filed Call Reports preceding the FDIC's determination.

# Refinance
For purposes of higher-risk consumer loans, a refinance includes:
(a) Extending new credit or additional funds on an existing loan;
(b) Replacing an existing loan with a new or modified obligation;
(c) Consolidating multiple existing obligations;
(d) Disbursing additional funds to the borrower. Additional funds include a material disbursement of additional funds or, with respect to a line of credit, a material increase in the amount of the line of credit, but not a disbursement, draw, or the writing of convenience checks within the original limits of the line of credit. A material increase in the amount of a line of credit is defined as a 10 percent or greater increase in the quarter-end line of credit limit; however, a temporary increase in a credit card line of credit is not a material increase;
(e) Increasing or decreasing the interest rate (except as noted herein for credit card loans); or
(f) Rescheduling principal or interest payments to create or increase a balloon payment or extend the legal maturity date of the loan by more than six months.
A refinance for this purpose does not include:
(a) A re-aging, defined as returning a delinquent, open-end account to current status without collecting the total amount of principal, interest, and fees that are contractually due, provided:
(i) The re-aging is part of a program that, at a minimum, adheres to the re-aging guidelines recommended in the interagency approved Uniform Retail Credit Classification and Account Management Policy;
12
12
