134. The fifth example of when it would not be reasonable under the circumstances for a covered entity to seek supporting documentation relates to an employer's own policies or practices. If the requested accommodation is one that is available to employees without known limitations pursuant to the covered entity's policies or practices without submitting supporting documentation, then it is not reasonable for the employer to seek supporting documentation from an employee seeking a similar accommodation under the PWFA. For example, if an employer has a policy or practice of requiring supporting documentation only for the use of leave for 3 or more consecutive days, it would not be reasonable to ask someone who is using the same type of leave due to a known limitation
under the PWFA to submit supporting documentation when they request leave for 2 or fewer days.
143
143
Conversely, if regular employer policies or practices would require documentation when the PWFA would not, or would require more documentation than the PWFA would allow in a situation where the employee is requesting an accommodation under the PWFA, the PWFA's restrictions on supporting documentation would apply.

# 1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable Documentation
135. Under the PWFA, reasonable accommodations are available for physical or mental conditions related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions. When it is reasonable under the circumstances for the covered entity to seek supporting documentation, the covered entity is limited to seeking documentation that is itself reasonable. When it is reasonable under the circumstances for the covered entity to seek supporting documentation, the covered entity may require that the supporting documentation come from a health care provider.
136. Confirming the physical or mental condition requires only a simple statement that the physical or mental condition meets the first part of the definition of “limitation” at § 1636.3(a)(2), (
i.e.,
the physical or mental condition is: an impediment or problem, including ones that are modest, minor, or episodic; a need or a problem related to maintaining the health of the employee or the pregnancy, or that the employee is seeking health care related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition itself).
144
The physical or mental condition can be a PWFA limitation whether or not such condition is an impairment or a disability under the ADA.
145
Some examples of physical or mental conditions that could be limitations are that the employee: has a back injury; has swollen ankles; is experiencing vomiting; has a lifting restriction; is experiencing fatigue; should not be exposed to a certain chemical; should avoid working in the heat; needs to avoid certain physical tasks such as walking, running, or physical confrontation because of increased risk; needs to attend a health care appointment; or needs to recover from a health care procedure. Because the physical or mental condition can be something like fatigue or vomiting, there is no need for the statement to contain a medical diagnosis. Thus, documentation is sufficient under § 1636.3(l)(2) even if it does not contain a medical diagnosis, as long as it has a simple statement of the physical or mental condition.
144
Section 1636.3(a)(2).
145
42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4);
see
29 CFR 1630.3(h).
137. The supporting documentation should confirm that the physical or mental condition is related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions. The supporting documentation need not state that the pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions are the sole, the original, or a substantial cause of the physical or mental condition at issue because the statute only requires that the physical or mental condition be “related to, affected by, or arising out of” pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions.
146
If relevant, the documentation should include confirmation that the “related medical condition” is related to pregnancy or childbirth.
146
42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4);
see supra
in section
1636.3(a)(2)
of this appendix under
Related to, Affected by, or Arising Out of.
138. The employer also may seek reasonable documentation to describe the adjustment or change at work that is needed due to the limitation and an estimate of the expected duration of the need for the adjustment or change. This may be, for example: no heavy lifting for approximately 4 months; cannot stand for more than 30 minutes at a time until the end of the pregnancy; the maximum amount of weight involved in the lifting restriction and the approximate length of the restriction; the approximate number of and length of breaks; the kind of support or equipment needed and for approximately how long; a change in the type of protective equipment or ventilation needed and for approximately how long it will be needed; the need to limit movement and be allowed to lie down when necessary and for approximately how long the employee will need to limit movement; a change in work location and the approximate length of time of the change; a period of leave expected to be needed for recovery or to attend health care appointments; or the essential function(s) that should be temporarily suspended and for how long.
139. Where the supporting documentation meets the standards described in this section, it is sufficient to determine whether the employee has a physical or mental condition related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions (a limitation) and needs an adjustment or change at work due to the limitation. Accordingly, a covered entity that has received sufficient documentation but fails to provide an accommodation based on the failure to provide sufficient documentation, or continues to seek additional documentation or information, risks liability under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1) (§ 1636.4(a)(3)) and/or 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)).
140. Examples Regarding Documentation:
147
147
The conditions described in these examples also may be disabilities under the ADA and therefore may entitle the employee to an accommodation under the ADA, regardless of whether they are entitled to one under the PWFA.
Example #54/Reasonable Documentation:
Amelia recently returns to work after giving birth and recovery from childbirth. Amelia requests that she not be required to lift more than 30 pounds due to a back injury arising out of her pregnancy. Amelia's employer can use the interactive process to identify Amelia's limitation and what accommodation will address her limitation. Amelia's employer may, but is not required to, seek supporting documentation; in this situation, the employer decides to seek supporting documentation from Amelia. At Amelia's request, her obstetrician emails the human resources department, explaining that Amelia's recent pregnancy has caused a back injury and that she should avoid lifting more than 30 pounds for approximately the next 3 months. This is sufficient documentation to confirm that Amelia has a limitation—a physical or mental condition (a back injury, which is an impediment or problem) related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions—and to describe an adjustment or change at work that is needed due to the limitation (avoid lifting more than 30 pounds for approximately the next three months). Because this is sufficient documentation, the covered entity failing to provide Amelia an accommodation based on a lack of documentation may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1) (§ 1636.4(a)(3)), and the covered entity trying to obtain additional documentation or information related to Amelia's request for a reasonable accommodation may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)).
Example #55 Reasonable Documentation:
Rachna is 6 months pregnant and has just learned that she has preeclampsia. She requires limited activity and bed rest for the remainder of her pregnancy to limit the risks to her health and the health of her pregnancy. Rachna's employer can use the interactive process to identify Rachna's limitation and what accommodation will address her limitation. Rachna's employer may, but is not required to, seek supporting documentation; in this situation, the employer decides to seek supporting documentation from Rachna. Rachna provides her employer with a note from her midwife saying that, because of risks related to her health and the health of her pregnancy, Rachna needs to limit activities that involve sitting or standing, needs bed rest as much as possible, and should not commute to work for the remaining 3 months of her pregnancy. This is sufficient documentation to confirm that Rachna has a limitation—a physical or mental condition (maintaining the health of the employee or the employee's pregnancy) related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions—and to describe the change at work that is needed (limiting activities involving sitting and standing, lying down as much as possible, and not commuting for the remainder of her pregnancy). Because this is sufficient documentation, the covered entity failing to provide Rachna an accommodation based on a lack of documentation may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1) (§ 1636.4(a)(3)), and the covered entity trying to obtain additional documentation or information related to her request for a reasonable accommodation may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)).
141. Because a covered entity is limited to the minimum supporting documentation necessary, a covered entity may not require that a pregnancy be confirmed through a specific test or method. Moreover, such a requirement could implicate the ADA's provisions that medical examinations only are permitted when they are job-related and consistent with business necessity.
148
148
42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(4)(A).
142. Additionally, covered entities may not require that supporting documentation be submitted on a specific form, but only that documentation meets the requirements of § 1636.3(l)(2). If covered entities offer an optional form for employees to use in submitting supporting documentation, the covered entities may wish to review preexisting forms they have for reasonable accommodations or leave to ensure their compliance with the PWFA. For example, the PWFA does not require that an employee have a “serious health condition” and the statute does not use the term “major life activity,” so employer forms or other employer communications seeking supporting documentation for PWFA-related reasonable accommodations should not use this terminology.

# 1636.3(l)(3) Limitations on a Covered Entity Seeking Supporting Documentation From a Health Care Provider
143. When it is reasonable under the circumstances for the covered entity to seek supporting documentation, a covered entity may require that the supporting documentation comes from a health care provider. The regulation contains a non-exhaustive list of possible health care providers that is based on the non-exhaustive list provided in the Commission's ADA policy guidance.
149
149
See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation, supra
note 12, at Question 6.
144. The covered entity may not require that the health care provider who is submitting documentation be the provider treating the employee for the condition at issue, as long as the health care provider is able to confirm the physical or mental condition; confirm that the physical or mental condition is related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions (together “a limitation”); and describe the adjustment or change at work that is needed due to the limitation. The covered entity may not require that an employee be examined by a health care provider of the covered entity's choosing.

# 1636.3(l)(4) Self-Confirmation of Pregnancy or Lactation
145. For the purposes of supporting documentation under the PWFA, self-confirmation is a simple statement in which the employee confirms, as set forth in § 1636.3(l)(1)(i), (iii) and (iv), the limitation and adjustment or change that is needed at work due to the limitation. The self-confirmation statement can be made in any manner and can be made as part of the request for reasonable accommodation under § 1636.3(h)(2). For example, self-confirmation may be spoken, it may be recorded or live, or it may be written on paper or electronically, such as in an email or text. Self-confirmation does not need to use any particular words or format, does not need to be written on a form, does not need to be a particular length, does not need to be notarized or otherwise verified, and does not need to be accompanied by documentary or physical evidence. In many instances, the self-confirmation will be part of what the employee communicates when they start the reasonable accommodation process. Example #10 of this appendix, where an employee tells a manager of her need for more frequent bathroom breaks and explains that the breaks are needed because the employee is pregnant, is an example of self-confirmation of pregnancy.

# Interaction Between the PWFA and the ADA
146. Employers covered by the PWFA also are covered by the ADA.
150
The ADA's statutory text includes express restrictions on when a covered entity may require medical exams and make disability-related inquiries.
151
These restrictions apply to all the interactions between covered entities and their employees, regardless of whether an individual has a disability. Thus, for example, if an employee is requesting a reasonable accommodation under the PWFA, the ADA's restrictions apply and prevent an employer from seeking the employee's entire medical record or asking the employee if they have received accommodations in the past because these inquiries are likely to elicit information about a disability and are not job-related and consistent with business necessity in these circumstances. Independent of these ADA restrictions, § 1636.3(l)(2) also prohibits seeking this type of documentation under the PWFA because it goes beyond the definition of reasonable documentation. Finally, depending on the facts, seeking such information could violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f).
150
42 U.S.C 12111(5) (ADA); 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2) (PWFA).
151
42 U.S.C. 12112(d), 12112(d)(4)(A).
147. The ADA provides for the confidentiality of medical information, subject to limited disclosure rules.
152
These rules apply to medical information in the employer's possession, including information obtained by an employer from disability-related inquiries or medical exams, or information obtained as part of the reasonable accommodation process.
153
That an employee is pregnant, has recently been pregnant, or has a
medical condition related to pregnancy or childbirth is medical information. The ADA requires that employers keep such information confidential and only disclose it within the confines of the ADA's limited disclosure rules. Similarly, disclosing that an employee is receiving or has requested a reasonable accommodation under the PWFA usually amounts to a disclosure that the employee is pregnant, has recently been pregnant, or has a related medical condition and thus must be treated as confidential medical information as well. This is explained further in section
1636.7(a)(1)
of this appendix under
Prohibition on Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical Examinations and Protection of Medical Information.
152
42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(3)(B); 29 CFR 1630.14(b)(1), (c)(1), (d)(4); EEOC,
Enforcement Guidance on Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical Examinations of Employees Under the ADA,
at text accompanying nn.9-10 (2000) [hereinafter
Enforcement Guidance on Disability-Related Inquiries
],
http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-disability-related-inquiries-and-medical-examinations-employees
(“The ADA requires employers to treat any medical information obtained from a disability-related inquiry or medical examination . . . as well as any medical information voluntarily disclosed by an employee, as a confidential medical record. Employers may share such information only in limited circumstances with supervisors, managers, first aid and safety personnel, and government officials investigating compliance with the ADA.”); EEOC,
Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment Disability-Related Questions and Medical Examinations,
at text accompanying n.6 (1995) [hereinafter
Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment Disability-Related Questions
],
https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-preemployment-disability-related-questions-and-medical. https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-preemployment-disability-related-questions-and-medical
(“Medical information must be kept confidential.”). In addition, Federal agencies are covered by the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and many Federal agencies maintain equal employment opportunity records subject to a Privacy Act System of Records Notice.
153
See Enforcement Guidance on Disability-Related Inquiries, supra
note 152, at General Principles (“The ADA requires employers to treat any medical information obtained from
a disability-related inquiry or medical examination (including medical information from voluntary health or wellness programs), as well as any medical information voluntarily disclosed by an employee, as a confidential medical record.”) and text after n.12 (“[T]he ADA's restrictions on inquiries and examinations apply to all employees, not just those with disabilities.”).
148. If there is a situation where an employee requests an accommodation and both the PWFA and the ADA could apply, the employer should apply the provision that it would be less demanding for the employee to satisfy. For example, assume a pregnant employee has diabetes that is exacerbated by the pregnancy and needs breaks to eat or drink. Under the PWFA, the covered entity cannot seek supporting documentation (as set forth in § 1636.3(l)(1)(iii)) and this is the provision that the employer should apply.

# IV. 1636.4 Nondiscrimination With Regard to Reasonable Accommodations Related to Pregnancy

# 1636.4(a) Failing To Provide Reasonable Accommodation
1. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1) prohibits a covered entity from not making a reasonable accommodation for a qualified employee with a known limitation related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions unless the covered entity can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of its business. This provision of the PWFA uses the same language as the ADA, and the rule likewise uses the language from the corresponding ADA regulation.
154
Because 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1) uses the same operative language as the ADA, it should be interpreted in a similar manner.
154
See
42 U.S.C. 12112(b)(5)(A); 29 CFR 1630.9(a).
2. This section is violated when a covered entity fails to make reasonable accommodation to a qualified employee with a known limitation, absent undue hardship.
155
However, a covered entity does not violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1) merely by refusing to engage in the interactive process; for a violation, there also must have been a reasonable accommodation that the employer could have provided absent undue hardship.
155
The regulation in § 1636.4, following the language in the statute, uses the phrase “known limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions.” 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1), (3)-(5). Given the definition in the statute of “known limitation” (42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4)), the phrase “known limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions” in § 1636.4 and 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1 should be understood to mean that the known limitations are related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions or that “known limitations” mean physical or mental conditions related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions.

# 1636.4(a)(1) Unnecessary Delay in Providing a Reasonable Accommodation
3. An unnecessary delay in providing a reasonable accommodation to the known limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions of a qualified employee may result in a violation of the PWFA if the delay constitutes a failure to provide a reasonable accommodation. This can be true even if the reasonable accommodation is eventually provided, when the delay was unnecessary. Unnecessary delay that can be actionable under this section can occur at any time during the accommodation process including, but not limited to, responding to the initial request, during the interactive process, or in implementing the accommodation once the request is approved. Delay by a third-party administrator acting on behalf of the covered entity is attributable to the covered entity.
4. Section 1636.4(a)(1) sets out the factors that are used when determining whether a delay in the provision of a reasonable accommodation violates the PWFA. Section 1636.4(a)(1) sets out the factors already identified in the ADA guidance
156
and adds three additional factors, described in paragraphs 5, 6, and 7 of this section.
156
See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation, supra
note 12, at Question 10
n.38. The
Enforcement Guidance
notes that these are “relevant factors” but not that these are the only factors.
5. First, whether providing the accommodation was simple or complex is a factor to be considered. Under the PWFA, there are certain modifications, set forth in § 1636.3(j)(4), that will virtually always be found to be reasonable accommodations that
do not impose an undue hardship: (1) allowing a pregnant employee to carry or keep water near and drink, as needed; (2) allowing a pregnant employee to take additional restroom breaks, as needed; (3) allowing a pregnant employee whose work requires standing to sit and whose work requires sitting to stand, as needed; and (4) allowing a pregnant employee to take breaks to eat and drink, as needed. If there is delay in providing these accommodations to a qualified employee with a known limitation, it will virtually always be found to be unnecessary because of the presumption that these modifications will be reasonable accommodations that do not impose an undue hardship.
6. Second, whether the covered entity offered the employee an interim reasonable accommodation during the interactive process is a factor to be considered. The offer of an interim reasonable accommodation can be made at any time following the request for accommodation. The provision of an interim accommodation will decrease the likelihood that an unnecessary delay will be found. Under this factor, the interim reasonable accommodation should be one that enables the employee to keep working as much as possible; the provision of leave will not be considered as a factor that can excuse delay, unless the employee selects, or requests, leave as an interim reasonable accommodation.
157
157
The restriction on using leave as an interim accommodation is based on 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(4) and 2000gg-2(f).
7. Third, the length of time for which the employee will need the reasonable accommodation is another factor to be considered. Given that limitations related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions are frequently temporary, an unnecessary delay in providing an accommodation may mean that the period necessitating the accommodation could pass without action simply because of the delay.

# 1636.4(a)(2) Refusing an Accommodation
8. An employee with a known limitation is not required to accept a reasonable accommodation. However, if the rejection of the reasonable accommodation results in the employee being unable to perform the essential functions of the job, the employee is not qualified. This provision mirrors the language from a similar provision in the ADA regulation,
158
with the inclusion of employees who are qualified under § 1636.3(f)(2).
158
See
29 CFR 1630.9(d).

# 1636.4(a)(3) Covered Entity Failing To Provide a Reasonable Accommodation Due to Lack of Supporting Documentation
9. A covered entity cannot defend the failure to provide an accommodation based on the lack of supporting documentation if: the covered entity did not seek supporting documentation; seeking supporting documentation was not reasonable under the circumstances as defined in § 1636.3(l)(1); the covered entity sought documentation beyond that which is reasonable as defined in § 1636.3(l)(2); or the covered entity did not provide the employee sufficient time to obtain and provide the supporting documentation sought.

# 1636.4(a)(4) Choosing Among Possible Accommodations
10. The covered entity must provide an effective accommodation,
i.e.,
one that meets the employee's needs or limitations. If there is more than one effective accommodation, the employee's preference should be given primary consideration.
159
However, the employer providing the accommodation has the ultimate discretion to choose among effective reasonable accommodations.
160
The employer may choose, for example, the less expensive accommodation, the accommodation that is easier for it to provide, or, generally, the accommodation that imposes the least hardship.
161
In the situation where the employer is choosing among effective reasonable accommodations and does not provide the accommodation that is the employee's preferred accommodation, the employer does not have to show that it is an undue hardship to provide the employee's preferred accommodation.
159
See
29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.9.
160
Id.
161
Id.
11. A covered entity's “ultimate discretion” in choosing a reasonable accommodation is limited by certain other considerations. First, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1 (§ 1636.4(a)(4)) requires that the accommodation must provide the qualified employee with a known limitation with equal employment opportunity.
162
By this, the Commission means an opportunity to attain the same level of performance, experience the same level of benefits, or otherwise enjoy the same terms, conditions, and privileges of employment as are available to the average similarly situated employee without a known limitation, which includes the individual who needs the accommodation when they are without the known limitation.
163
This may be shown by evidence
of the opportunities that would have been available to the employee seeking the accommodation had they not identified a known limitation or sought an accommodation, or other evidence that tends to demonstrate that the accommodation provided to the employee did not provide equal employment opportunity. Depending on the facts, selecting the accommodation that does not provide equal opportunity could violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1), 2000gg-1(5), or 2000gg-2(f).
164
162
See also Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation, supra
note 12, at Question 9, Example B.
163
See
29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.9; 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(o) (explaining that reassignment should be to a position with equivalent pay, status, etc., if the individual is qualified, and if the position is vacant within a reasonable amount of time);
see also Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra
note 12, at text following n.80 (“However, if both the employer and the employee voluntarily agree that transfer is preferable to remaining in the current position with some form of reasonable accommodation, then the employer may transfer the employee.”);
cf.
EEOC,
Compliance Manual on Religious Discrimination,
(12-IV)(A)(3) (2021) [hereinafter
Compliance Manual on Religious Discrimination
],
https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/section-12-religious-discrimination
(stating that in the context of a religious accommodation, an accommodation would not be reasonable “if it requires the employee to accept a reduction in pay rate or some other loss of a benefit or privilege of employment and there is an alternative accommodation that does not do so”); EEOC,
Enforcement Guidance: Unlawful Disparate Treatment of Workers With Caregiving Responsibilities,
Example 5 (2007),
https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-unlawful-disparate-treatment-workers-caregiving-responsibilities
(explaining how a worker can be a comparator for themselves).
164
Depending on the facts, this could be a violation of Title VII's prohibition on sex discrimination as well.
12. Second, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(2) prohibits a covered entity from requiring a qualified employee affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions to accept an accommodation other than any reasonable accommodation arrived at through the interactive process.
13. Third, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(4) prohibits a covered entity from requiring a qualified employee with a known limitation to take leave, whether paid or unpaid, if there is a reasonable accommodation that will allow the employee to continue to work, absent undue hardship.
14. Fourth, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(5) prohibits a covered entity from taking adverse action in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment against a qualified employee on account of the employee requesting or using a reasonable accommodation to the known limitations related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions of the employee.
15. Fifth, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f) prohibits retaliation and coercion by covered entities.
16. These limitations to the “ultimate discretion” of a covered entity to choose among effective accommodations are described in the discussions of §§ 1636.4(b), (d), and (e) and 1636.5(f).
17. Example Regarding Failing To Provide Equal Employment Opportunity:
Example #56/Failing To Provide Equal Employment Opportunity:
Yasmin's job requires her to travel to meet with clients. Because of her pregnancy, she is not able to travel for 3 months. She asks that she be allowed to conduct her client meetings via video conferencing. Although this accommodation would allow her to perform her essential job functions and would not impose an undue hardship, her employer reassigns her to smaller, local accounts. Being assigned only to these accounts is not an effective accommodation because it limits Yasmin's opportunity to compete for promotions and bonuses as she had in the past. This could be a violation of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1), because Yasmin is denied an equal opportunity to compete for promotions; thus, her employer has failed to provide her a reasonable accommodation. The employer's actions also could violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(5) and 2000gg-2(f), or Title VII's prohibition against pregnancy discrimination.

# 1636.4(b) Requiring a Qualified Employee To Accept an Accommodation
18. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(2) prohibits a covered entity from requiring a qualified employee to accept an accommodation other than any reasonable accommodation arrived at through the interactive process. Pursuant to this provision in the PWFA and § 1636.4(b), a covered entity cannot require a qualified employee to accept an accommodation such as light duty or a temporary transfer, or delay of an examination that is part of the application process, without engaging in the interactive process, even if the covered entity's motivation is concern for the employee's health or pregnancy.
19. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(2) does not require that the employee have a limitation, known or not; thus, a violation of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(2) could occur if a covered entity believes that a qualified employee is pregnant and decides, without engaging in the interactive process with the employee, that the employee needs a particular accommodation, and unilaterally requires the employee to accept the accommodation, even though the employee has not requested it and can perform the essential functions of the job without it. For example, this provision could be violated if an employment agency, without discussing the situation with the candidate, decides that a candidate recovering from a miscarriage needs an accommodation in the form of not being sent
to certain jobs that the agency views as too physical. Similarly, a violation could result if an employer decides to excuse a qualified pregnant employee from overtime as an accommodation without the employee seeking an accommodation and the employer and the employee engaging in the interactive process.
165
165
These actions also could violate Title VII's prohibition of disparate treatment based on sex.
See Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy Discrimination, supra
note 24, at (I)(B)(1).
20. Additionally, a violation could occur if a covered entity receives a request for a reasonable accommodation and unilaterally imposes an accommodation that was not requested by the qualified employee without engaging in the interactive process.
21. Example Regarding Requiring an Employee To Accept an Accommodation:
Example #57/Requiring an Employee To Accept an Accommodation:
Kia, a restaurant server, is pregnant. She asks for additional breaks during her shifts as her pregnancy progresses because she feels tired, and her feet are swelling. Her employer, without engaging in the interactive process with Kia, directs Kia to take host shifts for the remainder of her pregnancy, because it allows her to sit for long periods. The employer has violated 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(2) (§ 1636.4(b)), because it required Kia to accept an accommodation other than one arrived at through the interactive process, even if Kia's earnings did not decrease and her terms, conditions, and privileges of employment were not harmed.
Moreover, if the host shift does not provide Kia with equal terms, conditions, and privileges of employment (e.g., Kia's wages decrease or Kia no longer can earn tips), the covered entity also may have violated 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1) (requiring reasonable accommodation absent undue hardship); 2000gg-1(5) (prohibiting adverse action in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment); and/or 2000gg-2(f) (prohibiting retaliation) (§§ 1636.4(a) and (e) and 1636.5(f)).
22. Finally, this provision also could be violated if a covered entity has a rule that requires all qualified pregnant employees to stop a certain function—such as traveling—automatically, without any evidence that the particular employee is unable to perform that function.

# 1636.4(c) Denying Opportunities to Qualified Employees
23. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(3) prohibits a covered entity from denying employment opportunities to a qualified employee with a known limitation if the denial is based on the need of the covered entity to make reasonable accommodations to the known limitations related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions of the qualified employee. Thus, an employee's known limitation and need for a reasonable accommodation cannot be part of the covered entity's decision regarding hiring, discharge, promotion, or other employment decisions, unless the reasonable accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the covered entity.
24. This provision in the PWFA uses language similar to that of the ADA, and § 1636.4(c) likewise uses language similar to the corresponding ADA regulation.
166
Section 1636.4(c) encompasses situations where the covered entity's decision is based on the future possibility that a reasonable accommodation will be needed,
i.e.,
42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(3) prohibits a covered entity from making a decision based on its belief that an employee may need a reasonable accommodation in the future regardless of whether the employee has asked for one or not. Thus, under § 1636.4(c), this prohibition would include situations where a covered entity refuses to hire a pregnant applicant because the covered entity believes that the applicant will need leave to recover from childbirth, regardless of whether the covered entity knows the exact amount of leave the applicant will require, or whether the applicant has mentioned the need for leave as a reasonable accommodation to the covered entity.
166
See
42 U.S.C. 12112(b)(5)(B); 29 CFR 1630.9(b).

# 1636.4(d) Requiring a Qualified Employee To Take Leave
25. A covered entity may not require a qualified employee to take leave, whether paid or unpaid, if another reasonable accommodation can be provided to the employee's known limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions absent undue hardship.
26. This provision does not prohibit a covered entity from offering leave as a reasonable accommodation if leave is the reasonable accommodation requested or selected by the qualified employee, or if it is the only reasonable accommodation that does not cause an undue hardship. As provided in § 1636.3(i)(3), both paid leave (accrued, short-term disability, or another employer benefit) and unpaid leave are potential reasonable accommodations under the PWFA.

# 1636.4(e) Adverse Action on Account of Requesting or Using a Reasonable Accommodation
27. The PWFA contains overlapping provisions that protect employees, applicants, and former employees seeking or using reasonable accommodations. Importantly, nothing
in the PWFA limits which provision an employee may use to protect their rights.
28. One of these provisions is 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(5), which prohibits adverse action in the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment against a qualified employee on account of the employee requesting or using a reasonable accommodation to the known limitations related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions of the employee.
29. The protections provided by 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(5) are likely to have significant overlap with 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f), which prohibits retaliation. However, the PWFA's anti-retaliation provisions apply to a broader group of individuals and actions than 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(5) does.
30. “Terms, conditions, or privileges of employment” is a term from Title VII, and the Commission has interpreted it to encompass a wide range of activities or practices that occur in the workplace including, but not limited to: discriminatory work environment or atmosphere; duration of work (such as the length of an employment contract, hours of work, or attendance); work rules; job assignments and duties; and job advancement (such as training, support, and performance evaluations).
167
In addition, for the purposes of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(5), “terms, conditions, or privileges of employment” can include hiring, discharge, or compensation.
167
42 U.S.C. 2000e-2(a)(1);
Compliance Manual on Terms, Conditions, and Privileges of Employment, supra
note 69, at 613.1(a) (stating that the language is to be read in the broadest possible terms and providing a list of examples).
31. This provision prohibits a covered entity from taking a harmful action against a qualified employee. For example, this provision prohibits a covered entity from penalizing an employee for having requested or used an accommodation that the covered entity had granted previously.
32. Examples Regarding Adverse Action in Terms, Conditions, or Privileges of Employment:
Example #58/Adverse Action in Terms, Conditions, or Privileges of Employment:
Nava took leave to recover from childbirth as a reasonable accommodation under the PWFA, and, as a result, failed to meet the sales quota for that quarter, which led to a negative performance appraisal. The negative appraisal could be a violation of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(5) because Nava received it due to the use of a reasonable accommodation. If an employee receives the reasonable accommodation of leave, a production standard, such as a sales quota, may need to be prorated to account for the reduced amount of time the employee works.
168
168
See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation, supra
note 12, at Question 19.
33. Also, an employer may violate this provision if there is more than one reasonable accommodation that does not impose an undue hardship, and the employer, after the interactive process, chooses the accommodation that causes an adverse action with respect to the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, despite the existence of an alternative accommodation that would not do so.
Example #59/Adverse Action in Terms, Conditions, or Privileges of Employment:
Ivy asks for additional bathroom breaks during the workday because of pregnancy, including during overtime shifts. After talking to Ivy, Ivy's supervisor decides Ivy should simply not work overtime, because during the overtime shift there are fewer employees and the supervisor does not want to bother figuring out coverage for Ivy's bathroom breaks, although it would not be an undue hardship to do so. As a result, Ivy is not assigned overtime and loses earnings. The employer's actions could violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(5) because Ivy suffered the adverse action of not being assigned to overtime and losing wages because she used a reasonable accommodation.
Example #60/Adverse Action in Terms, Conditions, or Privileges of Employment:
Leah asks for telework due to morning sickness. Through the interactive process, it is determined that either telework or a later schedule combined with an hour rest break in the afternoon would allow Leah to perform the essential functions of her job without imposing an undue hardship. Although Leah prefers telework, the employer would rather Leah be in the office. It would not be a violation of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(5) to offer Leah the schedule change/rest break, instead of telework, as a reasonable accommodation.
34. The facts set out in Examples #58 and #59 of this appendix also could violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1) and 2000gg-2(f).

# V. 1636.5 Remedies and Enforcement
1. In crafting the PWFA remedies and enforcement section, Congress recognized the advisability of using the existing mechanisms for redress of other forms of employment discrimination. The regulation at § 1636.5(a), (c), (d), and (e) follows the language of the statute.

# 1636.5(a) Remedies and Enforcement Under Title VII
2. The enforcement mechanisms, procedures, and remedies available to employees and others covered by Title VII apply to the
PWFA.
169
Thus, employees covered by section 706 of Title VII may file charges alleging violations of the PWFA with the Commission, and the Commission will investigate them using the same process as set out in Title VII.
170
Similarly, the Commission will use the same rules to determine the time limits for filing a charge; if the State or locality in which the charge has been filed has a law prohibiting sex discrimination, pregnancy discrimination, or specifically providing accommodations for pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions, the deadline to file a charge will be 300 days.
171
169
42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(a), (d), (e).
170
See
29 CFR part 1601.
171
See EEOC
v.
Dolgencorp, LLC,
899 F.3d 428, 433-34 (6th Cir. 2018) (applying the 300-day time limit to a charge alleging failure to provide a reasonable accommodation under the ADA filed in Tennessee where the state statute prohibited discrimination against individuals with disabilities but did not provide for reasonable accommodations, noting, “[t]he relevant question is whether the state agency has the power to entertain the claimant's disability discrimination claim, not whether state law recognizes the same theories of discrimination as federal law”).

# 1636.5(e) Remedies and Enforcement Under Section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
3. The applicable procedures and available remedies for employees covered by section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e-16, apply under the PWFA. Employees covered by section 717 of Title VII may file complaints with the relevant Federal agency which will investigate them, and the Commission will process appeals using the same process as set out in Title VII for Federal employees. Thus, the Commission's implementing regulations found at 29 CFR part 1614 (Federal sector equal employment opportunity) apply to the PWFA as well.

# Damages
4. As with other Federal employment discrimination laws, the PWFA provides for recovery of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages, including compensatory and punitive damages. The statute's adoption by reference of section 1977A of the Revised Statutes of the United States, 42 U.S.C. 1981a, also imports the limitations on the recovery of compensatory damages and punitive damages generally applicable in employment discrimination cases, depending on the size of the employer. Punitive damages are not available in actions against a government, government agency, or political subdivision. This part lays out these requirements involving damages in separate paragraphs under § 1636.5(a) through (e).

# 1636.5(f) Prohibition Against Retaliation
5. The anti-retaliation provisions of the PWFA should be interpreted broadly, like those of Title VII and the ADA, to effectuate Congress' broad remedial purpose in enacting these laws.
172
The protections of these provisions extend beyond qualified employees with known limitations and cover activity that may not yet have occurred, such as a circumstance in which a covered entity threatens an employee with termination if they file a charge or requires an employee to sign an agreement that prohibits such individual from filing a charge with the Commission.
173
172
See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation and Related Issues, supra
note 89, at (II)(A)(1) (describing the broad protection of the participation clause);
id.
at (II)(A)(2), (2)(a) (describing the broad protection of the opposition clause).
173
See
EEOC,
Enforcement Guidance on Non-Waivable Employee Rights under EEOC Enforced Statutes,
(II) (1997),
https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-non-waivable-employee-rights-under-eeoc-enforced-statutes
(“[P]romises not to file a charge or participate in an EEOC proceeding are null and void as a matter of public policy. Agreements extracting such promises from employees may also amount to separate and discrete violations of the anti-retaliation provisions of the civil rights statutes.”).

# 1636.5(f)(1) Prohibition Against Retaliation
6. The types of conduct prohibited, the standard for determining what constitutes retaliatory conduct, and the individuals protected under the PWFA are the same as they are under Title VII.
174
Accordingly, this provision prohibits discrimination against employees who engage in protected activity, which includes “`participating' in an EEO process or `opposing' discrimination.”
175
Title VII's anti-retaliation provision is broad and protects an employee from conduct, whether related to employment or not, that a reasonable person would have found “materially adverse,” meaning that the action “well might have dissuaded a reasonable worker from making or supporting a charge of discrimination.”
176
Additionally, Title
VII's anti-retaliation provision protects employees, applicants, and former employees.
177
The same interpretations apply to the PWFA's anti-retaliation provision.
178
174
See
42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f)(1) (using the same language as 42 U.S.C. 2000e-3(a)).
175
See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 89, at (II)(A);
see also id.
at (II)(A)(1), (2) (describing protected activity under Title VII's anti-retaliation clause).
176
Burlington N.
Santa Fe Ry. Co.
v.
White,
548 U.S. 53, 68 (2006) (internal citations and quotation marks omitted).
177
See
42 U.S.C. 2000e-3(a). The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f)(1) applies to an “employee” which 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(3) defines to include applicants. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(3) relies on the Title VII definition of employee, which includes former employees, where relevant.
See also Robinson
v.
Shell Oil Co.,
519 U.S. 337, 346 (1997) (finding former employees are protected under Title VII's anti-retaliation provision).
178
All retaliatory conduct under Title VII (and the ADA), including retaliation that takes the form of harassment, is evaluated under the legal standard for retaliation.
See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 89, at (II)(B)(3).
7. Section 1636.5(f) contains three other provisions based on the statutory language and established anti-retaliation concepts under Title VII and the ADA.
8. First, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f)(1) protects “any employee,” not only “a qualified employee with a known limitation”; therefore, an employee, applicant, or former employee need not establish that they have a known limitation or are qualified (as those terms are defined in the PWFA) to bring a claim under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f)(1).
179
179
See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 89, at (II)(A)(3).
9. Second, a request for a reasonable accommodation under the PWFA constitutes protected activity, and therefore retaliation for such a request is prohibited.
180
180
See id.
at (II)(A)(2)(e) and Example 10.
10. Third, an employee, applicant, or former employee does not have to be actually deterred from exercising or enjoying rights under this section for the retaliation to be actionable.
181
181
See id.
at (II)(B)(1), (2) (stating that the retaliation “standard can be satisfied even if the individual was not in fact deterred” and that “[i]f the employer's action would be reasonably likely to deter protected activity, it can be challenged as retaliation even if it falls short of its goal”).

# 1636.5(f)(2) Prohibition Against Coercion
11. The PWFA's anti-coercion provision uses the same language as the ADA's interference provision, with one minor variation in the title of the section.
182
The scope of the PWFA anti-coercion provision is broader than the anti-retaliation provision; it reaches those instances “when conduct does not meet the `materially adverse' standard required for retaliation.”
183
Following the language of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f)(2) and consistent with the ADA's analogous interference provision, § 1636.5(f)(2) protects individuals, not qualified employees with a known limitation under the PWFA. Thus, the individual need not be an employee, applicant, or former employee and need not establish that they have a known limitation or that they are qualified (as those terms are defined in the PWFA) to bring a claim for coercion under the PWFA.
184
182
The ADA uses the phrase “Interference, coercion, or intimidation” to preface the prohibition against interference (42 U.S.C. 12203(b)), whereas the PWFA uses “Prohibition against coercion” (42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f)(2)). The language of the prohibitions is otherwise identical.
183
See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 89, at (III).
184
See id.
12. The purpose of this provision is to ensure that employees are free to avail themselves of the protections of the statute. Thus, consistent with the ADA regulation for the analogous provision, § 1636.5(f)(2) includes “harass” in the list of prohibitions; the inclusion is intended to characterize the type of adverse treatment that may in some circumstances violate the coercion provision.
185
Section 1636.5(f)(2) also states that an individual does not actually have to be deterred from exercising or enjoying rights under this section for the coercion to be actionable.
186
185
See
29 CFR 1630.12(b);
see also Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 89, at text accompanying n.177 (stating, with regard to the ADA, that “[t]he statute, regulations, and court decisions have not separately defined the terms `coerce,' `intimidate,' `threaten,' and `interfere.' Rather, as a group, these terms have been interpreted to include at least certain types of actions which, whether or not they rise to the level of unlawful retaliation, are nevertheless actionable as interference.”).
186
See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 89, at (II)(B)(1), (2) (noting that actions can be challenged as retaliatory even if the person was not deterred from engaging in protected activity).
13. Importantly the coercion provision does not apply to any and all conduct or statements that an individual finds intimidating; it only prohibits conduct that is reasonably likely to interfere with the exercise or enjoyment of PWFA rights.
187
187
See id
at (III) (discussing the ADA's interference provision).
Some examples of coercion include:
• coercing an individual to relinquish or forgo an accommodation to which they are otherwise entitled;
• intimidating an applicant from requesting an accommodation for the application process by indicating that such a request will result in the applicant not being hired;
• issuing a policy or requirement that purports to limit an employee's rights to invoke PWFA protections (e.g., a fixed leave policy that states “no exceptions will be made for any reason”);
• interfering with a former employee's right to file a PWFA lawsuit against a former employer by stating that a negative job reference will be given to prospective employers if the suit is filed; and
• subjecting an employee to unwarranted discipline, demotion, or other adverse treatment because they assisted a coworker in requesting a reasonable accommodation.
188
188
See id.

# Possible Violations of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)) Based on Seeking Supporting Documentation During the Reasonable Accommodation Process and Disclosure of Medical Information
14. Seeking documentation or information that goes beyond the parameters laid out in § 1636.3(l) when an employee requests a reasonable accommodation under the PWFA may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)) because seeking such information or documentation might well dissuade a reasonable person from engaging in protected activity, such as requesting a reasonable accommodation, or might constitute coercion. Circumstances under which going beyond the parameters of § 1636.3(l) may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)) include:
• Seeking supporting documentation or information in response to an employee's request for reasonable accommodation when it is not reasonable under the circumstances for the covered entity to determine whether the employee has a physical or mental condition related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions (a limitation) and needs an adjustment or change at work due to the limitation, whether or not the employee provides the documentation or information and whether or not the employer grants the accommodation.
• Continued efforts to obtain more information or supporting documentation when sufficient information or supporting documentation has already been provided to allow the employer to determine whether the employee has a physical or mental condition related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions (a limitation) and the adjustment or change at work that is needed due to the limitation, whether or not the employee provides the documentation or information and whether or not the employer grants the accommodation.
189
189
This is based on a similar policy adopted under the ADA.
See Enforcement Guidance on Disability-Related Inquiries, supra
note 152, at Question 11 (“[W]hen an employee provides sufficient evidence of the existence of a disability and the need for reasonable accommodation, continued efforts by the employer to require that the individual provide more documentation and/or submit to a medical examination could be considered retaliation.”). The Commission notes that if the covered entity can show that it had a good faith belief that the submitted documentation was insufficient and thus sought additional documentation, its actions would not be retaliatory because they would lack the requisite intent.
15. Disclosing medical information, threatening to disclose medical information, or requiring an employee to share their medical information other than in the limited situations set out in section
1636.7(a)(1)
of this appendix under
Prohibition on Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical Examinations and Protection of Medical Information
also may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)) because such actions might well dissuade a reasonable person from engaging in protected activity, such as requesting a reasonable accommodation, or might constitute coercion.
190
190
As described in detail
infra
in section
1636.7(a)(1)
of this appendix under
Prohibition on Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical Examinations and Protection of Medical Information,
the ADA's rules on medical confidentiality apply to medical information obtained under the PWFA and allow for disclosure of such information only in specific, limited circumstances.
See
42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(3); 29 CFR 1630.14;
Enforcement Guidance on Disability-Related Inquiries, supra
note 152, at text accompanying nn.9-10;
Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment Disability-Related Questions, supra
note 152, at text accompanying n.6.
16. Actions that the courts or the Commission have previously determined may be retaliation or interference under Title VII or the ADA may violate the retaliation and coercion provisions of the PWFA as well. Depending on the facts, a covered entity's retaliation for activity protected under the PWFA also may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1) (because these actions may make the accommodation ineffective) or 2000gg-1(5) (prohibiting adverse actions) (§ 1636.4(a) and (e)).
17. The following examples could violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f) and also may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1), (5) or other laws.
Example #61/Retaliatory Performance Appraisal:
Perrin requests a stool to sit on due to her pregnancy which makes standing difficult. Lucy, Perrin's supervisor, denies Perrin's request. The corporate human resources department instructs Lucy to grant the request because there is no undue hardship. Angry about being told to provide the
reasonable accommodation, Lucy thereafter gives Perrin an unjustified poor performance rating and denies Perrin's request to attend training that Lucy approves for Perrin's coworkers.
Example #62/Retaliatory Surveillance:
Marisol files an EEOC charge after Cyrus, her supervisor, refuses to provide her with the reasonable accommodation of help with lifting following her cesarean section. Marisol also alleges that after she requested the accommodation, Cyrus asked two coworkers to: conduct surveillance on Marisol, including watching her at work; note with whom she associated in the workplace; suggest to other employees that they should avoid her; and report her breaks to Cyrus, who said he kept a record of this information “just in case.”
Example #63/Seeking Supporting Documentation Beyond § 1636.3(l):
Mara provides her employer with a note from her health care provider explaining that she is pregnant and will need the functions of her position that require her to be around certain chemicals to be temporarily suspended. Mara's supervisor requires that Mara confirm the pregnancy through an ultrasound, even though the employer already has sufficient information to determine whether Mara has a physical or mental condition related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions (a limitation) and needs an adjustment or change at work due to the limitation.
Example #64/Dissuaded from Requesting an Accommodation:
During an interview at an employment agency, Arden tells the human resources staffer, Stanley, that Arden is dealing with complications from their recent childbirth and may need time off for doctor's appointments during their first few weeks at work. Stanley counsels Arden that needing leave so soon after starting will be a “black mark” on their application and that it would be a waste of time for the employment agency to try to find work for Arden.
Example #65/Threatening Future Employment:
Merritt, who gets jobs through an employment agency, is fired after requesting an accommodation under the PWFA. The employment agency refuses to refer Merritt to other employers, telling Merritt that the agency only refers workers who will not cause any trouble.
Example #66/Disciplined for Assisting Other Employees:
Jessie, a factory union steward, ensures that workers know about their rights under the PWFA and encourages employees with known limitations to ask for reasonable accommodations. Jessie helps employees navigate the reasonable accommodation process and provides suggestions of possible reasonable accommodations. Factory supervisors, annoyed by the number of PWFA reasonable accommodation requests, write up Jessie for trivial timekeeping violations and other actions that had not been deemed worthy of discipline prior to Jessie assisting other employees with their PWFA accommodation requests.
Example #67/Negative Reference:
While she was pregnant, Laila requested and received the reasonable accommodation of a temporary suspension of the essential function of moving heavy boxes and placement in the light duty program. After giving birth, Laila tells her employer that she has decided to resign and stay home for a year. Her employer responds that if Laila follows through and resigns now, the employer will have no choice but to give her a negative reference because Laila demanded an accommodation but did not have the loyalty to come back after having her baby.
Example #68/Seeking Supporting Documentation Beyond § 1636.3(l):
Robbie, a retail worker, is pregnant. Her job requires her to stand at a cash register. Because of her pregnancy, Robbie has difficulty standing for long periods of time. Robbie explains the situation to the manager, who requires Robbie to produce a signed doctor's note saying that Robbie is pregnant and needs to sit. Because Robbie is pregnant and has requested one of the simple modifications that will virtually always be found to be a reasonable accommodation that does not impose an undue hardship, and she has confirmed the limitation and her need for the modification due to the limitation, the manager is not permitted to seek supporting documentation, as set forth in § 1636.3(l)(1)(iii).
Example #69/Disciplined Through Workplace Policy:
Tina gave birth and started a new job. She is experiencing urinary incontinence related to, affected by, or arising out of childbirth and needs time to attend a medical appointment. Her new employer has a policy that employees cannot be absent during the first 90 days of work. Tina requests and is given the reasonable accommodation of time to attend her medical appointment, but then is issued a disciplinary write-up for missing work during her first 90 days.
Example #70/Retaliatory Failure to Provide Interim Reasonable Accommodation:
Dominique is lactating and, based on the recommendation of her health care provider, requests additional safety gear and protection to reduce the risk that chemicals she works with will contaminate her breast milk. The equipment has to be ordered, and the employer puts Dominique on unpaid leave while waiting for the equipment, although there is available work that Dominique could perform that would not require her to be around the chemicals while she waits for the additional safety gear. Additionally, her supervisor tells human resources staff that he is tired of accommodating Dominique because she asked for accommodations during her pregnancy as well and there has to be an end to her requests.
Example #71/Retaliation for Requesting Safety Information:
Wynne is pregnant and is in a probationary period as a janitor. She asks her supervisor for safety information about the cleaning products that she handles as part of her job and explains it is to help her determine if she needs to ask for a reasonable accommodation regarding exposure to the chemicals. Her supervisor tells her not to worry and warns her that trying to get this kind of information will mark her as a troublemaker. During her first review near the end of the probationary period, the supervisor notes that, for an entry-level janitor, Wynne asks many questions and behaves like a troublemaker. The supervisor terminates Wynne even though she was performing satisfactorily.
Example #72/Seeking Supporting Documentation Beyond § 1636.3(l):
An employer adopts a policy requiring everyone who requests a reasonable accommodation to provide medical documentation in support of the request. Cora, a production worker who is 8 months pregnant, requests additional bathroom breaks. The employer applies the policy to her, refusing to provide the accommodation until she submits supporting documentation, even though under § 1636.3(l)(1)(iii) the employer is not permitted to seek documentation in this situation.
Example #73/Seeking Supporting Documentation Beyond § 1636.3(l) and Failure to Provide Accommodation:
An employer adopts a policy requiring everyone who requests a reasonable accommodation to provide supporting documentation. Fourteen months after giving birth, Alex wants to continue to pump at work, which is beyond the length of time the PUMP Act requires. She explains her request to her supervisor and asks that she have breaks to pump and that the room provided have a chair, a table, access to electricity and running water. Alex's employer refuses to grant the accommodations unless Alex provides supporting documentation from her health care provider. Alex cannot provide the information, so she stops pumping. In addition to potentially violating 42 U.S.C 2000gg-2(f), the employer cannot use the lack of supporting documentation as a defense to the failure to provide the accommodations because seeking documentation was not reasonable under the circumstances as set forth in § 1636.3(l)(1)(iv) and thus these actions may violate 42 U.S.C 2000gg-1(1) (§ 1636.4(a)(3)).
Example #74/Retaliatory Waiver of Rights:
An employer adopts a policy under which an employee who files a claim with the EEOC or another outside agency automatically waives their right to have a complaint processed through the employer's internal complaint procedure. Rebecca submitted an internal complaint to her supervisor after her request for a reasonable accommodation was denied and, a month later, filed a charge with the EEOC. The employer notified her that it would stop investigating her internal complaint until the EEOC matter was resolved, but that she would be free to pursue the internal resolution of her complaint if she withdrew her EEOC charge. The employer's policy is retaliatory because it adversely affects the employee by stripping her of an employment privilege for filing a charge with the EEOC.
Example #75/Disclosure of Medical Information:
Caroline requested and received an accommodation under the PWFA in the form of a lifting restriction due to a back injury related to her pregnancy. Caroline's accommodation was granted early in her third trimester. Two weeks after her accommodation went into effect, during a team meeting, Caroline's supervisor went around the table describing each team members' duties, sighing as she explained that Caroline had a back injury due to pregnancy that prevented her from lifting and that Caroline's injury was the reason that other team members had extra duties. At each biweekly team meeting for the next two months, Caroline's supervisor noted that team members continued to be assigned extra duties because of Caroline's back injury. In addition to potential violation 42 U.S.C 2000gg-2(f), this disclosure of medical information violates the ADA's confidentiality rules, as it does not fit within any of the five disclosure exceptions.
Example #76/Retaliatory Harassment:
Benita requested and received an accommodation under the PWFA in the form of a one-hour delayed start time due to morning sickness related to her pregnancy. Benita's coworkers are aware that she is receiving the accommodation due to a condition related to her pregnancy. A few days after Benita's accommodation is granted, her coworkers start to make unwelcome, critical comments about her “late” arrivals on a frequent basis, including that other pregnant individuals were able to start work on time during their pregnancies, that being able to “work during pregnancy is mind over matter,” and calling her “lazy” and a “slacker.” The coworkers schedule meetings that begin a half hour before Benita arrives in the office and complain to Benita's supervisor that she arrives late to those meetings. Because she cannot attend the meetings, Benita falls behind on her work.

# 1636.5(g) Limitation on Monetary Damages
18. The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(g), using the language of the Civil Rights Act of 1991, 42 U.S.C. 1981a(a)(3), provides a limitation on damages based on a “good faith effort” to provide a reasonable accommodation. The covered entity bears the burden of proof for this affirmative defense. This limitation on damages applies to violations of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1) (§ 1636.4(a)) only. It does
not apply to any other provisions of the PWFA.

# VI. 1636.7 Relationship to Other Laws

# 1636.7(a)(1) Relationship to Other Laws in General
1. The PWFA does not limit the rights of individuals affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions under a Federal, State, or local law that provides greater or equal protection. It is equally true that a Federal, State, or local law that provides less protection for individuals affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions than the PWFA does not limit the rights provided by the PWFA.
2. Federal laws, including, but not limited to, Title VII, the ADA, the FMLA, the Rehabilitation Act, the PUMP Act, and Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.,
provide protections for employees affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions. Numerous States and localities also have laws that provide accommodations for pregnant employees.
191
All of the protections for employees affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions in these laws are unaffected by the PWFA. If these laws provide greater protections than the PWFA, the greater protections will apply. For example, the State of Washington's Healthy Starts Act provides that certain accommodations, including lifting restrictions of 17 pounds or more, cannot be the subject of an undue hardship defense.
192
If an employee in Washington is seeking a lifting restriction as a reasonable accommodation for a pregnancy-related reason under the Healthy Starts Act, an employer in Washington cannot argue that a lifting restriction of 20 pounds is an undue hardship, even though that defense could be raised if the claim were brought under the PWFA.
191
U.S. Dep't of Lab., Women's Bureau,
Employment Protections for Workers Who Are Pregnant or Nursing, www.dol.gov/agencies/wb/pregnant-nursing-employment-protections
(last visited Mar. 25, 2024).
192
Wash. Rev. Code 43.10.005(1)(d).
3. Section 1636.7(a) also applies to Federal or State occupational health and safety laws and collective bargaining agreements (CBAs). Thus, nothing in the PWFA limits an employee's rights under laws such as the OSH Act or under a CBA if either of those provide protection greater than or equal to that of the PWFA.

# The PWFA and Title VII
4. The PWFA uses many terms and definitions from Title VII, and conduct that is the subject of PWFA claims also may give rise to claims under Title VII. For example, a qualified pregnant employee who sought leave for recovery from childbirth and was terminated may have a claim under both Title VII for sex discrimination and the PWFA for failure to accommodate, adverse employment action, or retaliation.
193
193
See
42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1), (5); 2000gg-2(f).
5. Under Title VII, employees affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions may be able to receive accommodations if they can identify a comparator similar in their ability or inability to work.
194
Under the PWFA, qualified employees with physical or mental conditions related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions are entitled to reasonable accommodations (absent undue hardship) whether or not other employees have those accommodations and whether or not the affected employees are similar in their ability or inability to work as employees not so affected. Additionally, if the covered entity offers a neutral reason or policy to explain why qualified employees affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions cannot access a specific benefit, the qualified employee with a known limitation under the PWFA still may ask for a waiver of that policy as a reasonable accommodation. Under the PWFA, the employer must grant the waiver, or another reasonable accommodation, absent undue hardship. If, for example, an employer denies a qualified pregnant employee's request to join its light duty program as a reasonable accommodation because the program is for employees with on-the-job injuries, it may be a reasonable accommodation for the employer's light duty program policy to be waived. Finally, employers in this situation should remember that if there are others to whom the benefit is extended, the Supreme Court stated in
Young
v.
UPS
that “[the employer's] reason [for refusing to accommodate a pregnant employee] normally cannot consist simply of a claim that it is more expensive or less convenient to add pregnant women to the category of those . . . whom the employer accommodates.”
195
Thus, if the undue hardship defense of the employer under the PWFA is based solely on cost or convenience, that defense could, under certain fact patterns, nonetheless lead to liability under Title VII.
194
42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).
195
575 U.S. at 229.
6. Finally, nothing in the PWFA, this part, or this Interpretive Guidance should be interpreted to reduce or limit any protections provided by Title VII.

# The PWFA and the ADA
7. The PWFA uses many terms and definitions from the ADA. Conduct that is the subject of PWFA claims also may give rise to
claims under the ADA. For example, an employee with postpartum depression seeking a reasonable accommodation to attend treatment whose employer fails to provide the accommodation may have a claim under both the PWFA and the ADA (and possibly also Title VII). Similarly, an employee who has a physical or mental condition related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions may have both a known limitation under the PWFA and a disability under the ADA (where the physical or mental condition substantially limits a major life activity, including a major bodily function—in other words, the individual would have an “actual” ADA disability).
196
In such case, the employee may be entitled to accommodation, absent undue hardship, under both the PWFA and the ADA.
196
42 U.S.C. 12102(1); 29 CFR 1630.2(g).
8. While it will depend on the specific facts, if an employee could be covered under either the PWFA or the ADA, a covered entity's analysis, in most cases, should begin with the PWFA because the definition of “known limitation” under the PWFA covers situations when the ADA does not apply.
197
197
42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4).
9. Requests for accommodation under the PWFA may be indistinguishable from requests for accommodation under the ADA and there will be situations in which both statutes apply. In one instance, the PWFA known limitation also may be an ADA disability. In another, employees with existing disabilities may seek ADA coverage for those, while also invoking the PWFA to address limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions interacting with an existing disability. In these situations, employees with disabilities may require additional or different accommodations and are entitled to them, absent undue hardship, under the PWFA and/or the ADA.
10. There also will be situations where an employee with a disability who has an accommodation under the ADA seeks and is granted an accommodation under the PWFA. For example, an employee who uses an adaptive keyboard as an ADA reasonable accommodation temporarily may be assigned to a new position as part of an accommodation under the PWFA because an essential function of their original position has been temporarily suspended. In this situation, the employer must continue to provide the adaptive keyboard as an ADA reasonable accommodation if it is necessary for the employee to perform the essential functions of the new position.
11. Because an individual may be covered by both the ADA and the PWFA, and the PWFA provides at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-5(a)(1) that nothing in the statute shall be construed to invalidate or limit the powers, remedies, and procedures under any Federal law that provides greater or equal protection for individuals affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions, a covered entity must apply the law that provides the worker the most protection.
12. Examples Regarding Disability and Pregnancy:
Example #77/Disability and Pregnancy:
Roxy is an accountant who has developed gestational hypertension and preeclampsia late in her pregnancy, causing damage to her kidneys. As a result, Roxy needs leave for periodic medical appointments to protect her own health and the health of her pregnancy. Because Roxy's condition is both a physical or mental condition related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions and a condition that substantially limits one of her major bodily functions (kidney function), it qualifies as both a limitation under the PWFA and a disability under the ADA. Absent undue hardship, the employer must provide Roxy with the accommodation she requires due to her pregnancy (under the PWFA) and her disability (under the ADA). Of course, one effective accommodation may be sufficient to satisfy requirements under both statutes in this instance.
Example #78/Disability and Pregnancy:
Farah is a nurse who has diabetes, and her employer has provided her with the accommodation of breaks to eat small meals throughout the day and breaks to check her insulin levels. When Farah becomes pregnant, she experiences morning sickness that makes it difficult for her to eat in the morning. As a result, she needs more breaks for eating later in the day and occasionally needs a break to rest while at work. Absent undue hardship, the employer must provide Farah with the additional accommodations she requires due to her pregnancy under the PWFA.
13. In cases where both the ADA and PWFA apply, if an employer fails to provide an accommodation the employee could potentially file a claim for failure to accommodate under both the ADA and the PWFA. They also could file a separate ADA claim if they experienced disparate treatment based on a disability.

# Prohibition on Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical Examinations and Protection of Medical Information
14. Important protections from the ADA that apply to all covered employees continue to apply when employees are seeking accommodations under the PWFA. First, the rules limiting the ability of covered entities to make disability-related inquiries or require medical exams in the ADA apply to all disability-related inquiries and medical exams
including those made in the context of requests for PWFA accommodation.
198
For example, a covered entity may not ask an employee who is seeking an accommodation under the PWFA whether the employee has asked for other accommodations in the past or has preexisting conditions because these questions are likely to elicit information about a disability and are not job-related and consistent with business necessity in this context. Similarly, an employer's response to an employee's request for accommodation under the PWFA that requires the employee to complete a release permitting the employer to obtain the employee's complete medical records would not be job-related or consistent with business necessity.
198
See
42 U.S.C. 12112(d); 29 CFR 1630.13, 1630.14.
15. Second, under the ADA, covered entities are required to keep medical information of all applicants, employees, and former employees (whether or not those individuals have disabilities) confidential, with limited exceptions.
199
The Commission has repeatedly stated that the requirement applies to all medical information in the employer's possession, whether obtained through inquiries pursuant to the ADA or otherwise.
200
Thus, this protection applies to medical information obtained under the PWFA, including medical information provided voluntarily and medical information provided as part of the reasonable accommodation process. Moreover, as a practical matter, in many circumstances under the PWFA, the medical information obtained by an employer may involve a condition that could be a disability; rather than an employer attempting to parse out whether to keep certain information confidential or not, all medical information should be kept confidential.
201
Therefore, medical information obtained under the PWFA is subject to the ADA requirement that information regarding the medical condition or history of any employee be collected and maintained on separate forms and in separate medical files and be treated as a confidential medical record.
202
199
42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(3)(B); 29 CFR 1630.14(b)(1)(i) through (iii), (c)(1), (d)(4);
Enforcement Guidance on Disability-Related Inquiries, supra
note 152, at text accompanying nn.9-10 (“The ADA requires employers to treat any medical information obtained from a disability-related inquiry or medical examination . . ., as well as any medical information voluntarily disclosed by an employee, as a confidential medical record. Employers may share such information only in limited circumstances with supervisors, managers, first aid and safety personnel, and government officials investigating compliance with the ADA.”) and text after n.12 (“[T]he ADA's restrictions on inquiries and examinations apply to all employees, not just those with disabilities.”);
Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment Disability-Related Questions, supra
note 152, at text accompanying n.6 (“Medical information must be kept confidential.”).
200
See supra
note 199. This policy also appears in numerous EEOC technical assistance documents.
See, e.g.,
EEOC,
Visual Disabilities in the Workplace and the Americans with Disabilities Act,
at text preceding n.43 (2023),
https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/visual-disabilities-workplace-and-americans-disabilities-act#q8
(“With limited exceptions, an employer must keep confidential any medical information it learns about an applicant or employee.”).
201
Requests for accommodation under the PWFA also may overlap with FMLA issues, and the FMLA requires medical information to be kept confidential as well. 29 CFR 825.500(g).
202
42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(3)(B); 29 CFR 1630.14(b)(1), (c)(1), and (d)(4)(i);
see Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment Disability-Related Questions, supra
note 152, at text accompanying the question “Can medical information be kept in an employee's regular personnel file?”
16. That an employee is pregnant, has recently been pregnant, or has a medical condition related to pregnancy or childbirth is medical information. The ADA requires that employers keep such information confidential and only disclose it within the confines of the limited disclosure rules described in paragraphs 17 and 18 of this section. Similarly, disclosing that an employee is receiving or has requested an accommodation under the PWFA, or has limitations for which they requested or are receiving a reasonable accommodation under the PWFA, usually amounts to a disclosure that the employee is pregnant, has recently been pregnant, or has a related medical condition.
17. As set forth at 29 CFR 1630.14, under the ADA, medical information must be collected and maintained on separate forms and in separate medical files and be treated as a confidential medical record, except that:
(i) Supervisors and managers may be informed regarding necessary restrictions on the work or duties of the employee and necessary accommodations;
(ii) First aid and safety personnel may be informed, when appropriate, if the disability might require emergency treatment; and
(iii) Government officials investigating compliance with the ADA shall be provided relevant information on request.
18. In addition to what is stated in the ADA regulation: covered entities (iv) may disclose the medical information to State workers' compensation offices, State second
injury funds, or workers' compensation insurance carriers in accordance with State workers' compensation laws; and (v) may use the medical information for insurance purposes.
203
All these disclosure exceptions apply to medical information obtained under the PWFA. Disclosing medical information in any circumstances, other than those set forth in these five recognized disclosure exceptions, violates the ADA's confidentiality rule.
203
See Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment Disability-Related Questions, supra
note 152, at text accompanying the heading “Confidentiality.”
19. In addition, as explained in section
1636.5(f)
of this appendix under
Possible Violations of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)) Based on Seeking Supporting Documentation During the Reasonable Accommodation Process and Disclosure of Medical Information,
disclosing medical information, threatening to disclose medical information, or requiring an employee to share their medical information other than in the limited situations set out in paragraphs 17 and 18 of this section also may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)).
204
Given the protections for confidential medical information under the ADA and the potential of violating 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2(f), if a covered entity is under an obligation to disclose medical information received under the PWFA in any circumstances other than those provided in this Interpretive Guidance, before doing so it should inform the individual to whom the information relates of its intent to disclose the information; identify the specific reason for the disclosure; and provide sufficient time for the individual to object.
204
See, e.g., Haire
v.
Farm
Fleet of Rice Lake, Inc.,
No. 2:21-CV-10967, 2022 WL 128815, at *8-*9 (E.D. Mich. Jan. 12, 2022) (disclosing personal and confidential information about an employee's medical condition and mental health episodes to her coworkers could constitute retaliation under Title VII);
Holtrey
v.
Collier Cnty. Bd. of Cnty. Comm'rs,
No. 2:16-CV-00034, 2017 WL 119649, at *3 (M.D. Fla. Jan. 12, 2017) (determining that an employer's disclosure of its employee's confidential medical information about his genito-urinary system to his coworkers and subordinates could constitute retaliation under FMLA, relying on Title VII's definition of “materially adverse action”).
20. Finally, nothing in the PWFA, this part, or this Interpretive Guidance should be interpreted to reduce or limit any protections provided by the ADA.

# 1636.7(a)(2) Limitations Related to Employer-Sponsored Health Plans
21. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-5(a)(2) states that nothing in the PWFA shall be construed to require an employer-sponsored health plan to pay for or cover any item, procedure, or treatment and, further, that nothing in the PWFA shall be construed to affect any right or remedy available under any other Federal, State, or local law with respect to any such payment or coverage requirement. For example, nothing in the PWFA requires, or forbids, an employer to pay for health insurance benefits for an abortion.

# 1636.7(b) Rule of Construction
22. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-5(b) provides a “rule of construction” stating that the PWFA is “subject to the applicability to religious employment” set forth in section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e-1(a). The relevant portion of section 702(a) provides that Title VII shall not apply to a religious corporation, association, educational institution, or society with respect to the employment of individuals of a particular religion to perform work connected with the carrying on by such corporation, association, educational institution, or society of its activities.
205
Section 1636.7(b) reiterates the PWFA statutory language and adds that nothing in 42 U.S.C. 2000g-5(b) or this part should be interpreted to limit the rights of a covered entity under the U.S. Constitution or the rights of an employee under other civil rights statutes. As with assertions of section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 in Title VII matters, when 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-5(b) is asserted by a respondent employer, the Commission will consider the application of the provision on a case-by-case basis.
206
205
The PWFA makes no mention of section 703(e)(2) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which provides a second statutory exemption for religious educational institutions in certain circumstances.
206
The case-by-case analysis of religious defenses asserted in response to a charge under the PWFA is consistent with the Commission's framework evaluating similar defenses under other statutes the Commission enforces.
See Compliance Manual on Religious Discrimination, supra
note 163, at (12-I)(C).

# VII. 1636.8 Severability
1. The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-6 contains a severability provision regarding the statute. Section 1636.8 repeats the statutory provision and also addresses the Commission's intent regarding the severability of the Commission's regulations in this part and this Interpretive Guidance.
2. Following Congress' rule for the statute, in places where this part uses the same language as the statute, if any of those identical regulatory provisions, or the application of those provisions to particular persons
or circumstances, is held invalid or found to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this part and the application of that provision of this part to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.
3. In other places, where this part or this Interpretive Guidance provide additional guidance to carry out the PWFA, including examples of reasonable accommodations, following Congress' intent regarding the severability of the provisions of the statute, it is the Commission's intent that if any of those regulatory provisions or the Interpretive Guidance or the application of those provisions or the Interpretive Guidance to particular persons or circumstances is held invalid or found to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this part or the Interpretive Guidance and the application of that provision of this part or the Interpretive Guidance to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.
Pt. 1640

# PART 1640—PROCEDURES FOR COORDINATING THE INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS OR CHARGES OF EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION BASED ON DISABILITY SUBJECT TO THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT AND SECTION 504 OF THE REHABILITATION ACT OF 1973
Sec.
1640.1
Purpose and application.
1640.2
Definitions.
1640.3
Exchange of information.
1640.4
Confidentiality.
1640.5
Date of receipt.
1640.6
Processing of complaints of employment discrimination filed with an agency other than the EEOC.
1640.7
Processing of charges of employment discrimination filed with the EEOC.
1640.8
Processing of complaints or charges of employment discrimination filed with both the EEOC and a section 504 agency.
1640.9
Processing of complaints or charges of employment discrimination filed with a designated agency and either a section 504 agency, the EEOC, or both.
1640.10
Section 504 agency review of deferred complaints.
1640.11
EEOC review of deferred charges.
1640.12
Standards.
1640.13
Agency specific memoranda of understanding.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 29 U.S.C. 794(d); 42 U.S.C. 12117(b).

# Source:
59 FR 39904, 39908, Aug. 4, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1640.1
Purpose and application.
(a) This part establishes the procedures to be followed by the Federal agencies responsible for processing and resolving complaints or charges of employment discrimination filed against recipients of Federal financial assistance when jurisdiction exists under both section 504 and title I.
(b) This part also repeats the provisions established by 28 CFR 35.171 for determining which Federal agency shall process and resolve complaints or charges of employment discrimination:
(1) That fall within the overlapping jurisdiction of titles I and II (but are not covered by section 504); and
(2) That are covered by title II, but not title I (whether or not they are also covered by section 504).
(c) This part also describes the procedures to be followed when a complaint or charge arising solely under section 504 or title I is filed with a section 504 agency or the EEOC.
(d) This part does not apply to complaints or charges against Federal contractors under section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act.
(e) This part does not create rights in any person or confer agency jurisdiction not created or conferred by the ADA or section 504 over any complaint or charge.
§ 1640.2
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
or
ADA
means the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-336, 104 Stat. 327, 42 U.S.C. 12101-12213 and 47 U.S.C. 225 and 611).
Assistant Attorney General
refers to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice, or his or her designee.
Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
refers to the Chairman of the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or his or her designee.
Civil Rights Division
means the Civil Rights Division of the United States Department of Justice.
Designated agency
means any one of the eight agencies designated under § 35.190 of 28 CFR part 35 (the Department's title II regulation) to implement and enforce title II of the ADA
with respect to the functional areas within their jurisdiction.
Dual-filed complaint or charge
means a complaint or charge of employment discrimination that:
(1) Arises under both section 504 and title I;
(2) Has been filed with both a section 504 agency that has jurisdiction under section 504 and with the EEOC, which has jurisdiction under title I; and
(3) Alleges the same facts and raises the same issues in both filings.
Due weight
shall mean, with respect to the weight a section 504 agency or the EEOC shall give to the other agency's findings and conclusions, such full and careful consideration as is appropriate, taking into account such factors as:
(1) The extent to which the underlying investigation is complete and the evidence is supportive of the findings and conclusions;
(2) The nature and results of any subsequent proceedings;
(3) The extent to which the findings, conclusions and any actions taken:
(i) Under title I are consistent with the effective enforcement of section 504; or
(ii) Under section 504 are consistent with the effective enforcement of title I; and
(4) The section 504 agency's responsibilities under section 504 or the EEOC's responsibilities under title I.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
or
EEOC
refers to the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and, when appropriate, to any of its headquarters, district, area, local, or field offices.
Federal financial assistance
shall have the meaning, with respect to each section 504 agency, as defined in such agency's regulations implementing section 504 for Federally- assisted programs.
Program or activity
shall have the meaning defined in the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394, 29 U.S.C. 794), as amended.
Public entity
means:
(1) Any State or local government;
(2) Any department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or States or local government; and
(3) The National Railroad Passenger Corporation, and any commuter authority (as defined in section 103(8) of the Rail Passenger Service Act, 45 U.S.C. 502(8)).
Recipient
means any State, political subdivision of any State, or instrumentality of any State or political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any individual, in any State, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient, for any program, including any successor, assignee, or transferee thereof, but such term does not include any ultimate beneficiary under such program.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394, 29 U.S.C. 794), as amended.
Section 504 agency
means any Federal department or agency that extends Federal financial assistance to programs or activities of recipients.
Title I
means title I of the ADA.
Title II
means subtitle A of title II of the ADA.
§ 1640.3
Exchange of information.
The EEOC, section 504 agencies, and designated agencies shall share any information relating to the employment policies and practices of a respondent that may assist each agency in carrying out its responsibilities, to the extent permissible by law. Such information shall include, but is not limited to, complaints, charges, investigative files, compliance review reports and files, affirmative action programs, and annual employment reports.
§ 1640.4
Confidentiality.
(a) When a section 504 agency or a designated agency receives information obtained by the EEOC, such agency shall observe the confidentiality requirements of section 706(b) and section 709(e) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2000e-5(b) and 2000e-8(e)), as incorporated by section 107(a) of the ADA, to the same extent as these provisions would bind the EEOC, except when the agency receives the same information from a source
independent of the EEOC. Agency questions concerning the confidentiality requirements of title I shall be directed to the Associate Legal Counsel for Legal Services, Office of Legal Counsel, the EEOC.
(b) When the EEOC receives information from a section 504 or a designated agency, the EEOC shall observe any confidentiality requirements applicable to that information.
§ 1640.5
Date of receipt.
A complaint or charge of employment discrimination is deemed to be filed, for purposes of determining timeliness, on the date the complaint or charge is first received by a Federal agency with section 504 or ADA jurisdiction, regardless of whether it is subsequently transferred to another agency for processing.
§ 1640.6
Processing of complaints of employment discrimination filed with an agency other than the EEOC.
(a)
Agency determination of jurisdiction.
Upon receipt of a complaint of employment discrimination, an agency other than the EEOC shall:
(1) Determine whether it has jurisdiction over the complaint under section 504 or under title II of the ADA; and
(2) Determine whether the EEOC may have jurisdiction over the complaint under title I of the ADA.
(b)
Referral to the Civil Rights Division.
If the agency determines that it does not have jurisdiction under section 504 or title II, and determines that the EEOC does not have jurisdiction under title I, the agency shall promptly refer the complaint to the Civil Rights Division. The Civil Rights Division shall determine if another Federal agency may have jurisdiction over the complaint under section 504 or title II, and, if so, shall promptly refer the complaint to a section 504 or a designated agency with jurisdiction over the complaint.
(c)
Referral to the EEOC
—(1)
Referral by an agency without jurisdiction.
If an agency determines that it does not have jurisdiction over a complaint of employment discrimination under either section 504 or title II and determines that the EEOC may have jurisdiction under title I, the agency shall promptly refer the complaint to the EEOC for investigation and processing under title I of the ADA.
(2)
Referral by a section 504 agency.
(i) A section 504 agency that otherwise has jurisdiction over a complaint of employment discrimination under section 504 shall promptly refer to the EEOC, for investigation and processing under title I of the ADA, any complaint of employment discrimination that solely alleges discrimination against an individual (and that does not allege discrimination in both employment and in other practices or services of the respondent or a pattern or practice of employment discrimination), unless:
(A) The section 504 agency determines that the EEOC does not have jurisdiction over the complaint under title I; or
(B) The EEOC has jurisdiction over the complaint under title I, but the complainant, either independently, or following receipt of the notification letter required to be sent to the complainant pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, specifically requests that the complaint be investigated by the section 504 agency.
(ii) Prior to referring an individual complaint of employment discrimination to the EEOC pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section (but not prior to making such a referral pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section), a section 504 agency that otherwise has jurisdiction over the complaint shall promptly notify the complainant, in writing, of its intention to make such a referral. The notice letter shall:
(A) Inform the complainant that, unless the agency receives a written request from the complainant within twenty days of the date of the notice letter requesting that the agency retain the complaint for investigation, the agency will forward the complaint to the EEOC for investigation and processing; and
(B) Describe the basic procedural differences between an investigation under section 504 and an investigation under title I, and inform the complainant of the potential for differing remedies under each statute.
(3)
Referral by a designated agency.
A designated agency that does not have
section 504 jurisdiction over a complaint of employment discrimination and that has determined that the EEOC may have jurisdiction over the complaint under title I shall promptly refer the complaint to the EEOC.
(4)
Processing of complaints referred to the EEOC.
(i) A complaint referred to the EEOC in accordance with this section by an agency with jurisdiction over the complaint under section 504 shall be deemed to be a dual-filed complaint under section 504 and title I. When a section 504 agency with jurisdiction over a complaint refers the complaint to the EEOC, the section 504 agency shall defer its processing of the complaint pursuant to § 1640.10, pending resolution by the EEOC.
(ii) A complaint referred to the EEOC by an agency that has jurisdiction over the complaint solely under title II (and not under section 504) will be treated as a complaint filed under title I only.
(iii) Any complaint referred to the EEOC pursuant to this section shall be processed by the EEOC under its title I procedures.
(d)
Retention by the agency for investigation
—(1)
Retention by a section 504 agency.
A section 504 agency shall retain a complaint for investigation when the agency determines that it has jurisdiction over the complaint under section 504, and one or more of the following conditions are met:
(i) The EEOC does not have jurisdiction over the complaint under title I; or
(ii) The EEOC has jurisdiction over the complaint, but the complainant elects to have the section 504 agency process the complaint and the section 504 agency receives a written request from the complainant for section 504 agency processing within twenty days of the date of the notice letter required to be sent pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section; or
(iii) The complaint alleges discrimination in both employment and in other practices or services of the respondent that are covered by section 504; or
(iv) The complaint alleges a pattern or practice of employment discrimination.
(2)
Retention by a designated agency.
A designated agency that does not have jurisdiction over the complaint under section 504 shall retain a complaint for investigation when the agency determines that it has jurisdiction over the complaint under title II of the ADA and that the EEOC does not have jurisdiction over the complaint under title I.
(3)
Processing of complaints retained by an agency.
Any complaint retained for investigation and processing by an agency pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section will be investigated and processed under section 504, title II, or both, as applicable, and will not be considered to be dual filed under title I.
§ 1640.7
Processing of charges of employment discrimination filed with the EEOC.
(a)
EEOC determination of jurisdiction.
Upon receipt of a charge of employment discrimination, the EEOC shall:
(1) Determine whether it has jurisdiction over the charge under title I of the ADA. If it has jurisdiction, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the EEOC shall process the charge pursuant to title I procedures.
(2) If the EEOC determines that it does not have jurisdiction under title I, the EEOC shall promptly refer the charge to the Civil Rights Division. The Civil Rights Division shall determine if a Federal agency may have jurisdiction over the charge under section 504 or title II, and, if so, shall refer the charge to a section 504 agency or to a designated agency with jurisdiction over the complaint.
(b)
Retention by the EEOC for investigation.
(1) The EEOC shall retain a charge for investigation when it determines that it has jurisdiction over the charge under title I.
(2)
Referral to an agency.
Any charge retained by the EEOC for investigation and processing will be investigated and processed under title I only, and will not be deemed dual filed under section 504, except that ADA cause charges (as defined in 29 CFR 1601.21) that also fall within the jurisdiction of a section 504 agency and that the EEOC (or the Civil Rights Division, if such a charge is against a government, governmental agency, or political subdivision) has declined to litigate shall be referred to
the appropriate section 504 agency for review of the file and any administrative or other action deemed appropriate under section 504. Such charges shall be deemed complaints, dual filed under section 504, solely for the purposes of the agency review and action described in this paragraph. The date of such dual filing shall be deemed to be the date the complaint was received by the EEOC.
§ 1640.8
Processing of complaints or charges of employment discrimination filed with both the EEOC and a section 504 agency.
(a)
Procedures for handling dual-filed complaints or charges.
As between the EEOC and a section 504 agency, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a complaint or charge of employment discrimination that is dual filed with both the EEOC and a section 504 agency shall be processed as follows:
(1)
EEOC processing.
The EEOC shall investigate and process the charge when the EEOC determines that it has jurisdiction over the charge under title I and the charge solely alleges employment discrimination against an individual, unless the charging party elects to have the section 504 agency process the charge and the section 504 agency receives a written request from the complainant for section 504 agency processing within twenty days of the date of the notice letter required to be sent pursuant to § 1640.6(c)(2)(ii).
(2)
Section 504 agency processing.
A section 504 agency shall investigate and process the complaint when the agency determines that it has jurisdiction over the complaint under section 504, and:
(i) The complaint alleges discrimination in both employment and in other practices or services of the respondent; or
(ii) The complaint alleges a pattern or practice of discrimination in employment; or
(iii) In the case of a complaint solely alleging employment discrimination against an individual, the complainant elects to have a section 504 agency process the complaint and the section 504 agency receives a written request from the complainant for section 504 agency processing within twenty days of the date of the notice letter required to be sent pursuant to § 1640.6(c)(2)(ii).
(b)
Referral to the Civil Rights Division.
If the EEOC determines that it does not have jurisdiction under title I, and the section 504 agency determines that it does not have jurisdiction under section 504 or title II, the complaint or charge shall be promptly referred to the Civil Rights Division. The Civil Rights Division shall determine if another Federal agency may have jurisdiction over the complaint under section 504 or title II, and, if so, shall promptly refer the complaint to a section 504 or a designated agency with jurisdiction over the complaint.
(c)
Procedures for determining whether a complaint or charge has been dual filed.
The EEOC and each agency with jurisdiction to investigate and process complaints of employment discrimination under section 504 shall jointly develop procedures for determining whether complaints or charges of discrimination have been dual filed with the EEOC and with one or more other agencies.
(d)
Notification of deferral.
The agency required to process a dual-filed complaint or charge under this section shall notify the complainant or charging party and the respondent that the complaint or charge was dual filed with one or more other agencies and that such other agencies have agreed to defer processing and will take no further action except as provided in § 1640.10 or § 1640.11, as applicable.
(e)
Exceptions.
When special circumstances make deferral as provided in this section inappropriate, the EEOC, and an agency with investigative authority under section 504, may jointly determine to reallocate investigative responsibilities. Special circumstances include, but are not limited to, cases in which the EEOC has already commenced its investigation at the time that the agency discovers that the complaint or charge is a dual-filed complaint or charge in which the complainant has elected section 504 processing, alleged discrimination in both employment and in other practices or services of the respondent, or alleged a pattern or practice of employment discrimination.
§ 1640.9
Processing of complaints or charges of employment discrimination filed with a designated agency and either a section 504 agency, the EEOC, or both.
(a)
Designated agency processing.
A designated agency shall investigate and process a complaint that has been filed with it and with the EEOC, a section 504 agency, or both, when either of the following conditions is met:
(1) The designated agency determines that it has jurisdiction over the complaint under title II and that neither the EEOC nor a section 504 agency (other than the designated agency, if the designated agency is also a section 504 agency) has jurisdiction over the complaint; or
(2) The designated agency determines that it has jurisdiction over the complaint under section 504 and the complaint meets the requirements for processing by a section 504 agency set forth in § 1640.8(a)(2).
(b)
Referral by a designated agency.
A designated agency that has jurisdiction over a complaint solely under title II (and not under section 504) shall forward a complaint that has been filed with it and with the EEOC, a section 504 agency, or both, to either the EEOC or to a section 504 agency, as follows:
(1) If the designated agency determines that the EEOC is the sole agency, other than the designated agency, with jurisdiction over the complaint, the designated agency shall forward the complaint to the EEOC for processing under title I; or
(2) If the designated agency determines that the section 504 agency is the sole agency, other than the designated agency, with jurisdiction over the complaint, the designated agency shall forward the complaint to the section 504 agency for processing under section 504; or
(3) If the designated agency determines that both the EEOC and a section 504 agency have jurisdiction over the complaint, the designated agency shall forward the complaint to the EEOC if it determines that the complaint solely alleges employment discrimination against an individual, or it shall forward the complaint to the section 504 agency if it determines that the complaint meets the requirements for processing by a section 504 agency set out in § 1640.8(a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii).
§ 1640.10
Section 504 agency review of deferred complaints.
(a)
Deferral by the section 504 agency.
When a section 504 agency refers a complaint to the EEOC pursuant to § 1640.6(c)(2) or when it is determined that, as between the EEOC and a section 504 agency, the EEOC is the agency that shall process a dual-filed complaint or charge under § 1640.8(a)(1) or § 1640.8(e), the section 504 agency shall defer further action until:
(1) The EEOC issues a no cause finding and a notice of right-to-sue pursuant to 29 CFR 1601.19; or
(2) The EEOC enters into a conciliation agreement; or
(3) The EEOC issues a cause finding and a notice of failure of conciliation pursuant to 29 CFR 1601.21, and:
(i) If the recipient is not a government, governmental agency, or political subdivision, the EEOC completes enforcement proceedings or issues a notice of right-to-sue in accordance with 29 CFR 1601.28; or
(ii) If the recipient is a government, governmental agency, or political subdivision, the EEOC refers the charge to the Civil Rights Division in accordance with 29 CFR 1601.29, and the Civil Rights Division completes enforcement proceedings or issues a notice of right-to-sue in accordance with 29 CFR 1601.28(d); or
(4) The EEOC or, when a case has been referred pursuant to 29 CFR 1601.29, the Civil Rights Division, otherwise resolves the charge.
(b)
Notification of the deferring agency.
The EEOC or the Civil Rights Division, as appropriate, shall notify the agency that has deferred processing of the charge upon resolution of any dual-filed complaint or charge.
(c)
Agency review.
After receipt of notification that the EEOC or the Civil Rights Division, as appropriate, has resolved the complaint or charge, the agency shall promptly determine what further action by the agency is warranted. In reaching that determination, the agency shall give due weight to the findings and conclusions of the EEOC and to those of the Civil Rights Division, as applicable. If the agency
proposes to take an action inconsistent with the EEOC's or the Civil Rights Division's findings and conclusions as to whether a violation has occurred, the agency shall notify in writing the Assistant Attorney General, the Chairman of the EEOC, and the head of the EEOC office that processed the complaint. In the written notification, the agency shall state the action that it proposes to take and the basis of its decision to take such action.
(d)
Provision of information.
Upon written request, the EEOC or the Civil Rights Division shall provide the section 504 agency with any materials relating to its resolution of the charge, including its findings and conclusions, investigative reports and files, and any conciliation agreement.
§ 1640.11
EEOC review of deferred charges.
(a)
Deferral by the EEOC.
When it is determined that a section 504 agency is the agency that shall process a dual-filed complaint or charge under § 1640.8(a)(2) or § 1640.8(e), the EEOC shall defer further action until the section 504 agency takes one of the following actions:
(1) Makes a finding that a violation has not occurred;
(2) Enters into a voluntary compliance agreement;
(3) Following a finding that a violation has occurred, refers the complaint to the Civil Rights Division for judicial enforcement and the Civil Rights Division resolves the complaint;
(4) Following a finding that a violation has occurred, resolves the complaint through final administrative enforcement action; or
(5) Otherwise resolves the charge.
(b)
Notification of the EEOC.
The section 504 agency shall notify the EEOC upon resolution of any dual-filed complaint or charge.
(c)
Agency review.
After receipt of notification that the section 504 agency has resolved the complaint, the EEOC shall promptly determine what further action by the EEOC is warranted. In reaching that determination, the EEOC shall give due weight to the section 504 agency's findings and conclusions. If the EEOC proposes to take an action inconsistent with the section 504 agency's findings and conclusions as to whether a violation has occurred, the EEOC shall notify in writing the Assistant Attorney General, the Chairman of the EEOC, and the head of the section 504 agency that processed the complaint. In the written notification, the EEOC shall state the action that it proposes to take and the basis of its decision to take such action.
(d)
Provision of information.
Upon written request, the section 504 agency shall provide the EEOC with any materials relating to its resolution of the complaint, including its conclusions, investigative reports and files, and any voluntary compliance agreement.
§ 1640.12
Standards.
In any investigation, compliance review, hearing or other proceeding, the standards used to determine whether section 504 has been violated in a complaint alleging employment discrimination shall be the standards applied under title I of the ADA and the provisions of sections 501 through 504, and 510, of the ADA, as such sections relate to employment. Section 504 agencies shall consider the regulations and appendix implementing title I of the ADA, set forth at 29 CFR part 1630, and case law arising under such regulations, in determining whether a recipient of Federal financial assistance has engaged in an unlawful employment practice.
§ 1640.13
Agency specific memoranda of understanding.
When a section 504 agency amends its regulations to make them consistent with title I of the ADA, the EEOC and the individual section 504 agency may elect to enter into a memorandum of understanding providing for the investigation and processing of complaints dual filed under both section 504 and title I of the ADA by the section 504 agency.
Pt. 1641

# PART 1641—PROCEDURES FOR COMPLAINTS/CHARGES OF EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION BASED ON DISABILITY FILED AGAINST EMPLOYERS HOLDING GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS OR SUBCONTRACTS
Sec.
1641.1
Purpose and application.
1641.2
Exchange of information.
1641.3
Confidentiality.
1641.4
Standards for investigations, hearings, determinations and other proceedings.
1641.5
Processing of complaints filed with OFCCP.
1641.6
Processing of charges filed with EEOC.
1641.7
Review of this part.
1641.8
Definitions.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 12117(b).

# Source:
57 FR 2962, 2964, Jan. 24, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1641.1
Purpose and application.
The purpose of this part is to implement procedures for processing and resolving complaints/charges of employment discrimination filed against employers holding government contracts or subcontracts, where the complaints/charges fall within the jurisdiction of both section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (hereinafter “Section 503”) and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (hereinafter “ADA”). The promulgation of this part is required pursuant to section 107(b) of the ADA. Nothing in this part should be deemed to affect the Department of Labor's (hereinafter “DOL”) Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs' (hereinafter “OFCCP”) conduct of compliance reviews of government contractors and subcontractors under section 503. Nothing in this part is intended to create rights in any person.
§ 1641.2
Exchange of information.
(a) EEOC and OFCCP shall share any information relating to the employment policies and practices of employers holding government contracts or subcontracts that may assist each office in carrying out its responsibilities. Such information shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, affirmative action programs, annual employment reports, complaints, charges, investigative files, and compliance review reports and files.
(b) All requests by third parties for disclosure of the information described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be coordinated with the agency which initially compiled or collected the information.
(c) Paragraph (b) of this section is not applicable to requests for data in EEOC files made by any State or local agency designated as a “FEP agency” with which EEOC has a charge resolution contract and a work-sharing agreement containing the confidentiality requirements of sections 706(b) and 709(e) of title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e
et seq.
). However, such an agency shall not disclose any of the information, initially compiled by OFCCP, to the public without express written approval by the Director of OFCCP.
§ 1641.3
Confidentiality.
When the Department of Labor receives information obtained by EEOC, the Department of Labor shall observe the confidentiality requirements of sections 706(b) and 709(e) of title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as incorporated by section 107(a) of the ADA, as would EEOC, except in cases where DOL receives the same information from a source independent of EEOC. Questions concerning confidentiality shall be directed to the Associate Legal Counsel for Legal Services, Office of Legal Counsel of EEOC.
§ 1641.4
Standards for investigations, hearings, determinations and other proceedings.
In any OFCCP investigation, hearing, determination or other proceeding involving a complaint/charge that is dual filed under both section 503 and the ADA, OFCCP will utilize legal standards consistent with those applied under the ADA in determining whether an employer has engaged in an unlawful employment practice. EEOC and OFCCP will coordinate the arrangement of any necessary training regarding the substantive or procedural provisions of the ADA, and of EEOC's implementing regulations (29 CFR part 1630 and 29 CFR part 1601).
§ 1641.5
Processing of complaints filed with OFCCP.
(a) Complaints of employment discrimination filed with OFCCP will be considered charges, simultaneously dual filed, under the ADA whenever the complaints also fall within the jurisdiction of the ADA. OFCCP will act as EEOC's agent for the sole purposes of receiving, investigating and processing the ADA charge component of a section 503 complaint dual filed under the ADA, except as otherwise set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) Within ten days of receipt of a complaint of employment discrimination under section 503 (charge under the ADA), OFCCP shall notify the contractor/respondent that it has received a complaint of employment discrimination under section 503 (charge under the ADA). This notification shall state the date, place and circumstances of the alleged unlawful employment practice.
(c) Pursuant to work-sharing agreements between EEOC and State and local agencies designated as FEP agencies, the deferral period for section 503 complaints/ADA charges dual filed with OFCCP will be waived.
(d) OFCCP shall transfer promptly to EEOC a complaint of employment discrimination over which it does not have jurisdiction but over which EEOC may have jurisdiction. At the same time, OFCCP shall notify the complainant and the contractor/respondent of the transfer, the reason for the transfer, the location of the EEOC office to which the complaint was transferred and that the date OFCCP received the complaint will be deemed the date it was received by EEOC.
(e) OFCCP shall investigate and process as set forth in this section all section 503 complaints/ADA charges dual filed with OFCCP, except as specifically provided in this paragraph. Section 503 complaints/ADA charges raising Priority List issues, those which also include allegations of discrimination of an individual nature on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, and those which also include an allegation of discrimination on the basis of age will be referred in their entirety by OFCCP to EEOC for investigation, processing and final resolution, provided that such complaints/charges do not include allegations of violation of affirmative action requirements under section 503. In such a situation, OFCCP will bifurcate the complaints/charges and refer to EEOC the Priority List issues or allegations of discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or age. OFCCP shall normally retain, investigate, process and resolve all allegations of discrimination, over which it has jurisdiction, of a systemic or class nature on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin that it receives. However, in appropriate cases the EEOC may request that it be referred such allegations so as to avoid duplication of effort and assure effective law enforcement.
(1)
No cause section 503 complaints/ADA charges.
If the OFCCP investigation of the section 503 complaint/ADA charge results in a finding of no violation under section 503 (no cause under the ADA), OFCCP will issue a determination of no violation/no cause under both section 503 and the ADA, and issue a right-to-sue letter under the ADA, closing the complaint/charge.
(2)
Cause section 503 complaints/ADA charges
—(i)
Successful conciliation.
If the OFCCP investigation of the section 503 complaint/ADA charge results in a finding of violation under section 503 (cause under the ADA), OFCCP will issue a finding of violation/cause under both section 503 and ADA. OFCCP shall attempt conciliation to obtain appropriate full relief for the complainant (charging party), consistent with EEOC's standards for remedies. If conciliation is successful and the contractor/respondent agrees to provide full relief, the section 503 complaint/ADA charge will be closed and the conciliation agreement will state that the complainant (charging party) agrees to waive the right to pursue the subject issues further under section 503 and/or the ADA.
(ii)
Unsuccessful conciliation.
All section 503 complaints/ADA charges not successfully conciliated will be considered for OFCCP administrative litigation under section 503, consistent with OFCCP's usual procedures. (See 41 CFR part 60-741, subpart B.) If OFCCP pursues administrative litigation under
section 503, OFCCP will close the complaint/charge at the conclusion of the litigation process (including the imposition of appropriate sanctions), unless the complaint/charge is dismissed on procedural grounds or because of a lack of jurisdiction, or the contractor/respondent fails to comply with an order to provide make whole relief. In these three cases, OFCCP will refer the matter to EEOC for any action it deems appropriate. If EEOC declines to pursue further action, it will issue a notice of right-to-sue. If OFCCP does not pursue administrative enforcement, it will close the section 503 component of the complaint/charge and refer the ADA charge component to EEOC for litigation review under the ADA. If EEOC declines to litigate, EEOC will close the ADA charge and issue a notice of right-to-sue.
(f) Consistent with the ADA procedures set forth at 29 CFR 1601.28, OFCCP shall promptly issue upon request a notice of right-to-sue after 180 days from the date the complaint/charge was filed. Issuance of a notice of right-to-sue shall terminate further OFCCP processing of any complaint/charge unless it is determined at that time or at a later time that it would effectuate the purposes of section 503 and/or the ADA to further process the complaint/charge.
(g) If an individual who has already filed a section 503 complaint with OFCCP subsequently attempts to file or files an ADA charge with EEOC covering the same facts and issues, EEOC will decline to accept the charge (or, alternatively, dismiss a charge that has been filed) on the grounds that such charge has already been filed under the ADA, simultaneous with the filing of the earlier section 503 complaint, and will be processed by OFCCP in accordance with the provisions of this section.
§ 1641.6
Processing of charges filed with EEOC.
(a)
ADA cause charges falling within the jurisdiction of section 503 that the Commission has declined to litigate.
ADA cause charges that also fall within the jurisdiction of section 503 and that the Commission has declined to litigate will be referred to OFCCP for review of the file and any administrative action deemed appropriate under section 503. Such charges will be considered to be complaints, simultaneously dual filed under section 503, solely for the purposes of OFCCP review and administrative action described in this paragraph.
(b)
ADA charges which also include allegations of failure to comply with section 503 affirmative action requirements.
ADA charges filed with EEOC, in which both allegations of discrimination under the ADA and violation of affirmative action requirements under section 503 are made, will be referred in their entirety to OFCCP for processing and resolution under section 503 and the ADA, unless the charges also include allegations of discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin or age, or include allegations involving Priority List issues, or the charges are otherwise deemed of particular importance to EEOC's enforcement of the ADA. In such situations, EEOC will bifurcate the charges and retain the ADA component of the charges (and when applicable, the allegations pertaining to discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin or age), referring the section 503 affirmative action component of the charges to OFCCP for processing and resolution under section 503. ADA charges which raise both discrimination issues under the ADA and section 503 affirmative action issues will be considered complaints, simultaneously dual filed under section 503, solely for the purposes of referral to OFCCP for processing, as described in this paragraph.
(c) EEOC shall transfer promptly to OFCCP a charge of disability-related employment discrimination over which it does not have jurisdiction, but over which OFCCP may have jurisdiction. At the same time, EEOC shall notify the charging party and the contractor/respondent of the transfer, the reason for the transfer, the location of the OFCCP office to which the charge was transferred and that the date EEOC received the charge will be deemed the date it was received by OFCCP.
(d) Except as otherwise stated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, individuals alleging violations of laws enforced by DOL and over which EEOC
has no jurisdiction will be referred to DOL to file a complaint.
(e) If an individual who has already filed an ADA charge with EEOC subsequently attempts to file or files a section 503 complaint with OFCCP covering the same facts and issues, OFCCP will accept the complaint, but will adopt as a disposition of the complaint EEOC's resolution of the ADA charge (including EEOC's termination of proceedings upon its issuance of a notice of right-to-sue).
§ 1641.7
Review of this part.
This part shall be reviewed by the Chairman of the EEOC and the Director of OFCCP periodically, and as appropriate, to determine whether changes to the part are necessary or desirable, and whether the part should remain in effect.
§ 1641.8
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
ADA
refers to title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
).
Affirmative action requirements
refers to affirmative action requirements required by DOL pursuant to section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, that go beyond the nondiscrimination requirements imposed by the ADA.
Chairman of the EEOC
refers to the Chairman of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or his or her designee.
Complaint/Charge
means a section 503 complaint/ADA charge. The terms are used interchangeably.
Director of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs
refers to that individual or his or her designee.
DOL
means the U.S. Department of Labor, and where appropriate, any of its headquarters or regional offices.
EEOC
means the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and where appropriate, any of its headquarters, district, area, local, or field offices.
Government
means the government of the United States of America.
Priority List
refers to a document listing a limited number of controversial topics under the ADA on which there is not yet definitive guidance setting forth EEOC's position. The Priority List will be jointly developed and periodically reviewed by EEOC and DOL. Any policy documents involving Priority List issues will be coordinated between DOL and EEOC pursuant to Executive Order 12067 (3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 206) prior to final approval by EEOC.
OFCCP
means the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, and where appropriate, any of its regional or district offices.
Section 503
refers to section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 793).
Section 503 complaint/ADA charge
refers to a complaint that has been filed with OFCCP under section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act, and has been deemed to be simultaneously dual filed with EEOC under the ADA.
Pt. 1650

# PART 1650—DEBT COLLECTION

# Subpart A—Procedures for the Collection of Debts by Salary Offset
Sec.
1650.101
Purpose.
1650.102
Delegation of authority.
1650.103
Scope.
1650.104
Definitions.
1650.105
Notice of Debt.
1650.106
Right to inspect and copy records related to the debt.
1650.107
Voluntary repayment agreements.
1650.108
Waiver.
1650.109
Hearing.
1650.110
Procedures for salary offset.
1650.111
Recovery from other payments due a separated employee.
1650.112
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
1650.113
Non-waiver of rights by payments.
1650.114
Refunds.

# Subpart B—Procedures for the Collection of Debts by Federal Tax Refund Offset
1650.201
Purpose.
1650.202
Past-due legally enforceable debt.
1650.203
Notification of intent to collect.
1650.204
Reasonable attempt to notify.
1650.205
Consideration of evidence submitted as a result of notification of intent.
1650.206
Notification to Treasury.
1650.207
Administrative charges.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Collection of Debts by Administrative Offset
1650.301
Purpose and regulatory procedures for the collection of debts by administrative offset.

# Subpart D—Procedures for the Collection of Debts by Administrative Wage Garnishment
1650.401
Purpose and regulatory procedures for the collection of debts by administrative wage garnishment.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.
Subpart A also issued under 5 U.S.C. 5514; 5 CFR 550.1101.
Subpart B also issued under 31 U.S.C. 3720A; 31 CFR 285.5(d)(4).
Subpart C also issued under 31 U.S.C. 3716.
Subpart D also issued under 31 U.S.C. 3720D.

# Source:
73 FR 49093, Aug. 20, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Procedures for the Collection of Debts by Salary Offset
§ 1650.101
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the procedures to be followed in the collection by salary offset of debts owed to the United States under 5 U.S.C. 5514. The general standards and procedures governing the collection, compromise, termination, and referral to the Department of Justice of claims for money and property that are prescribed in the regulations issued jointly by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General of the United States, the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR Parts 900-904), apply to the administrative collection activities of the EEOC. Debts owed by current federal employees to Government travel charge card contractors will be collected in accordance with the regulations issued by the General Services Administration at 41 CFR part 301-54.
§ 1650.102
Delegation of authority.
The Chair delegated to the Chief Human Capital Officer the authority to collect debts owed by current EEOC employees, and to the Chief Financial Officer the authority to collect debts owed by former EEOC employees and non-EEOC employees.
§ 1650.103
Scope.
(a) This subpart applies to the collection of certain debts by salary offset against an employee's disposable pay.
(1) This subpart applies to collections by the EEOC from:
(i) Federal employees who are indebted to the EEOC; and
(ii) EEOC employees who are indebted to other agencies.
(2) This subpart does not apply:
(i) To debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), the Social Security Act 42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.,
or the tariff laws of the United States;
(ii) In any case where collection of a debt is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute (
e.g.
, travel advances in 5 U.S.C. 5705 and employee training expenses in 5 U.S.C. 4108).
(b) Nothing in this subpart precludes the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection actions where appropriate under the standards implementing the Federal Claims Collection Act, 31 U.S.C. 3711, namely, 31 CFR Parts 900-904; or the waiver of a debt where appropriate under 5 U.S.C. 5584 or 5 U.S.C. 5524a.
§ 1650.104
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart, terms are defined as follows:
(a)
Agency
means:
(1) An Executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, including the U.S. Postal Service and the U.S. Postal Rate Commission;
(2) A military department as defined in section 102 of title 5, United States Code;
(3) An agency or court in the judicial branch, including a court as defined in section 610 of title 28, United States Code, the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation;
(4) An agency of the legislative branch, including the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives; and
(5) Other independent establishments that are entities of the Federal Government.
(b)
Commission
means those officers, employees, and agents of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission who are responsible for debt collection activities.
(c)
Debt
means money owed by an employee of the Federal Government to an agency of the Federal Government, including direct loans, loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the Government from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures (except those arising under the Uniform Code of Military Justice), erroneous salary payments, and all other similar amounts owing to the Federal Government.
(d)
Disposable pay
means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or, in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld. Deductions described in 5 CFR 581.105(b) through (f) will be used to determine disposable pay subject to salary offset.
(e)
Employee
means a current employee of an agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces or a Reserve of the Armed Forces (Reserves).
(f)
Salary Offset
means the collection of a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his or her consent.
§ 1650.105
Notice of Debt.
(a)
Timing and contents of notice.
Notice of the Commission's intent to collect a debt by salary offset shall be given at least 30 days before salary offset deductions are to begin. The written notice shall include the following:
(1) The Commission's determination that a debt is owed, including the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;
(2) The Commission's intention to collect the debt by means of deduction from the employee's current disposable pay account until the debt and all accumulated interest, penalties, and administrative costs are paid in full;
(3) The estimated amount, frequency, beginning date, and duration of the intended deductions;
(4) An explanation of the Commission's policy concerning interest, penalties, and administrative costs;
(5) The employee's right to inspect and copy the Commission's records pertaining to the debt or to receive copies of such records if the employee is unable personally to inspect the records, due to geographical or other constraints;
(6) The opportunity to propose a voluntary repayment schedule and agreement that is acceptable to the Commission in lieu of the proposed offset;
(7) The employee's right to a hearing conducted by an impartial hearing official (an Administrative Law Judge or an individual not under the supervision or control of the Chair) with respect to the existence and amount of the debt claimed or the repayment schedule (
i.e.
, the percentage of disposable pay to be deducted each pay period); the method and time period for requesting a hearing; that the timely request for a hearing will stay the commencement of collection proceedings; and that a final decision will be issued at the earliest practical date, but not later than 60 days after receipt of the hearing request;
(8) The employee's right to request a waiver under 5 U.S.C. 5584 or 5 U.S.C. 5524a, or compromise under 31 U.S.C. 3711;
(9) The making of any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the employee to:
(i) Disciplinary procedures appropriate under 5 U.S.C. chapter 75, 5 CFR part 752, or any other applicable statutes or regulations;
(ii) Penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729
et seq.,
or under any other applicable statutory authority; or
(iii) Criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 1001, and 1002 or under any other applicable statutory authority; and
(10) Unless there are applicable contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, amounts paid on or deducted from debts that are later waived or found not to be owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee.
(b)
Exception to the advance notice requirement.
Advance notice under paragraph (a) of this section is not required:
(1) Where an adjustment to pay arises out of an employee's election of coverage, or change in coverage, under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from the employee's pay and the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less;
(2) Where a routine intra-agency adjustment of pay is made to correct an overpayment of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within the four pay periods preceding the adjustment and, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment;
(3) Where any adjustment of pay to collect a debt amounting to $50 or less is made, if, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment; or
(4) Where an employee consents to withholdings from his or her current pay account.
(c)
Receipt of notice of debt.
The Notice of Debt will be sent by certified mail, return-receipt requested. The date on which the return-receipt is signed is the date on which the employee is deemed to have received the Notice of Debt.
§ 1650.106
Right to inspect and copy records related to the debt.
An employee who desires to inspect or copy Commission records related to the debt must send a request to the official designated in the Notice of Debt. In response, the Commission will notify the employee of the location and time when the employee may inspect and copy the records or send copies of such records to the employee.
§ 1650.107
Voluntary repayment agreements.
(a) In response to a Notice of Debt, an employee may propose a written repayment schedule in lieu of the proposed salary offset. Any proposal under this subsection must be received by the office of the official designated in the notice within 15 calendar days after receipt of the Notice of Debt.
(b) It is within the Commission's discretion to accept or reject a voluntary repayment proposal. The Commission shall send the employee a written decision.
(c) If the Commission decides that the proposed repayment schedule is unacceptable, and that the written proposed repayment schedule was timely received, the employee shall have a further 15 days from the date he or she received the decision on the proposed repayment schedule in which to file a request for a hearing.
(d) If the Commission decides that the proposed repayment schedule is acceptable, the agreement shall be put in writing and signed by both the employee and the Commission.
§ 1650.108
Waiver.
The Commission may waive debts, to the extent authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5584, arising out of erroneous payments of pay, when collection would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States, and so long as there is no indication of fraud, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee. Interest, penalties, and administrative costs may also be waived under 31 U.S.C. 3717(h) and 31 CFR 901.9(g), on a case-by-case basis, if collection would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States.
§ 1650.109
Hearing.
(a)
Request for a hearing.
An employee who wants a hearing on the existence of the debt, its amount, or on the proposed offset schedule must send a written request to the official designated in the Notice of Debt. The request for a hearing must be received by the designated office on or before the 15th calendar day following receipt by the employee of the Notice of Debt. The request must be signed by the employee
and must contain a brief summary of the facts, evidence, and witnesses, if any, that the employee believes support his or her position. If the employee wants an oral hearing, the request must also explain why the matter cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (
e.g.
, how an issue of credibility or veracity is involved). Because proof of the existence or amount of a debt rarely requires an evaluation of the credibility of witnesses, oral hearings will only rarely be granted. The timely filing of a request for hearing shall automatically stay the commencement of collection proceedings.
(b)
Failure to timely submit.
If the request for hearing is late, the Commission may still grant the request if the employee can show that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond his or her control or that he or she failed to receive actual notice of the filing deadline.
(c)
Procedure
—(1)
Hearing official.
The hearing official will be an Administrative Law Judge or an individual who is not under the supervision or control of the Chair.
(2)
Notice.
The hearing official shall notify the employee whether the hearing will be oral or documentary. If the hearing will be oral, the notice shall set forth the date, time, and location of the hearing, which must occur no more than 30 days after the request is received. If the hearing will be conducted by examination of documents, the employee shall be notified that he or she should submit evidence and arguments in writing to the hearing official by a specified date after which the record shall be closed. This date shall give the employee reasonable time to submit documentation.
(3)
Oral hearing.
The hearing official may grant a request for an oral hearing if he or she determines that the issues raised by the employee cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (
e.g.
, when credibility or veracity are at issue). An oral hearing is not required to be an adversarial adjudication, and the hearing official is not required to apply rules of evidence. Oral hearings may take the form of, but are not limited to:
(i) Informal conferences with the hearing official in which the employee and agency representative are given a full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and argument;
(ii) Informal meetings in which the hearing examiner interviews the employee and, as necessary, others with relevant evidence; or
(iii) Formal written submissions followed by an opportunity for oral presentation. Witnesses who testify in oral hearings shall do so under oath or affirmation.
(4)
Documentary hearing.
If an oral hearing is not necessary, the hearing official shall make the determination based upon a review of the written record.
(d)
Record.
The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of any hearing conducted under this section.
(e)
Date of decision.
The hearing official shall issue a written decision as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than 60 days after the date on which the request for hearing was received by the Commission, unless the hearing was delayed at the request of the employee, in which case the 60 day decision period shall be extended by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed.
(f)
Content of decision.
The written decision shall include:
(1) A summary of the facts concerning the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;
(2) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions; and
(3) The revised terms of any repayment schedule, if applicable.
(g)
Failure to appear.
In the absence of good cause, if the employee or the representative of the agency fails to appear, the hearing official shall proceed with the hearing as scheduled, and make his or her determination based upon the oral testimony presented and the documentation submitted by both parties.
§ 1650.110
Implementation of salary offset.
(a)
Method of collection.
A debt will be collected in a lump sum or by installment deductions at officially established pay intervals from an employee's current pay account, unless the
employee and the Commission agree in writing to alternate arrangements for repayment.
(b)
Source of deductions.
Deductions will be made only from basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay or in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay.
(c)
Duration of deductions.
Debts will be collected in one lump sum when possible to minimize interest costs and administrative processing fees for the employee. If the employee is financially unable to pay in one lump sum and the amount of debt exceeds 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay for an officially established pay interval, collection by offset will be made in installments. Such installment deductions will be made over a period not greater than the anticipated period of active duty or employment of the employee and, except in rare circumstances, not to exceed 3 years.
(d)
Limitation on amount of deductions.
The size and frequency of installment deductions will bear a reasonable relationship to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. The amount deducted for any period, however, will not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made, unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount. Installment payments of less than $25 will be accepted only in the most unusual circumstances.
(e)
When deductions may begin.
(1) If the employee files a timely request for hearing, or a proposed voluntary repayment agreement, deductions will begin in the next bi-weekly salary payment after a final decision is issued on the request or repayment proposal.
(2) If the employee fails to submit a timely request for hearing or proposal for a voluntary repayment agreement, deductions will commence in the next bi-weekly salary payment after the expiration of 30 days following the employee's receipt of the Notice of Debt under 1650.105(c).
(f)
Lump-sum deduction from final check.
When the employee retires, resigns, or ends his or her period of active duty before the debt is collected in full, the employee's debt will be automatically deducted from the final payments (
e.g.
, final salary payment, lump-sum leave, etc.) due the employee to the extent necessary to liquidate the debt. If the employee's final pay is not sufficient to permit all deductions to be made, the order of precedence for the deductions will be: Retirement and FICA; Medicare; Federal income taxes; health benefits; group life insurance; indebtedness due to the United States; State income taxes; and voluntary deductions and allotments.
§ 1650.111
Recovery from other payments due a separated employee.
When a debt owed to EEOC has not been completely liquidated through salary offset and the employee has separated from EEOC, the Commission shall, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716 and the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 31 CFR parts 900-904, seek to offset the balance of the debt against any financial payment due the employee from the U.S. Government.
§ 1650.112
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
Unless a debt is paid in full within 30 days of receipt of the Notice of Debt, the Commission will charge interest at the rate established in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717 effective on the date of delinquency, and a processing charge pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. The Commission will charge a penalty, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717(e)(2) not to exceed 6 percent a year, on the amount due on a debt that is delinquent more than 90 days. This charge shall accrue from the date of delinquency. If an employee files a timely proposal for a repayment agreement, request for waiver, or a request for a hearing, interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be suspended during the time the Commission is considering such request(s).
§ 1650.113
Non-waiver of rights by payments.
An employee's payment of all or any portion of a debt collected by salary offset will not be construed as a waiver of any right the employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provision of contract or law, unless there are statutory or contractual provisions to the contrary.
§ 1650.114
Refunds.
Amounts paid, or deducted by salary offset, by an employee for a debt that is waived or otherwise not found owing to the United States will be refunded promptly to the employee. Refunds do not bear interest unless required by law or contract.

# Subpart B—Procedures for the Collection of Debts by Federal Tax Refund Offset
§ 1650.201
Purpose.
This subpart establishes procedures for EEOC to refer past-due legally enforceable debts to the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) for offset against the income tax refunds of persons owing debts to EEOC pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3720A and 31 CFR 285.2. The general standards and procedures governing the collection, compromise, termination, and referral to the Department of Justice of claims for money and property that are prescribed in the regulations issued jointly by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General of the United States, the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR parts 900-904), apply to the administrative collection activities of the EEOC.
§ 1650.202
Past-due legally enforceable debt.
A past due, legally enforceable debt is a debt:
(a) That accrued within ten years of referral to Treasury;
(b) That is at least $25.00; and
(c) That the agency has made reasonable efforts to collect by:
(1) Submitting the debt to Treasury, Financial Management Service, for collection by Administrative Offset and complying with 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) and related regulations, to the extent that collection by administrative offset is not prohibited by statute;
(2) Notifying, or making a reasonable attempt to notify, the debtor that the debt is past-due, and unless repaid within 60 days after the date of the notice, will be referred to Treasury for tax refund offset;
(3) Giving the debtor at least 60 days from the date of notification to present evidence that all or part of the debt is not past-due or legally enforceable, considering any evidence presented by such debtor, and determining that an amount of such debt is past-due and legally enforceable; and
(4) Providing the debtor with an opportunity to make a written agreement to repay the amount of the debt.
§ 1650.203
Notification of intent to collect.
EEOC's notification of intent to collect by tax refund offset shall provide:
(a) The amount of the debt;
(b) That unless the debt is repaid within 60 days from the date of EEOC's notification of intent, EEOC intends to collect the debt by requesting Treasury to offset an amount equal to the amount of the debt and all accumulating interest and other charges against any overpayment of tax after liabilities subject to 26 U.S.C. 6402(a) and (c) have been satisfied;
(c) A mailing address for forwarding any written correspondence and a contact and a telephone number for any questions;
(d) That the debtor may make a written agreement with EEOC to repay the amount of the debt; and
(e) That the debtor may present evidence within 60 days to EEOC that all or part of the debt is not past due or legally enforceable by:
(1) Sending a written request for a review of the evidence to the address provided in the notification;
(2) Stating in the request for review the amount disputed and the reasons why the debtor believes that the debt is not past-due or is not legally enforceable; and
(3) Including in the request for review any documents that the debtor wishes to be considered, or stating that the additional information will be submitted within the remainder of the 60 day period.
§ 1650.204
Reasonable attempt to notify.
In order to constitute a reasonable attempt to notify the debtor, EEOC may use the last known address on record with the EEOC. In addition, the EEOC may attempt to obtain a more current address from notices returned
by the United States Postal Service, or by using the Treasury's Internal Revenue Service (IRS) address inquiry. If the debtor cannot be notified by EEOC through these procedures, the debt will be sent to Treasury for collection.
§ 1650.205
Consideration of evidence submitted as a result of notification of intent.
(a)
Consideration of evidence.
If, as a result of the notification of intent, EEOC receives notice that the debtor will submit additional evidence or receives additional evidence from the debtor within the prescribed time period, collection will be stayed until EEOC:
(1) Considers the evidence presented by the debtor;
(2) Determines whether all or a portion of the debt is still past-due and legally enforceable; and
(3) Notifies the debtor of its determination.
Failure to submit the evidence within 60 days from the date of notification of intent will result in a referral of the debt to Treasury.
(b)
Notification to the debtor.
Following its review of the evidence, EEOC will issue a written decision notifying the debtor whether EEOC has sustained, amended, or canceled its determination that the debt is past-due and legally enforceable. The notice will advise the debtor of any further action to be taken, such as any modification of the debt amount and/or referral of the debt to Treasury, and explain the supporting rationale for the decision.
§ 1650.206
Notification to Treasury.
(a) When referring a debt to Treasury, EEOC will certify that the debt meets all of the requirements in § 1650.202 and will provide the name, taxpayer identifying number (as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6109) of the debtor, the amount of the debt, the date on which the debt became past-due, and the designation of EEOC as the agency referring the debt.
(b) After EEOC's initial notification and referral of a debt to Treasury for offset against a debtor's Federal income tax refund, EEOC will promptly notify Treasury of any changes in the notification, if EEOC:
(1) Determines that an error has been made with respect to the information contained in the notification;
(2) Receives a payment or credits a payment to the account of the debtor named in the notification that reduces the amount of the debt referred to Treasury for offset; or
(3) Refunds all or part of the offset amount to the debtor.
(c) When EEOC requests Treasury to increase the amount of a debt owed by a debtor named in EEOC's original notification to Treasury, EEOC will certify that the additional amount meets all of the requirements in § 1650.202.
(d) If the amount of a debt is reduced after referral by EEOC and offset by the Treasury, EEOC will refund to the debtor any excess amount and will promptly notify the Treasury of any refund made by EEOC.
§ 1650.207
Administrative charges.
All administrative charges incurred in connection with the referral of a debt to the Treasury and all costs of collection of the debt will be assessed on the debt and thus increase the amount of the offset.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Collection of Debts by Administrative Offset
§ 1650.301
Purpose and regulatory procedures for the collection of debts by administrative offset.
The Commission hereby adopts by cross-reference the administrative offset regulation issued by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR 285.5. The general standards and procedures governing the collection, compromise, termination, and referral to the Department of Justice of claims for money and property that are prescribed in the regulations issued jointly by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General of the United States, the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR Parts 900-904), apply to the administrative collection activities of the EEOC. The authority to collect debts by administrative offset is delegated to the CFO.

# Subpart D—Procedures for the Collection of Debts by Administrative Wage Garnishment
§ 1650.401
Purpose and regulatory procedures for the collection of debts by administrative wage garnishment.
The Commission hereby adopts by cross-reference the administrative wage garnishment regulation issued by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR 285.11. The general standards and procedures governing the collection, compromise, termination, and referral to the Department of Justice of claims for money and property that are prescribed in the regulations issued jointly by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General of the United States, the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR Parts 900-904), apply to the administrative collection activities of the EEOC. The authority to collect debts by administrative wage garnishment is delegated to the CFO.
Pt. 1690

# PART 1690—PROCEDURES ON INTERAGENCY COORDINATION OF EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY ISSUANCES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1690.101
Subject.
1690.102
Purpose.
1690.103
Supersession.
1690.104
Authority.
1690.105
Policy intent.
1690.106
Scope.
1690.107
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Responsibilities
1690.201
Responsibilities.

# Subpart C—Policies and Procedures
1690.301
Notification to EEOC during development of issuances.
1690.302
Issuances proposed by EEOC.
1690.303
Consultation with affected agencies.
1690.304
Coordination of proposed issuance.
1690.305
Nondisclosure of proposed issuances.
1690.306
Formal submission in absence of consultation.
1690.307
Temporary waivers.
1690.308
Notice of unresolved disputes.
1690.309
Interpretation of the Order.

# Subpart D—Reporting Requirements
1690.401
Reporting requirements.

# Authority:
Sec. 715 of title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 2000e-14); Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1978, 43 FR 19807; E.O. 12067, 43 FR 28967.

# Source:
45 FR 68361, Oct. 14, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1690.101
Subject.
Procedures on Interagency Coordination of Equal Employment Opportunity Issuances.
§ 1690.102
Purpose.
These regulations prescribe the means by which review and consultation shall occur between the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and other Federal agencies having responsibility for enforcement of Federal statutes, Executive Orders, regulations and policies which require equal employment opportunity without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age or disability. Subsequent regulations will expand on standards for the coordination of specific matters referenced or alluded to herein.
[45 FR 68361, Oct. 14, 1980, as amended at 74 FR 63984, Dec. 7, 2009]
§ 1690.103
Supersession.
None. These regulations are the first in a series of instructions issued by EEOC pursuant to its authority under Executive Order 12067.
§ 1690.104
Authority.
These regulations are prepared pursuant to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's obligation and authority under sections 1-303 and 1-304 of Executive Order 12067 (Providing for Coordination of Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Programs) 43 FR 28967, July 5, 1978. (These regulations will also appear as EEOC Management Directive No. 1000).
§ 1690.105
Policy intent.
These procedures will govern the conduct of such agencies in the development of uniform standards, guidelines
and policies for defining discrimination, uniform procedures for investigations and compliance reviews and uniform recordkeeping and reporting requirements and training programs. These procedures will also facilitate information sharing and programs to develop appropriate publications and other cooperative programs. The goals of uniformity and consistency are to be achieved with the maximum participation and review on both an informal and formal basis by the relevant Federal agencies and, finally, by the public.
§ 1690.106
Scope.
These regulations apply to Federal agencies having equal employment opportunity program responsibilities or authority other than equal employment responsibilities for their own Federal employees or applicants for employment. Its provisions do not apply to issuances related to internal management or administration of the agency.
§ 1690.107
Definitions.
(a)
Affected agency
means any agency whose programs, policies, procedures, authority or other statutory mandates (including coverage of groups of employers, unions, State and local governments or other organizations mandated by statute or Executive Order) indicate that the agency may have an interest in the proposed issuance.
(b)
Agencies
means those Executive and independent agencies, agency components, regulatory commissions, and advisory bodies having equal employment opportunity program responsibilities or authority other than equal employment opportunity responsibilities for their own Federal employees.
(c)
Consultation
means the exchange of advice and opinions on a subject occurring among the EEOC and affected agencies before formal submission of the issuance.
(d)
Formal submission
means the transmittal of a written, publication-ready document by the issuing agency to the EEOC and other affected agencies for at least 15 working days from date of receipt. The formal submission shall take place before the publication of any issuance as a final document.
(e)
Internal or administrative documents,
pursuant to 1-304 of the Order, may include, but are not limited to, forms for internal audit and recordkeeping; forms for performance and program evaluation; internal directives dealing with program accountability; routine intra-agency budget forms; intra-agency agreements; correspondence which does not transmit significant new policy interpretations or program standards having an impact upon other Federal agencies; tables of organization; and other documents setting forth administrative procedures for the conduct of programs. Internal or administrative documents do not include compliance manuals, training materials, publications or any other internal documents setting forth procedures for the resolution of complaints, standards of review or proof, or any other policies, standards or directives having implications for non-Federal employees.
(f)
Issuance
refers to any rule, regulation, guideline, order, policy directive, procedural directive, legislative proposal, publication, or data collection or recordkeeping instrument. It also includes agency documents as described above, or revisions of such documents, developed pursuant to court order.
Issuance
does not include orders issued to specific parties as a result of adjudicatory-type processes.
(g)
Order
means Executive Order 12067 (Providing for Coordination of Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Programs).
(h)
Public announcement
means the publication of a document in final form in the
Federal Register
or any other promulgation for general agency or public reference.
(i)
Significant issuance
means any issuance which the public must be afforded an opportunity to comment upon. In determining whether an issuance is significant, the EEOC shall apply the following criteria:
(1) The type and number of individuals, businesses, organizations, employers, labor unions, or State and local governments affected;
(2) The compliance and reporting requirements likely to be involved;
(3) The impact on the identification and elimination of discrimination in employment;
(4) The relationship of the proposed issuance to those of other programs and agencies.
[45 FR 68361, Oct. 14, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 71799, Oct. 30, 1980]

# Subpart B—Responsibilities
§ 1690.201
Responsibilities.
(a) The Associate Legal Counsel, Coordination and Guidance Services is responsible for coordinating the consultation and review process with other agencies on any issuances covered by the Order.
(b) All Federal agencies shall advise and offer to consult with the EEOC during the development of any proposed issuances, concerning equal employment opportunity which affect the obligations of employers, labor organizations, employment agencies or other Federal agencies.
(c) The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission shall advise and offer to consult with the affected Federal agencies during the development of any proposed issuances concerning equal employment opportunity which affect the obligations of employers, labor organizations, employment agencies or other Federal agencies.
[45 FR 68361, Oct. 14, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 46276, Oct. 18, 1982]

# Subpart C—Policies and Procedures
§ 1690.301
Notification to EEOC during development of issuances.
(a) Agencies shall notify the Commission whenever they intend to develop a significant issuance or an issuance affecting other agencies so that potential duplication, overlap, or inconsistency with the proposed issuances of other agencies can be identified before substantial agency time and resources have been expended. The requirement for consultation applies whether or not the agency plans to publish the issuance in the
Federal Register
for public comment.
(b) Whenever an agency of the Federal government (initiating agency) develops a proposed issuance which will require consultation among the affected agencies, a responsible official of that agency or agency component shall initiate consultation by submitting an early draft of the appropriate documents, preferably after review at the first or second supervisory level, to the chair of the EEOC (ATTN: Associate Legal Counsel, Coordination and Guidance Services). The submission shall be made prior to the point that the issuance is deemed final and ready for publication and shall indicate the appropriate office or person responsible for development of the issuance.
(c) EEOC recognizes that subsequent intra-agency clearance activities may change the policies outlined in the issuance and may add or delete items included in prior drafts. Therefore, during this period of policy development, an initiating agency shall not be bound by the contents of drafts which precede the final draft.
(d) Except as provided in § 1690.307, in no instance shall there be formal submission to the EEOC or the affected agencies without prior consultation pursuant to section 1-304 of the Order.
(e) Where an agency issuance is related to the internal management or administration of the agency, the issuance is exempt from the consultation process under the Order. The initiating agencies will make the determination of what must be submitted. When the agencies are in doubt, EEOC will determine the extent to which a particular issuance is covered by this exemption.
[45 FR 68361, Oct. 14, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 46276, Oct. 18, 1982]
§ 1690.302
Issuances proposed by EEOC.
Whenever the EEOC proposes to develop a significant issuance or any issuance requiring consultation, the procedure outlined in these regulations, shall also apply, as set forth in section 1-303 of the Order. The EEOC shall advise and consult with other affected agencies whenever it develops an issuance, in the same manner and to the same extent as other agencies are required to do in § 1690.301 of this part, and in other sections below.
§ 1690.303
Consultation with affected agencies.
At the start of consultation, the EEOC shall determine which other agencies would be affected by the proposed issuance, and the initiating agency shall consult with such agencies. Initiating agencies shall also consult with other agencies which claim that their internal equal employment opportunity or personnel programs are affected by proposed issuances otherwise directed at external equal employment opportunity efforts. Agencies may consult with any other agencies that they believe would be affected by the issuance. The consultation period shall be determined by the parties. During the consultation period, the EEOC shall seek to resolve any disputes with the initiating agency before publication.
§ 1690.304
Coordination of proposed issuance.
(a)
Procedure for publication of proposed issuance.
(1) If the initiating agency, after consultation with EEOC, proposes to publish the issuance for purposes of receiving comments from the public, it shall confer with EEOC and agree on a mutually agreeable length of time, no less than 15 working days, during which the proposal shall be submitted to all affected Federal agencies pursuant to section 1-304 of the Order. The period of review shall be sufficient to allow all affected agencies reasonable time in which to properly review the proposal.
(2) When an affected agency wishes an extension of the review period, it shall make such request of the initiating agency. If the initiating agency does not grant the request, the affected agency may then make that request of EEOC. EEOC may, at its discretion, grant the additional time requested, whereupon EEOC will inform the initiating agency which shall extend the review period. EEOC shall also inform the initiating agency of the reasons for the extension.
(3) After 15 working days, if the EEOC has not requested an extension of time or otherwise communicated the need for more time to review the proposal, the initiating agency may proceed to publication of the proposed significant issuance for public comment for at least 60 days.
(4) During this public comment period, certain issues may be submitted to employer and employee representatives for comment pursuant to section 2(c) of Executive Order 12044 (Improving Government Regulations) which requires that agencies give the public an early and meaningful opportunity to participate in the development of significant regulations.
(b)
Procedure for publication of final issuance.
After the period for public comment has closed, the initiating agency shall then incorporate the changes it deems appropriate and forward to EEOC for review, a copy of the document as published, a copy of the document as amended, with changes highlighted, any staff analysis, and a list of commentors. EEOC or affected agencies may review and copy the comments received. The time needed to review these materials shall be agreed on by the EEOC and the initiating agency. After completion of this review, the initiating agency shall formally submit the proposed final issuance to all affected agencies for at least 15 working days prior to publication.
§ 1690.305
Nondisclosure of proposed issuances.
(a) In the interest of encouraging full interagency discussion of these matters and expediting the coordination process, the EEOC will not discuss the proposed issuances of other agencies at an open Commission meeting where disclosure of information would be likely to significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed agency action. The Commission will make this determination on a case by case basis.
(b) Requests by the public for drafts of proposed issuances of another agency will be coordinated, in appropriate circumstances, with that agency and the person submitting the request shall be so notified. The decision made by that agency with respect to such proposed issuances will be honored by the Commission.
[45 FR 68361, Oct. 14, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 71799, Oct. 30, 1980]
§ 1690.306
Formal submission in absence of consultation.
If an initiating agency has an issuance which was already under development on or before July 1, 1978, when Executive Order 12067 became effective, and on which there has been no consultation, the agency shall immediately notify the EEOC of the existence of such proposals and the following procedure shall apply:
(a) EEOC shall confer with the initiating agency and shall determine whether the proposal should be the subject of informal consultation and/or formal submission to other affected Federal agencies pursuant to section 1-304 of the Order. This does not preclude the right of the agency to consult with any other agency it wishes.
(b) If the EEOC decides that informal consultation and/or formal submission is necessary, it shall confer with the proposing agency and agree on a mutually acceptable length of time for one or both (the informal consultation and/or formal submission).
(c) The period of formal submission shall be sufficient to allow all affected agencies time in which to properly review the proposal. While such period may be longer, in no instance may it be shorter than 15 working days.
§ 1690.307
Temporary waivers.
(a) In the event that the proposed issuance is of great length or complexity, the EEOC may, at its discretion, grant a temporary waiver of the requirements contained in § 1690.303 or § 1690.304. Such waivers may be granted if:
(1) The period of consultation and thorough review required for these documents would be so long as to disrupt normal agency operations; or
(2) The initiating agency is issuing a document to meet an immediate statutory deadline; or
(3) The initiating agency presents other compelling reasons why interim issuance is essential.
(b) In the event of a waiver, the initiating agency shall clearly indicate that the issuance is interim, has been published pursuant to a wavier, and is subject to review. EEOC reserves the right, after publication, to review the document in light of the objectives of the Order. The initiating agency may make substantive conforming changes in light of comments by EEOC and other affected agencies.
[45 FR 68361, Oct. 14, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 71799, Oct. 30, 1980]
§ 1690.308
Notice of unresolved disputes.
(a) The disputes resolution mechanism in section 1-307 of the Executive Order should be used only in extraordinary circumstances, and only when further good faith efforts on the part of the EEOC and the agency involved would be ineffective in achieving a resolution of the dispute. Before using the disputes resolution mechanism, the EEOC or the initiating agency must have fully participated in the coordination process, including giving notification to the EEOC and the affected agencies of its intention to publish in final within 15 working days.
(b) EEOC or the affected agency shall then send written notification of the dispute and the reasons for it to the EEOC and to the other affected agencies. Thereafter, but within the 15 day notice period, the EEOC or the affected agency may refer the dispute to the Executive Office of the President. Such reference may be made by the Chair of the EEOC or the head of the Federal agency. If no reference is made within 15 working days, the decision of the agency which initiated the proposed issuance will become effective.
§ 1690.309
Interpretation of the Order.
Subject to the dispute resolution procedures set forth above and in accordance with the objectives set forth in 1-201 and the procedures in 1-303 of the Order, the EEOC shall interpret the meaning and intent of the Order. EEOC also will issue procedural changes under the Order, as appropriate, after advice and consultation with affected agencies as provided for in these procedures.

# Subpart D—Reporting Requirements
§ 1690.401
Reporting requirements.
The regulations do not establish reporting requirements other than the
required notices of proposed rulemaking and formal and informal review.
Pt. 1691

# PART 1691—PROCEDURES FOR COMPLAINTS OF EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION FILED AGAINST RECIPIENTS OF FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
Sec.
1691.1
Purpose and application.
1691.2
Exchange of information.
1691.3
Confidentiality.
1691.4
Standards for investigation, reviews and hearings.
1691.5
Agency processing of complaints of employment discrimination.
1691.6
General rules concerning EEOC action on complaints.
1691.7
EEOC dismissals of complaints.
1691.8
Agency action on complaints dismissed by EEOC.
1691.9
EEOC reasonable cause determinations and conciliation efforts.
1691.10
Agency enforcement of unresolved complaints.
1691.11
EEOC negotiated settlements and conciliation agreements.
1691.12
Interagency consultation.
1691.13
Definitions.

# Authority:
E.O. 12250, 45 FR 72995 (November 4, 1980) and E.O. 12067, 43 FR 28967 (June 30, 1978).

# Source:
48 FR 3574, Jan. 25, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1691.1
Purpose and application.
The purpose of this regulation is to implement procedures for processing and resolving complaints of employment discrimination filed against recipients of Federal financial assistance subject to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, the State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972, as amended, and provisions similar to title VI and title IX in Federal grant statutes. Enforcement of such provisions in Federal grant statutes is covered by this regulation to the extent they relate to prohibiting employment discrimination on the ground of race, color, national origin, religion or sex in programs receiving Federal financial assistance of the type subject to title VI or title IX. This regulation does not, however, apply to the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended, the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act, as amended, the Comprehensive Employment Training Act of 1973, as amended, or Executive Order 11246.
§ 1691.2
Exchange of information.
EEOC and agencies shall share any information relating to the employment policies and practices of recipients of Federal financial assistance that may assist each office in carrying out its responsibilities. Such information shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, affirmative action programs, annual employment reports, complaints, investigative files, conciliation or compliance agreements, and compliance review reports and files.
§ 1691.3
Confidentiality.
When an agency receives information obtained by EEOC, the agency shall observe the confidentiality requirements of sections 706(b) and 709(e) of title VII as would EEOC, except in cases where the agency receives the same information from a source independent of EEOC or has referred a joint complaint to EEOC under this regulation. In such cases, the agency may use independent source information or information obtained by EEOC under the agency's investigative authority in a subsequent title VI, title IX or revenue sharing act enforcement proceeding. Agency questions concerning confidentiality shall be directed to the Deputy Legal Counsel, EEOC.
[48 FR 3574, Jan. 25, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 4902, Feb. 18, 1987]
§ 1691.4
Standards for investigation, reviews and hearings.
In any investigation, compliance review, hearing or other proceeding, agencies shall consider title VII case law and EEOC Guidelines, 29 CFR parts 1604-1607, unless inapplicable, in determining whether a recipient of Federal financial assistance has engaged in an unlawful employment practice.
§ 1691.5
Agency processing of complaints of employment discrimination.
(a) Within ten days of receipt of a complaint of employment discrimination, an agency shall notify the respondent that it has received a complaint of employment discrimination, including the date, place and circumstances of the alleged unlawful employment practice.
(b) Within thirty days of receipt of a complaint of employment discrimination an agency shall:
(1) Determine whether it has jurisdiction over the complaint under title VI, title IX, or the revenue sharing act; and
(2) Determine whether EEOC may have jurisdiction over the complaint under title VII or the Equal Pay Act.
(c) An agency shall transfer to EEOC a complaint of employment discrimination over which it does not have jurisdiction but over which EEOC may have jurisdiction within thirty days of receipt of a complaint. At the same time, the agency shall notify the complainant and the respondent of the transfer, the reason for the transfer, the location of the EEOC office to which the complaint was transferred and that the date the agency received the complaint will be deemed the date it was received by EEOC.
(d) If an agency determines that a complaint of employment discrimination is a joint complaint, then the agency may refer the complaint to EEOC. The agency need not consult with EEOC prior to such a referral. An agency referral of a joint complaint should occur within thirty days of receipt of the complaint.
(e) An agency shall refer to EEOC all joint complaints solely alleging employment discrimination against an individual. If an agency determines that special circumstances warrant its investigation of such a joint complaint, then the agency shall determine whether the complainant has filed a similar charge of employment discrimination with EEOC.
(1) If an agency determines that the complainant has filed a similar charge of employment discrimination with EEOC, then the agency may investigate the complaint if EEOC agrees to defer its investigation pending the agency investigation.
(2) If an agency determines that the complainant has not filed a similar charge of employment discrimination with EEOC, then the agency may investigate the complaint if special circumstances warrant such action. In such cases, EEOC shall defer its investigation of the referred joint complaint pending the agency investigation.
(f) An agency shall not refer to EEOC a joint complaint alleging a pattern or practice of employment discrimination unless special circumstances warrant agency referral of the complaint to EEOC.
(g) If a joint complaint alleges discrimination in employment and in other practices of a recipient, an agency should, absent special circumstances, handle the entire complaint under the agency's own investigation procedures. In such cases, the agency shall determine whether the complainant has filed a similar charge of employment discrimination with EEOC. If such a charge has been filed, the agency and EEOC shall coordinate their activities. Upon agency request, EEOC should ordinarily defer its investigation pending the agency investigation.
(h) When a joint complaint is referred to EEOC for investigation, the agency shall advise EEOC of the relevant civil rights provision(s) applicable to the employment practices of the recipient, whether the agency wants to receive advance notice of any conciliation negotiations, whether the agency wants EEOC to seek information concerning the relationship between the alleged discrimination and the recipient's Federally assisted programs or activities and, where appropriate, whether a primary objective of the Federal financial assistance is to provide employment. The agency shall also notify the complainant and the recipient of the referral, the location of the EEOC office to which the complaint was referred, the identity of the civil rights provision(s) involved, the authority of EEOC under this regulation and that the date the agency received the complaint will be deemed the date it was received by EEOC. Specifically, the notice shall inform the recipient that the agency has
delegated to EEOC its investigative authority under title VI, title IX, or the revenue sharing act, and the relevant act's implementing regulations. The agency, therefore, may use information obtained by EEOC under the agency's investigative authority in a subsequent title VI, title IX or revenue sharing act enforcement proceeding.
§ 1691.6
General rules concerning EEOC action on complaints.
(a) A complaint of employment discrimination filed with an agency, which is transferred or referred to EEOC under this regulation, shall be deemed a charge received by EEOC. For all purposes under title VII and the Equal Pay Act, the date such a complaint was received by an agency shall be deemed the date it was received by EEOC.
(b) When EEOC investigates a joint complaint it shall, where appropriate, seek sufficient information to allow the referring agency to determine whether the alleged employment discrimination is in a program or activity that receives Federal financial assistance and/or whether the alleged employment discrimination causes discrimination with respect to beneficiaries or potential beneficiaries of the assisted program.
(c) Upon referral of a joint complaint alleging a pattern or practice of employment discrimination, EEOC generally will limit its investigation to the allegation(s) which directly affect the complainant.
(d) If EEOC, in the course of an investigation of a joint complaint, is unable to obtain information from a recipient through voluntary means, EEOC shall consult with the referring agency to determine an appropriate course of action.
(e) If EEOC agrees to defer its investigation of a complaint of employment discrimination pending an agency investigation of the complaint, then EEOC shall give due weight to the agency's determination concerning the complaint.
§ 1691.7
EEOC dismissals of complaints.
If EEOC determines that the title VII allegations of a joint complaint should be dismissed, EEOC shall notify the complainant and the recipient of the reason for the dismissal and the effect the dismissal has on the complainant's rights under the relevant civil rights provision(s) of the referring agency, and issue a notice of right to sue under title VII. At the same time, EEOC shall transmit to the referring agency a copy of EEOC's file.
§ 1691.8
Agency action on complaints dismissed by EEOC.
Upon EEOC's transmittal of a dismissal under § 1691.7 of this part, the referring agency shall determine within thirty days, what, if any, action the agency intends to take with respect to the complaint and then notify the complainant and the recipient. In reaching that determination, the referring agency shall give due weight to EEOC's determination that the title VII allegations of the joint complaint should be dismissed. If the referring agency decides to take action with respect to a complaint that EEOC has dismissed for lack of reasonable cause to believe that title VII has been violated, the agency shall notify the Assistant Attorney General and the Chairman of the EEOC in writing of the action it plans to take and the basis of its decision to take such action.
§ 1691.9
EEOC reasonable cause determinations and conciliation efforts.
(a) If EEOC, after investigation of a joint complaint, determines that reasonable cause exists to believe that title VII has been violated, EEOC shall advise the referring agency, the complainant and the recipient of that determination and attempt to resolve the complaint by informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion. If EEOC would like the referring agency to participate in conciliation negotiations, EEOC shall so notify the agency and the agency shall participate. EEOC shall provide advance notice of any conciliation negotiations to referring agencies that request such notice, whether or not EEOC requests their participation in the negotiations.
(b) If EEOC's efforts to resolve the complaint by informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion fail, EEOC shall:
(1) Issue a notice of failure of conciliation to the recipient in accordance with 29 CFR 1601.25;
(2) Transmit to the referring agency a copy of EEOC's investigative file, including its Letter of Determination and notice of failure of conciliation;
(3) If the recipient is not a government, governmental entity or political subdivision, determine whether EEOC will bring suit under title VII and, in accordance with 29 CFR 1601.28, issue a notice of right to sue under title VII;
(4) If the recipient is a government, governmental entity or political subdivision, refer the matter to the Attorney General in accordance with 29 CFR 1601.29. The Attorney General, or his or her delegate, will determine whether the Department of Justice will bring suit under title VII and, in accordance with 29 CFR 1601.28, issue a notice of right to sue under title VII.
§ 1691.10
Agency enforcement of unresolved complaints.
(a) Upon EEOC's transmittal of a reasonable cause determination and notice of failure of conciliation under § 1691.9(b)(2) of this regulation, the referring agency shall determine, within thirty days, whether the recipient has violated any applicable civil rights provision(s) which the agency has a responsibility to enforce. The referring agency shall give due weight to EEOC's determination that reasonable cause exists to believe that title VII has been violated.
(b) If the referring agency determines that the recipient has violated any applicable civil rights provision(s) which the agency has a responsibility to enforce, the agency shall so notify the complainant and the recipient and determine whether further efforts to obtain voluntary compliance are warranted. In reaching that determination, the agency shall give due weight to the failure of EEOC's efforts to resolve the complaint by informal methods. If the referring agency determines that further efforts to obtain voluntary compliance are not warranted or if such further efforts fail, the agency shall initiate appropriate enforcement proceedings under its own regulations.
(c) If the referring agency determines that the recipient has not violated any applicable civil rights provision(s) which the agency has a responsibility to enforce, the agency shall notify the complainant, the recipient, the Assistant Attorney General and the Chairman of the EEOC in writing of the basis of that determination.
§ 1691.11
EEOC negotiated settlements and conciliation agreements.
If the parties enter into a negotiated settlement (as described in 29 CFR 1601.20) prior to a determination or a conciliation agreement (as described in 29 CFR 1601.24) after a determination, EEOC shall notify the referring agency that the complaint has been settled. The agency shall take no further action on the complaint of employment discrimination thereafter except that the agency may take the existence of the complaint into account in scheduling the recipient for a review under the agency's regulations.
§ 1691.12
Interagency consultation.
(a) Before investigating whether the employment practices of a recipient of Federal financial assistance constitute a pattern or practice of unlawful discrimination or initiating formal administrative enforcement procedures on that basis, an agency shall, to the extent practical, consult with the Chairman of the EEOC and the Assistant Attorney General to assure that duplication of effort will be minimized.
(b) Prior to the initiation of any legal action against a recipient of Federal financial assistance alleging unlawful employment practices, the Department of Justice and/or EEOC shall, to the extent practical, notify the appropriate agency or agencies of the proposed action and the substance of the allegations.
§ 1691.13
Definitions.
As used in this regulation, the term:
(a)
Agency
means any Federal department or agency which extends Federal financial assistance subject to any civil rights provision(s) to which this regulation applies.
(b)
Assistant Attorney General
refers to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice, or his or her delegate.
(c)
Chairman of the EEOC
refers to the Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or his or her delegate.
(d)
EEOC
means the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and, where appropriate, any of its District Offices and its Washington Field Office.
(e)
Federal financial assistance
includes:
(1) Grants and loans of Federal funds,
(2) The grant or donation of Federal property and interests in property,
(3) The detail of Federal personnel,
(4) The sale and lease of, and the permission to use (on other than a casual or transient basis), Federal property or any interest in such property without consideration or at a nominal consideration, or at a consideration which is reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient, or in recognition of the public interest to be served by such sale or lease to the recipient, and
(5) Any Federal agreement, arrangement, or other contract which has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance.
For purposes of this regulation, the term
Federal financial assistance
also includes funds disbursed under the revenue sharing act.
(f)
Joint complaint
means a complaint of employment discrimination covered by title VII or the Equal Pay Act and by title VI, title IX, or the revenue sharing act.
(g)
Recipient
means any State, political subdivision of any State, or instrumentality of any State or political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any individual, in any State, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient, for any program, including any successor, assign, or transferee thereof, but such term does not include any ultimate beneficiary under such program.
(h)
Revenue sharing act
refers to the State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 1221
et seq.
(i)
Title VI
refers to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d to 2000d-4. Where appropriate,
title VI
also refers to the civil rights provisions of other Federal statutes or regulations to the extent that they prohibit employment discrimination on the grounds of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in programs receiving Federal financial assistance of the type subject to title VI itself.
(j)
Title VII
refers to title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2000e,
et seq.
(k)
Title IX
refers to title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. 1681 to 1683.
[48 FR 3574, Jan. 25, 1983, as amended at 54 FR 32063, Aug. 4, 1989]
PARTS 1692-1694 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1695

# PART 1695—GUIDANCE PROCEDURES
Sec.
1695.0
Applicability.
1695.1
Definitions.
1695.2
Guidance requirements.
1695.3
Good faith cost estimates.
1695.4
Significance determination.
1695.5
Significant guidance requirements.
1695.6
Notice and public comment.
1695.7
Petitions.
1695.8
Public access to current guidance documents.
1695.9
Rescinded guidance.
1695.10
No judicial review or enforceable rights.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 553, 42 U.S.C. 2000e-12, 29 U.S.C. 201
et seq.,
29 U.S.C. 628, 42 U.S.C. 12116, 42 U.S.C. 2000ff-10; E.O. 13891, 84 FR 55235; OMB Memorandum M-20-02.

# Source:
85 FR 69170, Nov. 2, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1695.0
Applicability.
This part prescribes general procedures that apply to guidance documents of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC or Commission) under all statutes enforced by the Commission.
§ 1695.1
Definitions.
(a)
Guidance document
means any statement of Commission policy or interpretation concerning a statute, regulation, or technical matter within its jurisdiction that is intended to have general applicability and future effect, but which is not intended to be binding in its own right and is not otherwise
required by statute to satisfy the rulemaking procedures specified in 5 U.S.C. 553 or 5 U.S.C. 556. The term is not confined to formal written documents, and may include letters, memoranda, circulars, bulletins, and advisories that set forth for the first time a new regulatory policy. It may also include equivalent video, audio, and web-based formats. The definition does not apply to:
(1) Rules promulgated pursuant to notice and comment requirements under 5 U.S.C. 553 or similar statutory provisions.
(2) Rules exempt from rulemaking requirements under 5 U.S.C. 553(a);
(3) Rules of Commission organization, procedure, or practice;
(4) Decisions of Commission adjudications under 5 U.S.C. 554 or similar statutory provisions;
(5) Internal executive branch legal advice or legal advisory opinions addressed to executive branch officials;
(6) Commission statements of specific applicability, including advisory or legal opinions directed to particular parties about circumstance-specific questions, notices regarding particular locations or facilities, and correspondence with individual persons or entities;
(7) Legal briefs, other court filings, or positions taken in litigation or enforcement actions;
(8) Commission statements that do not set forth a policy on a statutory, regulatory, or technical issue or an interpretation of a statute or regulation, including speeches and individual presentations, PowerPoint slides, editorials, media interviews, press materials, or congressional testimony that do not set forth for the first time a new regulatory policy;
(9) Guidance pertaining to military or foreign affairs functions;
(10) Grant solicitations and awards;
(11) Contract solicitations and awards; or
(12) Purely internal Commission policies or guidance directed solely to EEOC employees or contractors or to other Federal agencies that are not anticipated to have substantial future effect on the behavior of regulated parties outside of the government; for example, Volume I of the Commission's Compliance Manual, which is only for internal use.
(b)
Significant guidance document.
(1)
Significant guidance document
means a guidance document that will be disseminated to regulated entities or the general public and that may reasonably be anticipated:
(i) To lead to an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the U.S. economy, a sector of the U.S. economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities;
(ii) To create serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another Federal agency;
(iii) To alter materially the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or
(iv) To raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in E.O. 12866, as further amended.
(2) It does not include any other category of guidance documents exempted in writing by OMB's Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA).
§ 1695.2
Guidance requirements.
(a) Each guidance document shall comply with all relevant statutes and regulations.
(b) It shall be written in plain and understandable English and avoid using mandatory language, such as “shall,” “must,” “required,” or “requirement,” unless the language describes an established statutory or regulatory requirement or is addressed to EEOC staff and will not foreclose the Commission's consideration of positions advanced by affected private parties;
(c) It shall identify or include:
(1) The term “guidance” or its functional equivalent and that the Commission is issuing the document;
(2) A unique identifier that provides information on whether the document was subject to a vote (CV) or not (NVTA), the year of issuance, and
unique number of its issuance and, if applicable, a Z-RIN;
(3) The activity or entities to which the guidance applies;
(4) A short summary of the subject matter covered in the guidance document at the top of the document.
(5) A statement noting whether the guidance is intended to revise or replace any previously issued guidance and, if so, sufficient information to identify the previously issued guidance; and
(6) Citations to applicable statutes and regulations;
(7)(i) A clear and prominent statement of the following: “The contents of this document do not have the force and effect of law and are not meant to bind the public in any way. This document is intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding existing requirements under the law or Commission policies.”
(ii) When binding guidance is authorized by law or is incorporated into contract, the language in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section may be modified to reflect either of those facts.
(d) If the guidance document sets forth the Commission's position on a legal principle for the first time or changes the Commission's legal position on any issue, the Commission must approve the guidance document by majority vote. Any significant guidance or guidance that is otherwise subject to notice and comment procedures must be approved by a Commission vote. Any guidance document that requires a vote of the Commission to be approved shall be circulated to the Commissioners, and, if approved, shall be signed by the Chair on behalf of the Commission. If the document is not setting forth a new or changed legal position, is reiterating already established Commission policies, or is otherwise simply providing technical assistance on the laws the Commission enforces without announcing any new policy or legal position, it shall be circulated to the Commission for informational purposes for a period of not less than five days, unless emergency circumstances do not allow, and shall only require approval, but not signature, by the Chair.
§ 1695.3
Good faith cost estimates.
(a) A good faith effort shall be made, to the extent practicable, to estimate the likely economic cost impact of the guidance document to determine whether the document might be significant. It may, however, be difficult to predict with precision the economic impact of voluntary guidance.
(b) When determining the likely economic cost impact, the same level of analysis should be given as that required for a major determination under the Congressional Review Act (5 U.S.C. 801
et seq.
) and the economic impact on small entities under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
).
§ 1695.4
Significance determination.
(a) Prior to issuance, the Commission shall provide OIRA with an opportunity to review a guidance document to determine if it meets the definition of “significant guidance document.”
(b) If the guidance document is determined not to be significant, the Commission shall proceed with issuance of the guidance without going through the procedures described in § 1695.5.
(c) In emergency situations, or when required by statutory deadline or court order to act more quickly than normal review procedures allow, the Chair shall notify OIRA and all Commissioners as soon as possible and, to the extent practicable, comply with the requirements of this part at the earliest opportunity.
§ 1695.5
Significant guidance requirements.
(a) Each proposed significant guidance document shall be:
(1) Approved by the Commission before issuance and assigned a Z-RIN through the Regulatory Management System (RMS), or a successor data management system.
(2) Comply with the applicable requirements for regulations, including significant regulatory actions, in E.O. 12866, E.O. 13563, E.O. 13609, E.O. 13771, and E.O. 13777.
(3) Submitted to OMB for coordinated review. Proposed guidance documents that are otherwise important to the Commission's interests may also be submitted for review.
(4) Reviewed by OIRA under E.O. 12866 before issuance.
(b) The Chair may determine that it is appropriate to coordinate with OMB in the review of guidance documents that are otherwise of importance to the Commission's interests.
§ 1695.6
Notice and public comment.
(a) Each proposed significant guidance document shall have a period of notice and public comment of at least 30 days, unless the Commission, in consultation with OIRA, finds good cause that such notice and public comment are impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest, and incorporates such finding and a brief statement of reasons therefor into the guidance document.
(b) Notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
announcing that a draft of the proposed guidance document is publicly available on the Federal e-regulation website, and the proposed significant guidance document also shall be posted on the Commission website.
(c) The Commission shall prepare and post a public response to major concerns raised in the comments, as appropriate, either before or when the significant guidance document is finalized and issued.
(d) When appropriate, the Chair may determine that a guidance document that is not otherwise required to go through notice and public comment shall also be subject to a period of public comment following the document's approval by the Commission before the document becomes effective.
(e) Unless otherwise determined in writing by the Chair, upon issuing a significant guidance document, a report shall be submitted to Congress and GAO in accordance with the procedures described in 5 U.S.C. 801 (the “Congressional Review Act”).
§ 1695.7
Petitions.
(a) Any interested person may petition the Commission, in writing, for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of a guidance. Such petition shall state the guidance, regulation, or rule, together with a statement of grounds in support of such petition.
(b) Petitions may be filed with the EEOC, Office of Executive Secretariat, either electronically at the EEOC guidance portal,
http://www.eeoc.gov/guidance,
or in hard copy to U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Executive Secretariat, 131 M Street NE, Washington, DC 20507.
(c) Upon the filing of such petition, the Commission shall consider the same and may thereupon either grant or deny the petition in whole or in part, conduct an appropriate proceeding thereon, or make other disposition of the petition.
(d) The Commission should respond to all petitions in a timely manner, but no later than 90 days after receipt of the petition, as to how it intends to proceed. Should the petition be denied in whole or in part, prompt notice shall be given of the denial, accompanied by a simple statement of the grounds unless the denial be self-explanatory.
(e) The issuance, amendment, or repeal of a guidance in response to a petition shall be considered by the Commission pursuant to its regular procedures.
§ 1695.8
Public access to current guidance documents.
(a) All current guidance documents shall be published with a unique identifier including, at a minimum, the document's title, date of issuance or revision, and its Z-RIN (if applicable).
(b) All current guidance documents shall made available through a single “guidance portal” on the Commission website, together with a single, searchable, indexed database available to the public;
(c) The guidance portal shall include a statement that guidance documents lack the force and effect of law, except as authorized by law or as incorporated into a contract;
(d) The Commission shall maintain and advertise on its website a means for the public to comment electronically on any guidance documents that are subject to the notice and comment procedures described in § 1695.6 and to submit requests electronically for issuance, reconsideration, modification, or rescission of guidance documents in accordance with § 1695.7; and
(e) Designate an office to receive and address complaints from the public that the Commission is not following the relevant requirements for issuing guidance or is improperly treating a guidance document as a binding requirement.
§ 1695.9
Rescinded guidance.
The Commission shall not cite, use, or rely on guidance documents that are rescinded, except to establish historical facts.
§ 1695.10
No judicial review or enforceable rights.
This part is intended to improve the internal management of the Commission. As such, it is for the use of EEOC personnel only and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its agencies or other entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
PARTS 1696-1899 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
29 CFR (7-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
29 CFR
85 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XII
1473 Added
21771
Chapter XIV
1601 Correction: authority citation revised
11294
1601.2 Amended
65217
1601.3 (a) amended; (b) redesignated as (c); new (b) added
65217
1601.4 Revised
65217
1601.5 Heading revised; amended
65217
1601.7 (a) amended; (b) revised
65217
1601.8 Revised
65217
1601.12 (a)(1) and (2) revised
65217
1601.13 (a)(2), (3) introductory text, (4) introductory text, (i)(A), and (B) revised; (a)(4)(ii)(B) and (b)(2)(iii) amended
65217
1601.14 (a) amended
65218
1601.16 (b)(1) revised; (d) amended
65218
1601.18 (b) and (c) amended
65218
1601.19 Revised
65218
1601.20 (a) amended
65218
1601.21 (b) introductory text, (1), (d) introductory text, and (1) amended
65218
1601.24 (b) amended
65219
1601.28 (c) footnote 1 removed; (d) heading and introductory text amended; (e)(3) revised
65219
1601.30 (b) revised
15376
1601.30 (a) amended
65219
1601.70 (a)(1) revised; (b) and (e) amended
65219
1601.71 (c) amended
65219
1601.75 (b)(2) revised; (c) amended
65219
1601.76 Amended
65219
1601.78 Introductory text amended
65219
1601.92 Introductory text amended
65219
1614.201 (c) removed
35561
1614.407 Heading revised; introductory text amended; (a) and (b) revised; (e), (f), and (g) added
35561
1614.409 Revised
35562
1614.505 (a)(4) amended
35562
1626.3 Existing text redesignated as (a); new (a) amended; (b) added
65219
1626.5 Revised
65219
1626.7 (b)(1) through (3) redesignated as (b)(2) through (4); new (b)(1) added
65219
1626.8 (a)(1) and (2) revised; (d) and (e) added
65219
1626.15 (c) and (e) amended
65219
1626.16 (b) amended
65220
1626.17 (a)(2) amended
65220
1626.20 (a) introductory text and (c) amended
65220
1626.21 (c) amended
65220
1695 Added
69170
2021
29 CFR
86 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XII
1400.735-12 Removed
54851
1401.20—1401.30 (Subpart B) Revised
53543
1402.1 Revised
50855
1473 Removed
29197
Chapter XIV
1601 Authority citation revised
28264
1601.24 (d) through (f) added
2985
1601.30 (b) revised
28264
1626.12 Revised
2985
1626.15 (d) amended
2986
2022
29 CFR
87 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XII
1400 Appendix removed
68358
1404 Appendix removed
69166
Chapter XIV
1601.30 (b) revised
10073
1610.7 (b) amended
14799
1610.11 (a) amended
14799
1612.7 (a) amended
14799
2023
29 CFR
88 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XII
1400.735-20 Revised
4728
1406 Added
76659
Chapter XIV
1601.30 (b) revised
17373
1614.108 (f) and (h) amended
57881
1614.109 (i) amended
57881
1614.110 (c) added
57881
1614.204 (j)(1) and (l)(3) amended
57881
1614.403 (a) amended
57881
1614.405 (a) revised
57881
1614.604 (c) and (d) redesignated as (f) and (g); new (c), new (d), and (e) added
57881
1635 Correction: Authority citation revised
17145
2024
29 CFR
89 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XIV
1601 Authority citation revised
11169
1601.1 Revised; interim
11169
1601.2 Heading revised; interim
11169
1601.3 (a) revised; interim
11169
1601.6 (a) amended; interim
11169
1601.7 (a) amended; interim
11169
1601.10 Amended; interim
11169
1601.11 (b) amended; interim
11169
1601.13 (a)(3)(i) amended; interim
11169
1601.14 (a)(4)(i) amended; interim
11169
1601.16 (a) amended; interim
11169
1601.17 (a) amended; interim
11169
1601.17 (a) amended
13618
1601.18 (a) amended; interim
11169
1601.21 (a) and (e)(2)(iii) amended; interim
11169
1601.22 Amended; interim
11169
1601.24 (c) amended; interim
11169
1601.24 (d) through (f) removed
12232
1601.25 Amended; interim
11169
1601.26 (a) amended; interim
11169
1601.28 (a)(3) and (b)(1) amended; (e)(1) revise; interim
11169
1601.30 (a) amended; interim
11169
1601.30 (b) revised
12232
1601.34 (a) amended; interim
11169
1601.70 (d) amended; interim
11169
1601.70 (a)(1) revised; interim
11170
1601.79 Amended; interim
11169
1602 Heading and authority citation revised; interim
11170
1602.1 Revised; interim
11170
1602.11 Amended; interim
11170
1602.12 Amended; interim
11170
1602.14 Amended; interim
11170
1602.14 Amended
46021
1602.19 Amended; interim
11170
1602.21 (b) amended; interim
11170
1602.21 (b) amended
46021
1602.26 Amended; interim
11170
1602.28 (a) amended; interim
11170
1602.28 (a) amended
46021
1602.31 Amended; interim
11170
1602.31 Amended
46021
1602.37 Amended; interim
11170
1602.45 Amended; interim
11170
1602.54 Amended; interim
11170
1603 Authority citation revised
11170
1603 Authority citation revised
47851
1603.102 (a) revised; interim
11170
1603.102 (a), (b), (c) introductory text, (1), (2), and (4) revised; (d) and (e) amended
47851
1603.103 (b) amended
47852
1603.106 Revised
47852
1603.107 Revised
47852
1603.108 (c) and (d) amended
47852
1603.109 (a) and (b) amended
47852
1603.201 (a) and (c) amended
47852
1603.202 (a) amended; (b) revised
47852
1603.203 Revised
47852
1603.204 (a) amended; (b) and (d) revised
47852
1603.205 (b) amended
47852
1603.206 (a) and (b) amended
47853
1603.207 (b) and (c) amended
47853
1603.208 (b) through (d) amended
47853
1603.209 Revised
47853
1603.210 (b) amended
47853
1603.211 (a) and (b) amended
47853
1603.213 (a) introductory text, (2), (3), (b) introductory text, and (c) amended
47853
1603.214 Amended
47853
1603.215 (a) and (b) amended
47853
1603.217 (b) amended
47853
1603.301 Amended
47853
1603.302 (b) revised; (c) added
47853
1603.303 (c) introductory text, (2), and (e) amended
47853
1603.306 Amended
47853
1610.7 (a)(4) revised; interim
11170
1610.17 (i) revised; interim
11170
1611.13 (a) introductory text revised; (c) amended; interim
11170
1614 Authority citation revised
11171
1614.101 Revised; interim
11171
1614.102 (a)(4) revised; interim
11171
1614.103 (a) revised; interim
11171
1614.105 (a) introductory text revised; interim
11171
1614.204 (a)(1) revised; interim
11171
1614.302 (a)(1) and (2) revised; interim
11171
1614.304 (b)(3) revised; interim
11171
1614.407 Introductory text revised; interim
11171
1614.407 Heading revised
13618
1614.503 (g) revised; interim
11172
1614.702 (j) revised; interim
11172
1626.12 Revised
12232
1626.15 (d) revised
12233
1626.17 (a)(2) revised; interim
11172
1630 Appendix amended
55521
1636 Added
29182
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through July 1, 2025)
29 CFR
90 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XIV
1602.10 Removed
1877
1602.18 Removed
1877
1602.25 Removed
1877
1602.35 Removed
1877
1602.44 Removed
1877
1602.53 Removed
1877
1602.57—1602.58 (Subpart S) Added
1877
○
