27.310
Commencement of adjudication proceedings.
27.315
Presiding officers for proceedings.
27.320
Prohibition on ex parte communications during proceedings.
27.325
Burden of proof.
27.330
Summary decision procedures.
27.335
Hearing procedures.
27.340
Completion of adjudication proceedings.
27.345
Appeals.

# Subpart D—Other
27.400
Chemical-terrorism vulnerability information.
27.405
Review and preemption of State laws and regulations.
27.410
Third-party actions.
Appendix A to Part 27—DHS Chemicals of Interest

# Authority:
6 U.S.C. 624; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended by Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599; Pub. L. 113-254, 128 Stat. 2898, as amended by Pub. L. 116-150, 134 Stat. 679.

# Source:
72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 27.100
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to enhance the security of our Nation by furthering the mission of the Department as provided in 6 U.S.C. 111(b)(1) and by lowering the risk posed by certain chemical facilities.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41890, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.105
Definitions.
As used in this part:
A Commercial Grade (ACG)
shall refer to any quality or concentration of a chemical of interest offered for commercial sale that a facility uses, stores, manufactures, or ships.
A Placarded Amount (APA)
shall refer to the screening threshold quantity (STQ) for a sabotage and contamination chemical of interest, as calculated in accordance with § 27.203(d).
Alternative Security Program or ASP
shall mean a third-party or industry organization program, a local authority, State or Federal government program, or any element or aspect thereof, that the Executive Assistant Director has determined meets the requirements of this part and provides for an equivalent level of security to that established by this part.
Associate Director for Chemical Security
shall mean the Associate Director for Chemical Security, Infrastructure Security Division, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, Department of Homeland Security, or any successors to that position within the Department, or designee.
Chemical Facility or facility
shall mean any establishment that possesses or plans to possess, at any relevant point in time, a quantity of a chemical substance determined by the Secretary to be potentially dangerous or that meets other risk-related criteria identified by the Department. As used herein, the term chemical facility or facility shall also refer to the owner or operator of the chemical facility. Where multiple owners and/or operators function within a common infrastructure or within a single fenced area, the Executive Assistant Director may determine that such owners and/or operators constitute a single chemical facility or multiple chemical facilities depending on the circumstances.
Chemical of Interest
shall refer to a chemical listed in appendix A to part 27.
Chemical Security Assessment Tool or CSAT
shall mean a suite of applications through which the Department will collect and analyze key data from chemical facilities.
Chemical-terrorism Vulnerability Information (CVI)
shall mean the information listed in § 27.400(b).
Coordinating Official
shall mean the person (or designee(s)) selected by the Executive Assistant Director to ensure that the regulations are implemented in a uniform, impartial, and fair manner.
Covered Facility or Covered Chemical Facility
shall mean a chemical facility determined by the Executive Assistant Director to present high levels of security risk, or a facility that the Executive Assistant Director has determined is presumptively high risk under § 27.200.
CUM 100g
shall refer to the cumulative STQ of 100 grams for designated Chemical Weapons (CW), located in appendix A to part 27 as the entry for the STQ and Minimum Concentration of certain Theft-CW/CWP chemicals.
Department
shall mean the Department of Homeland Security.
Director
shall mean the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, Department of Homeland Security, or any successors to that position within the Department, or designee.
Executive Assistant Director
shall mean the Executive Assistant Director for the Infrastructure Security Division, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, Department of Homeland Security, any successors to that position within the Department, or designee.
Office of the Chief Counsel
shall mean the Office of the Chief Counsel of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, Department of Homeland Security, or any successors within the Department.
Operator
shall mean a person who has responsibility for the daily operations of a facility or facilities subject to this part.
Owner
shall mean the person or entity that owns any facility subject to this part.
Present high levels of security risk and high risk
shall refer to a chemical facility that, in the discretion of the Secretary of Homeland Security, presents a high risk of significant adverse consequences for human life or health, national security, and/or critical economic assets if subjected to terrorist attack, compromise, infiltration, or exploitation.
Risk profiles
shall mean criteria identified by the Executive Assistant Director for determining which chemical facilities will complete the Top-Screen or provide other risk assessment information.
Screening Threshold Quantity or STQ
shall mean the quantity of a chemical of interest, upon which the facility's obligation to complete and submit the CSAT Top-Screen is based.
Secretary or Secretary of Homeland Security
shall mean the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security or any person, officer, or entity within the Department to whom the Secretary's authority under 6 U.S.C. 621
et seq.
is delegated.
Security Issue
shall refer to the type of risks associated with a given chemical. For purposes of this part, there are four main security issues:
(1) Release (including toxic, flammable, and explosive);
(2) Theft and diversion (including chemical weapons and chemical weapons precursors, weapons of mass effect, and explosives and improvised explosive device precursors);
(3) Sabotage and contamination; and
(4) Critical to government mission and national economy.
Terrorist attack or terrorist incident
shall mean any incident or attempt that constitutes terrorism or terrorist activity under 6 U.S.C. 101(16) or 18 U.S.C. 2331(5) or 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)(B)(iii), including any incident or attempt that involves or would involve sabotage of chemical facilities or theft, misappropriation, or misuse of a dangerous quantity of chemicals.
Tier
shall mean the risk level associated with a covered chemical facility that is assigned to a facility by the Department. For purposes of this part, there are four risk-based tiers, ranging from highest risk at Tier 1 to lowest risk at Tier 4.
Top-Screen
shall mean an initial screening process designed by the Executive Assistant Director through which chemical facilities provide information to the Department for use pursuant to § 27.200 of these regulations.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 65418, Nov. 20, 2007; 86 FR 41890, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.110
Applicability.
(a) This part applies to chemical facilities and to covered facilities as set out herein; and
(b) This part does not apply to a facility that is excluded as set forth in 6 U.S.C. 621(4):
(1) A facility regulated under the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-295; 116 Stat. 2064);
(2) A public water system, as that term is defined in 42 U.S.C. 300f;
(3) A Treatment Works, as that term is defined in 33 U.S.C. 1292;
(4) A facility owned or operated by the Department of Defense or the Department of Energy; or
(5) A facility subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or by a State that has entered into an agreement with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under 42 U.S.C. 2021(b) to protect against unauthorized access of any material, activity, or structure licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
[86 FR 41890, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.115
Implementation.
The Executive Assistant Director may implement this part in a phased manner, selecting certain chemical facilities for expedited initial processes under these regulations and identifying other chemical facilities or types or classes of chemical facilities for other phases of program implementation. The Executive Assistant Director has flexibility to designate particular chemical facilities for specific phases of program implementation based on potential risk or any other factor consistent with this part.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41891, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.120
Designation of a Coordinating Official; consultations and technical assistance.
(a) The Executive Assistant Director will designate a Coordinating Official who will be responsible for ensuring that these regulations are implemented in a uniform, impartial, and fair manner.
(b) The Coordinating Official shall provide guidance to covered facilities regarding compliance with this part and shall, as necessary and to the extent that resources permit, be available to consult and to provide technical assistance to an owner or operator who seeks such consultation or assistance.
(c) In order to initiate consultations or seek technical assistance, a covered facility shall submit a written request for consultation or technical assistance to the Coordinating Official or contact the Department in any other manner specified in any subsequent guidance. Requests for consultation or technical guidance do not serve to toll any of the applicable timelines set forth in this part.
(d) If a covered facility modifies its facility, processes, or the types or quantities of materials that it possesses, and believes that such changes may impact the covered facility's obligations under this part, the covered facility may request a consultation with the Coordinating Official as specified in paragraph (c).
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41891, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.125
Severability.
If a court finds any portion of this part to have been promulgated without proper authority, the remainder of this part will remain in full effect.

# Subpart B—Chemical Facility Security Program
§ 27.200
Information regarding security risk for a chemical facility.
(a)
Information to determine security risk.
In order to determine the security risk posed by chemical facilities, the Secretary may, at any time, request information from chemical facilities that may reflect potential consequences of or vulnerabilities to a terrorist attack or incident, including questions specifically related to the nature of the business and activities conducted at the facility; information concerning the names, nature, conditions of storage, quantities, volumes, properties, customers, major uses, and other pertinent information about specific chemicals or chemicals meeting a specific criterion; information concerning facilities' security, safety, and emergency response practices, operations, and procedures; information regarding incidents, history, funding, and other matters bearing on the effectiveness of the security, safety, and emergency response programs, and other information as necessary.
(b)
Obtaining information from facilities.
(1) The Executive Assistant Director may seek the information provided in paragraph (a) of this section by contacting chemical facilities individually or by publishing a notice in the
Federal Register
seeking information from chemical facilities that meet certain criteria, which the Department will use to determine risk profiles. Through any such individual or
Federal Register
notification, the Executive Assistant Director may instruct such facilities to complete and submit a Top-Screen process, which may be completed through a secure Department Web site or through other means approved by the Executive Assistant Director.
(2) A facility must complete and submit a Top-Screen in accordance with the schedule provided in § 27.210, the
calculation provisions in § 27.203, and the minimum concentration provisions in § 27.204 if it possesses any of the chemicals listed in appendix A to this part at or above the STQ for any applicable Security Issue.
(3) Where the Department requests that a facility complete and submit a Top-Screen, the facility must designate a person who is responsible for the submission of information through the CSAT system and who attests to the accuracy of the information contained in any CSAT submissions. Such submitter must be an officer of the corporation or other person designated by an officer of the corporation and must be domiciled in the United States.
(c)
Presumptively High-Risk Facilities.
(1) If a chemical facility subject to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section fails to provide information requested or complete the Top-Screen within the time frame provided in § 27.210, the Executive Assistant Director may, after attempting to consult with the facility, reach a preliminary determination, based on the information then available, that the facility presumptively presents a high level of security risk. The Executive Assistant Director shall then issue a notice to the entity of this determination and, if necessary, order the facility to provide information or complete the Top-Screen pursuant to these rules. If the facility then fails to do so, it may be subject to civil penalties pursuant to § 27.300, audit and inspection under § 27.250, or, if appropriate, an order to cease operations under § 27.300.
(2) If the facility deemed “presumptively high risk” pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section completes the Top-Screen, and the Department determines that it does not present a high level of security risk under § 27.205, its status as “presumptively high risk” will terminate, and the Department will issue a notice to the facility to that effect.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 65418, Nov. 20, 2007; 86 FR 41891, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.203
Calculating the screening threshold quantity by security issue.
(a)
General.
In calculating whether a facility possesses a chemical of interest that meets the STQ for any security issue, a facility need not include chemicals of interest:
(1) Used as a structural component;
(2) Used as products for routine janitorial maintenance;
(3) Contained in food, drugs, cosmetics, or other personal items used by employees;
(4) In process water or non-contact cooling water as drawn from environment or municipal sources;
(5) In air either as compressed air or as part of combustion;
(6) Contained in articles, as defined in 40 CFR 68.3;
(7) In solid waste (including hazardous waste) regulated under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.,
except for the waste described in 40 CFR 261.33; or
(8) In naturally occurring hydrocarbon mixtures prior to entry of the mixture into a natural gas processing plant or a petroleum refining process unit. Naturally occurring hydrocarbon mixtures include condensate, crude oil, field gas, and produced water as defined in 40 CFR 68.3.
(b)
Release chemicals
—(1)
Release-toxic, release-flammable, and release-explosive chemicals.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3), in calculating whether a facility possesses an amount that meets the STQ for release chemicals of interest, the facility shall only include release chemicals of interest:
(i) In a vessel as defined in 40 CFR 68.3, in a underground storage facility, or stored in a magazine as defined in 27 CFR 555.11;
(ii) In transportation containers used for storage not incident to transportation, including transportation containers connected to equipment at a facility for loading or unloading and transportation containers detached from the motive power that delivered the container to the facility;
(iii) Present as process intermediates, by-products, or materials produced incidental to the production of a product if they exist at any given time;
(iv) In natural gas or liquefied natural gas stored in peak shaving facilities; and
(v) In gasoline, diesel, kerosene, or jet fuel (including fuels that have flammability hazard ratings of 1, 2, 3, or 4, as determined by using National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 704: Standard System for the Identification of the Hazards of Materials for Emergency Response [2007 ed.], which is incorporated by reference at § 27.204(a)(2)), stored in aboveground tank farms, including tank farms that are part of pipeline systems;
(2)
Release-toxic, release-flammable, and release-explosive chemicals.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i), in calculating whether a facility possesses an amount that meets the STQ for release-toxic, release-flammable, and release-explosive chemicals, a facility need not include release-toxic, release-flammable, or release-explosive chemicals of interest that a facility manufactures, processes, or uses in a laboratory at the facility under the supervision of a technically qualified individual as defined in 40 CFR 720.3.
(i) This exemption does not apply to specialty chemical production; manufacture, processing, or use of substances in pilot plant scale operations; or activities, including research and development, involving chemicals of interest conducted outside the laboratory.
(ii) [Reserved]
(3)
Propane.
In calculating whether a facility possesses an amount that meets the STQ for propane, a facility need not include propane in tanks of 10,000 pounds or less.
(c)
Theft and diversion chemicals.
In calculating whether a facility possesses an amount of a theft/diversion chemical of interest that meets the STQ, the facility shall only include theft/diversion chemicals of interest in a transportation packaging, as defined in 49 CFR 171.8. Where a theft/diversion-CW chemical is designated by “CUM 100g,” a facility shall total the quantity of all such designated chemicals in its possession to determine whether the facility possesses theft/diversion-CW chemicals that meet or exceed the STQ of 100 grams.
(d)
Sabotage and contamination chemicals.
A facility meets the STQ for a sabotage/contamination chemical of interest if it ships the chemical and is required to placard the shipment of that chemical pursuant to the provisions of subpart F of 49 CFR part 172.
[72 FR 65419, Nov. 20, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41891, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.204
Minimum concentration by security issue.
(a)
Release chemicals
—(1)
Release-toxic chemicals.
If a release-toxic chemical of interest is present in a mixture, and the concentration of the chemical is equal to or greater than one percent (1%) by weight, the facility shall count the amount of the chemical of interest in the mixture toward the STQ. If a release-toxic chemical of interest is present in a mixture, and the concentration of the chemical is less than one percent (1%) by weight of the mixture, the facility need not count the amount of that chemical in the mixture in determining whether the facility possesses the STQ. Except for oleum, if the concentration of the chemical of interest in the mixture is one percent (1%) or greater by weight, but the facility can demonstrate that the partial pressure of the regulated substance in the mixture (solution) under handling or storage conditions in any portion of the process is less than 10 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg), the amount of the substance in the mixture in that portion of a vessel need not be considered when determining the STQ. The facility shall document this partial pressure measurement or estimate.
(2)
Release-flammable chemicals.
If a release-flammable chemical of interest is present in a mixture in a concentration equal to or greater than one percent (1%) by weight of the mixture, and the mixture has a NFPA flammability hazard rating of 4, the facility shall count the entire amount of the mixture toward the STQ. Except as provided in § 27.203(b)(1)(v) for fuels that are stored in aboveground tank farms (including farms that are part of pipeline systems), if a release-flammable chemical of interest is present in a mixture in a concentration equal to or greater than
one percent (1%) by weight of the mixture, and the mixture has a NFPA flammability hazard rating of 1, 2, or 3, the facility need not count the mixture toward the STQ. The flammability hazard ratings are defined in NFPA 704: Standard System for the Identification of the Hazards of Materials for Emergency Response [2007 ed.]. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference of this standard in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of the incorporated standard from the NFPA at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02169-7471 or
http://www.nfpa.org.
You may inspect a copy of the incorporated standard at the Department of Homeland Security, 1621 Kent Street, 9th Floor, Rosslyn, VA (please call 703-235-0709 to make an appointment), or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
If a release-flammable chemical of interest is present in a mixture, and the concentration of the chemical is less than one percent (1%) by weight, the facility need not count the mixture in determining whether the facility possesses the STQ.
(3)
Release-explosive chemicals.
For each release-explosive chemical of interest, a facility shall count the total quantity of all commercial grades of the chemical of interest toward the STQ, unless a specific minimum concentration is assigned in the Minimum Concentration column of appendix A to part 27, in which case the facility should count the total quantity of all commercial grades of the chemical at the specified minimum concentration.
(b)
Theft and diversion chemicals
—(1)
Theft/Diversion-Chemical Weapons (CW) and Chemical Weapons Precursors (CWP) chemicals.
Where a theft/diversion-CW/CWP chemical of interest is not designated by “CUM 100g” in appendix A, and the chemical is present in a mixture at or above the minimum concentration amount listed in the Minimum Concentration column of appendix A to part 27, the facility shall count the entire amount of the mixture toward the STQ.
(2)
Theft/Diversion-Weapon of Mass Effect (WME) chemicals.
If a theft/diversion-WME chemical of interest is present in a mixture at or above the minimum concentration amount listed in the Minimum Concentration column of appendix A to part 27, the facility shall count the entire amount of the mixture toward the STQ.
(3)
Theft/Diversion-Explosives/Improvised Explosive Device Precursor (EXP/IEDP) chemicals.
For each theft/diversion-EXP/IEDP chemical of interest, a facility shall count the total quantity of all commercial grades of the chemical toward the STQ, unless a specific minimum concentration is assigned in the Minimum Concentration column of appendix A to part 27, in which case the facility should count the total quantity of all commercial grades of the chemical at the specified minimum concentration.
(c)
Sabotage and contamination chemicals.
For each sabotage and contamination chemical of interest, a facility shall count the total quantity of all commercial grades of the chemical toward the STQ.
[72 FR 65419, Nov. 20, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41891, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.205
Determination that a chemical facility “presents a high level of security risk.”
(a)
Initial determination.
The Executive Assistant Director may determine at any time that a chemical facility presents a high level of security risk based on any information available (including any information submitted to the Department under § 27.200) that, in the Secretary's discretion, indicates the potential that a terrorist attack involving the facility could result in significant adverse consequences for human life or health, national security, or critical economic assets. Upon determining that a facility presents a high level of security risk, the Department shall notify the facility in writing of such initial determination and may also notify the facility of the Department's preliminary determination of the facility's placement in a risk-based tier pursuant to § 27.220(a).
(b)
Redetermination.
If a covered facility previously determined to present a high level of security risk has materially altered its operations, it may seek a redetermination by filing a Request for Redetermination with the Executive Assistant Director, and may request a meeting regarding the Request. Within 45 calendar days of receipt of such a Request, or within 45 calendar days of a meeting under this paragraph, the Executive Assistant Director shall notify the covered facility in writing of the Department's decision on the Request for Redetermination.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41891, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.210
Submissions schedule.
(a)
Initial submission.
The time frames in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section also apply to covered facilities that submit an Alternative Security Program pursuant to § 27.235.
(1)
Top-Screen.
Facilities shall complete and submit a Top-Screen within the following time frames:
(i) Unless otherwise notified, within 60 calendar days of November 20, 2007 for facilities that possess any of the chemicals listed in appendix A at or above the STQ for any applicable Security Issue, or within 60 calendar days for facilities that come into possession of any of the chemicals listed in appendix A at or above the STQ for any applicable Security Issue; or
(ii) Within the time frame provided in any written notification from the Department or specified in any subsequent
Federal Register
notice.
(2)
Security Vulnerability Assessment.
Unless otherwise notified, a covered facility must complete and submit a Security Vulnerability Assessment within 90 calendar days of written notification from the Department or within the time frame specified in any subsequent
Federal Register
notice.
(3)
Site Security Plan.
Unless otherwise notified, a covered facility must complete and submit a Site Security Plan within 120 calendar days of written notification from the Department or within the time frame specified in any subsequent
Federal Register
notice.
(b)
Resubmission schedule for covered facilities.
The timeframes in this subsection also apply to covered facilities who submit an Alternative Security Program pursuant to § 27.235.
(1)
Top-Screen.
Unless otherwise notified:
(i) Tier 1 and Tier 2 covered facilities must complete and submit a new Top-Screen no less than two years, and no more than two years and 60 calendar days, from the date of the Department's approval of the facility's most recent Site Security Plan.
(ii) Tier 3 and Tier 4 covered facilities must routinely complete and submit a Top-Screen no less than three years, and no more than three years and 60 calendar days, from the date of the Department's approval of the facility's most recent Site Security Plan.
(2)
Security Vulnerability Assessment.
Unless otherwise notified and following a Top-Screen resubmission pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a covered facility must complete and submit a new Security Vulnerability Assessment within 90 calendar days of written notification from the Department or within the time frame specified in any subsequent
Federal Register
notice.
(3)
Site Security Plan.
Unless otherwise notified and following a Security Vulnerability Assessment resubmission pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a covered facility must complete and submit a new Site Security Plan within 120 calendar days of written notification from the Department or within the time frame specified in any subsequent
Federal Register
notice.
(c) The Executive Assistant Director retains the authority to modify the schedule in this part as needed. The Executive Assistant Director may shorten or extend these time periods based on the operations at the facility, the nature of the covered facility's vulnerabilities, the level and immediacy of security risk, or for other reasons. If the Department alters the time periods for a specific facility, the Department will do so in written notice to the facility.
(d) If a covered facility makes material modifications to its operations or site, the covered facility must complete and submit a revised Top-Screen to the Department within 60 days of
the material modification. In accordance with the resubmission requirements in § 27.210(b)(2) and (3), the Department will notify the covered facility as to whether the covered facility must submit a revised Security Vulnerability Assessment, Site Security Plan, or both.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 65420, Nov. 20, 2007; 86 FR 41891, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.215
Security vulnerability assessments.
(a)
Initial assessment.
If the Executive Assistant Director determines that a chemical facility is high risk, the facility must complete a Security Vulnerability Assessment. A Security Vulnerability Assessment shall include:
(1) Asset Characterization, which includes the identification and characterization of potential critical assets; identification of hazards and consequences of concern for the facility, its surroundings, its identified critical asset(s), and its supporting infrastructure; and identification of existing layers of protection;
(2) Threat Assessment, which includes a description of possible internal threats, external threats, and internally-assisted threats;
(3) Security Vulnerability Analysis, which includes the identification of potential security vulnerabilities and the identification of existing countermeasures and their level of effectiveness in both reducing identified vulnerabilities and in meeting the applicable risk-based performance standards;
(4) Risk Assessment, including a determination of the relative degree of risk to the facility in terms of the expected effect on each critical asset and the likelihood of a success of an attack; and
(5) Countermeasures Analysis, including strategies that reduce the probability of a successful attack or reduce the probable degree of success, strategies that enhance the degree of risk reduction, the reliability and maintainability of the options, the capabilities and effectiveness of mitigation options, and the feasibility of the options.
(b) Except as provided in § 27.235, a covered facility must complete the Security Vulnerability Assessment through the CSAT process, or through any other methodology or process identified or issued by the Executive Assistant Director.
(c) Covered facilities must submit a Security Vulnerability Assessment to the Department in accordance with the schedule provided in § 27.210.
(d)
Updates and revisions.
(1) A covered facility must update and revise its Security Vulnerability Assessment in accordance with the schedule provided in § 27.210.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a covered facility must update, revise, or otherwise alter its Security Vulnerability Assessment to account for new or differing modes of potential terrorist attack or for other security-related reasons, if requested by the Executive Assistant Director.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41891, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.220
Tiering.
(a)
Preliminary determination of risk-based tiering.
Based on the information the Department receives in accordance with §§ 27.200 and 27.205 (including information submitted through the Top-Screen process) and following its initial determination in § 27.205(a) that a facility presents a high level of security risk, the Department shall notify a facility of the Department's preliminary determination of the facility's placement in a risk-based tier.
(b)
Confirmation or alteration of risk-based tiering.
Following review of a covered facility's Security Vulnerability Assessment, the Executive Assistant Director shall notify the covered facility of its final placement within a risk-based tier, or for covered facilities previously notified of a preliminary tiering, confirm or alter such tiering.
(c) The Department shall place covered facilities in one of four risk-based tiers, ranging from highest risk facilities in Tier 1 to lowest risk facilities in Tier 4.
(d) The Executive Assistant Director may provide the facility with guidance regarding the risk-based performance standards and any other necessary
guidance materials applicable to its assigned tier.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.225
Site security plans.
(a) The Site Security Plan must meet the following standards:
(1) Address each vulnerability identified in the facility's Security Vulnerability Assessment, and identify and describe the security measures to address each such vulnerability;
(2) Identify and describe how security measures selected by the facility will address the applicable risk-based performance standards and potential modes of terrorist attack including, as applicable, vehicle-borne explosive devices, water-borne explosive devices, ground assault, or other modes or potential modes identified by the Department;
(3) Identify and describe how security measures selected and utilized by the facility will meet or exceed each applicable performance standard for the appropriate risk-based tier for the facility; and
(4) Specify other information the Executive Assistant Director deems necessary regarding chemical facility security.
(b) Except as provided in § 27.235, a covered facility must complete the Site Security Plan through the CSAT process, or through any other methodology or process identified or issued by the Executive Assistant Director.
(c) Covered facilities must submit a Site Security Plan to the Department in accordance with the schedule provided in § 27.210.
(d)
Updates and revisions.
(1) When a covered facility updates, revises, or otherwise alters its Security Vulnerability Assessment pursuant to § 27.215(d), the covered facility shall make corresponding changes to its Site Security Plan.
(2) A covered facility must also update and revise its Site Security Plan in accordance with the schedule in § 27.210.
(e) A covered facility must conduct an annual audit of its compliance with its Site Security Plan.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.230
Risk-based performance standards.
(a) Covered facilities must satisfy the performance standards identified in this section. The Executive Assistant Director will issue guidance on the application of these standards to risk-based tiers of covered facilities, and the acceptable layering of measures used to meet these standards will vary by risk-based tier. Each covered facility must select, develop in their Site Security Plan, and implement appropriately risk-based measures designed to satisfy the following performance standards:
(1)
Restrict area perimeter.
Secure and monitor the perimeter of the facility;
(2)
Secure site assets.
Secure and monitor restricted areas or potentially critical targets within the facility;
(3)
Screen and control access.
Control access to the facility and to restricted areas within the facility by screening and/or inspecting individuals and vehicles as they enter, including,
(i) Measures to deter the unauthorized introduction of dangerous substances and devices that may facilitate an attack or actions having serious negative consequences for the population surrounding the facility; and
(ii) Measures implementing a regularly updated identification system that checks the identification of facility personnel and other persons seeking access to the facility and that discourages abuse through established disciplinary measures;
(4)
Deter, detect, and delay.
Deter, detect, and delay an attack, creating sufficient time between detection of an attack and the point at which the attack becomes successful, including measures to:
(i) Deter vehicles from penetrating the facility perimeter, gaining unauthorized access to restricted areas or otherwise presenting a hazard to potentially critical targets;
(ii) Deter attacks through visible, professional, well maintained security measures and systems, including security personnel, detection systems, barriers and barricades, and hardened or reduced value targets;
(iii) Detect attacks at early stages, through countersurveillance, frustration of opportunity to observe potential targets, surveillance and sensing systems, and barriers and barricades; and
(iv) Delay an attack for a sufficient period of time so to allow appropriate response through on-site security response, barriers and barricades, hardened targets, and well-coordinated response planning;
(5)
Shipping, receipt, and storage.
Secure and monitor the shipping, receipt, and storage of hazardous materials for the facility;
(6)
Theft and diversion.
Deter theft or diversion of potentially dangerous chemicals;
(7)
Sabotage.
Deter insider sabotage;
(8)
Cyber.
Deter cyber sabotage, including by preventing unauthorized onsite or remote access to critical process controls, such as Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems, Distributed Control Systems (DCS), Process Control Systems (PCS), Industrial Control Systems (ICS), critical business system, and other sensitive computerized systems;
(9)
Response.
Develop and exercise an emergency plan to respond to security incidents internally and with assistance of local law enforcement and first responders;
(10)
Monitoring.
Maintain effective monitoring, communications and warning systems, including,
(i) Measures designed to ensure that security systems and equipment are in good working order and inspected, tested, calibrated, and otherwise maintained;
(ii) Measures designed to regularly test security systems, note deficiencies, correct for detected deficiencies, and record results so that they are available for inspection by the Department; and
(iii) Measures to allow the facility to promptly identify and respond to security system and equipment failures or malfunctions;
(11)
Training.
Ensure proper security training, exercises, and drills of facility personnel;
(12)
Personnel surety.
Perform appropriate background checks on and ensure appropriate credentials for facility personnel, and as appropriate, for unescorted visitors with access to restricted areas or critical assets, including,
(i) Measures designed to verify and validate identity;
(ii) Measures designed to check criminal history;
(iii) Measures designed to verify and validate legal authorization to work; and
(iv) Measures designed to identify people with terrorist ties;
(13)
Elevated threats.
Escalate the level of protective measures for periods of elevated threat;
(14)
Specific threats, vulnerabilities, or risks.
Address specific threats, vulnerabilities or risks identified by the Executive Assistant Director for the particular facility at issue;
(15)
Reporting of significant security incidents.
Report significant security incidents to the Department and to local law enforcement officials;
(16)
Significant security incidents and suspicious activities.
Identify, investigate, report, and maintain records of significant security incidents and suspicious activities in or near the site;
(17)
Officials and organization.
Establish official(s) and an organization responsible for security and for compliance with these standards;
(18)
Records.
Maintain appropriate records; and
(19) Address any additional performance standards the Executive Assistant Director may specify.
(b) [Reserved]
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.235
Alternative security program.
(a) Covered facilities may submit an Alternative Security Program (ASP) pursuant to the requirements of this section. The Executive Assistant Director may approve an ASP, in whole, in part, or subject to revisions or supplements, upon a determination that the ASP meets the requirements of this part and provides for an equivalent level of security to that established by this part.
(1) A Tier 4 facility may submit an ASP in lieu of a Security Vulnerability Assessment, Site Security Plan, or both.
(2) Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3 facilities may submit an ASP in lieu of a Site Security Plan. Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 facilities may not submit an ASP in lieu of a Security Vulnerability Assessment.
(b) The Department will provide notice to a covered facility about the approval or disapproval, in whole or in part, of an ASP, using the procedure specified in § 27.240 if the ASP is intended to take the place of a Security Vulnerability Assessment or using the procedure specified in § 27.245 if the ASP is intended to take the place of a Site Security Plan.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.240
Review and approval of security vulnerability assessments.
(a)
Review and approval.
The Department will review and approve in writing all Security Vulnerability Assessments that satisfy the requirements of § 27.215, including ASPs submitted pursuant to § 27.235.
(b) If a Security Vulnerability Assessment does not satisfy the requirements of § 27.215, the Department will provide the facility with a written notification that includes a clear explanation of deficiencies in the Security Vulnerability Assessment. The facility shall then enter further consultations with the Department and resubmit a sufficient Security Vulnerability Assessment by the time specified in the written notification provided by the Department under this section. If the resubmitted Security Vulnerability Assessment does not satisfy the requirements of § 27.215, the Department will provide the facility with written notification (including a clear explanation of deficiencies in the Security Vulnerability Assessment) of the Department's disapproval of the Security Vulnerability Assessment.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.245
Review and approval of site security plans.
(a)
Review and approval.
(1) The Department will review, and either approve or disapprove, all Site Security Plans that satisfy the requirements of § 27.225, including ASPs submitted pursuant to § 27.235.
(i) The Department will review Site Security Plans through a two-step process. Upon receipt of the Site Security Plan from the covered facility, the Department will review the documentation and make a preliminary determination as to whether it satisfies the requirements of § 27.225. If the Department finds that the requirements are satisfied, the Department will issue a Letter of Authorization to the covered facility.
(ii) Following issuance of the Letter of Authorization, the Department will inspect the covered facility in accordance with § 27.250 for purposes of determining compliance with the requirements of this part.
(iii) If the Department approves the Site Security Plan in accordance with § 27.250, the Department will issue a Letter of Approval to the facility, and the facility shall implement the approved Site Security Plan.
(2) The Department will not disapprove a Site Security Plan submitted under this part based on the presence or absence of a particular security measure. The Department may disapprove a Site Security Plan that fails to satisfy the risk-based performance standards established in § 27.230.
(b) When the Department disapproves a preliminary Site Security Plan issued prior to inspection or a Site Security Plan following inspection, the Department will provide the facility with a written notification that includes a clear explanation of deficiencies in the Site Security Plan. The facility shall then enter further consultations with the Department and resubmit a sufficient Site Security Plan by the time specified in the written notification provided by the Department under this section. If the resubmitted Site Security Plan does not satisfy the requirements of § 27.225, the Department will provide the facility with written notification (including a clear explanation of deficiencies in the Site Security Plan) of the Department's disapproval of the Site Security Plan.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.250
Inspections and audits.
(a)
Authority.
In order to assess compliance with the requirements of this part, authorized Department officials may enter, inspect, and audit the property, equipment, operations, and records of covered facilities.
(b) Following preliminary approval of a Site Security Plan in accordance with § 27.245, the Department will inspect the covered facility for purposes of determining compliance with the requirements of this part.
(1) If after the inspection, the Department determines that the requirements of § 27.225 have been met, the Department will issue a Letter of Approval to the covered facility.
(2) If after the inspection, the Department determines that the requirements of § 27.225 have not been met, the Department will proceed as directed by § 27.245(b) in “Review and Approval of Site Security Plans.”
(c)
Time and manner.
Authorized Department officials will conduct audits and inspections at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner. The Department will provide covered facility owners and/or operators with 24-hour advance notice before inspections, except
(1) If the Director or Executive Assistant Director determines that an inspection without such notice is warranted by exigent circumstances and approves such inspection; or
(2) If any delay in conducting an inspection might be seriously detrimental to security, and the Associate Director for Chemical Security determines that an inspection without notice is warranted, and approves an inspector to conduct such inspection.
(d)
Inspectors.
Inspections and audits are conducted by personnel duly authorized and designated for that purpose as “inspectors” by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee.
(1) An inspector will, on request, present his or her credentials for examination, but the credentials may not be reproduced by the facility.
(2) An inspector may administer oaths and receive affirmations, with the consent of any witness, in any matter.
(3) An inspector may gather information by reasonable means including, but not limited to, interviews, statements, photocopying, photography, and video- and audio-recording. All documents, objects, and electronically stored information collected by each inspector during the performance of that inspector's duties shall be maintained for a reasonable period of time in the files of the Department of Homeland Security maintained for that facility or matter.
(4) An inspector may request forthwith access to all records required to be kept pursuant to § 27.255. An inspector shall be provided with the immediate use of any photocopier or other equipment necessary to copy any such record. If copies can not be provided immediately upon request, the inspector shall be permitted immediately to take the original records for duplication and prompt return.
(e)
Confidentiality.
In addition to the protections provided under Chemical-terrorism Vulnerability Information in § 27.400, information received in an audit or inspection under this section, including the identity of the persons involved in the inspection or who provide information during the inspection, shall remain confidential under the investigatory file exception, or other appropriate exception, to the public disclosure requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552.
(f)
Guidance.
The Executive Assistant Director shall issue guidance identifying appropriate processes for such inspections, and specifying the type and nature of documentation that must be made available for review during inspections and audits.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.255
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Except as provided in § 27.255(b), the covered facility must keep records of the activities as set out below for at least three years and make them available to the Department upon request. A covered facility must keep the following records:
(1)
Training.
For training, the date and location of each session, time of day and duration of session, a description of the training, the name and qualifications of the instructor, a clear, legible list of attendees to include the attendee signature, at least
one other unique identifier of each attendee receiving the training, and the results of any evaluation or testing;
(2)
Drills and exercises.
For each drill or exercise, the date held, a description of the drill or exercise, a list of participants, a list of equipment (other than personal equipment) tested or employed in the exercise, the name(s) and qualifications of the exercise director, and any best practices or lessons learned, which may improve the Site Security Plan;
(3)
Incidents and breaches of security.
Date and time of occurrence, location within the facility, a description of the incident or breach, the identity of the individual to whom it was reported, and a description of the response;
(4)
Maintenance, calibration, and testing of security equipment.
The date and time, name and qualifications of the technician(s) doing the work, and the specific security equipment involved for each occurrence of maintenance, calibration, and testing;
(5)
Security threats.
Date and time of occurrence, how the threat was communicated, who received or identified the threat, a description of the threat, to whom it was reported, and a description of the response;
(6)
Audits.
For each audit of a covered facility's Site Security Plan (including each audit required under § 27.225(e)) or Security Vulnerability Assessment, a record of the audit, including the date of the audit, results of the audit, name(s) of the person(s) who conducted the audit, and a letter certified by the covered facility stating the date the audit was conducted; and
(7)
Letters of Authorization and Approval.
All Letters of Authorization and Approval from the Department, and documentation identifying the results of audits and inspections conducted pursuant to § 27.250.
(b) A covered facility must retain records of submitted Top-Screens, Security Vulnerability Assessments, Site Security Plans, and all related correspondence with the Department for at least six years and make them available to the Department upon request.
(c) To the extent necessary for security purposes, the Department may request that a covered facility make available records kept pursuant to other Federal programs or regulations.
(d) Records required by this section may be kept in electronic format. If kept in an electronic format, they must be protected against unauthorized access, deletion, destruction, amendment, and disclosure.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]

# Subpart C—Orders and Adjudications
§ 27.300
Orders.
(a)
Orders generally.
When the Executive Assistant Director determines that a facility is in violation of any of the requirements of this part, the Executive Assistant Director may take appropriate action including the issuance of an appropriate Order.
(b)
Orders Assessing Civil Penalty and Orders to Cease Operations.
(1) Where the Executive Assistant Director determines that a facility is in violation of an Order issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the Executive Assistant Director may enter an Order Assessing Civil Penalty, Order to Cease Operations, or both.
(2) Following the issuance of an Order by the Executive Assistant Director pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the facility may enter further consultations with the Department.
(3) Where the Executive Assistant Director determines that a facility is in violation of an Order issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and issues an Order Assessing Civil Penalty pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a chemical facility is liable to the United States for a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for each day during which the violation continues, if the violation of the Order occurred on or before November 2, 2015, or $41,093 for each day during which the violation of the Order continues, if the violation occurred after November 2, 2015.
(c)
Procedures for Orders.
(1) At a minimum, an Order shall be signed by the Executive Assistant Director, shall be dated, and shall include:
(i) The name and address of the facility in question;
(ii) A listing of the provision(s) that the facility is alleged to have violated;
(iii) A statement of facts upon which the alleged instances of noncompliance are based;
(iv) A clear explanation of deficiencies in the facility's chemical security program, including, if applicable, any deficiencies in the facility's Security Vulnerability Assessment, Site Security Plan, or both;
(v) A statement indicating what action(s) the facility must take to remedy the instance(s) of noncompliance; and
(vi) The date by which the facility must comply with the terms of the Order.
(2) The Executive Assistant Director may establish procedures for the issuance of Orders.
(d) A facility must comply with the terms of the Order by the date specified in the Order unless the facility has filed a timely Notice of Application for Review under § 27.310.
(e) Where a facility or other person contests the determination of the Executive Assistant Director to issue an Order, a chemical facility may seek an adjudication pursuant to § 27.310.
(f) An Order issued under this section becomes final agency action when the time to file a Notice of Application for Review under § 27.310 has passed without such a filing or upon the conclusion of adjudication or appeal proceedings under this subpart.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 43001, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 8579, Jan. 27, 2017; 83 FR 13834, Apr. 2, 2018; 84 FR 13508, Apr. 5, 2019; 85 FR 36478, June 17, 2020; 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021; 86 FR 57539, Oct. 18, 2021; 87 FR 1326, Jan. 11, 2022; 88 FR 2182, Jan. 13, 2023]
§ 27.305
Neutral adjudications.
(a) Any facility or other person who has received a Finding pursuant to § 27.230(a)(12)(iv), a Determination pursuant to § 27.245(b), or an Order pursuant to § 27.300 is entitled to an adjudication, by a neutral adjudications officer, of any issue of material fact relevant to any administrative action that deprives that person of a cognizable interest in liberty or property.
(b) A neutral adjudications officer appointed pursuant to § 27.315 shall issue an Initial Decision on any material factual issue related to a Finding pursuant to § 27.230(a)(12)(iv), a Determination pursuant to § 27.245, or an Order pursuant to § 27.300 before any such administrative action is reviewed on appeal pursuant to § 27.345.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.310
Commencement of adjudication proceedings.
(a)
Proceedings instituted by facilities or other persons.
A facility or other person may institute proceedings to review a determination by the Executive Assistant Director:
(1) Finding, pursuant to the § 27.230(a)(12)(iv), that an individual is a potential security threat;
(2) Disapproving a Site Security Plan pursuant to § 27.245(b); or
(3) Issuing an Order pursuant to § 27.300(a) or (b).
(b)
Procedure for applications by facilities or other persons.
A facility or other person may institute Proceedings by filing a Notice of Application for Review specifying that the facility or other person requests a Proceeding to review a determination specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(1) An Applicant institutes a Proceeding by filing a Notice of Application for Review.
(2) An Applicant must file a Notice of Application for Review within seven calendar days of notification to the facility or other person of the Executive Assistant Director's Finding, Determination, or Order.
(3) The Applicant shall file and simultaneously serve each Notice of Application for Review and all subsequent filings on the Executive Assistant Director and the Office of the Chief Counsel.
(4) An Order is stayed from the timely filing of a Notice of Application for Review until the Presiding Officer issues an Initial Decision, unless the Secretary has lifted the stay due to exigent circumstances pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(5) The Applicant shall file and serve an Application for Review within 14 calendar days of the notification to the
facility or other person of the Executive Assistant Director's Finding, Determination, or Order.
(6) Each Application for Review shall be accompanied by all legal memoranda, other documents, declarations, affidavits, and other evidence supporting the position asserted by the Applicant.
(c)
Response.
The Executive Assistant Director, through the Office of the Chief Counsel, shall file and serve a Response, accompanied by all legal memoranda, other documents, declarations, affidavits, and other evidence supporting the position asserted by the Executive Assistant Director within 14 calendar days of the filing and service of the Application for Review and all supporting papers.
(d)
Procedural modifications.
The Secretary may, in exigent circumstances (as determined in his or her sole discretion):
(1) Lift any stay applicable to any Order under § 27.300;
(2) Modify the time for a response;
(3) Rule on the sufficiency of Applications for Review; or
(4) Otherwise modify these procedures with respect to particular matters.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.315
Presiding officers for proceedings.
(a) Immediately upon the filing of any Application for Review, the Secretary shall appoint an attorney, who is employed by the Department and who has not performed any investigative or prosecutorial function with respect to the matter, to act as a neutral adjudications officer or Presiding Officer for the compilation of a factual record and the recommendation of an Initial Decision for each Proceeding.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary may appoint one or more attorneys who are employed by the Department and who do not perform any investigative or prosecutorial function with respect to this subpart, to serve, generally, in the capacity as Presiding Officer(s) for such matters pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary may hereafter establish.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.320
Prohibition on ex parte communications during proceedings.
(a) At no time after the designation of a Presiding Officer for a Proceeding and prior to the issuance of a Final Decision pursuant to § 27.345 with respect to a facility or other person, shall the appointed Presiding Officer, or any person who will advise that official in the decision on the matter, discuss ex parte the merits of the proceeding with any interested person outside the Department, with any Department official who performs a prosecutorial or investigative function in such proceeding or a factually related proceeding, or with any representative of such person.
(b) If, after appointment of a Presiding Officer and prior to the issuance of a Final Decision pursuant to § 27.345 with respect to a facility or other person, the appointed Presiding Officer, or any person who will advise that official in the decision on the matter, receives from or on behalf of any party, by means of an ex parte communication, information that is relevant to the decision of the matter and to which other parties have not had an opportunity to respond, a summary of such information shall be served on all other parties, who shall have an opportunity to reply to the ex parte communication within a time set by the Presiding Officer.
(c) The consideration of classified information or CVI pursuant to an in camera procedure does not constitute a prohibited ex parte communication for purposes of this subpart.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.325
Burden of proof.
The Executive Assistant Director bears the initial burden of proving the facts necessary to support the challenged administrative action at every proceeding instituted under this subpart.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.330
Summary decision procedures.
(a) The Presiding Officer appointed for each Proceeding shall immediately consider whether the summary adjudication of the Application for Review is appropriate based on the Application for Review, the Response, and all the supporting filings of the parties pursuant to §§ 27.310(b)(5) and 27.310(c).
(1) The Presiding Officer shall promptly issue any necessary scheduling order for any additional briefing of the issue of summary adjudication on the Application for Review and Response.
(2) The Presiding Officer may conduct scheduling conferences and other proceedings that the Presiding Officer determines to be appropriate.
(b) If the Presiding Officer determines that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that one party or the other is entitled to a decision as a matter of law, then the record shall be closed and the Presiding Officer shall issue an Initial Decision on the Application for Review pursuant to § 27.340.
(c) If a Presiding Officer determines that any factual issues require the cross-examination of one or more witnesses or other proceedings at a hearing, the Presiding Officer, in consultation with the parties, shall promptly schedule a hearing to be conducted pursuant to § 27.335.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.335
Hearing procedures.
(a) Any hearing shall be held as expeditiously as possible at the location most conducive to a prompt presentation of any necessary testimony or other proceedings.
(1) Videoconferencing and teleconferencing may be used where appropriate at the discretion of the Presiding Officer.
(2) Each party offering the affirmative testimony of a witness shall present that testimony by declaration, affidavit, or other sworn statement submitted in advance as ordered by the Presiding Officer.
(3) Any witness presented for further examination shall be asked to testify under an oath or affirmation.
(4) The hearing shall be recorded verbatim.
(b)(1) A facility or other person may appear and be heard on his or her own behalf or through any counsel of his or her choice who is qualified to possess CVI.
(2) A facility or other person individually, or through counsel, may offer relevant and material information including written direct testimony, which he or she believes should be considered in opposition to the administrative action, or which may bear on the sanction being sought.
(3) The facility or other person individually, or through counsel, may conduct such cross-examination as may be specifically allowed by the Presiding Officer for a full determination of the facts.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41892, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.340
Completion of adjudication proceedings.
(a) The Presiding Officer shall close and certify the record of the adjudication promptly upon the completion of:
(1) Summary judgment proceedings,
(2) A hearing, if necessary,
(3) The submission of post hearing briefs, if any are ordered by the Presiding Officer, and
(4) The conclusion of oral arguments, if any are permitted by the Presiding Officer.
(b) The Presiding Officer shall issue an Initial Decision based on the certified record, and the decision shall be subject to appeal pursuant to § 27.345.
(c) An Initial Decision shall become a final agency action on the expiration of the time for an Appeal pursuant to § 27.345.
§ 27.345
Appeals.
(a)
Right to appeal.
A facility or any person who has received an Initial Decision under § 27.340(b) has the right to appeal to the Director acting as a neutral appeals officer.
(b)
Procedure for appeals.
(1) The Executive Assistant Director, a facility or other person, or a representative on behalf of a facility or person, may institute an Appeal by filing a Notice of Appeal with the office of the Department
hereinafter designated by the Secretary.
(2) The Executive Assistant Director, a facility, or other person must file a Notice of Appeal within seven calendar days of the service of the Presiding Officer's Initial Decision.
(3) The Appellant shall file with the designated office and simultaneously serve each Notice of Appeal and all subsequent filings on the Office of the Chief Counsel.
(4) An Initial Decision is stayed from the timely filing of a Notice of Appeal until the Director issues a Final Decision, unless the Secretary lifts the stay due to exigent circumstances pursuant to § 27.310(d).
(5) The Appellant shall file and serve a Brief within 28 calendar days of the notification of the service of the Presiding Officer's Initial Decision.
(6) The Appellee shall file and serve its Opposition Brief within 28 calendar days of the service of the Appellant's Brief.
(c) The Director may provide for an expedited appeal for appropriate matters.
(d)
Ex parte communications.
(1) At no time after the filing of a Notice of Appeal pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section and prior to the issuance of a Final Decision on an Appeal pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section with respect to a facility or other person shall the Director, his or her designee, or any person who will advise that official in the decision on the matter, discuss ex parte the merits of the proceeding with any interested person outside the Department, with any Department official who performs a prosecutorial or investigative function in such proceeding or a factually related proceeding, or with any representative of such person.
(2) If, after the filing of a Notice of Appeal pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section and prior to the issuance of a Final Decision on an Appeal pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section with respect to a facility or other person, the Director, his or her designee, or any person who will advise that official in the decision on the matter, receives from or on behalf of any party, by means of an ex parte communication, information that is relevant to the decision of the matter and to which other parties have not had an opportunity to respond, a summary of such information shall be served on all other parties, who shall have an opportunity to reply to the ex parte communication within a time set by the Director or his or her designee.
(3) The consideration of classified information or CVI pursuant to an in camera procedure does not constitute a prohibited ex parte communication for purposes of this subpart.
(e) A facility or other person may elect to have the Director participate in any mediation or other resolution process by expressly waiving, in writing, any argument that such participation has compromised the Appeal process.
(f) The Director shall issue a Final Decision and serve it upon the parties. A Final Decision made by the Director constitutes final agency action.
(g) The Secretary may establish procedures for the conduct of Appeals pursuant to this section.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41893, Aug. 4, 2021]

# Subpart D—Other
§ 27.400
Chemical-terrorism vulnerability information.
(a)
Applicability.
This section governs the maintenance, safeguarding, and disclosure of information and records that constitute Chemical-terrorism Vulnerability Information (CVI), as defined in § 27.400(b). The Secretary shall administer this section consistent with 6 U.S.C. 621
et seq.
, including appropriate sharing with Federal, State, and local officials.
(b)
Chemical-terrorism vulnerability information.
In accordance with 6 U.S.C. 623, the following information, whether transmitted verbally, electronically, or in written form, shall constitute CVI:
(1) Security Vulnerability Assessments under § 27.215;
(2) Site Security Plans under § 27.225;
(3) Documents relating to the Department's review and approval of Security Vulnerability Assessments and Site Security Plans, including Letters of Authorization, Letters of Approval, and responses thereto; written notices; and
other documents developed pursuant to § 27.240 or § 27.245;
(4) Alternative Security Programs under § 27.235;
(5) Documents relating to inspection or audits under § 27.250;
(6) Any records required to be created or retained under § 27.255;
(7) Sensitive portions of orders, notices, or letters under § 27.300;
(8) Information developed pursuant to §§ 27.200 and 27.205; and
(9) Other information developed for chemical facility security purposes that the Secretary, in his or her discretion, determines is similar to the information protected in § 27.400(b)(1) through (8) and thus warrants protection as CVI.
(c)
Covered persons.
Persons subject to the requirements of this section are:
(1) Each person who has a need to know CVI, as specified in § 27.400(e); and
(2) Each person who otherwise receives or gains access to what they know or should reasonably know constitutes CVI.
(d)
Duty to protect information.
A covered person must:
(1) Take reasonable steps to safeguard CVI in that person's possession or control, including electronic data, from unauthorized disclosure. When a person is not in physical possession of CVI, the person must store it in a secure container, such as a safe, that limits access only to covered persons with a need to know;
(2) Disclose, or otherwise provide access to, CVI only to persons who have a need to know;
(3) Refer requests for CVI by persons without a need to know to the Executive Assistant Director;
(4) Mark CVI as specified in § 27.400(f);
(5) Dispose of CVI as specified in § 27.400(k);
(6) If a covered person receives a record or verbal transmission containing CVI that is not marked as specified in § 27.400(f), the covered person must:
(i) Mark the record as specified in § 27.400(f) of this section; and
(ii) Inform the sender of the record that the record must be marked as specified in § 27.400(f); or
(iii) If received verbally, make reasonable efforts to memorialize such information and mark the memorialized record as specified in § 27.400(f) of this section, and inform the speaker of any determination that such information warrants CVI protection.
(7) When a covered person becomes aware that CVI has been released to persons without a need to know (including a covered person under § 27.400(c)(2)), the covered person must promptly inform the Executive Assistant Director; and
(8) In the case of information that is CVI and also has been designated as Protected Critical Infrastructure Information under 6 U.S.C. 133, any covered person in possession of such information must comply with the disclosure restrictions and other requirements applicable to such information under 6 U.S.C. 133 and any implementing regulations.
(e)
Need to know.
(1) A person, including a State or local official, has a need to know CVI in each of the following circumstances:
(i) When the person requires access to specific CVI to carry out chemical facility security activities approved, accepted, funded, recommended, or directed by the Department.
(ii) When the person needs the information to receive training to carry out chemical facility security activities approved, accepted, funded, recommended, or directed by the Department.
(iii) When the information is necessary for the person to supervise or otherwise manage individuals carrying out chemical facility security activities approved, accepted, funded, recommended, or directed by the Department.
(iv) When the person needs the information to provide technical or legal advice to a covered person, who has a need to know the information, regarding chemical facility security requirements of Federal law.
(v) When the Department determines that access is required under § 27.400(h) or § 27.400(i) in the course of a judicial or administrative proceeding.
(2)
Federal employees, contractors, and grantees.
(i) A Federal employee has a need to know CVI if access to the information is necessary for performance of the employee's official duties.
(ii) A person acting in the performance of a contract with or grant from the Department has a need to know CVI if access to the information is necessary to performance of the contract or grant. Contractors or grantees may not further disclose CVI without the consent of the Executive Assistant Director.
(iii) The Department may require that non-Federal persons seeking access to CVI complete a non-disclosure agreement before such access is granted.
(3)
Background check.
The Department may make an individual's access to the CVI contingent upon satisfactory completion of a security background check or other procedures and requirements for safeguarding CVI that are satisfactory to the Department.
(4)
Need to know further limited by the Department.
For some specific CVI, the Department may make a finding that only specific persons or classes of persons have a need to know.
(5) Nothing in § 27.400(e) shall prevent the Department from determining, in its discretion, that a person not otherwise listed in § 27.400(e) has a need to know CVI in a particular circumstance.
(f)
Marking of paper records.
(1) In the case of paper records containing CVI, a covered person must mark the record by placing the protective marking conspicuously on the top, and the distribution limitation statement on the bottom, of:
(i) The outside of any front and back cover, including a binder cover or folder, if the document has a front and back cover;
(ii) Any title page; and
(iii) Each page of the document.
(2)
Protective markings.
The protective marking is: CHEMICAL-TERRORISM VULNERABILITY INFORMATION.
(3)
Distribution limitation statement.
The distribution limitation statement is: WARNING: This record contains Chemical-terrorism Vulnerability Information controlled by 6 CFR 27.400. Do not disclose to persons without a “need to know” in accordance with 6 CFR 27.400(e). Unauthorized release may result in civil penalties or other action. In any administrative or judicial proceeding, this information shall be treated as classified information in accordance with 6 CFR 27.400(h) and (i).
(4)
Other types of records.
In the case of non-paper records that contain CVI, including motion picture films, videotape recordings, audio recordings, and electronic and magnetic records, a covered person must clearly and conspicuously mark the records with the protective marking and the distribution limitation statement such that the viewer or listener is reasonably likely to see or hear them when obtaining access to the contents of the record.
(g)
Disclosure by the Department
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, and notwithstanding the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), and other laws, records containing CVI are not available for public inspection or copying, nor does the Department release such records to persons without a need to know.
(2)
Disclosure of Segregable Information under the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act.
If a record is marked to signify both CVI and information that is not CVI, the Department, on a proper Freedom of Information Act or Privacy Act request, may disclose the record with the CVI redacted, provided the record is not otherwise exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act or Privacy Act.
(h)
Disclosure in administrative enforcement proceedings.
(1) The Department may provide CVI to a person governed by 6 U.S.C. 621
et seq.
, and his or her counsel, in the context of an administrative enforcement proceeding of 6 U.S.C. 621
et seq.
when, in the sole discretion of the Department, as appropriate, access to the CVI is necessary for the person to prepare a response to allegations contained in a legal enforcement action document issued by the Department.
(2)
Security background check.
Prior to providing CVI to a person under § 27.400(h)(1), the Department may require the individual or, in the case of an entity, the individuals representing the entity, and their counsel, to undergo and satisfy, in the judgment of the Department, a security background check.
(i)
Disclosure in judicial proceedings.
(1) In any judicial enforcement proceeding of 6 U.S.C. 621
et seq.
, the Secretary, in his or her sole discretion, may, subject to § 27.400(i)(1)(i), authorize access to CVI for persons necessary for the conduct of such proceedings, including such persons' counsel, provided that no other persons not so authorized shall have access to or be present for the disclosure of such information.
(i)
Security background check.
Prior to providing CVI to a person under § 27.400(i)(1), the Department may require the individual to undergo and satisfy, in the judgment of the Department, a security background check.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) In any judicial enforcement proceeding under 6 U.S.C. 621
et seq.
where a person seeks to disclose CVI to a person not authorized to receive it under paragraph (i)(1) of this section, or where a person not authorized to receive CVI under paragraph (i)(1) of this section seeks to compel its disclosure through discovery, the United States may make an ex parte application in writing to the court seeking authorization to:
(i) Redact specified items of CVI from documents to be introduced into evidence or made available to the defendant through discovery under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure;
(ii) Substitute a summary of the information for such CVI; or
(iii) Substitute a statement admitting relevant facts that the CVI would tend to prove.
(3) The court shall grant a request under paragraph (i)(2) of this section if, after in camera review, the court finds that the redacted item, stipulation, or summary is sufficient to allow the defendant to prepare a defense.
(4) If the court enters an order granting a request under paragraph (i)(2) of this section, the entire text of the documents to which the request relates shall be sealed and preserved in the records of the court to be made available to the appellate court in the event of an appeal.
(5) If the court enters an order denying a request of the United States under paragraph (i)(2) of this section, the United States may take an immediate, interlocutory appeal of the court's order in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 2339B(f)(4), (5). For purposes of such an appeal, the entire text of the documents to which the request relates, together with any transcripts of arguments made ex parte to the court in connection therewith, shall be maintained under seal and delivered to the appellate court.
(6) Except as provided otherwise at the sole discretion of the Secretary, access to CVI shall not be available in any civil or criminal litigation unrelated to the enforcement under 6 U.S.C. 621
et seq.
.
(7)
Taking of trial testimony
—(i)
Objection.
During the examination of a witness in any judicial proceeding, the United States may object to any question or line of inquiry that may require the witness to disclose CVI not previously found to be admissible.
(ii)
Action by court.
In determining whether a response is admissible, the court shall take precautions to guard against the compromise of any CVI, including—
(A) Permitting the United States to provide the court, ex parte, with a proffer of the witness's response to the question or line of inquiry; and
(B) Requiring the defendant to provide the court with a proffer of the nature of the information that the defendant seeks to elicit.
(iii)
Obligation of defendant.
In any judicial enforcement proceeding, it shall be the defendant's obligation to establish the relevance and materiality of any CVI sought to be introduced.
(8)
Construction.
Nothing in this subsection shall prevent the United States from seeking protective orders or asserting privileges ordinarily available to the United States to protect against the disclosure of classified information, including the invocation of the military and State secrets privilege.
(j)
Consequences of violation.
Violation of this section is grounds for a civil penalty and other enforcement or corrective action by the Department, and appropriate personnel actions for Federal employees. Corrective action may include issuance of an order requiring retrieval of CVI to remedy unauthorized disclosure or an order to cease future unauthorized disclosure.
(k)
Destruction of CVI.
(1) The Department of Homeland Security. Subject to the requirements of the Federal Records Act (codified at 44 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
and 3301
et seq.
), including the duty to preserve records containing documentation of a Federal agency's policies, decisions, and essential transactions, the Department destroys CVI when no longer needed to carry out the agency's function.
(2)
Other covered persons
—(i)
In general.
A covered person must destroy CVI completely to preclude recognition or reconstruction of the information when the covered person no longer needs the CVI to carry out security measures under paragraph (e) of this section.
(ii)
Exception.
Section 27.400(k)(2) does not require a State or local government agency to destroy information that the agency is required to preserve under State or local law.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41893, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.405
Review and preemption of State laws and regulations.
(a) As per current law, no law, regulation, or administrative action of a State or political subdivision thereof, or any decision or order rendered by a court under State law, shall have any effect if such law, regulation, or decision conflicts with, hinders, poses an obstacle to, or frustrates the purposes of this regulation or of any approval, disapproval, or order issued there under.
(1) Nothing in this part is intended to displace other federal requirements administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Department of Labor, U.S. Department of Transportation, or other federal agencies.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) State law, regulation, or administrative action defined. For purposes of this section, the phrase “State law, regulation, or administrative action” means any enacted law, promulgated regulation, ordinance, administrative action, order, decision, or common law standard of a State or any of its political subdivisions.
(c)
Submission for review.
Any chemical facility covered by these regulations and any State may petition the Department by submitting a copy of a State law, regulation, administrative action, decision, or order of a court for review under this section.
(d)
Review and opinion
—(1)
Review.
The Department may review State laws, administrative actions, opinions, or orders of a court under State law and regulations submitted under this section, and may offer an opinion whether the application or enforcement of the State law or regulation would conflict with, hinder, pose an obstacle to, or frustrate the purposes of this part.
(2)
Opinion.
The Department may issue a written opinion on any question regarding preemption. If the question was submitted under subsection (c) of this part, the Executive Assistant Director will notify the affected chemical facility and the Attorney General of the subject State of any opinion under this section.
(3)
Consultation with States.
In conducting a review under this section, the Department will seek the views of the State or local jurisdiction whose laws may be affected by the Department's review.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41893, Aug. 4, 2021]
§ 27.410
Third-party actions.
(a) Nothing in this part shall confer upon any person except the Secretary a right of action, in law or equity, for any remedy including, but not limited to, injunctions or damages to enforce any provision of this part.
(b) An owner or operator of a chemical facility may petition the Executive Assistant Director to provide the Department's view in any litigation involving any issues or matters regarding this part.
[72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 41894, Aug. 4, 2021]
Pt. 27, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 27—DHS Chemicals of Interest
ER20NO07.008
ER20NO07.009
ER20NO07.010
ER20NO07.011
ER20NO07.012
ER20NO07.013
ER20NO07.014
ER20NO07.015
ER20NO07.016
ER20NO07.017
ER20NO07.018
ER20NO07.019
ER20NO07.020
ER20NO07.021
[72 FR 65420, Nov. 20, 2007]
Pt. 29

# PART 29—PROTECTED CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION
Sec.
29.1
Purpose and scope.
29.2
Definitions.
29.3
FOIA exemptions and restrictions on use of PCII.
29.4
PCII program administration.
29.5
Requirements for protection.
29.6
Acknowledgement of receipt, validation, and marking.
29.7
Safeguarding of PCII.
29.8
Disclosure of PCII.
29.9
Investigation and reporting of violation of PCII procedures.

# Authority:
6 U.S.C. 671-674; Section 2222-2225 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, Pub. L. 107-296, 116 Stat. 2135, as amended by Subtitle B of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Act of 2018, Pub. L. 115-278, 132 Stat. 4184. 5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
71 FR 52271, Sept. 1, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 77972, Dec. 21, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 29.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose of this part.
This part implements the Critical Infrastructure Information Act of 2002 (CII Act) by establishing uniform procedures for the receipt, care, and storage of Critical Infrastructure Information voluntarily submitted to the Department of Homeland Security through CISA. Consistent with the statutory mission of DHS to prevent terrorist attacks within the United States and reduce the vulnerability of the United States to terrorism, CISA will encourage the voluntary submission of CII by safeguarding and protecting that information from unauthorized disclosure and by ensuring that such information is, as necessary, securely shared with State and Local governments pursuant to the CII Act. As required by the CII Act, this part establishes procedures regarding:
(1) The acknowledgment of receipt by CISA of voluntarily submitted CII;
(2) The receipt, validation, handling, storage, proper marking, and use of information as PCII;
(3) The safeguarding and maintenance of the confidentiality of such information and appropriate sharing of such information with State and Local governments or government agencies pursuant to 6 U.S.C. 673(a)(1)(E); and
(4) The issuance of advisories, notices, and warnings related to the protection of critical infrastructure or protected systems in such a manner to protect, as appropriate, from unauthorized disclosure the source of critical infrastructure information that forms the basis of the warning, and any information that is proprietary or business sensitive, might be used to identify the submitting person or entity, or is otherwise not appropriately in the public domain.
(b)
Scope.
This part applies to all persons and entities that are authorized to handle, use, store, or otherwise accept receipt of PCII.
§ 29.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Critical Infrastructure
has the same meaning stated in 6 U.S.C. 101(4) (which cross references the term used in 42 U.S.C. 5195c(e)) and means systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters.
Critical Infrastructure Information or CII
has the same meaning stated in 6 U.S.C. 671(1) and means information not customarily in the public domain and related to the security of critical infrastructure or protected systems, including documents, records or other information concerning:
(1) Actual, potential, or threatened interference with, attack on, compromise of, or incapacitation of critical infrastructure or protected systems by either physical or computer-based attack or other similar conduct (including the misuse of or unauthorized access to all types of communications and data transmission systems) that violates Federal, State, or Local law, harms interstate commerce of the United States, or threatens public health or safety;
(2) The ability of any critical infrastructure or protected system to resist such interference, compromise, or incapacitation, including any planned or
past assessment, projection, or estimate of the vulnerability of critical infrastructure or a protected system, including security testing, risk evaluation thereto, risk-management planning, or risk audit; or
(3) Any planned or past operational problem or solution regarding critical infrastructure or protected systems, including repair, recovery, reconstruction, insurance, or continuity, to the extent it is related to such interference, compromise, or incapacitation.
CII Act
means the Critical Infrastructure Information Act of 2002 in 6 U.S.C. 671-674; Sections 2222-2225 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296, 116 Stat. 2135, as amended by Subtitle B of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Act of 2018, Public Law 115-278, 132 Stat. 4168.
CISA
means the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.
Department or DHS
means the Department of Homeland Security.
Director
means the Director of the CISA, any successors to that position within the Department, or any designee.
Executive Assistant Director
means the Executive Assistant Director for the Infrastructure Security Division of the CISA, any successors to that position within the Department, or any designee.
Information Sharing and Analysis Organization or ISAO
has the same meaning stated in 6 U.S.C. 671(5) and means any formal or informal entity or collaboration created or employed by public or private sector organizations for purposes of:
(1) Gathering and analyzing CII, including information related to cybersecurity risks and incidents, in order to better understand security problems and interdependencies related to critical infrastructure and protected systems, so as to ensure the availability, integrity, and reliability thereof;
(2) Communicating or disclosing CII, including cybersecurity risks and incidents, to help prevent, detect, mitigate, or recover from the effects of an interference, compromise, or an incapacitation problem related to critical infrastructure or protected systems; and
(3) Voluntarily disseminating CII, including cybersecurity risks and incidents, to its members, Federal, State, and Local governments, or any other entities that may be of assistance in carrying out the purposes specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.
In the public domain
means information lawfully, properly, and regularly disclosed generally or broadly to the public. Information regarding system, facility, or operational security is not “in the public domain.” Information submitted with CII that is proprietary or business sensitive, or which might be used to identify a submitting person or entity will not be considered “in the public domain.” Information may be “business sensitive” for this purpose whether or not it is commercial in nature, and even if its release could not demonstrably cause substantial harm to the competitive position of the submitting person or entity.
Local government
has the same meaning stated in 6 U.S.C. 101(13) and means:
(1) A county, municipality, city, town, township, local public authority, school district, special district, intrastate district, council of governments (regardless of whether the council of governments is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation under State law), regional or interstate government entity, or agency or instrumentality of a Local government;
(2) An Indian tribe or authorized tribal organization, or in Alaska, a Native village or Alaska Regional Native Corporation; and
(3) A rural community, unincorporated town or village, or other public entity.
Protected Critical Infrastructure Information or PCII
means validated CII, including information covered by § 29.6(b) and (h), including the identity of the submitting person or entity and any person or entity on whose behalf the submitting person or entity submits the CII, that is voluntarily submitted, directly or indirectly, to CISA, for its use regarding the security of critical infrastructure and protected systems, analysis, warning, interdependency study, recovery, reconstitution, or other appropriate purpose. PCII also includes any information, statements,
compilations or other materials reasonably necessary to explain the CII, put the CII in context, or describe the importance or use of the CII when accompanied by an express statement as described in § 29.5.
PCII Program Manager
means the federal employee within the Infrastructure Security Division of CISA appointed as responsible for the administration of the PCII Program pursuant to this part, any successors to that position within the Department, or any designee.
PCII Program Manager's Designee
means a federal employee outside of the PCII Program Office, whether employed by CISA or another federal agency, to whom certain functions of the PCII Program Office are delegated by the PCII Program Manager, as determined on a case-by-case basis.
Protected Critical Infrastructure Information Program Office or PCII Program Office
means the personnel organized within the Infrastructure Security Division of CISA who carry out the operational and administrative functions of the PCII Program pursuant to the direction of the PCII Program Manager.
PCII Program Officer
means a Federal, State, or Local government employee appointed by their respective agency or entity and, upon approval of the PCII Program Manager, carries out the responsibilities described in 6 CFR 29.4(d) to ensure the proper use, storage, and handling of PCII within their respective agency or entity.
Protected Critical Infrastructure Information Program or PCII Program
means the program implementing the CII Act within the Infrastructure Security Division of the CISA, including the maintenance, management, and review of the information provided in furtherance of the protections provided by the CII Act.
Protected Critical Infrastructure Information Management System or PCIIMS
means the electronic database and platform used to record the receipt, acknowledgement, validation, storage, dissemination, and destruction of PCII. PCIIMS also enables CISA to manage and train individuals authorized to view, handle, and access PCII.
Protected system
has the same meaning stated in 6 U.S.C. 671(6) and means any service, physical or computer-based system, process, or procedure that directly or indirectly affects the viability of a facility of critical infrastructure; and includes any physical or computer-based system, including a computer, computer system, computer or communications network, or any component hardware or element thereof, software program, processing instructions, or information or data in transmission or storage therein, irrespective of the medium of transmission or storage.
Purposes of the CII Act
has the meaning set forth in the CII Act and includes the security of critical infrastructure and protected systems, analysis, warning, interdependency study, recovery, reconstitution, or other informational purposes.
Regulatory proceeding,
as used in 6 U.S.C. 671(7) and this part, means administrative proceedings in which DHS is the adjudicating entity, and does not include any form or type of regulatory proceeding or other matter outside of DHS.
State
has the same meaning stated in 6 U.S.C. 101(17) and means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any possession of the United States.
Submission
as referenced in these procedures means any transmittal, either directly or indirectly, of CII to the CISA PCII Program Office or the PCII Program Manager's Designee, as set forth herein.
Submitted in good faith
means any submission of information that could reasonably be defined as CII or PCII under this section. Upon validation of a submission as PCII, CISA has conclusively established the good faith of the submission. Any information qualifying as PCII by virtue of a categorical inclusion identified by the PCII Program Manager pursuant to this part is submitted in good faith.
Voluntary or voluntarily,
when used in reference to any submission of CII, means the submittal thereof in the absence of an exercise of legal authority by DHS to compel access to or submission of such information. Voluntary
submission of CII may be accomplished by (
i.e.,
come from) a single State or Local governmental entity; private entity or person; or by an ISAO acting on behalf of its members or otherwise. There are two exclusions from this definition:
(1) In the case of any action brought under the securities laws—as is defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(47)—the term “voluntary” or “voluntarily” does not include:
(i) Information or statements contained in any documents or materials filed pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78l(i) with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or with federal banking regulators; or
(ii) A writing that accompanied the solicitation of an offer or a sale of securities; and
(2) Information or statements previously submitted to DHS in the course of a regulatory proceeding or a licensing or permitting determination are not “voluntarily submitted.” In addition, the submission of information to DHS for purposes of seeking a federal preference or benefit, including CII submitted to support an application for a DHS grant to secure critical infrastructure will be considered a voluntary submission of information. Applications for Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 filed pursuant to 6 U.S.C. 441
et seq.,
or SAFETY Act Designation or Certification under 6 CFR part 25, will also be considered a voluntary submission.
Used directly by such agency, any other Federal, State, or Local authority, or any third party, in any civil action arising under Federal or State law
in 6 U.S.C. 673(a)(1)(C) means any use in any proceeding other than a criminal prosecution before any court of the United States or of a State or otherwise, of any PCII, or any drafts or copies of PCII retained by the submitter, including the opinions, evaluations, analyses and conclusions prepared and submitted as CII, as evidence at trial or in any pretrial or other discovery, notwithstanding whether the United States, its agencies, officers, or employees is or are a party to such proceeding.
§ 29.3
FOIA exemptions and restrictions on use of PCII.
(a)
Freedom of Information Act disclosure exemptions.
Information that is separately exempt from public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) or applicable State, or Local law does not lose its separate exemption from public disclosure due to the applicability of these procedures or any failure to follow them.
(b)
Restriction on use of PCII by regulatory agencies and other Federal, State, and Local agencies.
A Federal, State, or Local government agency that receives PCII may utilize the PCII only for purposes appropriate under the CII Act, including securing critical infrastructure or protected systems. Such PCII may not be utilized for any other collateral regulatory purposes without the written consent of the PCII Program Manager and of the submitting person or entity. The PCII Program Manager or the PCII Program Manager's Designee will not share PCII with Federal, State, or Local government agencies without instituting appropriate measures to ensure that PCII is used only for appropriate purposes.
§ 29.4
PCII Program administration.
(a)
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.
The Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security hereby designates the Director as the senior DHS official responsible for the direction and administration of the PCII Program. The Director administers this program through the Executive Assistant Director.
(b)
Appointment of a PCII Program Manager.
The Director will:
(1) Appoint a PCII Program Manager serving under the Executive Assistant Director who is responsible for the administration of the PCII Program;
(2) Commit resources necessary for the effective implementation of the PCII Program;
(3) Ensure that sufficient personnel, including detailees or assignees from other federal national security, homeland security, or law enforcement entities, as the Director deems appropriate, are assigned to the PCII Program to facilitate secure information sharing with appropriate authorities; and
(4) Promulgate implementing directives and prepare training materials, as appropriate, for the proper treatment of PCII.
(c)
Appointment of PCII Program Officers.
The PCII Program Manager will establish procedures to ensure that each DHS component and each Federal, State, or Local agency or entity that works with PCII appoints one or more employees to serve as a PCII Program Officer in order to carry out the responsibilities stated in paragraph (d) of this section. Persons appointed to serve as PCII Program Officers must be fully familiar with these procedures.
(d)
Responsibilities of PCII Program Officers.
PCII Program Officers:
(1) Oversee the handling, use, and storage of PCII;
(2) Ensure the secure sharing of PCII with appropriate authorities and individuals, as set forth in § 29.1(a), and paragraph (b)(3) of this section;
(3) Establish and maintain an ongoing self-inspection program including periodic review and assessment of compliance with handling, use, and storage of PCII;
(4) Establish additional procedures, measures, and penalties, as necessary, to prevent unauthorized access to PCII; and
(5) Ensure prompt and appropriate coordination with the PCII Program Manager regarding any request, challenge, or complaint arising out of the implementation of these regulations.
(e)
Protected Critical Infrastructure Information Management System or PCIIMS.
The PCII Program Manager will develop, for use by the PCII Program Office and the PCII Manager's Designees, an electronic database to be known as PCIIMS to record the receipt, acknowledgement, validation, storage, dissemination, and destruction of PCII. This compilation of PCII must be safeguarded and protected in accordance with the provisions of the CII Act. The PCII Program Manager may require the completion of appropriate background investigations of an individual before granting that individual access to any PCII.
§ 29.5
Requirements for protection.
(a) CII receives the protections of the CII Act when:
(1) Such information is voluntarily submitted, directly or indirectly, to the PCII Program Office or a PCII Program Manager's Designee;
(2) The information is submitted for protected use regarding the security of critical infrastructure or protected systems, analysis, warning, interdependency study, recovery, reconstitution, or other appropriate purposes including, without limitation, for the identification, analysis, prevention, preemption, disruption, defense against and/or mitigation of terrorist threats to the homeland;
(3) The information is labeled with an express statement as follows:
(i)
Documentary submissions.
In the case of documentary submissions, a written marking on the information or records substantially similar to the following: “This information is voluntarily submitted to the federal government in expectation of protection from disclosure as provided by the provisions of the Critical Infrastructure Information Act of 2002, as amended by the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Act of 2018”;
(ii)
Oral submissions.
In the case of oral submissions:
(A) Through an oral statement, made at the time of the oral submission or within a reasonable period of time thereafter, indicating an expectation of protection from disclosure as provided by the provisions of the CII Act; and
(B) Through a written statement substantially similar to the one specified above in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section accompanied by a document that memorializes the nature of the oral submission initially provided to the PCII Program Office or the PCII Program Manager's Designee within a reasonable period of time after making the oral submission; or
(iii)
Electronic submissions.
In the case of electronic submissions:
(A) Through an electronically submitted statement made within a reasonable period of time after making the electronic submission, indicating an expectation of protection from disclosure as provided by the provisions of the CII Act; or
(B) Through a non-electronically submitted written statement substantially
similar to the one specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section accompanied by a document that memorializes the nature of the electronic submission initially provided to the PCII Program Office or the PCII Program Manager's Designee within a reasonable period after making the electronic submission; and
(4) The documentary, electronic, or oral submission is accompanied by a statement, signed by the submitting person or an authorized person on behalf of an entity identifying the submitting person or entity, containing such contact information as is considered necessary by the PCII Program Office, and certifying that the information being submitted is not customarily in the public domain.
(b) Information that is not submitted to the PCII Program Office or the PCII Program Manager's Designees will not qualify for protection under the CII Act. Only the PCII Program Office or a PCII Program Manager's Designee are authorized to acknowledge receipt of information submitted for consideration of protection under the CII Act.
(c) All Federal, State, and Local government entities must protect and maintain information as required by this part and by the provisions of the CII Act when that information is provided to the entity by the PCII Program Manager or a PCII Program Manager's Designee and is marked as required in § 29.6(c).
(d) All submissions seeking PCII status are presumed to have been submitted in good faith until validation or a determination not to validate is made pursuant to this part.
§ 29.6
Acknowledgment of receipt, validation, and marking.
(a)
Authorized officials.
Only the PCII Program Manager is authorized to validate and mark information submitted for protection outside of a categorical inclusion as PCII. The PCII Program Manager or a Program Manager's Designee may mark information qualifying for protection under categorical inclusions pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section as PCII.
(b)
Presumption of protection.
All information submitted in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 29.5 of this part will be presumed to be and will be treated as PCII, enjoying the protections of the CII Act, from the time the information is received by the PCII Program Office or a PCII Program Manager's Designee. The information must remain protected unless and until the PCII Program Office renders a final decision that the information is not PCII. The PCII Program Office will, with respect to information that is not properly submitted, inform the submitting person or entity within thirty calendar days of receipt, by a means of communication to be prescribed by the PCII Program Manager, that the submittal was procedurally defective. The submitter will then have an additional thirty calendar days to remedy the deficiency from the date of receipt of such notification by the PCII Program Office. If the submitting person or entity does not cure the deficiency within thirty calendar days after the date of receipt of the notification provided by the PCII Program Office in this paragraph, the PCII Program Office may determine that the presumption of protection is terminated. Under such circumstances, the PCII Program Office may cure the deficiency by labeling the submission with the information required in § 29.5 or may notify the applicant that the submission does not qualify as PCII. No CII submission will lose its presumptive status as PCII except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
(c)
Marking of information.
All PCII must be clearly identified through markings made by the PCII Program Office. The PCII Program Office will mark PCII materials as follows: “This document contains PCII. In accordance with the provisions of 6 CFR part 29, this document is exempt from release under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3)) and similar laws requiring public disclosure. Unauthorized release may result in criminal and administrative penalties. This document is to be safeguarded and disseminated in accordance with the CII Act and PCII Program requirements.” When distributing PCII, the distributing person must ensure that the distributed information contains this marking.
(d)
Acknowledgement of receipt of information.
The PCII Program Office or a
PCII Program Manager's Designee will acknowledge receipt of information submitted as CII and accompanied by an express statement, and in so doing will:
(1) Contact the submitting person or entity, within thirty calendar days of receipt of the submission of CII, by the means of delivery prescribed in procedures developed by the PCII Program Manager. In the case of oral submissions, receipt will be acknowledged in writing within thirty calendar days after receipt by the PCII Program Office or a PCII Program Manager's Designee of a written statement, certification, and documents that memorialize the oral submission, as referenced in § 29.5(a)(3)(ii);
(2) Enter the appropriate data into the PCIIMS as required in § 29.4(e); and
(3) Provide the submitting person or entity with a unique tracking number that will accompany the information from the time it is received by the PCII Program Office or a PCII Program Manager's Designee.
(e)
Validation of information.
(1) The PCII Program Manager is responsible for reviewing all submissions that request protection under the CII Act. The PCII Program Manager will review the submitted information as soon as practicable. If a final determination is made that the submitted information meets the requirements for protection, the PCII Program Manager must ensure that the information has been marked as required in paragraph (c) of this section, notify the submitting person or entity of the determination, and disclose it only pursuant to § 29.8.
(2) If the PCII Program Office makes an initial determination that the information submitted does not meet the requirements for protection under the CII Act, the PCII Program Office will:
(i) Notify the submitting person or entity of the initial determination that the information is not considered to be PCII. This notification also will, as necessary:
(A) Request that the submitting person or entity complete the requirements of § 29.5(a) or further explain the nature of the information and the submitting person or entity's basis for believing the information qualifies for protection under the CII Act;
(B) Advise the submitting person or entity that the PCII Program Office will review any further information provided before rendering a final determination;
(C) Advise the submitting person or entity that the submission can be withdrawn at any time before a final determination is made;
(D) Notify the submitting person or entity that until a final determination is made the submission will be treated as PCII;
(E) Notify the submitting person or entity that any response to the notification must be received by the PCII Program Office no later than thirty calendar days after the date of the notification; and
(F) Request the submitting person or entity to state whether, in the event the PCII Program Office makes a final determination that any such information is not PCII, the submitting person or entity prefers that the information be maintained without the protections of the CII Act, returned to the submitting person or entity, or destroyed. If a request for return is made, all such information will be returned to the submitting person or entity.
(ii) If the information submitted has not been withdrawn by the submitting person or entity, the PCII Program Office will return the information to the submitter in accordance with the submitting person or entity's written preference and the procedures set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section within thirty calendar days of making a final determination that the information submitted is not eligible for protections under the CII Act. If the submitting person or entity cannot be notified or the submitting person or entity's response is not received within thirty calendar days of the date of the notification as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, the PCII Program Office will make the initial determination final and return the information to the submitter. If return to the submitter is impractical, the PCII Program Office will destroy the information within thirty calendar days. This process is consistent with the appropriate National Archives and Records Administration-approved records disposition schedule.
(f)
Categorical Inclusions of Certain Types of CII as PCII.
The PCII Program Manager has discretion to declare certain subject matter or types of information categorically protected as PCII and to set procedures for receipt and processing of such information. Information within a categorical inclusion will be considered validated upon receipt by the PCII Program Manager or any of the PCII Program Manager's Designees without further review, provided that the submitter provides the express statement required by § 29.5(a)(3). The PCII Program Manager's designees will provide to the PCII Program Office information submitted under a categorical inclusion.
(g)
Changing the status of PCII to non-PCII.
Once information is validated, only the PCII Program Manager may change the status of PCII to that of non-PCII and remove its PCII markings. Status changes may only take place when the submitting person or entity requests in writing that the information no longer be protected under the CII Act; or when the PCII Program Office determines that the information was, at the time of the submission, customarily in the public domain. Upon making an initial determination that a change in status may be warranted, but prior to a final determination, the PCII Program Office, using the procedures in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, will inform the submitting person or entity of the initial determination of a change in status. Notice of the final change in status of PCII will be provided to all recipients of PCII received under § 29.8.
§ 29.7
Safeguarding of PCII.
(a)
Safeguarding.
All persons granted access to PCII are responsible for safeguarding such information in their possession or control. PCII must be protected at all times by appropriate storage and handling. Each person who works with PCII is personally responsible for taking proper precautions to ensure that unauthorized persons do not gain access to it.
(b)
Background checks on persons with access to PCII.
For those who require access to PCII, CISA will, to the extent practicable and consistent with the purposes of the CII Act, undertake appropriate background checks to ensure that individuals with access to PCII do not pose a threat to national security. These checks may also be waived in exigent circumstances.
(c)
Use and storage.
When PCII is in the physical possession of a person, reasonable steps must be taken, in accordance with procedures prescribed by the PCII Program Manager, to minimize the risk of access to PCII by unauthorized persons. When PCII is not in the physical possession of a person, it must be stored in a secure environment.
(d)
Reproduction.
Pursuant to procedures prescribed by the PCII Program Manager, a document or other material containing PCII may be reproduced to the extent necessary and consistent with the need to carry out official duties, provided that the reproduced documents or material are marked and protected in the same manner as the original documents or material.
(e)
Disposal of information.
Documents and material containing PCII may be disposed of by any method that prevents unauthorized retrieval, such as shredding or incineration.
(f)
Transmission of information.
PCII will be transmitted only by secure means of delivery as determined by the PCII Program Manager, and in conformance with appropriate federal standards.
(g)
Automated Information Systems.
The PCII Program Manager will establish security requirements designed to protect information to the maximum extent practicable, and consistent with the CII Act, for Automated Information Systems that contain PCII. Such security requirements will be in conformance with the information technology security requirements in the Federal Information Security Management Act and the Office of Management and Budget's implementing policies.
§ 29.8
Disclosure of PCII.
(a)
Authorization of access.
The Director, the Executive Assistant Director, or either's designee may choose to provide or authorize access to PCII under one or more of the paragraphs in this section when it is determined that access supports a lawful and authorized
government purpose as enumerated in the CII Act or other law, regulation, or legal authority.
(b)
Federal, State, and Local government sharing.
The PCII Program Office or a PCII Program Manager's Designee may provide PCII to an employee of the federal government, provided, subject to paragraph (f) of this section, that such information is shared for purposes of securing the critical infrastructure or protected systems, analysis, warning, interdependency study, recovery, reconstitution, or for another appropriate purpose including, without limitation, the identification, analysis, prevention, preemption, and/or disruption of terrorist threats to the homeland. PCII may not be used, directly or indirectly, for any collateral regulatory purpose. PCII may be provided to a State or Local government entity for the purpose of protecting critical infrastructure or protected systems, or in furtherance of the investigation or prosecution of a criminal act. The provision of PCII to a State or Local government entity will normally be made only pursuant to an arrangement with the PCII Program Manager providing for compliance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section and acknowledging the understanding and responsibilities of the recipient. State and Local governments receiving such information will acknowledge in such arrangements the primacy of PCII protections under the CII Act; agree to assert all available legal defenses to disclosure of PCII under State or Local public disclosure laws, statutes, or ordinances; and will agree to treat breaches of the agreements by their employees or contractors as matters subject to the applicable criminal code or employee code of conduct for the jurisdiction.
(c)
Disclosure of information to Federal, State, and Local government contractors.
Disclosure of PCII to Federal, State, and Local government contractors may be made when necessary for an appropriate purpose under the CII Act, and only after the PCII Program Manager or a PCII Program Officer certifies that the contractor is performing services in support of the purposes of the CII Act. The contractor's employees who will be handling PCII must sign individual nondisclosure agreements in a form prescribed by the PCII Program Manager, and the contractor must agree by contract, whenever and to whatever extent possible, to comply with all relevant requirements of the PCII Program. The contractor must safeguard PCII in accordance with these procedures and may not remove any “PCII” markings. An employee of the contractor may, in the performance of services in support of the purposes of the CII Act and when authorized to do so by the PCII Program Manager or a PCII Program Manager's Designee, communicate with a submitting person or an authorized person of a submitting entity about a submittal of information by that person or entity. Contractors will not further disclose PCII to any other party not already authorized to receive such information by the PCII Program Manager or a PCII Program Manager's Designee, without the prior written approval of the PCII Program Manager or a PCII Program Manager's Designee.
(d)
Further use or disclosure of information by State and Local governments.
(1) State and Local governments receiving information marked “Protected Critical Infrastructure Information” will not share that information with any other party not already authorized to receive such information by the PCII Program Manager or a PCII Program Manager's Designee, with the exception of their contractors after complying with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, or remove any PCII markings, without first obtaining authorization from the PCII Program Manager or a PCII Program Manager's Designee, who is responsible for requesting and obtaining written consent from the submitter of the information.
(2) State and Local governments may use PCII only for the purpose of protecting critical infrastructure or protected systems, or as set forth elsewhere in these rules.
(e)
Disclosure of information to appropriate entities or to the general public.
PCII may be used to prepare advisories, alerts, and warnings to relevant companies, targeted sectors, governmental entities, ISAOs, or the general public regarding potential threats and
vulnerabilities to critical infrastructure as appropriate pursuant to the CII Act. Unless exigent circumstances require otherwise, any such warnings to the general public will be authorized by the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, the Director, the Executive Assistant Director for Infrastructure Security of CISA, or the Executive Assistant Director for Cybersecurity of CISA. Such exigent circumstances exist only when approval of the Secretary, the Director, the Executive Assistant Director for Infrastructure Security for CISA, or the Executive Assistant Director for Cybersecurity for CISA cannot be obtained within a reasonable time necessary to issue an effective advisory, alert, or warning. In issuing advisories, alerts, and warnings, DHS will consider the exigency of the situation, the extent of possible harm to the public or to critical infrastructure, and the necessary scope of the advisory, alert, or warning; and take appropriate actions to protect from disclosure any information that is proprietary, business sensitive, relates specifically to or might be used to identify the submitting person or entity or any persons or entities on whose behalf the CII was submitted, or is not otherwise appropriately in the public domain. Depending on the exigency of the circumstances, DHS may consult or cooperate with the submitter in making such advisories, alerts, or warnings.
(f)
Disclosure for law enforcement purposes and communication with submitters; access by Congress, the Comptroller General, and the Inspector General; and whistleblower protection.
(1) Exceptions for disclosure.
(i) PCII will not, without the written consent of the person or entity submitting such information, be used or disclosed for purposes other than the purposes of the CII Act, except:
(A) In furtherance of the investigation or prosecution of a criminal act by the federal government, or by a State, Local, or foreign government, when such disclosure is coordinated by a federal law enforcement official;
(B) To communicate with a submitting person or an authorized person on behalf of a submitting entity, about a submittal of information by that person or entity when authorized to do so by the PCII Program Manager or a PCII Program Manager's Designee; or
(C) When disclosure of the information is made by any officer or employee of the United States;
(1) To either House of Congress, or to the extent of matter within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, any joint committee thereof or subcommittee of any such joint committee; or
(2) To the Comptroller General, or any authorized representative of the Comptroller General, in the course of the performance of the duties of the Government Accountability Office.
(ii) If any officer or employee of the United States makes any disclosure pursuant to these exceptions, contemporaneous written notification must be provided to CISA through the PCII Program Manager.
(2) Consistent with the authority to disclose information for any of the purposes of the CII Act, disclosure of PCII may be made, without the written consent of the person or entity submitting such information, to the DHS Office of Inspector General.
(g)
Responding to requests made under the Freedom of Information Act or State and Local government information access laws.
PCII will be treated as exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act and any State or Local government law requiring disclosure of records or information. Any Federal, State, or Local government agency with questions regarding the protection of PCII from public disclosure must contact the PCII Program Office, who will in turn consult with the CISA Office of the Chief Counsel.
(h)
Ex parte communications with decision-making officials.
Pursuant to 6 U.S.C. 673(a)(1)(B), PCII is not subject to any agency rules or judicial doctrine regarding ex parte communications with a decision-making official.
(i)
Restriction on use of PCII in civil actions.
Pursuant to 6 U.S.C. 673(a)(1)(C), PCII will not, without the written consent of the person or entity submitting such information, be used directly by any Federal, State, or Local authority, or by any third party, in any civil action arising under Federal, State, or Local law.
§ 29.9
Investigation and reporting of violation of PCII procedures.
(a)
Reporting of possible violations.
Persons authorized to have access to PCII must report any suspected violation of security procedures, the loss or misplacement of PCII, and any suspected unauthorized disclosure of PCII immediately to the PCII Program Manager or a PCII Program Manager's Designee. Suspected violations may also be reported to the DHS Office of Inspector General. The PCII Program Manager or a PCII Program Manager's Designee will in turn report the incident to the appropriate security officer and to the DHS Office of Inspector General.
(b)
Review and investigation of written report.
The PCII Program Manager, or the appropriate security officer must notify the DHS Office of Inspector General of their intent to investigate any alleged violation of procedures, loss of information, and/or unauthorized disclosure, prior to initiating any such investigation. Evidence of wrongdoing resulting from any such investigations by agencies other than the DHS Inspector General must be reported to the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, through the CISA Office of the Chief Counsel. The DHS Office of Inspector General also has authority to conduct such investigations and will report any evidence of wrongdoing to the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, for consideration of prosecution.
(c)
Notification to originator of PCII.
If the PCII Program Manager or the appropriate security officer determines that a loss of information or an unauthorized disclosure of PCII has occurred, the PCII Program Manager or a PCII Program Manager's Designee must notify the person or entity that submitted the PCII, unless providing such notification could reasonably be expected to hamper the relevant investigation or adversely affect any other law enforcement, national security, or homeland security interest.
(d)
Criminal and administrative penalties.
(1) As established in 6 U.S.C. 673(f), whoever, being an officer or employee of the United States or of any department or agency thereof, knowingly publishes, divulges, discloses, or makes known in any manner or to any extent not authorized by law, any information protected from disclosure by the CII Act coming to the officer or employee in the course of his or her employment or official duties or by reason of any examination or investigation made by, or return, report, or record made to or filed with, such department or agency or officer or employee thereof, shall be fined under title 18 of the United States Code, imprisoned not more than one year, or both, and shall be removed from office or employment.
(2) In addition to the penalties set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, if the PCII Program Manager determines that an entity or person who has received PCII has violated the provisions of this part or used PCII for an inappropriate purpose, the PCII Program Manager may disqualify that entity or person from future receipt of any PCII or future receipt of any sensitive homeland security information under 6 U.S.C. 482, provided, however, that any such decision by the PCII Program Manager may be appealed to the Director.
Pt. 37

# PART 37—REAL ID DRIVER'S LICENSES AND IDENTIFICATION CARDS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
37.1
Applicability.
37.3
Definitions.
37.4
Incorporation by reference.
37.5
Validity periods and deadlines for REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards.
37.7
Temporary waiver for mDLs; State eligibility.
37.8
Requirements for Federal agencies accepting mDLs issued by States with temporary waiver.
37.9
Applications for temporary waiver for mDLs.
37.10
Application criteria for issuance of temporary waiver for mDLs; audit report; waiver application guidance.
Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 37—Mobile Driver's License Issuance Infrastructure Requirements

# Subpart B—Minimum Documentation, Verification, and Card Issuance Requirements
37.11
Application and documents the applicant must provide.
37.13
Document verification requirements.
37.15
Physical security features for the driver's license or identification card.
37.17
Requirements for the surface of the driver's license or identification card.
37.19
Machine readable technology on the driver's license or identification card.
37.21
Temporary or limited-term driver's licenses and identification cards.
37.23
Reissued REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards.
37.25
Renewal of REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards.
37.27
Driver's licenses and identification cards issued during the age-based enrollment period.
37.29
Prohibition against holding more than one REAL ID card or more than one driver's license.

# Subpart C—Other Requirements
37.31
Source document retention.
37.33
DMV databases.

# Subpart D—Security at DMVs and Driver's License and Identification Card Production Facilities
37.41
Security plan.
37.43
Physical security of DMV production facilities.
37.45
Background checks for covered employees.

# Subpart E—Procedures for Determining State Compliance
37.51
Compliance—general requirements.
37.55
State certification documentation.
37.59
DHS reviews of State compliance.
37.61
Results of compliance determination.
37.63
Extension of deadline.
37.65
Effect of failure to comply with this part.

# Subpart F—Driver's Licenses and Identification Cards Issued Under section 202(d)(11) of the REAL ID Act
37.71
Driver's licenses and identification cards issued under section 202(d)(11) of the REAL ID Act.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 30301 note; 6 U.S.C. 111, 112.

# Source:
73 FR 5331, Jan. 29, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 37.1
Applicability.
(a) Subparts A through E of this part apply to States and U.S. territories that choose to issue driver's licenses and identification cards that can be accepted by Federal agencies for official purposes.
(b) Subpart F establishes certain standards for State-issued driver's licenses and identification cards issued by States that participate in REAL ID, but that are not intended to be accepted by Federal agencies for official purpose under section 202(d)(11) of the REAL ID Act.
§ 37.3
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Administration
means management actions performed on
Certificate Systems
by a person in a
Trusted Role.
Birth certificate
means the record related to a birth that is permanently stored either electronically or physically at the State Office of Vital Statistics or equivalent agency in a registrant's State of birth.
Card
means either a driver's license or identification card issued by the State Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) or equivalent State office.
Certificate authority
means an issuer of
digital certificates
that are used to certify the identity of parties in a digital transaction.
Certificate management system
means a system used by a State or
delegated third party
to process, approve issuance of, or store
digital certificates
or
digital certificate
status information, including the database, database server, and storage.
Certificate policy
means the set of rules and documents that forms a State's governance framework in which
digital certificates, certificate systems,
and cryptographic keys are created, issued, managed, and used.
Certificate system
means the system used by a State or
delegated third party
to provide services related to
public key infrastructure
for digital identities.
Certification
means an assertion by the State to the Department of Homeland Security that the State has met the requirements of this part.
Certified copy of a birth certificate
means a copy of the whole or part of a birth certificate registered with the State that the State considers to be the same as the original birth certificate on file with the State Office of Vital Statistics or equivalent agency in a registrant's State of birth.
Covered employees
means Department of Motor Vehicles employees or contractors who are involved in the manufacture or production of REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards, or who have the ability to affect the identity information that appears on the driver's license or identification card.
Critical security event
means detection of an event, a set of circumstances, or anomalous activity that could lead to a circumvention of a
zone's
security controls or a compromise of a
certificate system's
integrity, including excessive login attempts, attempts to access prohibited resources,
Denial of service
or
Distributed denial of service
attacks, attacker reconnaissance, excessive traffic at unusual hours, signs of unauthorized access, system intrusion, or an actual compromise of component integrity.
Data verification
means checking the validity of data contained in source documents presented under this regulation.
Delegated third party
means a natural person or legal entity that is not the state and that operates any part of a
certificate system
under the State's legal authority.
Delegated third party system
means any part of a
certificate system
used by a
delegated third party
while performing the functions delegated to it by the State.
Denial of service
means the prevention of authorized access to resources or the delaying of time-critical operations.
Determination
means a decision by the Department of Homeland Security that a State has or has not met the requirements of this part and that Federal agencies may or may not accept the driver's licenses and identification cards issued by the State for official purposes.
DHS
means the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
Digital certificates
identify the parties involved in an electronic transaction, and contain information necessary to validate
Digital signatures.
Digital photograph
means a digital image of the face of the holder of the driver's license or identification card.
Digital signatures
are mathematical algorithms used to validate the authenticity and integrity of a message.
Distributed denial of service
means a
denial of service
attack where numerous hosts perform the attack.
DMV
means the Department of Motor Vehicles or any State Government entity that issues driver's licenses and identification cards, or an office with equivalent function for issuing driver's licenses and identification cards.
Document authentication
means determining that the source document presented under these regulations is genuine and has not been altered.
Domestic violence and dating violence
have the meanings given the terms in section 3, Universal definitions and grant provisions, of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Pub. L. 109-162, 119 Stat. 2960, 2964, Jan. 5, 2006); codified at section 40002, Definitions and grant provisions, 42 U.S.C. 13925, or State laws addressing domestic and dating violence.
Driver's license
means a motor vehicle operator's license, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 30301.
Duplicate
means a driver's license or identification card issued subsequent to the original document that bears the same information and expiration date as the original document and that is reissued at the request of the holder when the original is lost, stolen, or damaged and there has been no material change in information since prior issuance.
Execution environment
means a place within a device processer where active application's code is processed.
Federal agency
means all executive agencies including Executive departments, a Government corporation, and an independent establishment as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105.
Federally-regulated commercial aircraft
means a commercial aircraft regulated by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA).
Front end system
means a system with a public IP address, including a web server, mail server, DNS server, jump host, or authentication server.
Full compliance
means that the Secretary or his designate(s) has determined that a State has met all the requirements of Subparts A through E.
Full legal name
means an individual's first name, middle name(s), and last name or surname, without use of initials or nicknames.
Hardware security module
means a physical computing device that safeguards and manages cryptographic keys and provides cryptographic processing.
High security zone
means a physical location where a State's or
Delegated third party's
private key or cryptographic hardware is located.
IAFIS
means the Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification System, a national fingerprint and criminal history system maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) that provides automated fingerprint search capabilities.
Identification card
means a document made or issued by or under the authority of a State Department of Motor Vehicles or State office with equivalent function which, when completed with information concerning a particular individual, is of a type intended or commonly accepted for the purpose of identification of individuals.
Identity proofing
refers to a series of steps that the State executes to prove the identity of a person.
Identity verification
is the confirmation that identity data belongs to its purported holder.
INS
means the former-Immigration and Naturalization Service of the U.S. Department of Justice.
Internal support system
means a system which operates on a State's internal network and communicates with the
certificate system
to provide business services related to mDL management.
Issuing authority
means the State that issues a
mobile driver's license
or
mobile identification card.
Issuing authority certificate authority
means a
certificate authority
operated by or on behalf of an
issuing authority
or a State's
root certificate authority.
Issuing system
means a system used to sign
mDLs, digital certificates,
mobile security objects, or validity status information.
Lawful status:
A person in lawful status is a citizen or national of the United States; or an alien: lawfully admitted for permanent or temporary residence in the United States; with conditional permanent resident status in the United States; who has an approved application for asylum in the United States or has entered into the United States in refugee status; who has a valid nonimmigrant status in the United States; who has a pending application for asylum in the United States; who has a pending or approved application for temporary protected status (TPS) in the United States; who has approved deferred action status; or who has a pending application for lawful permanent residence (LPR) or conditional permanent resident status. This definition does not affect other definitions or requirements that may be contained in the Immigration and Nationality Act or other laws.
Material change
means any change to the personally identifiable information of an individual as defined under this part. Notwithstanding the definition of personally identifiable information below, a change of address of principal residence does not constitute a material change.
Material compliance
means a determination by DHS that a State has met the benchmarks contained in the Material Compliance Checklist.
mDL
means
mobile driver's license
and
mobile identification cards,
collectively.
Mobile driver's license
means a
driver's license
that is stored on a mobile electronic device and read electronically.
Mobile identification card
means an
identification card,
issued by a State, that is stored on a mobile electronic device and read electronically.
Multi-Factor authentication
means an authentication mechanism consisting of two or more of the following independent categories of credentials (
i.e.,
factors) to verify the user's identity for a login or other transaction: something
you know (knowledge factor), something you have (possession factor), and something you are (inherence factor).
NCIC
means the National Crime Information Center, a computerized index of criminal justice information maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) that is available to Federal, State, and local law enforcement and other criminal justice agencies.
Official purpose
means accessing Federal facilities, boarding Federally-regulated commercial aircraft, and entering nuclear power plants.
Online certificate status protocol
means an online protocol used to determine the status of a
digital certificate.
Passport
means a passport booklet or card issued by the U.S. Department of State that can be used as a travel document to gain entry into the United States and that denotes identity and citizenship as determined by the U.S. Department of State.
Penetration test
means a process that identifies and attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in systems through the active use of known attack techniques, including the combination of different types of exploits, with a goal of breaking through layers of defenses and reporting on unpatched vulnerabilities and system weaknesses.
Personally identifiable information
means any information which can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, such as their name; driver's license or identification card number; social security number; biometric record, including a digital photograph or signature; alone, or when combined with other personal or identifying information, which is linked or linkable to a specific individual, such as a date and place of birth or address, whether it is stored in a database, on a driver's license or identification card, or in the machine readable technology on a license or identification card.
Principal residence
means the location where a person currently resides (
i.e.
, presently resides even if at a temporary address) in conformance with the residency requirements of the State issuing the driver's license or identification card, if such requirements exist.
Provisioning
means the process by which a State transmits and installs an
mDL
on an individual's mobile device.
Public key infrastructure
means a structure where a
certificate authority
uses
digital certificates
for issuing, renewing, and revoking digital credentials.
REAL ID Driver's License or Identification Card
means a driver's license or identification card that has been issued by a State that has been certified by DHS to be in compliance with the requirements of the REAL ID Act and which meets the standards of subparts A through D of this part, including temporary or limited-term driver's licenses or identification cards issued under § 37.21.
Reissued card
means a card that a State DMV issues to replace a card that has been lost, stolen or damaged, or to replace a card that includes outdated information. A card may not be reissued remotely when there is a material change to the personally identifiable information as defined by the Rule.
Renewed card
means a driver's license or identification card that a State DMV issues to replace a renewable driver's license or identification card.
Rich execution environment,
also known as a “normal execution environment,” means the area inside a device processor that runs an operating system.
Root certificate authority
means the State
certificate authority
whose public encryption key establishes the basis of trust for all other
digital certificates
issued by a State.
Root certificate authority system
means a system used to create a State's
root certificate
or to generate, store, or sign with the private key associated with a
State root certificate.
SAVE
means the DHS Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements system, or such successor or alternate verification system at the Secretary's discretion.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
Secure element
means a tamper-resistant secure hardware component which
is used in a device to provide the security, confidentiality, and multiple application environment required to support various business models.
Secure hardware
means hardware provided on a mobile device for key management and trusted computation such as a
secure element
(SE) or
trusted execution environment.
Secure key storage device
means a device certified as meeting the specified FIPS PUB 140-3 Level 2 overall, Level 3 physical, or Common Criteria (EAL 4+).
Secure zone
means an area (physical or logical) protected by physical and logical controls that appropriately protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of
certificate systems.
Security support system
means a system used to provide security support functions, which may include authentication, network boundary control, audit logging, audit log reduction and analysis, vulnerability scanning, and intrusion detection (host-based intrusion detection, network-based intrusion detection).
Sexual assault and stalking
have the meanings given the terms in section 3, universal definitions and grant provisions, of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Pub. L. 109-162, 119 Stat. 2960, 2964, Jan. 5, 2006); codified at section 40002, Definitions and grant provisions, 42 U.S.C. 13925, or State laws addressing sexual assault and stalking.
Sole control
means a condition in which logical and physical controls are in place to ensure the
administration
of a
certificate system
can only be performed by a State or
delegated third party.
Source document(s)
means original or certified copies (where applicable) of documents presented by an applicant as required under these regulations to the Department of Motor Vehicles to apply for a driver's license or identification card.
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
State address confidentiality program
means any State-authorized or State-administered program that—
(1) Allows victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or a severe form of trafficking to keep, obtain, and use alternative addresses; or
(2) Provides confidential record-keeping regarding the addresses of such victims or other categories of persons.
State root certificate
means a public
digital certificate
of a
root certificate authority
operated by or on behalf of a State.
System
means one or more pieces of equipment or software that stores, transforms, or communicates data.
Temporary lawful status:
A person in temporary lawful status is a person who: Has a valid nonimmigrant status in the United States (other than a person admitted as a nonimmigrant under the Compacts of Free Association between the United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, or the Republic of Palau); has a pending application for asylum in the United States; has a pending or approved application for temporary protected status (TPS) in the United States; has approved deferred action status; or has a pending application for LPR or conditional permanent resident status.
Trusted execution environment
means an
execution environment
that runs alongside but isolated from a
rich execution environment
and has the security capabilities necessary to protect designated applications.
Trusted role
means an employee or contractor of a State or
delegated third party
who has authorized access to or control over a
secure zone
or
high security zone.
Verify
means procedures to ensure that:
(1) The source document is genuine and has not been altered (
i.e.
, “document authentication”); and
(2) The identity data contained on the document is valid (“data verification”).
Virtual local area network
means a broadcast domain that is partitioned and isolated within a network.
Vulnerability
means a weakness in an information system, system security
procedures, internal controls, or implementation that could be exploited or triggered by a threat source.
Vulnerability scanning
means a technique used to identify host attributes and associated
vulnerabilities.
Zone
means a subset of
certificate systems
created by the logical or physical partitioning of systems from other
certificate systems.
[73 FR 5331, Jan. 29, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 46426, Sept. 4, 2019; 89 FR 85375, Oct. 25, 2024]
§ 37.4
Incorporation by reference.
Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Please contact TSA at Transportation Security Administration, Attn.: OS/ESVP/REAL ID Program, TSA Mail Stop 6051, 6595 Springfield Center Dr., Springfield, VA 20598-6051, (866) 289-9673, or visit
www.tsa.gov.
You may also contact the REAL ID Program Office at
REALID-mDLwaiver@tsa.dhs.gov
or visit
www.tsa.gov/REAL-ID/mDL.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may also be obtained from the following sources:
(a) American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA) 4301 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 400, Arlington, VA 22203; phone: (703) 522-4200; website:
www.aamva.org.
(1) 2005 AAMVA Driver's License/Identification Card Design Specifications, Annex A, section A.7.7.2., March 2005 (AAMVA Specifications); IBR approved for § 37.17.
(2) Mobile Driver's License (mDL) Implementation Guidelines, Version 1.2January 2023; IBR approved for § 37.10(a). (Available at
https://aamva.org/getmedia/b801da7b-5584-466c-8aeb-f230cef6dda5/mDL-Implementation-Guidelines-Version-1-2_final.pdf.
)
(b) Certification Authority Browser Forum (CA/Browser Forum), 815 Eddy St., San Francisco, CA 94109; phone: (415) 436-9333; email:
questions@cabforum.org;
website:
www.cabforum.org.
(1) Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates, Version 1.8.6, December 14, 2022; IBR approved for appendix A to this subpart. (Available at
https://cabforum.org/wp-content/uploads/CA-Browser-Forum-BR-1.8.6.pdf.
)
(2) Network and Certificate System Security Requirements, Version 1.7, April 5, 2021; IBR approved for appendix A to this subpart. (Available at
https://cabforum.org/wp-content/uploads/CA-Browser-Forum-Network-Security-Guidelines-v1.7.pdf.
)
(c) Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, Mail Stop 0380, Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane, Washington, DC 20528-0380; phone: (888) 282-0870; email:
central@cisa.gov;
website:
www.cisa.gov.
(1) Federal Government Cybersecurity Incident
Vulnerability Response Playbooks, November 2021; IBR approved for appendix A to this subpart. (Available at
www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/Federal_Government_Cybersecurity_Incident_and_Vulnerability_Response_Playbooks_508C.pdf.
)
(2) [Reserved]
(d) Department of Homeland Security, 2707 Martin Luther King Jr. Ave. SE, Washington, DC 20528; phone: (202) 282-8000; website:
www.dhs.gov.
(1) National Cyber Incident Response Plan, December 2016; IBR approved for appendix A to this subpart. (Available at
www.cisa.gov/uscert/sites/default/files/ncirp/National_Cyber_Incident_Response_Plan.pdf.
)
(2) [Reserved]
(e) International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), ICAO, Document Sales Unit, 999 University Street, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3C 5H7; phone: (514) 954-8219; email:
sales@icao.int;
website:
www.icao.int.
(1) ICAO 9303, “Machine Readable Travel Documents,” Volume 1, part 1, Sixth Edition, 2006; IBR approved for § 37.17.
(2) [Reserved]
(f) International Organization for Standardization, Chemin de
Blandonnet 8, CP 401, 1214 Vernier, Geneva, Switzerland; phone: +41 22 749 01 11; email:
customerservice@iso.org;
website:
www.iso.org/contact-iso.html.
(Also available by contacting ANSI at ANSI, 25 West 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, New York 10036 website:
www.ansi.org.
)
(1) ISO/IEC 19794-5:2005(E) Information technology—Biometric Data Interchange Formats—Part 5: Face Image Data, dated June 2005; IBR approved for § 37.17.
(2) ISO/IEC 15438:2006(E) Information Technology—Automatic identification and data capture techniques—PDF417 symbology specification, dated June 2006; IBR approved for § 37.19.
(3) ISO/IEC 18013-5:2021(E), Personal identification—ISO-compliant driving license—Part 5: Mobile driving license (mDL) application, First Edition, September 2021; IBR approved for §§ 37.8(b); 37.10(a); and appendix A to this subpart.
(g) National Institute of Standards and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Gaithersburg, MD 20899; phone: (301) 975-2000; website:
www.nist.gov.
(1) FIPS PUB 140-3, Federal Information Processing Standard Publication: Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules, March 22, 2019; IBR approved for appendix A to this subpart. (Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.140-3.pdf.
)
(2) FIPS PUB 180-4, Federal Information Processing Standard Publication: Secure Hash Standard (SHS), August 2015; IBR approved for § 37.10(a). (Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf.
)
(3) FIPS PUB 186-5, Federal Information Processing Standard Publication: Digital Signature Standard (DSS), February 3, 2023; IBR approved for § 37.10(a). (Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.186-5.pdf.
)
(4) FIPS PUB 197-upd1, Federal Information Processing Standard Publication: Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), May 9, 2023; IBR approved for § 37.10(a). (Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.197.pdf.
)
(5) FIPS PUB 198-1, Federal Information Processing Standard Publication: The Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code (HMAC), July 2008; IBR approved for § 37.10(a). (Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.198-1.pdf.
)
(6) FIPS PUB 202, Federal Information Processing Standard Publication: SHA-3 Standard: Permutation-Based Hash and Extendable-Output Functions, August 2015; IBR approved for § 37.10(a). (Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.202.pdf.
)
(7) NIST SP 800-53 Rev.5, NIST Special Publication: Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations, Revision 5, September 2020 (including updates as of December. 10, 2020); IBR approved for appendix A to this subpart. (Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-53r5.pdf.
)
(8) NIST SP 800-57 Part 1 Rev.5, NIST Special Publication: Recommendation for Key Management: Part 1—General, Revision 5, May 2020; IBR approved for appendix A to this subpart. (Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-57pt1r5.pdf.
)
(9) NIST SP 800-57 Part 2 Rev.1, NIST Special Publication: Recommendation for Key Management: Part 2—Best Practices for Key Management Organization, Revision 1, May 2019; IBR approved for appendix A to this subpart. (Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-57pt2r1.pdf.
)
(10) NIST SP 800-57 Part 3 Rev.1, NIST Recommendation for Key Management: Part 3: Application-Specific Key Management Guidance, Revision 1, January 2015; IBR approved for appendix A to this subpart. (Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-57Pt3r1.pdf.
)
(11) NIST SP 800-63-3, NIST Special Publication: Digital Identity Guidelines, June 2017; IBR approved for appendix A to this subpart. (Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-63-3.pdf.
)
(12) NIST SP 800-63B, NIST Special Publication: Digital Identity Guidelines Authentication and Lifecycle Management, June 2017 (including updates as of December. 1, 2017); IBR approved for appendix A to this subpart.
(Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-63b.pdf.
)
(13) NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, Version 1.1, April 16, 2018); IBR approved for appendix A to this subpart. (Available at
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf.
)
[89 FR 85376, Oct. 25, 2024]
§ 37.5
Validity periods and deadlines for REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards.
(a) Driver's licenses and identification cards issued under this part, that are not temporary or limited-term driver's licenses and identification cards, are valid for a period not to exceed eight years. A card may be valid for a shorter period based on other State or Federal requirements.
(b) On or after May 7, 2025, Federal agencies shall not accept a driver's license or identification card for official purposes from any individual unless such license or card is a REAL ID-compliant driver's license or identification card issued by a State that has been determined by DHS to be in full compliance as defined under this subpart.
(c) Through the end of May 6, 2025, Federal agencies may accept for official purposes a driver's license or identification card issued under § 37.71. On or after May 7, 2025, Federal agencies shall not accept for official purposes a driver's license or identification card issued under § 37.71.
[73 FR 5331, Jan. 29, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 77838, Dec. 29, 2014; 84 FR 55019, Oct. 15, 2019; 85 FR 23208, Apr. 27, 2020; 86 FR 23240, May 3, 2021; 88 FR 14476, Mar. 9, 2023]
§ 37.7
Temporary waiver for mDLs; State eligibility.
(a)
Generally.
TSA may issue a temporary certificate of waiver to a State that meets the requirements of §§ 37.10(a) and (b).
(b)
State eligibility.
A State may be eligible for a waiver only if, after considering all information provided by a State under §§ 37.10(a) and (b), TSA determines that—
(1) The State is in full compliance with all applicable REAL ID requirements as defined in subpart E of this part; and
(2) Information provided by the State under §§ 37.10(a) and (b) sufficiently demonstrates that the State's mDL provides the security, privacy, and interoperability necessary for acceptance by Federal agencies.
[89 FR 85377, Oct. 25, 2024]
§ 37.8
Requirements for Federal agencies accepting mDLs issued by States with temporary waiver.
Notwithstanding § 37.5(b), Federal agencies may accept an mDL for REAL ID official purposes issued by a State that has a valid certificate of waiver issued by TSA under § 37.7(a). A Federal agency that elects to accept mDLs under this section must—
(a) Confirm the State holds a valid certificate of waiver consistent with § 37.7(a) by verifying that the State appears in a list of mDLs approved for Federal use, available as provided in § 37.9(b)(1);
(b) Use an mDL reader to retrieve and validate mDL data as required by standard ISO/IEC 18013-5:2021(E) (incorporated by reference; see § 37.4);
(c) In accordance with the deadlines set forth in § 37.5, verify that the data element “DHS_compliance” is marked “F”, as required by §§ 37.10(a)(4)(ii) and (a)(1)(vii); and
(d) Upon discovery that acceptance of a State's mDL is likely to cause imminent or serious threats to the security, privacy, or data integrity, the agency's senior official responsible for REAL ID compliance, or equivalent function, must report such discovery to TSA as directed at
www.tsa.gov/real-id/mDL
within 72 hours of such discovery. Information provided in response to this paragraph
may
contain SSI, and if so, must be handled and protected in accordance with 49 CFR part 1520.
[89 FR 85377, Oct. 25, 2024]
§ 37.9
Applications for temporary waiver for mDLs.
(a)
Application process.
Each State requesting a temporary waiver must file with TSA a complete application as set forth in §§ 37.10(a) and (b). Application filing instructions may be obtained from TSA at
www.tsa.gov/real-id/mDL.
(b)
Decisions.
TSA will provide written notice via email to States within 60
calendar days, to the extent practicable, but in no event longer than 90 calendar days, indicating that TSA has made one of the following decisions:
(1)
Approved.
Upon approval of an application for a temporary waiver, TSA will issue a certificate of waiver to the State, and publish the State's name in a list of mDLs approved for Federal use at
www.tsa.gov/real-id/mDL.
(2)
Insufficient.
Upon determination that an application for a temporary waiver is incomplete or otherwise deficient, TSA will provide the State an explanation of deficiencies, and an opportunity to address any deficiencies and submit an amended application. States will have 60 calendar days to respond to the notice, and TSA will respond via email within 30 calendar days.
(3)
Denied.
Upon determination that an application for a waiver fails to meet criteria specified in §§ 37.10(a) and (b), TSA will provide the State specific grounds on which the denial is based, and provide the State an opportunity to seek reconsideration as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Reconsideration
—(1)
How to File Request.
States will have 90 calendar days to file a request for reconsideration of a denied application. The State must explain what corrective action it intends to implement to correct any defects cited in the denial or, alternatively, explain why the denial is incorrect. Instructions on how to file a request for reconsideration for denied applications may be obtained from TSA at
www.tsa.gov/real-id/mDL.
TSA will notify States of its final determination within 60 calendar days of receipt of a State's request for reconsideration.
(2)
Final agency action.
An adverse decision upon reconsideration is a final agency action. A State whose request for reconsideration has been denied may submit a new application at any time following the process set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Terms and conditions.
A certificate of waiver will specify—
(1) The effective date of the waiver;
(2) The expiration date of the waiver; and
(3) Any additional terms or conditions as necessary.
(e)
Limitations; suspension; termination
—(1)
Validity period.
A certificate of waiver is valid for a period of 3 years from the date of issuance.
(2)
Reporting requirements.
If a State, after it has been granted a certificate of waiver, makes any significant additions, deletions, or modifications to its mDL issuance processes, other than routine systems maintenance and software updates, that differ materially from the information the State provided in response to §§ 37.10(a) and (b) under which the waiver was granted, the State must provide written notice of such changes to TSA at
www.tsa.gov/real-id/mDL
60 calendar days before implementing such additions, deletions, or modifications. If a State is uncertain whether its particular changes require reporting, the State may contact TSA as directed at
www.tsa.gov/real-id/mDL.
(3)
Compliance.
A State that is issued a certificate of waiver under this section must comply with all applicable REAL ID requirements in § 37.51(a), and with all terms and conditions specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(4)
Suspension.
(i) TSA may suspend the validity of a certificate of waiver for any of the following reasons:
(A)
Failure to comply.
TSA determines that a State has failed to comply with paragraph (d)(3) or (e)(2) of this section, or has issued mDLs in a manner not consistent with the information provided under §§ 37.10(a) or (b); or
(B)
Threats to security, privacy, and data integrity.
TSA reserves the right to suspend a certificate of waiver at any time upon discovery that Federal acceptance of a State's mDL is likely to cause imminent or serious threats to the security, privacy, or data integrity of any Federal agency. In such instances, TSA will provide written notice via email to each affected State as soon as practicable after discovery of the triggering event, including reasons for suspension, an explanation of any corrective actions a State must take to resume validity of its certificate of waiver.
(ii) Before suspending a certificate of waiver under paragraph (e)(4)(i)(A) of this section, TSA will provide to such
State written notice via email of intent to suspend, including an explanation of deficiencies and instructions on how the State may cure such deficiencies. States will have 30 calendar days to respond to the notice, and TSA will respond via email within 30 calendar days. TSA's response would include one of the following: withdrawal of the notice, a request for additional information, or a final suspension.
(iii) If TSA issues a final suspension, TSA will temporarily remove the State from the list of mDLs approved for Federal acceptance for official purposes. TSA will continue to work with a State to whom TSA has issued a final suspension to resume validity of its existing certificate of waiver. A State that has been issued a final suspension may seek a new certificate of waiver by submitting a new application following the process set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(5)
Termination.
(i) TSA may terminate a certificate of waiver at an earlier date than specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section if TSA determines that a State—
(A) Does not comply with applicable REAL ID requirements in § 37.51(a);
(B) Is committing an egregious violation of requirements specified under paragraph (d)(3) or (e)(2) of this section that the State is unwilling to cure; or
(C) Provided false information in support of its waiver application.
(ii) Before terminating a certificate of waiver, TSA will provide the State written notice via email of intent to terminate, including findings on which the intended termination is based, together with a notice of opportunity to present additional information. States must respond to the notice within 7 calendar days, and TSA will reply via email within 30 calendar days. TSA's response would include one of the following: withdrawal of the notice, a request for additional information, or a final termination.
(iii) If TSA issues a final termination, TSA will remove the State from the list of mDLs approved for Federal acceptance for official purposes. A State whose certificate of waiver has been terminated may seek a new waiver by submitting a new application following the process set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(6)
Reapplication.
A State seeking extension of a certificate of waiver after expiration of its validity period must file a new application under paragraph (a) of this section.
(f)
Effect of status of certificate of waiver.
(1) Issuance of a certificate of waiver is not a determination of compliance with any other section in this part.
(2) An application for certificate of waiver that TSA has deemed insufficient or denied, or a certificate of waiver that TSA has deemed suspended, terminated, or expired, is not a determination of non-compliance with any other section in this part.
(g)
SSI.
Information provided in response to paragraphs (a), (b)(2), (c), (e)(2), (e)(4)(ii), and (e)(5)(ii) of this section
may
contain SSI, and if so, must be handled and protected in accordance with 49 CFR part 1520.
[89 FR 85377, Oct. 25, 2024]
§ 37.10
Application criteria for issuance of temporary waiver for mDLs; audit report; waiver application guidance.
(a)
Application criteria.
A State requesting a certificate of waiver must establish in its application that the mDLs for which the State seeks a waiver are issued with controls sufficient to resist compromise and fraud attempts, provide privacy protections sufficient to safeguard an mDL holder's identity data, and provide interoperability for secure acceptance by Federal agencies under the terms of a certificate of waiver. To demonstrate compliance with such requirements, a State must provide information, documents, and/or data sufficient to explain the means, which includes processes, methodologies, or policies, that the State has implemented to comply with requirements in this paragraph (a).
(1)
Provisioning.
For both remote and in-person provisioning, a State must explain the means it uses to address or perform the following—
(i)
Data encryption.
Securely encrypt mDL data and an mDL holder's Personally Identifiable Information when such data is transferred during provisioning, and when stored on the State's
system(s) and on mDL holders' mobile devices.
(ii)
Escalated review.
Review repeated failed attempts at provisioning, resolve such failures, and establish criteria to determine when the State will deny provisioning an mDL to a particular mDL applicant.
(iii)
Authentication.
Confirm that an mDL applicant has control over the mobile device to which an mDL is being provisioned at the time of provisioning.
(iv)
Device identification keys.
Confirm that the mDL applicant possesses the mDL device private key bound to the mDL during provisioning.
(v)
User identity verification.
Prevent an individual from falsely matching with the licensing agency's records, including portrait images, of other individuals.
(vi)
Applicant presentation.
Prevent physical and digital presentation attacks by detecting the liveness of an individual and any alterations to the individual's appearance during remote and in-person provisioning.
(vii)
DHS_compliance data element.
Set the value of data element “DHS_compliance”, as required by paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, to correspond to the REAL ID compliance status of the underlying physical driver's license or identification card that a State has issued to an mDL holder as follows—
(A) “F” if the underlying card is REAL ID-compliant, or as otherwise required by AAMVA Mobile Driver's License (mDL) Implementation Guidelines, Section 3.2 (incorporated by reference; see § 37.4); or
(B) “N” if the underlying card is not REAL ID-compliant.
(viii)
Data record.
Issue mDLs using data, including portrait image, of an individual that matches corresponding data in the database of the issuing State's driver's licensing agency for that individual.
(ix)
Records retention.
Manage mDL records and related records, consistent with requirements set forth in AAMVA Mobile Driver's License (mDL) Implementation Guidelines (incorporated by reference; see § 37.4).
(2)
Issuance.
A State must explain the means it uses to manage the creation, issuance, use, revocation, and destruction of the State's certificate systems and keys in full compliance with the requirements set forth in appendix A to this subpart.
(3)
Privacy.
A State must explain the means it uses to protect Personally Identifiable Information during processing, storage, and destruction of mDL records and provisioning records.
(4)
Interoperability.
A State must explain the means it uses to issue mDLs that are interoperable with ISO/IEC 18013-5:2021(E) and the “AAMVA mDL data element set” defined in the AAMVA Mobile Driver's License (mDL) Implementation Guidelines (incorporated by reference; see § 37.4) as follows:
(i) A State must issue mDLs using the data model defined in ISO/IEC 18103-5:2021(E) section 7 (incorporated by reference; see § 37.4), using the document type “org.iso.18013.5.1.mDL”, and using the name space “org.iso.18013.5.1”. States must include the following mDL data elements defined as mandatory in ISO/IEC 18103-5:2021(E) Table 5: “family_name”, “given_name”, “birth_date”, “issue_date”, “expiry_date”, “issuing_authority”, “document_number”, “portrait”, and must include the following mDL data elements defined as optional in Table 5: “sex”, “resident_address”, “portrait_capture_date”, “signature_usual_mark”.
(ii) States must use the AAMVA mDL data element set defined in AAMVA Mobile Driver's License (mDL) Implementation Guidelines, Section 3.2 (incorporated by reference; see § 37.4), using the namespace “org.iso.18013.5.1.aamva” and must include the following data elements in accordance with the AAMVA mDL Implementation Guidelines: “DHS_compliance”, and “DHS_temporary_lawful_status”.
(iii) States must use only encryption algorithms, secure hashing algorithms, and digital signing algorithms as defined by ISO/IEC 18103-5:2021(E), section 9 and Annex B (incorporated by reference; see § 37.4), and which are included in the following NIST Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS): NIST FIPS PUB 180-4, NIST
FIPS PUB 186-5, NIST FIPS PUB 197-upd1, NIST FIPS PUB 198-1, and NIST FIPS PUB 202 (incorporated by reference; see § 37.4).
(b)
Audit report.
States must include with their applications a report of an audit that verifies the information provided under paragraph (a) of this section.
(1) The audit must be conducted by a recognized independent entity, which may be an entity that is employed or contracted by a State and independent of the State's driver's licensing agency,—
(i) Holding an active Certified Public Accountant license in the issuing State;
(ii) Experienced with information systems security audits;
(iii) Accredited by the issuing State; and
(iv) Holding a current and active American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Certified Information Technology Professional (CITP) credential or ISACA (F/K/A Information Systems Audit and Control Association) Certified Information System Auditor (CISA) certification.
(2) States must include information about the entity conducting the audit that identifies—
(i) Any potential conflicts of interest; and
(ii) Mitigation measures or other divestiture actions taken to avoid conflicts of interest.
(c)
Waiver application guidance
—(1)
Generally.
TSA will publish “Mobile Driver's License Waiver Application Guidance” to facilitate States' understanding of the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. The non-binding Guidance will include recommendations and examples of possible implementations for illustrative purposes only. TSA will publish the Guidance on the REAL ID website at
www.tsa.gov/real-id/mDL.
(2)
Updates.
TSA may periodically update its Waiver Application Guidance as necessary to provide additional information or recommendations to mitigate evolving threats to security, privacy, or data integrity. TSA will publish a notification in the
Federal Register
advising that updated Guidance is available, and TSA will publish the updated Guidance at
www.tsa.gov/real-id/mDL
and provide a copy to all States that have applied for or been issued a certificate or waiver.
[89 FR 85377, Oct. 25, 2024]
Pt. 37, Subpt. A, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 37—Mobile Driver's License Issuance Infrastructure Requirements
A State that issues mDLs for acceptance by Federal agencies for official purposes as specified in the REAL ID Act must implement the requirements set forth in this appendix A in full compliance with the cited references. All references identified in this appendix A are incorporated by reference, see § 37.4. If a State utilizes the services of a delegated third party, the State must ensure the delegated third party complies with all applicable requirements of this appendix A for the services provided.
Paragraph
Requirement
1: Certificate Authority Certificate Life-Cycle Policy
1.1
Maintain a certificate policy, which forms the State's certificate system governance framework. If certificate systems are managed at a facility not controlled by the State, the State must require any delegated third party to comply with the State's certificate policy. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates, Sections 2, 4.3, 4.9, 5, 6, as applicable;
• ISO/IEC 18013-5:2021(E), Annex B;
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST SP 800-57 Part 1, Rev. 5, Sections 3, 5, 6, 7, 8;
• NIST SP 800-57 Part 2, Rev. 1;
• NIST SP 800-57 Part 3, Rev. 1, Sections 2, 3, 4, 8, 9;
• NIST 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-1, AT-1, AU-1, CA-1, CM-1, CP-1, IA-1, IR-1, MA-1, MP-1, PE-1, PL-1, PL-2, PL-8, PL-10, PM-1, PS-1, PT-1, RA-1, SA-1, SC-1, SI-1, and SR-1.
1.2
Perform management and maintenance processes which includes baseline configurations, documentation, approval, and review of changes to certificate systems, issuing systems, certificate management systems, security support systems, and front end and internal support systems. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.IP-3; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, CM-1, CM-2, CM-3, CM-4, CM-5, CM-6, CM-8, CM-9, CM-10, CM-11, CM-12, MA-2, MA-3, MA-4, MA-5, MA-6, PE-16, PE-17, PE-18, PL-10, PL-11, RA-7, SA-2, SA-3, SA-4, SA-5, SA-8, SA-9, SA-10, SA-11, SA-15, SA-17, SA-22, SC-18, SI-6, SI-7, SR-2, SR-5.
1.3
Apply recommended security patches, to certificate systems within six months of the security patch's availability, unless the State documents that the security patch would introduce additional vulnerabilities or instabilities that outweigh the benefits of applying the security patch. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity ID.RA-1, PR.IP-12; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, SI-2, SI-3.
2: Certificate Authority Access Management
2.1
Grant administration access to certificate systems only to persons acting in trusted roles, and require their accountability for the certificate system's security, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-4; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-1, AC-2, AC-3, AC-5, AC-6, AC-8, AC-21, AC-22, AC-24, CA-6, PS-6.
2.2
Change authentication keys and passwords for any trusted role account on a certificate system whenever a person's authorization to administratively access that account on the certificate system is changed or revoked, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-1; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-1, AC-2, AC-3, AC-6, IA-1, IA-2, PS-4, PS-5.
2.3
Follow a documented procedure for appointing individuals to trusted roles and assigning responsibilities to them, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-1; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-1, AC-2, AC-3, AC-5, AC-6, IA-1, IA-2.
2.4
Document the responsibilities and tasks assigned to trusted roles and implement “separation of duties” for such trusted roles based on the security-related concerns of the functions to be performed, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity—PR.AC-4; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-1, AC-2, AC-5, AC-6, MP-2, PS-9.
2.5
Restrict access to secure zones and high security zones to only individuals assigned to trusted roles, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-1, AC-2, AC-3, AC-5, AC-6, MP-2, PS-1, PS-6.
2.6
Restrict individuals assigned to trusted roles from acting beyond the scope of such role when performing administrative tasks assigned to that role, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-1, PR.AC-4, PR.AC-6, PR.AT-2; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AT-2, AT-3, PM-13, PM-14.
2.7
Require employees and contractors to observe the principle of “least privilege” when accessing or configuring access privileges on certificate systems, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-4, PR.AC-2; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-1, AC-2, AC-3, AC-5, AC-6, PE-1, PE-3, PL-4.
2.8
Require that individuals assigned to trusted roles use a unique credential created by or assigned to them in order to authenticate to certificate systems, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-1, PR.AC-6, PR.AC-4, PR.AC-7; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-1, IA-1, IA-2, IA-3, IA-5, IA-8, IA-12.
2.9
Lockout account access to certificate systems after a maximum of five failed access attempts, provided that this security measure:
1. Is supported by the certificate system;
2. Cannot be leveraged for a denial-of-service attack; and
3. Does not weaken the security of this authentication control.
These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-7; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-7.
2.10
Implement controls that disable all privileged access of an individual to certificate systems within 4 hours of termination of the individual's employment or contracting relationship with the State or Delegated Third Party, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-7; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-1, AC-2, PS-1, PS-4, PS-7.
2.11
Implement multi-factor authentication or multi-party authentication for administrator access to issuing systems and certificate management systems, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity-PR.AC-6, PR.AC-7; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-14, IA-1, IA-2, IA-3, IA-5, IA-8, IA-11.
2.12
Implement multi-factor authentication for all trusted role accounts on certificate systems, including those approving the issuance of a Certificate and delegated third parties, that are accessible from outside a secure zone or high security zone, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-7; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-17, AC-18, AC-19, AC-20, IA-1, IA-2, IA-3, IA-4, IA-5, IA-6, IA-8.
2.13
If multi-factor authentication is used, implement only multi-factor authentication that achieves an Authenticator Assurance Level equivalent to AAL2 or higher, in full compliance with the following references:
• NIST SP 800-63-3, Sections 4.3, 6.2;
• NIST SP 800-63B, Section 4.2;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-7; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, IA-5, IA-7.
2.14
If multi-factor authentication is not possible, implement a password policy for trusted role accounts in full compliance with NIST SP 800-63B, Section 5.1.1.2, Memorized Secret Verifiers, and implement supplementary risk controls based on a system risk assessment.
2.15
Require trusted roles to log out of or lock workstations when no longer in use, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-11, AC-12.
2.16
Configure workstations with inactivity time-outs that log the user off or lock the workstation after a set time of inactivity without input from the user. A workstation may remain active and unattended if the workstation is otherwise secured and running administrative tasks that would be interrupted by an inactivity time-out or system lock. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-11, AC-12.
2.17
Review all system accounts at least every three months and deactivate any accounts that are no longer necessary for operations, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-1; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-2.
2.18
Restrict remote administration or access to a State issuing system, certificate management system, or security support system, including access to cloud environments, except when:
1. The remote connection originates from a device owned or controlled by the State or delegated third party;
2. The remote connection is through a temporary, non-persistent encrypted channel that is supported by Multi-Factor Authentication; and
3. The remote connection is made to a designated intermediary device—
a. located within the State's network or secured Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN),
b. secured in accordance with the requirements of this Appendix, and
c. that mediates the remote connection to the issuing system.
These Requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-3, PR.AC-7; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-17, AC-19, AC-20, IA-3, IA-4, IA-6.
3: Facility, Management, and Operational Controls
3.1
Restrict physical access authorizations at facilities where certificate systems reside, including facilities controlled by a delegated third party, by:
1. Verifying individual access authorizations before granting access to the facility;
2. Controlling ingress and egress to the facility using appropriate security controls;
3. Controlling access to areas within the facility designated as publicly accessible;
4. Escorting visitors, logging visitor entrance and exit from facilities, and limiting visitor activities within facilities to minimize risks to certificate systems;
5. Securing physical keys, combinations, and other physical access devices;
6. Maintaining an inventory of physical keys, combinations, and physical access devices; conduct review of this inventory at least annually; and
7. Changing combinations and keys every three years or when physical keys are lost, combinations are compromised, or when individuals possessing the physical keys or combinations are transferred or terminated.
These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following reference:
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, PE-2, PE-3, PE-4, PE-5, PE-8.
3.2
Implement controls to protect certificate system operations and facilities where certificate systems reside from environmental damage and/or physical breaches, including facilities controlled by a delegated third party, in full compliance with the following reference:
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, CP-2, CP-4, CP-6, CP-7, CP-8, CP-9, CP-10, PE-2, PE-9, PE-10, PE-11, PE-12, PE-13, PE-14, PE-15, PE-21.
3.3
If certificate systems are managed at a facility not controlled by the State, implement controls to prevent risks to such facilities presented by foreign ownership, control, or influence, in full compliance with the following reference:
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, SR-2, SR-3, SR-4, SR-6.
3.4
Implement controls to prevent supply chain risks for certificate systems including:
1. Employing acquisition strategies, tools, and methods to mitigate risks;
2. Establishing agreements and procedures with entities involved in the supply chain of certificate systems;
3. Implementing an inspection and tamper protection program for certificate systems components;
4. Developing and implementing component authenticity policies and procedures; and
5. Developing and implementing policies and procedures for the secure disposal of certificate systems components.
These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following reference:
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, SR-5, SR-8, SR-9, SR-10, SR-11, SR-12.
4: Personnel Security Controls
4.1
Implement and disseminate to personnel with access to certificate systems and facilities, including facilities controlled by a delegated third party, a policy to control insider threat security risks that:
1. Addresses the purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among State entities, and compliance;
2. Complies with all applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines; and
3. Designates an official in a trusted role to manage the development, documentation, and dissemination of the policy and procedures.
These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following reference:
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, MA-5, PS-1, PS-8.
4.2
Assign a risk designation to all organizational positions with access to certificate systems and facilities, in full compliance with the following reference:
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, PS-2, PS-9.
4.3
Establish screening criteria for personnel filling organization positions with access to certificate system and facilities, in full compliance with the following reference:
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, PS-2, PS-3, SA-21.
4.4
Screen individual personnel in organizational positions with access to certificate systems and facilities, in full compliance with the following reference:
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, PS-3.
4.5
Upon termination of individual employment, State or delegated third party must:
1. Disable system access within 4 hours;
2. Terminate or revoke any authenticators and credentials associated with the individual;
3. Conduct exit interviews that include—
a. Notifying terminated individuals of applicable, legally binding post-employment requirements for the protection of organizational information, and
b. Requiring terminated individuals to sign an acknowledgment of post-employment requirements as part of the organizational termination process;
4. Retrieve all security-related organizational system-related property; and
5. Retain access to organizational information and systems formerly controlled by terminated individual.
These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following reference:
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, PS-4.
4.6
Review and update personnel security policy, procedures, and position risk designations at least once every 12 months, in full compliance with the following reference:
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, PS-1, PS-2.
4.7
Provide training to all personnel performing certificate system duties, on the following topics:
1. Fundamental principles of Public Key Infrastructure;
2. Authentication and vetting policies and procedures, including the State's certificate policy;
3. Common threats to certificate system processes, including phishing and other social engineering tactics;
4. Role specific technical functions related to the administration of certificate systems; and
5. The requirements of this Appendix.
These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates, Section 5.3.3; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, CP-3, IR-2, SA-16.
4.8
Maintain records of training as required by paragraph 4.7 of this Appendix, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates, Sections 5.3.3, 5.4.1; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AT-4.
4.9
Implement policies and processes to prevent any delegated third party personnel managing certificate systems at a facility not controlled by a State from being subject to risks presented by foreign control or influence, in full compliance with the following reference:
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, SR-3, SR-4, SR-6.
5: Technical Security Controls
5.1
Segment certificate systems into networks based on their functional or logical relationship, such as separate physical networks or VLANs, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-5; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-4, AC-10, CA-3, CA-9, MP-3, MP-4, RA-2, RA-9, SC-2, SC-3, SC-4, SC-8.
5.2
Apply equivalent security controls to all systems co-located in the same network (including VLANs) with a certificate system, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-5; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, MP-5, MP-6, MP-7, RA-2, SC-7, SC-10, SC-39.
5.3
Maintain State root certificate authority systems in a high security zone and in an offline state or air-gapped from all other network operations. If operated in a cloud environment, State root certificate authority systems must use a dedicated VLAN with the sole purpose of Issuing Authority Certificate Authority (IACA) root certificate functions and be in an offline state when not in use for IACA root certificate functions. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, SC-32.
5.4
Protect IACA root certificate private keys using dedicated hardware security modules (HSMs), either managed on-premises or provided through cloud platforms, that are under sole control of the State or delegated third party. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• NIST SP 800-57 Part 1, Rev. 5;
• NIST FIPS PUB 140-3; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, SC-12, SC-13.
5.5
Protect certificate systems private keys using NIST FIPS PUB 140-3 Level 3 or Level 4 certified HSMs, in full compliance with the following references:
• NIST FIPS PUB 140-3; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, SC-12, SC-13.
5.6
Protect document signer private keys using HSMs, either managed on-premises or provided through cloud platforms, that are under sole control of the State or delegated third party. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• NIST SP 800-57 Part 1, Rev. 5;
• NIST FIPS PUB 140-3; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, SC-12, SC-13.
5.7
Protect certificate systems document signer keys using NIST FIPS PUB 140-3 Level 2, Level 3, or Level 4 certified HSMs, in full compliance with the following references:
• NIST FIPS PUB 140-3; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, SC-12, SC-13.
5.8
Maintain and protect issuing systems, certificate management systems, and security support systems in at least a secure zone, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, SC-15, SC-20, SC-21, SC-22, SC-24, SC-28, SI-16.
5.9
Implement and configure: security support systems that protect systems and communications between systems inside secure zones and high security zones, and communications with non-certificate systems outside those zones (including those with organizational business units that do not provide PKI-related services) and those on public networks. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, SC-15, SC-20, SC-21, SC-22, SC-24, SC-28, SI-16.
5.10
Configure each network boundary control (firewall, switch, router, gateway, or other network control device or system) with rules that support only the services, protocols, ports, and communications that the State has identified as necessary to its operations. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-4, SI-3, SI-8, SC-7, SC-10, SC-23, CM-7.
5.11
Configure issuing systems, certificate management systems, security support systems, and front end and internal support systems by removing or disabling all accounts, applications, services, protocols, and ports that are not used in the State's or delegated third party's operations and restricting use of such systems to only those that are approved by the State or delegated third party. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.PT-3; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, CM-7.
5.12
Implement multi-factor authentication on each component of the certificate system that supports multi-factor authentication, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.AC-7; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, IA-2.
5.13
Generate IACA root certificate key pairs with a documented and auditable multi-party key ceremony, performing at least the following steps:
1. Prepare and follow a key generation script;
2. Require a qualified person who is in a trusted role and not a participant in the key generation to serve as a live witness of the full process of generating the IACA root certificate key pair, or record a video in lieu of a live witness;
3. Require the qualified witness to issue a report confirming that the State followed its key ceremony during its key and certificate generation process, and confirming that controls were used to protect the integrity and confidentiality of the key pair;
4. Generate the IACA root certificate key pair in a physically secured environment as described in the State's certificate policy and/or certification practice statement;
5. Generate the IACA root certificate key pair using personnel in trusted roles under the principles of multiple person control and split knowledge. IACA root certificate key pair generation requires a minimum of two persons, consisting of at least one key generation ceremony administrator and one qualified witness);
6. Log the IACA root certificate key pair generation activities, sign the witness report (and video file, if applicable), with a document signing key which has been signed by the IACA root certificate private key, and include signed files and document signing public certificate with the IACA root certificate key pair generation log files; and
7. Implement controls to confirm that the IACA root certificate private key was generated and protected in conformance with the procedures described in the State's certificate policy and/or certification practice statement and the State's key generation script. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following reference:
• CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates, Section 6.1.1.1.
5.14
Generate document signer key pairs with a documented and auditable multi-party key ceremony, performing at least the following steps:
1. Prepare and follow a key generation script;
2. Generate the document signer key pairs in a physically secured environment as described in the State's certificate policy and/or certification practice statement;
3. Generate the document signer key pairs using only personnel in trusted roles under the principles of multiple person control and split knowledge. document signer key pair generation requires a, minimum of two persons, consisting of at least one key generation ceremony administrator and at least one qualified witness or at least two key generation ceremony administrators when split knowledge generation is in place;
4. If a witness observes the key generation, require a qualified person who is in a trusted role and not a participant in the key generation to serve as a live witness of the full process of generating the document signer key pair; and
5. Require the qualified witness to issue a report confirming that the State followed its key ceremony during its key and certificate generation process and confirming that controls were used to rotect the integrity and confidentiality of the key pair;
6. Log the document signer key pairs generation activities and signed witness report, if applicable; and
7. Implement controls to confirm that the document signer private key was generated and protected in conformance with the procedures described in the State's certificate policy and/or certification practice statement and the State's key generation script. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following reference:
• CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates, Section 6.1.1.1.
6: Threat Detection
6.1
Implement a System under the control of State or delegated third party trusted roles that continuously monitors, detects, and alerts personnel to any modification to certificate systems, issuing systems, certificate management systems, security support systems, and front-end/internal-support systems, unless the modification has been authorized through a change management process. The State or delegated third party must respond to the alert and initiate a plan of action within at most 24 hours. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity DE.CM-7; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, CA-7, CM-3, SI-5.
6.2
Identify any certificate systems under the control of State or delegated third party trusted roles that are capable of monitoring and logging system activity, and enable those systems to log and continuously monitor the events specified in paragraph 7 of this Appendix. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AU-12.
6.3
Monitor the integrity of the logging processes for application and system logs using either continuous automated monitoring and alerting, or human review, to confirm that logging and log-integrity functions meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 7 of this Appendix. Alternatively, if a human review is utilized and the system is online, the process must be performed at least once every 31 calendar days. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AU-1, AU-6, AU-5, AU-9, AU-12.
7: Logging
7.1
Log records must include the following elements:
1. Date and time of record;
2. Identity of the person or non-person entity making the journal record; and
3. Description of the record.
These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates Section 5.4.1;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.PT-1; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AU-2, AU-3, AU-8.
7.2
Log at least certificate system and key lifecycle events for IACA root certificates, document signer certificates, and other intermediate certificates, including:
1. Key generation, backup, storage, recovery, archival, and destruction;
2. Certificate requests, renewal, and re-key requests, and revocation;
3. Approval and rejection of certificate requests;
4. Cryptographic device lifecycle management events;
5. Generation of Certificate Revocation Lists and OCSP entries;
6. Introduction of new Certificate Profiles and retirement of existing Certificate Profiles;
7. Issuance of certificates; and
8. All verification activities required in paragraph 2 of this Appendix and the State's Certification System Policy.
These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates Section 5.4.1;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.PT-1; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AU-1, AU-2, AU-3, AU-4, AU-7, AU-10, SC-17.
7.3
Log certificate system Security events, including:
1. Successful and unsuccessful PKI system access attempts;
2. PKI and security system actions performed;
3. Security profile changes;
4. Installation, update and removal of software on a certificate system;
5. System crashes, hardware failures, and other anomalies;
6. Firewall and router activities; and
7. Entries to and exits from the IACA facility if managed on-premises.
These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates Section 5.4.1; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AU-2, AU-3, AU-4, AU-7, AU-10, CM-3, PE-6, SI-11, SI-12.
7.4
Maintain certificate system logs for a period not less than 36 months, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates Section 5.4.3; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AU-4, AU-10, AU-11.
7.5
Maintain IACA root certificate and key lifecycle management event logs for a period of not less than 24 months after the destruction of the IACA root certificate private key, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates Section 5.4.3;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.PT-1; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AU-2, AU-4, AU-10, AU-11.
8: Incident Response
Recovery Plan
8.1
Implement automated mechanisms under the control of State or delegated third party trusted roles to process logged system activity and alert personnel, using notices provided to multiple destinations, of possible critical security events. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• DHS National Cyber Incident Response Plan;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity RS.CO-5, RS.AN-5; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AU-1, AU-2, AU-6, IR-5, SI-4, SI-5.
8.2
Require trusted role personnel to follow up on alerts of possible critical security events, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• DHS National Cyber Incident Response Plan; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, AC-5, AC-6, IR-1, IR-4, IR-7, SI-4, SI-5.
8.3
If continuous automated monitoring and alerting is utilized, respond to the alert and initiate a plan of action within 24 hours, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• DHS National Cyber Incident Response Plan; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, IR-1, PM-14, SI-4.
8.4
Implement intrusion detection and prevention controls under the management of State or delegated third party individuals in trusted roles to protect certificate systems against common network and system threats, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• CISA Federal Government Cybersecurity Incident
Vulnerability Response Playbooks;
• DHS National Cyber Incident Response Plan;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity DE.AE-2, DE.AE-3; DE.DP-1; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, IR-1, IR-4, IR-7, IR-8, SI-4, SI-5.
8.5
Document and follow a vulnerability correction process that addresses the identification, review, response, and remediation of vulnerabilities, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• CISA Federal Government Cybersecurity Incident
Vulnerability Response Playbooks;
• DHS National Cyber Incident Response Plan;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.IP-9; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, CA-5, CP-2, CP-4, CP-6, CP-7, CP-8, CP-9, CP-10, SI-1, SI-2, SI-10.
8.6
Notify TSA of any reportable cybersecurity incident, as defined in the TSA Cybersecurity Lexicon available at
www.tsa.gov
, that may compromise the integrity of the certificate systems within no more than 72 hours of the discovery of the incident. Reports must be made as directed at
www.tsa.gov/real-id/mDL
. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• DHS National Cyber Incident Response Plan; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, IR-6.
Information provided in response to this paragraph
may
contain SSI, and if so, must be handled and protected in accordance with 49 CFR part 1520.
8.7
Undergo a vulnerability scan on public and private IP addresses identified by the State or delegated third party as the State's or delegated third party's certificate systems at least every three months, and after performing any significant system or network changes. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• DHS National Cyber Incident Response Plan; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, CM-1, CM-4, IR-3, RA-1, RA-5.
8.8
Undergo a penetration test on the State's and each delegated third party's certificate systems at least every 12 months, and after performing any significant infrastructure or application upgrades or modifications. These requirements must be implemented in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• DHS National Cyber Incident Response Plan;
• NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity PR.IP-7; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, CA-2, CA-8, CM-4, RA-3.
8.9
Record evidence that each vulnerability scan and penetration test was performed by a person or entity with the requisite skills, tools, proficiency, code of ethics, and independence.
8.10
Review State and/or delegated third party incident response
recovery plan at least once during every 12 months to address cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities, in full compliance with the following references:
• CA/Browser Forum Network and Certificate System Security Requirements;
• DHS National Cyber Incident Response Plan; and
• NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, CP-2, IR-1, IR-2, SC-5.
[89 FR 85380, Oct. 25, 2024]

# Subpart B—Minimum Documentation, Verification, and Card Issuance Requirements
§ 37.11
Application and documents the applicant must provide.
(a) The State must subject each person applying for a REAL ID driver's license or identification card to a mandatory facial image capture, and shall maintain photographs of individuals even if no card is issued. The photographs must be stored in a format in accordance with § 37.31 as follows:
(1) If no card is issued, for a minimum period of five years.
(2) If a card is issued, for a period of at least two years beyond the expiration date of the card.
(b)
Declaration.
Each applicant must sign a declaration under penalty of perjury that the information presented on the application is true and correct, and the State must retain this declaration. An applicant must sign a new declaration when presenting new source documents to the DMV on subsequent visits.
(c)
Identity.
(1) To establish identity, the applicant must present at least one of the following source documents:
(i) Valid, unexpired U.S. passport.
(ii) Certified copy of a birth certificate filed with a State Office of Vital Statistics or equivalent agency in the individual's State of birth.
(iii) Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA) issued by the U.S. Department of State, Form FS-240, DS-1350 or FS-545.
(iv) Valid, unexpired Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551) issued by DHS or INS.
(v) Unexpired employment authorization document (EAD) issued by DHS, Form I-766 or Form I-688B.
(vi) Unexpired foreign passport with a valid, unexpired U.S. visa affixed accompanied by the approved I-94 form documenting the applicant's most recent admittance into the United States.
(vii) Certificate of Naturalization issued by DHS, Form N-550 or Form N-570.
(viii) Certificate of Citizenship, Form N-560 or Form N-561, issued by DHS.
(ix) REAL ID driver's license or identification card issued in compliance with the standards established by this part.
(x) Such other documents as DHS may designate by notice published in the
Federal Register.
(2) Where a State permits an applicant to establish a name other than the name that appears on a source document (for example, through marriage, adoption, court order, or other mechanism permitted by State law or regulation), the State shall require evidence of the name change through the presentation of documents issued by a court, governmental body or other entity as determined by the State. The State shall maintain copies of the documentation presented pursuant to § 37.31, and maintain a record of both the recorded name and the name on the source documents in a manner to be determined by the State and in conformity with § 37.31.
(d)
Date of birth.
To establish date of birth, an individual must present at least one document included in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Social security number (SSN).
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, individuals presenting the identity documents listed in § 37.11(c)(1) and (2) must present his or her Social Security Administration account number card; or, if a Social Security Administration account card is not available, the person may present any of the following documents bearing the applicant's SSN:
(i) A W-2 form,
(ii) A SSA-1099 form,
(iii) A non-SSA-1099 form, or
(iv) A pay stub with the applicant's name and SSN on it.
(2) The State DMV must verify the SSN pursuant to § 37.13(b)(2) of this subpart.
(3) Individuals presenting the identity document listed in § 37.11(c)(1)(vi) must present an SSN or demonstrate non-work authorized status.
(f)
Documents demonstrating address of principal residence.
To document the address of principal residence, a person must present at least two documents of the State's choice that include the individual's name and principal residence. A street address is required except as provided in § 37.17(f) of this part.
(g)
Evidence of lawful status in the United States.
A DMV may issue a REAL ID driver's license or identification card only to a person who has presented satisfactory evidence of lawful status.
(1) If the applicant presents one of the documents listed under paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), (c)(1)(iii), (c)(1)(iv), (c)(1)(vii) or (c)(1)(viii) of this section, the issuing State's verification of the applicant's identity in the manner prescribed in § 37.13 will also provide satisfactory evidence of lawful status.
(2) If the applicant presents one of the identity documents listed under paragraphs (c)(1)(v) or (c)(1)(vi), or (c)(1)(ix) of this section, the issuing State's verification of the identity document(s) does not provide satisfactory evidence of lawful status. The applicant must also present a second document from § 37.11(g)(1) or documentation issued by DHS or other Federal agencies demonstrating lawful status as determined by USCIS. All documents shall be verified in the manner prescribed in § 37.13.
(h)
Exceptions Process.
A State DMV may choose to establish a written, defined exceptions process for persons who, for reasons beyond their control, are unable to present all necessary documents and must rely on alternate documents to establish identity or date of birth. Alternative documents to demonstrate lawful status will only be allowed to demonstrate U.S. citizenship.
(1) Each State establishing an exceptions process must make reasonable efforts to establish the authenticity of alternate documents each time they are presented and indicate that an exceptions process was used in the applicant's record.
(2) The State shall retain copies or images of the alternate documents accepted pursuant to § 37.31 of this part.
(3) The State shall conduct a review of the use of the exceptions process, and pursuant to subpart E of this part, prepare and submit a report with a copy of the exceptions process as part of the certification documentation detailed in § 37.55.
(i) States are not required to comply with these requirements when issuing
REAL ID driver's licenses or identification cards in support of Federal, State, or local criminal justice agencies or other programs that require special licensing or identification to safeguard persons or in support of their other official duties. As directed by appropriate officials of these Federal, State, or local agencies, States should take sufficient steps to safeguard the identities of such persons. Driver's licenses and identification cards issued in support of Federal, State, or local criminal justice agencies or programs that require special licensing or identification to safeguard persons or in support of their other official duties shall not be distinguishable from other REAL ID licenses or identification cards issued by the State.
§ 37.13
Document verification requirements.
(a) States shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that the applicant does not have more than one driver's license or identification card already issued by that State under a different identity. In States where an individual is permitted to hold both a driver's license and identification card, the State shall ensure that the individual has not been issued identification documents in multiple or different names. States shall also comply with the provisions of § 37.29 before issuing a driver's license or identification card.
(b) States must verify the documents and information required under § 37.11 with the issuer of the document. States shall use systems for electronic validation of document and identity data as they become available or use alternative methods approved by DHS.
(1) States shall verify any document described in § 37.11(c) or (g) and issued by DHS (including, but not limited to, the I-94 form described in § 37.11(c)(vi)) through the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) system or alternate methods approved by DHS, except that if two DHS-issued documents are presented, a SAVE verification of one document that confirms lawful status does not need to be repeated for the second document. In the event of a non-match, the DMV must not issue a REAL ID driver's license or identification card to an applicant, and must refer the individual to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services for resolution.
(2) States must verify SSNs with the Social Security Administration (SSA) or through another method approved by DHS. In the event of a non-match with SSA, a State may use existing procedures to resolve non-matches. If the State is unable to resolve the non-match, and the use of an exceptions process is not warranted in the situation, the DMV must not issue a REAL ID driver's license or identification card to an applicant until the information verifies with SSA.
(3) States must verify birth certificates presented by applicants. States should use the Electronic Verification of Vital Events (EVVE) system or other electronic systems whenever the records are available. If the document does not appear authentic upon inspection or the data does not match and the use of an exceptions process is not warranted in the situation, the State must not issue a REAL ID driver's license or identification card to the applicant until the information verifies, and should refer the individual to the issuing office for resolution.
(4) States shall verify documents issued by the Department of State with the Department of State or through methods approved by DHS.
(5) States must verify REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards with the State of issuance.
(6) Nothing in this section precludes a State from issuing an interim license or a license issued under § 37.71 that will not be accepted for official purposes to allow the individual to resolve any non-match.
§ 37.15
Physical security features for the driver's license or identification card.
(a)
General.
States must include document security features on REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards designed to deter forgery and counterfeiting, promote an adequate level of confidence in the authenticity of cards, and facilitate detection of fraudulent cards in accordance with this section.
(1) These features must not be capable of being reproduced using technologies that are commonly used and made available to the general public.
(2) The proposed card solution must contain a well-designed, balanced set of features that are effectively combined and provide multiple layers of security. States must describe these document security features in their security plans pursuant to § 37.41.
(b)
Integrated security features.
REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards must contain at least three levels of integrated security features that provide the maximum resistance to persons' efforts to—
(1) Counterfeit, alter, simulate, or reproduce a genuine document;
(2) Alter, delete, modify, mask, or tamper with data concerning the original or lawful card holder;
(3) Substitute or alter the original or lawful card holder's photograph and/or signature by any means; and
(4) Create a fraudulent document using components from legitimate driver's licenses or identification cards.
(c)
Security features to detect false cards.
States must employ security features to detect false cards for each of the following three levels:
(1)
Level 1.
Cursory examination, without tools or aids involving easily identifiable visual or tactile features, for rapid inspection at point of usage.
(2)
Level 2.
Examination by trained inspectors with simple equipment.
(3)
Level 3.
Inspection by forensic specialists.
(d)
Document security and integrity.
States must conduct a review of their card design and submit a report to DHS with their certification that indicates the ability of the design to resist compromise and document fraud attempts. The report required by this paragraph is SSI and must be handled and protected in accordance with 49 CFR part 1520. Reports must be updated and submitted to DHS whenever a security feature is modified, added, or deleted. After reviewing the report, DHS may require a State to provide DHS with examination results from a recognized independent laboratory experienced with adversarial analysis of identification documents concerning one or more areas relating to the card's security.
§ 37.17
Requirements for the surface of the driver's license or identification card.
To be accepted by a Federal agency for official purposes, REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards must include on the front of the card (unless otherwise specified below) the following information:
(a)
Full legal name.
Except as permitted in § 37.11(c)(2), the name on the face of the license or card must be the same as the name on the source document presented by the applicant to establish identity. Where the individual has only one name, that name should be entered in the last name or family name field, and the first and middle name fields should be left blank. Place holders such as NFN, NMN, and NA should not be used.
(b)
Date of birth.
(c)
Gender,
as determined by the State.
(d)
Unique Driver's license or identification card number.
This cannot be the individual's SSN, and must be unique across driver's license or identification cards within the State.
(e)
Full facial digital photograph.
A full facial photograph must be taken pursuant to the standards set forth below:
(1) States shall follow specifically ISO/IEC 19794-5:2005(E) (incorporated by reference; see § 37.4).
(2) Photographs may be in black and white or color.
(f)
Address of principal residence,
except an alternative address may be displayed for:
(1) Individuals for whom a State law, regulation, or DMV procedure permits display of an alternative address, or
(2) Individuals who satisfy any of the following:
(i) If the individual is enrolled in a State address confidentiality program which allows victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or a severe form of trafficking, to keep, obtain, and use alternative addresses; and provides that the addresses of such persons must be kept confidential, or other similar program;
(ii) If the individual's address is entitled to be suppressed under State or Federal law or suppressed by a court order including an administrative order issued by a State or Federal court; or
(iii) If the individual is protected from disclosure of information pursuant to section 384 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996.
(3) In areas where a number and street name has not been assigned for U.S. mail delivery, an address convention used by the U.S. Postal Service is acceptable.
(g)
Signature.
(1) The card must include the signature of the card holder. The signature must meet the requirements of the AAMVA Specifications (incorporated by reference; see § 37.4). This standard includes requirements for size, scaling, cropping, color, borders, and resolution.
(2) The State shall establish alternative procedures for individuals unable to sign their name.
(h)
Physical security features,
pursuant to § 37.15 of this subpart.
(i)
Machine-readable technology on the back of the card,
pursuant to § 37.19 of this subpart.
(j)
Date of transaction.
(k)
Expiration date.
(l)
State or territory of issuance.
(m)
Printed information.
The name, date of birth, gender, card number, issue date, expiration date, and address on the face of the card must be in Latin alpha-numeric characters. The name must contain a field of no less than a total of 39 characters, and longer names shall be truncated following the standard established by ICAO 9303 (incorporated by reference; see § 37.4).
(n) The card shall bear a DHS-approved security marking on each driver's license or identification card that is issued reflecting the card's level of compliance as set forth in § 37.51 of this Rule.
[73 FR 5331, Jan. 29, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 44192, July 12, 2023]
§ 37.19
Machine readable technology on the driver's license or identification card.
For the machine readable portion of the REAL ID driver's license or identification card, States must use ISO/IEC 15438:2006(E) (incorporated by reference; see § 37.4). The PDF417 bar code standard must have the following defined minimum data elements:
(a) Expiration date.
(b) Full legal name, unless the State permits an applicant to establish a name other than the name that appears on a source document, pursuant to § 37.11(c)(2).
(c) Date of transaction.
(d) Date of birth.
(e) Gender.
(f) Address as listed on the card pursuant to § 37.17(f).
(g) Unique driver's license or identification card number.
(h) Card design revision date, indicating the most recent change or modification to the visible format of the driver's license or identification card.
(i) Inventory control number of the physical document.
(j) State or territory of issuance.
[73 FR 5331, Jan. 29, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 44192, July 12, 2023]
§ 37.21
Temporary or limited-term driver's licenses and identification cards.
States may only issue a temporary or limited-term REAL ID driver's license or identification card to an individual who has temporary lawful status in the United States.
(a) States must require, before issuing a temporary or limited-term driver's license or identification card to a person, valid documentary evidence, verifiable through SAVE or other DHS-approved means, that the person has lawful status in the United States.
(b) States shall not issue a temporary or limited-term driver's license or identification card pursuant to this section:
(1) For a time period longer than the expiration of the applicant's authorized stay in the United States, or, if there is no expiration date, for a period longer than one year; and
(2) For longer than the State's maximum driver's license or identification card term.
(c) States shall renew a temporary or limited-term driver's license or identification card pursuant to this section and § 37.25(b)(2), only if:
(1) the individual presents valid documentary evidence that the status by which the applicant qualified for the temporary or limited-term driver's license or identification card is still in effect, or
(2) the individual presents valid documentary evidence that he or she continues to qualify for lawful status under paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) States must verify the information presented to establish lawful status through SAVE, or another method approved by DHS.
(e) Temporary or limited-term driver's licenses and identification cards must clearly indicate on the face of the license and in the machine readable zone that the license or card is a temporary or limited-term driver's license or identification card.
§ 37.23
Reissued REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards.
(a)
State procedure.
States must establish an effective procedure to confirm or verify an applicant's identity each time a REAL ID driver's license or identification card is reissued, to ensure that the individual receiving the reissued REAL ID driver's license or identification card is the same individual to whom the driver's license or identification card was originally issued.
(b)
Remote/Non-in-person reissuance.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section a State may conduct a non-in-person (remote) reissuance if State procedures permit the reissuance to be conducted remotely. Except for the reissuance of duplicate driver's licenses and identification cards as defined in this rule, the State must reverify pursuant to § 37.13, the applicant's SSN and lawful status prior to reissuing the driver's license or identification card.
(c)
In-person reissuance.
The State may not remotely reissue a driver's license or identification card where there has been a material change in any personally identifiable information since prior issuance. All material changes must be established through an applicant's presentation of an original source document as provided in this subpart, and must be verified as specified in § 37.13.
§ 37.25
Renewal of REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards.
(a)
In-person renewals.
States must require holders of REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards to renew their driver's licenses and identification cards with the State DMV in person, no less frequently than every sixteen years.
(1) The State DMV shall take an updated photograph of the applicant, no less frequently than every sixteen years.
(2) The State must reverify the renewal applicant's SSN and lawful status through SSOLV and SAVE, respectively (or other DHS-approved means) as applicable prior to renewing the driver's license or identification card. The State must also verify electronically information that it was not able to verify at a previous issuance or renewal if the systems or processes exist to do so.
(3) Holders of temporary or limited-term REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards must present evidence of continued lawful status via SAVE or other method approved by DHS when renewing their driver's license or identification card.
(b)
Remote/Non-in-person renewal.
Except as provided in (b)(2) a State may conduct a non-in-person (remote) renewal if State procedures permit the renewal to be conducted remotely.
(1) The State must reverify the applicant's SSN and lawful status pursuant to § 37.13 prior to renewing the driver's license or identification card.
(2) The State may not remotely renew a REAL ID driver's license or identification card where there has been a material change in any personally identifiable information since prior issuance. All material changes must be established through the applicant's presentation of an original source document as provided in Subpart B, and must be verified as specified in § 37.13.
§ 37.27
Driver's licenses and identification cards issued during the age-based enrollment period.
Driver's licenses and identification cards issued to individuals prior to a DHS determination that the State is materially compliant may be renewed or reissued pursuant to current State practices, and will be accepted for official purposes until the validity dates described in § 37.5.
[73 FR 5331, Jan. 29, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 77838, Dec. 29, 2014]
§ 37.29
Prohibition against holding more than one REAL ID card or more than one driver's license.
(a) An individual may hold only one REAL ID card. An individual cannot hold a REAL ID driver's license and a REAL ID identification card simultaneously. Nothing shall preclude an individual from holding a REAL ID card and a non-REAL ID card unless prohibited by his or her State.
(b) Prior to issuing a REAL ID driver's license,
(1) A State must check with all other States to determine if the applicant currently holds a driver's license or REAL ID identification card in another State.
(2) If the State receives confirmation that the individual holds a driver's license in another State, or possesses a REAL ID identification card in another State, the receiving State must take measures to confirm that the person has terminated or is terminating the driver's license or REAL ID identification card issued by the prior State pursuant to State law, regulation or procedure.
(c) Prior to issuing a REAL ID identification card,
(1) A State must check with all other States to determine if the applicant currently holds a REAL ID driver's license or identification card in another State.
(2) If the State receives confirmation that the individual holds a REAL ID card in another State the receiving State must take measures to confirm that the person has terminated or is terminating the REAL ID driver's license or identification card issued by the prior State pursuant to State law, regulation or procedure.

# Subpart C—Other Requirements
§ 37.31
Source document retention.
(a) States must retain copies of the application, declaration and source documents presented under § 37.11 of this part, including documents used to establish all names recorded by the DMV under § 37.11(c)(2). States shall take measures to protect any personally identifiable information collected pursuant to the REAL ID Act as described in their security plan under § 37.41(b)(2).
(1) States that choose to keep paper copies of source documents must retain the copies for a minimum of seven years.
(2) States that choose to transfer information from paper copies to microfiche must retain the microfiche for a minimum of ten years.
(3) States that choose to keep digital images of source documents must retain the images for a minimum of ten years.
(4) States are not required to retain the declaration with application and source documents, but must retain the declaration consistent with applicable State document retention requirements and retention periods.
(b) States using digital imaging to retain source documents must store the images as follows:
(1) Photo images must be stored in the Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG) 2000 standard for image compression, or a standard that is interoperable with the JPEG standard. Images must be stored in an open (consensus) format, without proprietary wrappers, to ensure States can effectively use the image captures of other States as needed.
(2) Document and signature images must be stored in a compressed Tagged Image Format (TIF), or a standard that is interoperable with the TIF standard.
(3) All images must be retrievable by the DMV if properly requested by law enforcement.
(c) Upon request by an applicant, a State shall record and retain the applicant's name, date of birth, certificate numbers, date filed, and issuing agency
in lieu of an image or copy of the applicant's birth certificate, where such procedures are required by State law.
§ 37.33
DMV databases.
(a) States must maintain a State motor vehicle database that contains, at a minimum—
(1) All data fields printed on driver's licenses and identification cards issued by the State, individual serial numbers of the card, and SSN;
(2) A record of the full legal name and recorded name established under § 37.11(c)(2) as applicable, without truncation;
(3) All additional data fields included in the MRZ but not printed on the driver's license or identification card; and
(4) Motor vehicle driver's histories, including motor vehicle violations, suspensions, and points on driver's licenses.
(b) States must protect the security of personally identifiable information, collected pursuant to the REAL ID Act, in accordance with § 37.41(b)(2) of this part.

# Subpart D—Security at DMVs and Driver's License and Identification Card Production Facilities
§ 37.41
Security plan.
(a)
In General.
States must have a security plan that addresses the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section and must submit the security plan as part of its REAL ID certification under § 37.55.
(b) Security plan contents. At a minimum, the security plan must address—
(1) Physical security for the following:
(i) Facilities used to produce driver's licenses and identification cards.
(ii) Storage areas for card stock and other materials used in card production.
(2) Security of personally identifiable information maintained at DMV locations involved in the enrollment, issuance, manufacture and/or production of cards issued under the REAL ID Act, including, but not limited to, providing the following protections:
(i) Reasonable administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of the personally identifiable information collected, stored, and maintained in DMV records and information systems for purposes of complying with the REAL ID Act. These safeguards must include procedures to prevent unauthorized access, use, or dissemination of applicant information and images of source documents retained pursuant to the Act and standards and procedures for document retention and destruction.
(ii) A privacy policy regarding the personally identifiable information collected and maintained by the DMV pursuant to the REAL ID Act.
(iii) Any release or use of personal information collected and maintained by the DMV pursuant to the REAL ID Act must comply with the requirements of the Driver's Privacy Protection Act, 18 U.S.C. 2721
et seq.
State plans may go beyond these minimum privacy requirements to provide greater protection, and such protections are not subject to review by DHS for purposes of determining compliance with this part.
(3) Document and physical security features for the card, consistent with the requirements of § 37.15, including a description of the State's use of biometrics, and the technical standard utilized, if any;
(4) Access control, including the following:
(i) Employee identification and credentialing, including access badges.
(ii) Employee background checks, in accordance with § 37.45 of this part.
(iii) Controlled access systems.
(5) Periodic training requirements in—
(i) Fraudulent document recognition training for all covered employees handling source documents or engaged in the issuance of driver's licenses and identification cards. The fraudulent document training program approved by AAMVA or other DHS approved method satisfies the requirement of this subsection.
(ii) Security awareness training, including threat identification and handling of SSI as necessary.
(6) Emergency/incident response plan;
(7) Internal audit controls;
(8) An affirmation that the State possesses both the authority and the means to produce, revise, expunge, and protect the confidentiality of REAL ID driver's licenses or identification cards issued in support of Federal, State, or local criminal justice agencies or similar programs that require special licensing or identification to safeguard persons or support their official duties. These procedures must be designed in coordination with the key requesting authorities to ensure that the procedures are effective and to prevent conflicting or inconsistent requests. In order to safeguard the identities of individuals, these procedures should not be discussed in the plan and States should make every effort to prevent disclosure to those without a need to know about either this confidential procedure or any substantive information that may compromise the confidentiality of these operations. The appropriate law enforcement official and United States Attorney should be notified of any action seeking information that could compromise Federal law enforcement interests.
(c)
Handling of Security Plan.
The Security Plan required by this section contains Sensitive Security Information (SSI) and must be handled and protected in accordance with 49 CFR part 1520.
§ 37.43
Physical security of DMV production facilities.
(a) States must ensure the physical security of facilities where driver's licenses and identification cards are produced, and the security of document materials and papers from which driver's licenses and identification cards are produced or manufactured.
(b) States must describe the security of DMV facilities as part of their security plan, in accordance with § 37.41.
§ 37.45
Background checks for covered employees.
(a)
Scope.
States are required to subject persons who are involved in the manufacture or production of REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards, or who have the ability to affect the identity information that appears on the driver's license or identification card, or current employees who will be assigned to such positions (“covered employees” or “covered positions”), to a background check. The background check must include, at a minimum, the validation of references from prior employment, a name-based and fingerprint-based criminal history records check, and employment eligibility verification otherwise required by law. States shall describe their background check process as part of their security plan, in accordance with § 37.41(b)(4)(ii). This section also applies to contractors utilized in covered positions.
(b)
Background checks.
States must ensure that any covered employee under paragraph (a) of this section is provided notice that he or she must undergo a background check and the contents of that check.
(1)
Criminal history records check.
States must conduct a name-based and fingerprint-based criminal history records check (CHRC) using, at a minimum, the FBI's National Crime Information Center (NCIC) and the Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification (IAFIS) database and State repository records on each covered employee identified in paragraph (a) of this section, and determine if the covered employee has been convicted of any of the following disqualifying crimes:
(i)
Permanent disqualifying criminal offenses.
A covered employee has a permanent disqualifying offense if convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, in a civilian or military jurisdiction, of any of the felonies set forth in 49 CFR 1572.103(a).
(ii)
Interim disqualifying criminal offenses.
The criminal offenses referenced in 49 CFR 1572.103(b) are disqualifying if the covered employee was either convicted of those offenses in a civilian or military jurisdiction, or admits having committed acts which constitute the essential elements of any of those criminal offenses within the seven years preceding the date of employment in the covered position; or the covered employee was released from incarceration for the crime within the five years preceding the date of employment in the covered position.
(iii)
Under want or warrant.
A covered employee who is wanted or under indictment in any civilian or military jurisdiction for a felony referenced in this section is disqualified until the want or warrant is released.
(iv)
Determination of arrest status.
When a fingerprint-based check discloses an arrest for a disqualifying crime referenced in this section without indicating a disposition, the State must determine the disposition of the arrest.
(v)
Waiver.
The State may establish procedures to allow for a waiver of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) or (b)(1)(iv) of this section under circumstances determined by the State. These procedures can cover circumstances where the covered employee has been arrested, but no final disposition of the matter has been reached.
(2)
Employment eligibility status verification.
The State shall ensure it is fully in compliance with the requirements of section 274A of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1324a) and its implementing regulations (8 CFR part 274A) with respect to each covered employee. The State is encouraged to participate in the USCIS E-Verify program (or any successor program) for employment eligibility verification.
(3)
Reference check.
Reference checks from prior employers are not required if the individual has been employed by the DMV for at least two consecutive years since May 11, 2006.
(4)
Disqualification.
If results of the State's CHRC reveal a permanent disqualifying criminal offense under paragraph (b)(1)(i) or an interim disqualifying criminal offense under paragraph (b)(1)(ii), the covered employee may not be employed in a position described in paragraph (a) of this section. An employee whose employment eligibility has not been verified as required by section 274A of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1324a) and its implementing regulations (8 CFR part 274A) may not be employed in any position.
(c)
Appeal.
If a State determines that the results from the CHRC do not meet the standards of such check the State must so inform the employee of the determination to allow the individual an opportunity to appeal to the State or Federal government, as applicable.
(d) Background checks substantially similar to the requirements of this section that were conducted on existing employees on or after May 11, 2006 need not be re-conducted.

# Subpart E—Procedures for Determining State Compliance
§ 37.51
Compliance—general requirements.
(a)
Full compliance.
To be in full compliance with the REAL ID Act of 2005, 49 U.S.C. 30301 note, States must meet the standards of subparts A through D or have a REAL ID program that DHS has determined to be comparable to the standards of subparts A through D. States certifying compliance with the REAL ID Act must follow the certification requirements described in § 37.55. States must be fully compliant with Subparts A through D on or before January 15, 2013. States must file the documentation required under § 37.55 at least 90 days prior to the effective date of full compliance.
(b)
Material compliance.
States must be in material compliance by January 1, 2010 to receive an additional extension until no later than May 10, 2011 as described in § 37.63. Benchmarks for material compliance are detailed in the Material Compliance Checklist found in DHS' Web site at
http://www.dhs.gov.
[73 FR 5331, Jan. 29, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 12271, Mar. 7, 2011]

# Effective Date Note:
At 74 FR 68478, Dec. 28, 2009, in § 37.51, paragraph (b) was stayed from Jan. 1, 2010, until further notice.
§ 37.55
State certification documentation.
(a) States seeking DHS's determination that its program for issuing REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards is meeting the requirements of this part (full compliance), must provide DHS with the following documents:
(1) A certification by the highest level Executive official in the State overseeing the DMV reading as follows:
“I, [name and title (name of certifying official), (position title) of the State (Commonwealth))] of ______, do hereby certify that the State (Commonwealth) has implemented a program for issuing driver's licenses and identification cards in compliance with the requirements of the REAL ID Act of 2005, as further defined in 6 CFR par_t 37, and intends to remain in compliance with these regulations.”
(2) A letter from the Attorney General of the State confirming that the State has the legal authority to impose requirements necessary to meet the standards established by this part.
(3) A description of the State's exceptions process under § 37.11(h), and the State's waiver processes under § 37.45(b)(1)(v).
(4) The State's Security Plan under § 37.41.
(b) After DHS's final compliance determination, States shall recertify compliance with this part every three years on a rolling basis as determined by DHS.
§ 37.59
DHS reviews of State compliance.
State REAL ID programs will be subject to DHS review to determine whether the State meets the requirements for compliance with this part.
(a)
General inspection authority.
States must cooperate with DHS's review of the State's compliance at any time. In addition, the State must:
(1) Provide any reasonable information pertinent to determining compliance with this part as requested by DHS;
(2) Permit DHS to conduct inspections of any and all sites associated with the enrollment of applicants and the production, manufacture, personalization and issuance of driver's licenses or identification cards; and
(3) Allow DHS to conduct interviews of the State's employees and contractors who are involved in the application and verification process, or the manufacture and production of driver's licenses or identification cards. DHS shall provide written notice to the State in advance of an inspection visit.
(b)
Preliminary DHS determination.
DHS shall review forms, conduct audits of States as necessary, and make a preliminary determination on whether the State has satisfied the requirements of this part within 45 days of receipt of the Material Compliance Checklist or State certification documentation of full compliance pursuant to § 37.55.
(1) If DHS determines that the State meets the benchmarks of the Material Compliance Checklist, DHS may grant the State an additional extension until no later than May 10, 2011.
(2) If DHS determines that the State meets the full requirements of subparts A through E, the Secretary shall make a final determination that the State is in compliance with the REAL ID Act.
(c)
State reply.
The State will have up to 30 calendar days to respond to the preliminary determination. The State's reply must explain what corrective action it either has implemented, or intends to implement, to correct any deficiencies cited in the preliminary determination or, alternatively, detail why the DHS preliminary determination is incorrect. Upon request by the State, an informal conference will be scheduled during this time.
(d)
Final DHS determination.
DHS will notify States of its final determination of State compliance with this part, within 45 days of receipt of a State reply.
(e)
State's right to judicial review.
Any State aggrieved by an adverse decision under this section may seek judicial review under 5 U.S.C. Chapter 7.
§ 37.61
Results of compliance determination.
(a) A State shall be deemed in compliance with this part when DHS issues a determination that the State meets the requirements of this part.
(b) The Secretary will determine that a State is not in compliance with this part when it—
(1) Fails to submit a timely certification or request an extension as prescribed in this subpart; or
(2) Does not meet one or more of the standards of this part, as established in a determination by DHS under § 37.59.
§ 37.63
Extension of deadline.
(a) A State may request an initial extension by filing a request with the Secretary no later than March 31, 2008. In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, such an extension request will be deemed justified for a period
lasting until, but not beyond, December 31, 2009. DHS shall notify a State of its acceptance of the State's request for initial extension within 45 days of receipt.
(b) States granted an initial extension may file a request for an additional extension until no later than May 10, 2011, by submitting a Material Compliance Checklist demonstrating material compliance, per § 37.51(b) with certain elements of subparts A through E as defined by DHS. Such additional extension request must be filed by December 1, 2009. DHS shall notify a State whether an additional extension has been granted within 45 days of receipt of the request and documents described above.
(c) Subsequent extensions, if any, will be at the discretion of the Secretary.
[73 FR 5331, Jan. 29, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 49309, Sept. 28, 2009]
§ 37.65
Effect of failure to comply with this part.
(a) Any driver's license or identification card issued by a State that DHS determines is not in compliance with this part is not acceptable as identification by Federal agencies for official purposes.
(b) Driver's licenses and identification cards issued by a State that has obtained an extension of the compliance date from DHS per § 37.51 are acceptable for official purposes until the end of the applicable enrollment period under § 37.5; or the State subsequently is found by DHS under this Subpart to not be in compliance.
(c) Driver's licenses and identification cards issued by a State that has been determined by DHS to be in material compliance and that are marked to identify that the licenses and cards are materially compliant will continue to be accepted by Federal agencies after the expiration of the enrollment period under § 37.5, until the expiration date on the face of the document.

# Subpart F—Driver's Licenses and Identification Cards Issued Under section 202(d)(11) of the REAL ID Act
§ 37.71
Driver's licenses and identification cards issued under section 202(d)(11) of the REAL ID Act.
(a) Except as authorized in § 37.27, States that DHS determines are compliant with the REAL ID Act that choose to also issue driver's licenses and identification cards that are not acceptable by Federal agencies for official purposes must ensure that such driver's licenses and identification cards—
(1) Clearly state on their face and in the machine readable zone that the card is not acceptable for official purposes; and
(2) Have a unique design or color indicator that clearly distinguishes them from driver's licenses and identification cards that meet the standards of this part.
(b) DHS reserves the right to approve such designations, as necessary, during certification of compliance.
Pt. 46

# PART 46—PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS
Sec.
46.101
To what does this policy apply?
46.102
Definitions for purposes of this policy.
46.103
Assuring compliance with this policy—research conducted or supported by any Federal department or agency.
46.104
Exempt research.
46.105-46.106
[Reserved]
46.107
IRB membership.
46.108
IRB functions and operations.
46.109
IRB review of research.
46.110
Expedited review procedures for certain kinds of research involving no more than minimal risk, and for minor changes in approved research.
46.111
Criteria for IRB approval of research.
46.112
Review by institution.
46.113
Suspension or termination of IRB approval of research.
46.114
Cooperative research.
46.115
IRB records.
46.116
General requirements for informed consent.
46.117
Documentation of informed consent.
46.118
Applications and proposals lacking definite plans for involvement of human subjects.
46.119
Research undertaken without the intention of involving human subjects.
46.120
Evaluation and disposition of applications and proposals for research to be conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency.
46.121
[Reserved]
46.122
Use of Federal funds.
46.123
Early termination of research support: Evaluation of applications and proposals.
46.124
Conditions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; Pub. L. 107-296, sec. 102, 306(c); Pub. L. 108-458, sec. 8306.

# Source:
82 FR 7269, Jan. 19, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 46.101
To what does this policy apply?
(a) Except as detailed in § 46.104, this policy applies to all research involving human subjects conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by any Federal department or agency that takes appropriate administrative action to make the policy applicable to such research. This includes research conducted by Federal civilian employees or military personnel, except that each department or agency head may adopt such procedural modifications as may be appropriate from an administrative standpoint. It also includes research conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by the Federal Government outside the United States. Institutions that are engaged in research described in this paragraph and institutional review boards (IRBs) reviewing research that is subject to this policy must comply with this policy.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Department or agency heads retain final judgment as to whether a particular activity is covered by this policy and this judgment shall be exercised consistent with the ethical principles of the Belmont Report.
62
62
The National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research.- Belmont Report. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 1979.
(d) Department or agency heads may require that specific research activities or classes of research activities conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by the Federal department or agency but not otherwise covered by this policy comply with some or all of the requirements of this policy.
(e) Compliance with this policy requires compliance with pertinent federal laws or regulations that provide additional protections for human subjects.
(f) This policy does not affect any state or local laws or regulations (including tribal law passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe) that may otherwise be applicable and that provide additional protections for human subjects.
(g) This policy does not affect any foreign laws or regulations that may otherwise be applicable and that provide additional protections to human subjects of research.
(h) When research covered by this policy takes place in foreign countries, procedures normally followed in the foreign countries to protect human subjects may differ from those set forth in this policy. In these circumstances, if a department or agency head determines that the procedures prescribed by the institution afford protections that are at least equivalent to those provided in this policy, the department or agency head may approve the substitution of the foreign procedures in lieu of the procedural requirements provided in this policy. Except when otherwise required by statute, Executive Order, or the department or agency head, notices of these actions as they occur will be published in the
Federal Register
or will be otherwise published as provided in department or agency procedures.
(i) Unless otherwise required by law, department or agency heads may waive the applicability of some or all of the provisions of this policy to specific research activities or classes of research activities otherwise covered by this policy, provided the alternative procedures to be followed are consistent with the principles of the Belmont Report.
63
Except when otherwise required by statute or Executive Order, the department or agency head shall forward advance notices of these actions to the
Office for Human Research Protections, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), or any successor office, or to the equivalent office within the appropriate Federal department or agency, and shall also publish them in the
Federal Register
or in such other manner as provided in department or agency procedures. The waiver notice must include a statement that identifies the conditions under which the waiver will be applied and a justification as to why the waiver is appropriate for the research, including how the decision is consistent with the principles of the Belmont Report.
63
Id.
(j) Federal guidance on the requirements of this policy shall be issued only after consultation, for the purpose of harmonization (to the extent appropriate), with other Federal departments and agencies that have adopted this policy, unless such consultation is not feasible.
(k) [Reserved]
(l) Compliance dates and transition provisions:
(1)
Pre-2018 Requirements.
For purposes of this section, the
pre-2018 Requirements
means this subpart as published in the 2016 edition of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(2)
2018 Requirements.
For purposes of this section, the
2018 Requirements
means the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects requirements contained in this part. The general compliance date for the 2018 Requirements is January 21, 2019. The compliance date for § 46.114(b) (cooperative research) of the 2018 Requirements is January 20, 2020.
(3)
Research subject to pre-2018 requirements.
The pre-2018 Requirements shall apply to the following research, unless the research is transitioning to comply with the 2018 Requirements in accordance with paragraph (l)(4) of this section:
(i) Research initially approved by an IRB under the pre-2018 Requirements before January 21, 2019;
(ii) Research for which IRB review was waived pursuant to § 46.101(i) of the pre-2018 Requirements) before January 21, 2019; and
(iii) Research for which a determination was made that the research was exempt under § 46.101(b) of the pre-2018 Requirements before January 21, 2019.
(4)
Transitioning research.
If, on or after July 19, 2018, an institution planning or engaged in research otherwise covered by paragraph (l)(3) of this section determines that such research instead will transition to comply with the 2018 Requirements, the institution or an IRB must document and date such determination.
(i) If the determination to transition is documented between July 19, 2018, and January 20, 2019, the research shall:
(A) Beginning on the date of such documentation through January 20, 2019, comply with the pre-2018 Requirements, except that the research shall comply with the following:
(
1
) Section 46.102(l) of the 2018 Requirements (definition of research) (instead of § 46.102(d) of the pre-2018 Requirements);
(
2
) Section 46.103(d) of the 2018 Requirements (revised certification requirement that eliminates IRB review of application or proposal) (instead of § 46.103(f) of the pre-2018 Requirements); and
(
3
) Section 46.109(f)(1)(i) and (iii) of the 2018 Requirements (exceptions to mandated continuing review) (instead of § 46.103(b), as related to the requirement for continuing review, and in addition to § 46.109, of the pre-2018 Requirements); and
(B) Beginning on January 21, 2019, comply with the 2018 Requirements.
(ii) If the determination to transition is documented on or after January 21, 2019, the research shall, beginning on the date of such documentation, comply with the 2018 Requirements.
(5)
Research subject to 2018 Requirements.
The 2018 Requirements shall apply to the following research:
(i) Research initially approved by an IRB on or after January 21, 2019;
(ii) Research for which IRB review is waived pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section on or after January 21, 2019; and
(iii) Research for which a determination is made that the research is exempt on or after January 21, 2019.
(m) Severability: Any provision of this part held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to
any person or circumstance, shall be construed so as to continue to give maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding shall be one of utter invalidity or unenforceability, in which event the provision shall be severable from this part and shall not affect the remainder thereof or the application of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other dissimilar circumstances.
[82 FR 7269, Jan. 19, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 2890, Jan. 22, 2018; 83 FR 28510, June 19, 2018]
§ 46.102
Definitions for purposes of this policy.
(a)
Certification
means the official notification by the institution to the supporting Federal department or agency component, in accordance with the requirements of this policy, that a research project or activity involving human subjects has been reviewed and approved by an IRB in accordance with an approved assurance.
(b)
Clinical trial
means a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions (which may include placebo or other control) to evaluate the effects of the interventions on biomedical or behavioral health-related outcomes.
(c)
Department or agency head
means the head of any Federal department or agency, for example, the Secretary of HHS, and any other officer or employee of any Federal department or agency to whom the authority provided by these regulations to the department or agency head has been delegated.
(d)
Federal department or agency
refers to a federal department or agency (the department or agency itself rather than its bureaus, offices or divisions) that takes appropriate administrative action to make this policy applicable to the research involving human subjects it conducts, supports, or otherwise regulates (
e.g.,
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Defense, or the Central Intelligence Agency).
(e)(1)
Human subject
means a living individual about whom an investigator (whether professional or student) conducting research:
(i) Obtains information or biospecimens through intervention or interaction with the individual, and uses, studies, or analyzes the information or biospecimens; or (ii) Obtains, uses, studies, analyzes, or generates identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
(2)
Intervention
includes both physical procedures by which information or biospecimens are gathered (
e.g.,
venipuncture) and manipulations of the subject or the subject's environment that are performed for research purposes.
(3)
Interaction
includes communication or interpersonal contact between investigator and subject.
(4)
Private information
includes information about behavior that occurs in a context in which an individual can reasonably expect that no observation or recording is taking place, and information that has been provided for specific purposes by an individual and that the individual can reasonably expect will not be made public (
e.g.,
a medical record).
(5)
Identifiable private information
is private information for which the identity of the subject is or may readily be ascertained by the investigator or associated with the information.
(6)
An identifiable biospecimen
is a biospecimen for which the identity of the subject is or may readily be ascertained by the investigator or associated with the biospecimen.
(7) Federal departments or agencies implementing this policy shall:
(i) Upon consultation with appropriate experts (including experts in data matching and re-identification), reexamine the meaning of “identifiable private information,” as defined in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, and “identifiable biospecimen,” as defined in paragraph (e)(6) of this section. This reexamination shall take place within 1 year and regularly thereafter (at least every 4 years). This process will be conducted by collaboration among the Federal departments and agencies implementing this policy. If appropriate and permitted by law, such Federal departments and agencies may alter the interpretation of these terms, including through the use of guidance.
(ii) Upon consultation with appropriate experts, assess whether there are analytic technologies or techniques that should be considered by investigators to generate “identifiable private information,” as defined in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, or an “identifiable biospecimen,” as defined in paragraph (e)(6) of this section. This assessment shall take place within 1 year and regularly thereafter (at least every 4 years). This process will be conducted by collaboration among the Federal departments and agencies implementing this policy. Any such technologies or techniques will be included on a list of technologies or techniques that produce identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens. This list will be published in the
Federal Register
after notice and an opportunity for public comment. The Secretary, HHS, shall maintain the list on a publicly accessible Web site.
(f)
Institution
means any public or private entity, or department or agency (including federal, state, and other agencies).
(g)
IRB
means an institutional review board established in accord with and for the purposes expressed in this policy.
(h)
IRB approval
means the determination of the IRB that the research has been reviewed and may be conducted at an institution within the constraints set forth by the IRB and by other institutional and federal requirements.
(i)
Legally authorized representative
means an individual or judicial or other body authorized under applicable law to consent on behalf of a prospective subject to the subject's participation in the procedure(s) involved in the research. If there is no applicable law addressing this issue,
legally authorized representative
means an individual recognized by institutional policy as acceptable for providing consent in the nonresearch context on behalf of the prospective subject to the subject's participation in the procedure(s) involved in the research.
(j)
Minimal risk
means that the probability and magnitude of harm or discomfort anticipated in the research are not greater in and of themselves than those ordinarily encountered in daily life or during the performance of routine physical or psychological examinations or tests.
(k)
Public health authority
means an agency or authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision of a state or territory, an Indian tribe, or a foreign government, or a person or entity acting under a grant of authority from or contract with such public agency, including the employees or agents of such public agency or its contractors or persons or entities to whom it has granted authority, that is responsible for public health matters as part of its official mandate.
(l)
Research
means a systematic investigation, including research development, testing, and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge. Activities that meet this definition constitute research for purposes of this policy, whether or not they are conducted or supported under a program that is considered research for other purposes. For example, some demonstration and service programs may include research activities. For purposes of this part, the following activities are deemed not to be research:
(1) Scholarly and journalistic activities (
e.g.,
oral history, journalism, biography, literary criticism, legal research, and historical scholarship), including the collection and use of information, that focus directly on the specific individuals about whom the information is collected.
(2) Public health surveillance activities, including the collection and testing of information or biospecimens, conducted, supported, requested, ordered, required, or authorized by a public health authority. Such activities are limited to those necessary to allow a public health authority to identify, monitor, assess, or investigate potential public health signals, onsets of disease outbreaks, or conditions of public health importance (including trends, signals, risk factors, patterns in diseases, or increases in injuries from using consumer products). Such activities include those associated with providing timely situational awareness and priority setting during the course of an event or crisis that threatens
public health (including natural or man-made disasters).
(3) Collection and analysis of information, biospecimens, or records by or for a criminal justice agency for activities authorized by law or court order solely for criminal justice or criminal investigative purposes.
(4) Authorized operational activities (as determined by each agency) in support of intelligence, homeland security, defense, or other national security missions.
(m)
Written,
or
in writing,
for purposes of this part, refers to writing on a tangible medium (
e.g.,
paper) or in an electronic format.
§ 46.103
Assuring compliance with this policy—research conducted or supported by any Federal department or agency.
(a) Each institution engaged in research that is covered by this policy, with the exception of research eligible for exemption under § 46.104, and that is conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, shall provide written assurance satisfactory to the department or agency head that it will comply with the requirements of this policy. In lieu of requiring submission of an assurance, individual department or agency heads shall accept the existence of a current assurance, appropriate for the research in question, on file with the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office, and approved for Federal-wide use by that office. When the existence of an HHS-approved assurance is accepted in lieu of requiring submission of an assurance, reports (except certification) required by this policy to be made to department and agency heads shall also be made to the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office. Federal departments and agencies will conduct or support research covered by this policy only if the institution has provided an assurance that it will comply with the requirements of this policy, as provided in this section, and only if the institution has certified to the department or agency head that the research has been reviewed and approved by an IRB (if such certification is required by § 46.103(d)).
(b) The assurance shall be executed by an individual authorized to act for the institution and to assume on behalf of the institution the obligations imposed by this policy and shall be filed in such form and manner as the department or agency head prescribes.
(c) The department or agency head may limit the period during which any assurance shall remain effective or otherwise condition or restrict the assurance.
(d) Certification is required when the research is supported by a Federal department or agency and not otherwise waived under § 46.101(i) or exempted under § 46.104. For such research, institutions shall certify that each proposed research study covered by the assurance and this section has been reviewed and approved by the IRB. Such certification must be submitted as prescribed by the Federal department or agency component supporting the research. Under no condition shall research covered by this section be initiated prior to receipt of the certification that the research has been reviewed and approved by the IRB.
(e) For nonexempt research involving human subjects covered by this policy (or exempt research for which limited IRB review takes place pursuant to § 46.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), or (d)(7) or (8)) that takes place at an institution in which IRB oversight is conducted by an IRB that is not operated by the institution, the institution and the organization operating the IRB shall document the institution's reliance on the IRB for oversight of the research and the responsibilities that each entity will undertake to ensure compliance with the requirements of this policy (
e.g.,
in a written agreement between the institution and the IRB, by implementation of an institution-wide policy directive providing the allocation of responsibilities between the institution and an IRB that is not affiliated with the institution, or as set forth in a research protocol).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 46.104
Exempt research.
(a) Unless otherwise required by law or by department or agency heads, research activities in which the only involvement of human subjects will be in one or more of the categories in paragraph (d) of this section are exempt from the requirements of this policy, except that such activities must comply with the requirements of this section and as specified in each category.
(b) Use of the exemption categories for research subject to the requirements of subparts B, C, and D: Application of the exemption categories to research subject to the requirements of 45 CFR part 46, subparts B, C, and D, is as follows:
(1)
Subpart B.
Each of the exemptions at this section may be applied to research subject to subpart B if the conditions of the exemption are met.
(2)
Subpart C.
The exemptions at this section do not apply to research subject to subpart C, except for research aimed at involving a broader subject population that only incidentally includes prisoners.
(3)
Subpart D.
The exemptions at paragraphs (d)(1), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) of this section may be applied to research subject to subpart D if the conditions of the exemption are met. Paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section only may apply to research subject to subpart D involving educational tests or the observation of public behavior when the investigator(s) do not participate in the activities being observed. Paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section may not be applied to research subject to subpart D.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Except as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the following categories of human subjects research are exempt from this policy:
(1) Research, conducted in established or commonly accepted educational settings, that specifically involves normal educational practices that are not likely to adversely impact students' opportunity to learn required educational content or the assessment of educators who provide instruction. This includes most research on regular and special education instructional strategies, and research on the effectiveness of or the comparison among instructional techniques, curricula, or classroom management methods.
(2) Research that only includes interactions involving educational tests (cognitive, diagnostic, aptitude, achievement), survey procedures, interview procedures, or observation of public behavior (including visual or auditory recording) if at least one of the following criteria is met:
(i) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects cannot readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects;
(ii) Any disclosure of the human subjects' responses outside the research would not reasonably place the subjects at risk of criminal or civil liability or be damaging to the subjects' financial standing, employability, educational advancement, or reputation; or
(iii) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects can readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects, and an IRB conducts a limited IRB review to make the determination required by § 46.111(a)(7).
(3)(i) Research involving benign behavioral interventions in conjunction with the collection of information from an adult subject through verbal or written responses (including data entry) or audiovisual recording if the subject prospectively agrees to the intervention and information collection and at least one of the following criteria is met:
(A) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects cannot readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects;
(B) Any disclosure of the human subjects' responses outside the research would not reasonably place the subjects at risk of criminal or civil liability or be damaging to the subjects' financial standing, employability, educational advancement, or reputation; or
(C) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human
subjects can readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects, and an IRB conducts a limited IRB review to make the determination required by § 46.111(a)(7).
(ii) For the purpose of this provision, benign behavioral interventions are brief in duration, harmless, painless, not physically invasive, not likely to have a significant adverse lasting impact on the subjects, and the investigator has no reason to think the subjects will find the interventions offensive or embarrassing. Provided all such criteria are met, examples of such benign behavioral interventions would include having the subjects play an online game, having them solve puzzles under various noise conditions, or having them decide how to allocate a nominal amount of received cash between themselves and someone else.
(iii) If the research involves deceiving the subjects regarding the nature or purposes of the research, this exemption is not applicable unless the subject authorizes the deception through a prospective agreement to participate in research in circumstances in which the subject is informed that he or she will be unaware of or misled regarding the nature or purposes of the research.
(4) Secondary research for which consent is not required: Secondary research uses of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, if at least one of the following criteria is met:
(i) The identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens are publicly available;
(ii) Information, which may include information about biospecimens, is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects cannot readily be ascertained directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects, the investigator does not contact the subjects, and the investigator will not re-identify subjects;
(iii) The research involves only information collection and analysis involving the investigator's use of identifiable health information when that use is regulated under 45 CFR parts 160 and 164, subparts A and E, for the purposes of “health care operations” or “research” as those terms are defined at 45 CFR 164.501 or for “public health activities and purposes” as described under 45 CFR 164.512(b); or
(iv) The research is conducted by, or on behalf of, a Federal department or agency using government-generated or government-collected information obtained for nonresearch activities, if the research generates identifiable private information that is or will be maintained on information technology that is subject to and in compliance with section 208(b) of the E-Government Act of 2002, 44 U.S.C. 3501 note, if all of the identifiable private information collected, used, or generated as part of the activity will be maintained in systems of records subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and, if applicable, the information used in the research was collected subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
(5) Research and demonstration projects that are conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, or otherwise subject to the approval of department or agency heads (or the approval of the heads of bureaus or other subordinate agencies that have been delegated authority to conduct the research and demonstration projects), and that are designed to study, evaluate, improve, or otherwise examine public benefit or service programs, including procedures for obtaining benefits or services under those programs, possible changes in or alternatives to those programs or procedures, or possible changes in methods or levels of payment for benefits or services under those programs. Such projects include, but are not limited to, internal studies by Federal employees, and studies under contracts or consulting arrangements, cooperative agreements, or grants. Exempt projects also include waivers of otherwise mandatory requirements using authorities such as sections 1115 and 1115A of the Social Security Act, as amended.
(i) Each Federal department or agency conducting or supporting the research and demonstration projects must establish, on a publicly accessible Federal Web site or in such other manner as the department or agency head may determine, a list of the research and demonstration projects that the
Federal department or agency conducts or supports under this provision. The research or demonstration project must be published on this list prior to commencing the research involving human subjects.
(ii) [Reserved]
(6) Taste and food quality evaluation and consumer acceptance studies:
(i) If wholesome foods without additives are consumed, or
(ii) If a food is consumed that contains a food ingredient at or below the level and for a use found to be safe, or agricultural chemical or environmental contaminant at or below the level found to be safe, by the Food and Drug Administration or approved by the Environmental Protection Agency or the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(7) Storage or maintenance for secondary research for which broad consent is required: Storage or maintenance of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens for potential secondary research use if an IRB conducts a limited IRB review and makes the determinations required by § 46.111(a)(8).
(8) Secondary research for which broad consent is required: Research involving the use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens for secondary research use, if the following criteria are met:
(i) Broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens was obtained in accordance with § 46.116(a)(1) through (4), (a)(6), and (d);
(ii) Documentation of informed consent or waiver of documentation of consent was obtained in accordance with § 46.117;
(iii) An IRB conducts a limited IRB review and makes the determination required by § 46.111(a)(7) and makes the determination that the research to be conducted is within the scope of the broad consent referenced in paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section; and (iv) The investigator does not include returning individual research results to subjects as part of the study plan. This provision does not prevent an investigator from abiding by any legal requirements to return individual research results.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§§ 46.105-46.106
[Reserved]
§ 46.107
IRB membership.
(a) Each IRB shall have at least five members, with varying backgrounds to promote complete and adequate review of research activities commonly conducted by the institution. The IRB shall be sufficiently qualified through the experience and expertise of its members (professional competence), and the diversity of its members, including race, gender, and cultural backgrounds and sensitivity to such issues as community attitudes, to promote respect for its advice and counsel in safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects. The IRB shall be able to ascertain the acceptability of proposed research in terms of institutional commitments (including policies and resources) and regulations, applicable law, and standards of professional conduct and practice. The IRB shall therefore include persons knowledgeable in these areas. If an IRB regularly reviews research that involves a category of subjects that is vulnerable to coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons, consideration shall be given to the inclusion of one or more individuals who are knowledgeable about and experienced in working with these categories of subjects.
(b) Each IRB shall include at least one member whose primary concerns are in scientific areas and at least one member whose primary concerns are in nonscientific areas.
(c) Each IRB shall include at least one member who is not otherwise affiliated with the institution and who is not part of the immediate family of a person who is affiliated with the institution.
(d) No IRB may have a member participate in the IRB's initial or continuing review of any project in which the member has a conflicting interest, except to provide information requested by the IRB.
(e) An IRB may, in its discretion, invite individuals with competence in special areas to assist in the review of issues that require expertise beyond or in addition to that available on the IRB. These individuals may not vote with the IRB.
§ 46.108
IRB functions and operations.
(a) In order to fulfill the requirements of this policy each IRB shall:
(1) Have access to meeting space and sufficient staff to support the IRB's review and recordkeeping duties;
(2) Prepare and maintain a current list of the IRB members identified by name; earned degrees; representative capacity; indications of experience such as board certifications or licenses sufficient to describe each member's chief anticipated contributions to IRB deliberations; and any employment or other relationship between each member and the institution, for example, full-time employee, part-time employee, member of governing panel or board, stockholder, paid or unpaid consultant;
(3) Establish and follow written procedures for:
(i) Conducting its initial and continuing review of research and for reporting its findings and actions to the investigator and the institution;
(ii) Determining which projects require review more often than annually and which projects need verification from sources other than the investigators that no material changes have occurred since previous IRB review; and
(iii) Ensuring prompt reporting to the IRB of proposed changes in a research activity, and for ensuring that investigators will conduct the research activity in accordance with the terms of the IRB approval until any proposed changes have been reviewed and approved by the IRB, except when necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards to the subject.
(4) Establish and follow written procedures for ensuring prompt reporting to the IRB; appropriate institutional officials; the department or agency head; and the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office, or the equivalent office within the appropriate Federal department or agency of
(i) Any unanticipated problems involving risks to subjects or others or any serious or continuing noncompliance with this policy or the requirements or determinations of the IRB; and
(ii) Any suspension or termination of IRB approval.
(b) Except when an expedited review procedure is used (as described in § 46.110), an IRB must review proposed research at convened meetings at which a majority of the members of the IRB are present, including at least one member whose primary concerns are in nonscientific areas. In order for the research to be approved, it shall receive the approval of a majority of those members present at the meeting.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 46.109
IRB review of research.
(a) An IRB shall review and have authority to approve, require modifications in (to secure approval), or disapprove all research activities covered by this policy, including exempt research activities under § 46.104 for which limited IRB review is a condition of exemption (under § 46.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), and (d)(7), and (8)).
(b) An IRB shall require that information given to subjects (or legally authorized representatives, when appropriate) as part of informed consent is in accordance with § 46.116. The IRB may require that information, in addition to that specifically mentioned in § 46.116, be given to the subjects when in the IRB's judgment the information would meaningfully add to the protection of the rights and welfare of subjects.
(c) An IRB shall require documentation of informed consent or may waive documentation in accordance with § 46.117.
(d) An IRB shall notify investigators and the institution in writing of its decision to approve or disapprove the proposed research activity, or of modifications required to secure IRB approval of the research activity. If the IRB decides to disapprove a research activity, it shall include in its written notification a statement of the reasons for its decision and give the investigator an
opportunity to respond in person or in writing.
(e) An IRB shall conduct continuing review of research requiring review by the convened IRB at intervals appropriate to the degree of risk, not less than once per year, except as described in § 46.109(f).
(f)(1) Unless an IRB determines otherwise, continuing review of research is not required in the following circumstances:
(i) Research eligible for expedited review in accordance with § 46.110;
(ii) Research reviewed by the IRB in accordance with the limited IRB review described in § 46.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), or (d)(7) or (8);
(iii) Research that has progressed to the point that it involves only one or both of the following, which are part of the IRB-approved study:
(A) Data analysis, including analysis of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, or
(B) Accessing follow-up clinical data from procedures that subjects would undergo as part of clinical care.
(2) [Reserved]
(g) An IRB shall have authority to observe or have a third party observe the consent process and the research.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 46.110
Expedited review procedures for certain kinds of research involving no more than minimal risk, and for minor changes in approved research.
(a) The Secretary of HHS has established, and published as a Notice in the
Federal Register,
a list of categories of research that may be reviewed by the IRB through an expedited review procedure. The Secretary will evaluate the list at least every 8 years and amend it, as appropriate, after consultation with other federal departments and agencies and after publication in the
Federal Register
for public comment. A copy of the list is available from the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office.
(b)(1) An IRB may use the expedited review procedure to review the following:
(i) Some or all of the research appearing on the list described in paragraph (a) of this section, unless the reviewer determines that the study involves more than minimal risk;
(ii) Minor changes in previously approved research during the period for which approval is authorized; or
(iii) Research for which limited IRB review is a condition of exemption under § 46.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), and (d)(7) and (8).
(2) Under an expedited review procedure, the review may be carried out by the IRB chairperson or by one or more experienced reviewers designated by the chairperson from among members of the IRB. In reviewing the research, the reviewers may exercise all of the authorities of the IRB except that the reviewers may not disapprove the research. A research activity may be disapproved only after review in accordance with the nonexpedited procedure set forth in § 46.108(b).
(c) Each IRB that uses an expedited review procedure shall adopt a method for keeping all members advised of research proposals that have been approved under the procedure.
(d) The department or agency head may restrict, suspend, terminate, or choose not to authorize an institution's or IRB's use of the expedited review procedure.
§ 46.111
Criteria for IRB approval of research.
(a) In order to approve research covered by this policy the IRB shall determine that all of the following requirements are satisfied:
(1) Risks to subjects are minimized:
(i) By using procedures that are consistent with sound research design and that do not unnecessarily expose subjects to risk, and
(ii) Whenever appropriate, by using procedures already being performed on the subjects for diagnostic or treatment purposes.
(2) Risks to subjects are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits, if any, to subjects, and the importance of the knowledge that may reasonably be expected to result. In evaluating risks and benefits, the IRB should consider only those risks and benefits that may
result from the research (as distinguished from risks and benefits of therapies subjects would receive even if not participating in the research). The IRB should not consider possible long-range effects of applying knowledge gained in the research (
e.g.,
the possible effects of the research on public policy) as among those research risks that fall within the purview of its responsibility.
(3) Selection of subjects is equitable. In making this assessment the IRB should take into account the purposes of the research and the setting in which the research will be conducted. The IRB should be particularly cognizant of the special problems of research that involves a category of subjects who are vulnerable to coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons.
(4) Informed consent will be sought from each prospective subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, in accordance with, and to the extent required by, § 46.116.
(5) Informed consent will be appropriately documented or appropriately waived in accordance with § 46.117.
(6) When appropriate, the research plan makes adequate provision for monitoring the data collected to ensure the safety of subjects.
(7) When appropriate, there are adequate provisions to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(i) The Secretary of HHS will, after consultation with the Office of Management and Budget's privacy office and other Federal departments and agencies that have adopted this policy, issue guidance to assist IRBs in assessing what provisions are adequate to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(ii) [Reserved]
(8) For purposes of conducting the limited IRB review required by § 46.104(d)(7)), the IRB need not make the determinations at paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, and shall make the following determinations:
(i) Broad consent for storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens is obtained in accordance with the requirements of § 46.116(a)(1)-(4), (a)(6), and (d);
(ii) Broad consent is appropriately documented or waiver of documentation is appropriate, in accordance with § 46.117; and
(iii) If there is a change made for research purposes in the way the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens are stored or maintained, there are adequate provisions to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(b) When some or all of the subjects are likely to be vulnerable to coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons, additional safeguards have been included in the study to protect the rights and welfare of these subjects.
§ 46.112
Review by institution
Research covered by this policy that has been approved by an IRB may be subject to further appropriate review and approval or disapproval by officials of the institution. However, those officials may not approve the research if it has not been approved by an IRB.
§ 46.113
Suspension or termination of IRB approval of research.
An IRB shall have authority to suspend or terminate approval of research that is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB's requirements or that has been associated with unexpected serious harm to subjects. Any suspension or termination of approval shall include a statement of the reasons for the IRB's action and shall be reported promptly to the investigator, appropriate institutional officials, and the department or agency head.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 46.114
Cooperative research.
(a) Cooperative research projects are those projects covered by this policy that involve more than one institution. In the conduct of cooperative research projects, each institution is responsible for safeguarding the rights and welfare
of human subjects and for complying with this policy.
(b)(1) Any institution located in the United States that is engaged in cooperative research must rely upon approval by a single IRB for that portion of the research that is conducted in the United States. The reviewing IRB will be identified by the Federal department or agency supporting or conducting the research or proposed by the lead institution subject to the acceptance of the Federal department or agency supporting the research.
(2) The following research is not subject to this provision:
(i) Cooperative research for which more than single IRB review is required by law (including tribal law passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe); or
(ii) Research for which any Federal department or agency supporting or conducting the research determines and documents that the use of a single IRB is not appropriate for the particular context.
(c) For research not subject to paragraph (b) of this section, an institution participating in a cooperative project may enter into a joint review arrangement, rely on the review of another IRB, or make similar arrangements for avoiding duplication of effort.
§ 46.115
IRB records.
(a) An institution, or when appropriate an IRB, shall prepare and maintain adequate documentation of IRB activities, including the following:
(1) Copies of all research proposals reviewed, scientific evaluations, if any, that accompany the proposals, approved sample consent forms, progress reports submitted by investigators, and reports of injuries to subjects.
(2) Minutes of IRB meetings, which shall be in sufficient detail to show attendance at the meetings; actions taken by the IRB; the vote on these actions including the number of members voting for, against, and abstaining; the basis for requiring changes in or disapproving research; and a written summary of the discussion of controverted issues and their resolution.
(3) Records of continuing review activities, including the rationale for conducting continuing review of research that otherwise would not require continuing review as described in § 46.109(f)(1).
(4) Copies of all correspondence between the IRB and the investigators.
(5) A list of IRB members in the same detail as described in § 46.108(a)(2).
(6) Written procedures for the IRB in the same detail as described in § 46.108(a)(3) and (4).
(7) Statements of significant new findings provided to subjects, as required by § 46.116(c)(5).
(8) The rationale for an expedited reviewer's determination under § 46.110(b)(1)(i) that research appearing on the expedited review list described in § 46.110(a) is more than minimal risk.
(9) Documentation specifying the responsibilities that an institution and an organization operating an IRB each will undertake to ensure compliance with the requirements of this policy, as described in § 46.103(e).
(b) The records required by this policy shall be retained for at least 3 years, and records relating to research that is conducted shall be retained for at least 3 years after completion of the research. The institution or IRB may maintain the records in printed form, or electronically. All records shall be accessible for inspection and copying by authorized representatives of the Federal department or agency at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 46.116
General requirements for informed consent.
(a)
General.
General requirements for informed consent, whether written or oral, are set forth in this paragraph and apply to consent obtained in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. Broad consent may be obtained in lieu of informed consent obtained in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section only with respect to the storage, maintenance, and secondary research uses of identifiable private information and identifiable biospecimens. Waiver or alteration of consent in research involving public benefit and service programs conducted
by or subject to the approval of state or local officials is described in paragraph (e) of this section. General waiver or alteration of informed consent is described in paragraph (f) of this section. Except as provided elsewhere in this policy:
(1) Before involving a human subject in research covered by this policy, an investigator shall obtain the legally effective informed consent of the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative.
(2) An investigator shall seek informed consent only under circumstances that provide the prospective subject or the legally authorized representative sufficient opportunity to discuss and consider whether or not to participate and that minimize the possibility of coercion or undue influence.
(3) The information that is given to the subject or the legally authorized representative shall be in language understandable to the subject or the legally authorized representative.
(4) The prospective subject or the legally authorized representative must be provided with the information that a reasonable person would want to have in order to make an informed decision about whether to participate, and an opportunity to discuss that information.
(5) Except for broad consent obtained in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section:
(i) Informed consent must begin with a concise and focused presentation of the key information that is most likely to assist a prospective subject or legally authorized representative in understanding the reasons why one might or might not want to participate in the research. This part of the informed consent must be organized and presented in a way that facilitates comprehension.
(ii) Informed consent as a whole must present information in sufficient detail relating to the research, and must be organized and presented in a way that does not merely provide lists of isolated facts, but rather facilitates the prospective subject's or legally authorized representative's understanding of the reasons why one might or might not want to participate.
(6) No informed consent may include any exculpatory language through which the subject or the legally authorized representative is made to waive or appear to waive any of the subject's legal rights, or releases or appears to release the investigator, the sponsor, the institution, or its agents from liability for negligence.
(b)
Basic elements of informed consent.
Except as provided in paragraph (d), (e), or (f) of this section, in seeking informed consent the following information shall be provided to each subject or the legally authorized representative:
(1) A statement that the study involves research, an explanation of the purposes of the research and the expected duration of the subject's participation, a description of the procedures to be followed, and identification of any procedures that are experimental;
(2) A description of any reasonably foreseeable risks or discomforts to the subject;
(3) A description of any benefits to the subject or to others that may reasonably be expected from the research;
(4) A disclosure of appropriate alternative procedures or courses of treatment, if any, that might be advantageous to the subject;
(5) A statement describing the extent, if any, to which confidentiality of records identifying the subject will be maintained;
(6) For research involving more than minimal risk, an explanation as to whether any compensation and an explanation as to whether any medical treatments are available if injury occurs and, if so, what they consist of, or where further information may be obtained;
(7) An explanation of whom to contact for answers to pertinent questions about the research and research subjects' rights, and whom to contact in the event of a research-related injury to the subject;
(8) A statement that participation is voluntary, refusal to participate will involve no penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled, and the subject may discontinue participation at any time without penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled; and
(9) One of the following statements about any research that involves the collection of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens:
(i) A statement that identifiers might be removed from the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens and that, after such removal, the information or biospecimens could be used for future research studies or distributed to another investigator for future research studies without additional informed consent from the subject or the legally authorized representative, if this might be a possibility; or
(ii) A statement that the subject's information or biospecimens collected as part of the research, even if identifiers are removed, will not be used or distributed for future research studies.
(c)
Additional elements of informed consent.
Except as provided in paragraph (d), (e), or (f) of this section, one or more of the following elements of information, when appropriate, shall also be provided to each subject or the legally authorized representative:
(1) A statement that the particular treatment or procedure may involve risks to the subject (or to the embryo or fetus, if the subject is or may become pregnant) that are currently unforeseeable;
(2) Anticipated circumstances under which the subject's participation may be terminated by the investigator without regard to the subject's or the legally authorized representative's consent;
(3) Any additional costs to the subject that may result from participation in the research;
(4) The consequences of a subject's decision to withdraw from the research and procedures for orderly termination of participation by the subject;
(5) A statement that significant new findings developed during the course of the research that may relate to the subject's willingness to continue participation will be provided to the subject;
(6) The approximate number of subjects involved in the study;
(7) A statement that the subject's biospecimens (even if identifiers are removed) may be used for commercial profit and whether the subject will or will not share in this commercial profit;
(8) A statement regarding whether clinically relevant research results, including individual research results, will be disclosed to subjects, and if so, under what conditions; and
(9) For research involving biospecimens, whether the research will (if known) or might include whole genome sequencing (
i.e.,
sequencing of a human germline or somatic specimen with the intent to generate the genome or exome sequence of that specimen).
(d)
Elements of broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
Broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens (collected for either research studies other than the proposed research or nonresearch purposes) is permitted as an alternative to the informed consent requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. If the subject or the legally authorized representative is asked to provide broad consent, the following shall be provided to each subject or the subject's legally authorized representative:
(1) The information required in paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(5), and (b)(8) and, when appropriate, (c)(7) and (9) of this section;
(2) A general description of the types of research that may be conducted with the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens. This description must include sufficient information such that a reasonable person would expect that the broad consent would permit the types of research conducted;
(3) A description of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens that might be used in research, whether sharing of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens might occur, and the types of institutions or researchers that might conduct research with the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens;
(4) A description of the period of time that the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens may be stored and maintained (which period
of time could be indefinite), and a description of the period of time that the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens may be used for research purposes (which period of time could be indefinite);
(5) Unless the subject or legally authorized representative will be provided details about specific research studies, a statement that they will not be informed of the details of any specific research studies that might be conducted using the subject's identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, including the purposes of the research, and that they might have chosen not to consent to some of those specific research studies;
(6) Unless it is known that clinically relevant research results, including individual research results, will be disclosed to the subject in all circumstances, a statement that such results may not be disclosed to the subject; and
(7) An explanation of whom to contact for answers to questions about the subject's rights and about storage and use of the subject's identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, and whom to contact in the event of a research-related harm.
(e)
Waiver or alteration of consent in research involving public benefit and service programs conducted by or subject to the approval of state or local officials
—(1)
Waiver.
An IRB may waive the requirement to obtain informed consent for research under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. If an individual was asked to provide broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens in accordance with the requirements at paragraph (d) of this section, and refused to consent, an IRB cannot waive consent for the storage, maintenance, or secondary research use of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
(2)
Alteration.
An IRB may approve a consent procedure that omits some, or alters some or all, of the elements of informed consent set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. An IRB may not omit or alter any of the requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section. If a broad consent procedure is used, an IRB may not omit or alter any of the elements required under paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Requirements for waiver and alteration.
In order for an IRB to waive or alter consent as described in this subsection, the IRB must find and document that:
(i) The research or demonstration project is to be conducted by or subject to the approval of state or local government officials and is designed to study, evaluate, or otherwise examine:
(A) Public benefit or service programs;
(B) Procedures for obtaining benefits or services under those programs;
(C) Possible changes in or alternatives to those programs or procedures; or
(D) Possible changes in methods or levels of payment for benefits or services under those programs; and
(ii) The research could not practicably be carried out without the waiver or alteration.
(f)
General waiver or alteration of consent
—(1)
Waiver.
An IRB may waive the requirement to obtain informed consent for research under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section. If an individual was asked to provide broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens in accordance with the requirements at paragraph (d) of this section, and refused to consent, an IRB cannot waive consent for the storage, maintenance, or secondary research use of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
(2)
Alteration.
An IRB may approve a consent procedure that omits some, or alters some or all, of the elements of informed consent set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section. An IRB may not omit or alter any
of the requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section. If a broad consent procedure is used, an IRB may not omit or alter any of the elements required under paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Requirements for waiver and alteration.
In order for an IRB to waive or alter consent as described in this subsection, the IRB must find and document that:
(i) The research involves no more than minimal risk to the subjects;
(ii) The research could not practicably be carried out without the requested waiver or alteration;
(iii) If the research involves using identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, the research could not practicably be carried out without using such information or biospecimens in an identifiable format;
(iv) The waiver or alteration will not adversely affect the rights and welfare of the subjects; and
(v) Whenever appropriate, the subjects or legally authorized representatives will be provided with additional pertinent information after participation.
(g)
Screening, recruiting, or determining eligibility.
An IRB may approve a research proposal in which an investigator will obtain information or biospecimens for the purpose of screening, recruiting, or determining the eligibility of prospective subjects without the informed consent of the prospective subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, if either of the following conditions are met:
(1) The investigator will obtain information through oral or written communication with the prospective subject or legally authorized representative, or
(2) The investigator will obtain identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens by accessing records or stored identifiable biospecimens.
(h)
Posting of clinical trial consent form.
(1) For each clinical trial conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, one IRB-approved informed consent form used to enroll subjects must be posted by the awardee or the Federal department or agency component conducting the trial on a publicly available Federal Web site that will be established as a repository for such informed consent forms.
(2) If the Federal department or agency supporting or conducting the clinical trial determines that certain information should not be made publicly available on a Federal Web site (
e.g.
confidential commercial information), such Federal department or agency may permit or require redactions to the information posted.
(3) The informed consent form must be posted on the Federal Web site after the clinical trial is closed to recruitment, and no later than 60 days after the last study visit by any subject, as required by the protocol.
(i)
Preemption.
The informed consent requirements in this policy are not intended to preempt any applicable Federal, state, or local laws (including tribal laws passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe) that require additional information to be disclosed in order for informed consent to be legally effective.
(j)
Emergency medical care.
Nothing in this policy is intended to limit the authority of a physician to provide emergency medical care, to the extent the physician is permitted to do so under applicable Federal, state, or local law (including tribal law passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 46.117
Documentation of informed consent.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, informed consent shall be documented by the use of a written informed consent form approved by the IRB and signed (including in an electronic format) by the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative. A written copy shall be given to the person signing the informed consent form.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the informed consent form may be either of the following:
(1) A written informed consent form that meets the requirements of § 46.116. The investigator shall give either the
subject or the subject's legally authorized representative adequate opportunity to read the informed consent form before it is signed; alternatively, this form may be read to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative.
(2) A short form written informed consent form stating that the elements of informed consent required by § 46.116 have been presented orally to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, and that the key information required by § 46.116(a)(5)(i) was presented first to the subject, before other information, if any, was provided. The IRB shall approve a written summary of what is to be said to the subject or the legally authorized representative. When this method is used, there shall be a witness to the oral presentation. Only the short form itself is to be signed by the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative. However, the witness shall sign both the short form and a copy of the summary, and the person actually obtaining consent shall sign a copy of the summary. A copy of the summary shall be given to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, in addition to a copy of the short form.
(c)(1) An IRB may waive the requirement for the investigator to obtain a signed informed consent form for some or all subjects if it finds any of the following:
(i) That the only record linking the subject and the research would be the informed consent form and the principal risk would be potential harm resulting from a breach of confidentiality. Each subject (or legally authorized representative) will be asked whether the subject wants documentation linking the subject with the research, and the subject's wishes will govern;
(ii) That the research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to subjects and involves no procedures for which written consent is normally required outside of the research context; or
(iii) If the subjects or legally authorized representatives are members of a distinct cultural group or community in which signing forms is not the norm, that the research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to subjects and provided there is an appropriate alternative mechanism for documenting that informed consent was obtained.
(2) In cases in which the documentation requirement is waived, the IRB may require the investigator to provide subjects or legally authorized representatives with a written statement regarding the research.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 46.118
Applications and proposals lacking definite plans for involvement of human subjects.
Certain types of applications for grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts are submitted to Federal departments or agencies with the knowledge that subjects may be involved within the period of support, but definite plans would not normally be set forth in the application or proposal. These include activities such as institutional type grants when selection of specific projects is the institution's responsibility; research training grants in which the activities involving subjects remain to be selected; and projects in which human subjects' involvement will depend upon completion of instruments, prior animal studies, or purification of compounds. Except for research waived under § 46.101(i) or exempted under § 46.104, no human subjects may be involved in any project supported by these awards until the project has been reviewed and approved by the IRB, as provided in this policy, and certification submitted, by the institution, to the Federal department or agency component supporting the research.
§ 46.119
Research undertaken without the intention of involving human subjects.
Except for research waived under § 46.101(i) or exempted under § 46.104, in the event research is undertaken without the intention of involving human subjects, but it is later proposed to involve human subjects in the research, the research shall first be reviewed and approved by an IRB, as provided in this policy, a certification submitted by the institution to the Federal department or agency component supporting the
research, and final approval given to the proposed change by the Federal department or agency component.
§ 46.120
Evaluation and disposition of applications and proposals for research to be conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency.
(a) The department or agency head will evaluate all applications and proposals involving human subjects submitted to the Federal department or agency through such officers and employees of the Federal department or agency and such experts and consultants as the department or agency head determines to be appropriate. This evaluation will take into consideration the risks to the subjects, the adequacy of protection against these risks, the potential benefits of the research to the subjects and others, and the importance of the knowledge gained or to be gained.
(b) On the basis of this evaluation, the department or agency head may approve or disapprove the application or proposal, or enter into negotiations to develop an approvable one.
§ 46.121
[Reserved]
§ 46.122
Use of Federal funds.
Federal funds administered by a Federal department or agency may not be expended for research involving human subjects unless the requirements of this policy have been satisfied.
§ 46.123
Early termination of research support: Evaluation of applications and proposals.
(a) The department or agency head may require that Federal department or agency support for any project be terminated or suspended in the manner prescribed in applicable program requirements, when the department or agency head finds an institution has materially failed to comply with the terms of this policy.
(b) In making decisions about supporting or approving applications or proposals covered by this policy the department or agency head may take into account, in addition to all other eligibility requirements and program criteria, factors such as whether the applicant has been subject to a termination or suspension under paragraph (a) of this section and whether the applicant or the person or persons who would direct or has/have directed the scientific and technical aspects of an activity has/have, in the judgment of the department or agency head, materially failed to discharge responsibility for the protection of the rights and welfare of human subjects (whether or not the research was subject to federal regulation).
§ 46.124
Conditions.
With respect to any research project or any class of research projects the department or agency head of either the conducting or the supporting Federal department or agency may impose additional conditions prior to or at the time of approval when in the judgment of the department or agency head additional conditions are necessary for the protection of human subjects.
Pt. 115

# PART 115—SEXUAL ABUSE AND ASSAULT PREVENTION STANDARDS
Sec.
115.5
General definitions.
115.6
Definitions related to sexual abuse and assault.

# Subpart A—Standards for Immigration Detention Facilities

# Coverage
115.10
Coverage of DHS immigration detention facilities.

# Prevention Planning
115.11
Zero tolerance of sexual abuse; Prevention of Sexual Assault Coordinator.
115.12
Contracting with non-DHS entities for the confinement of detainees.
115.13
Detainee supervision and monitoring.
115.14
Juvenile and family detainees.
115.15
Limits to cross-gender viewing and searches.
115.16
Accommodating detainees with disabilities and detainees who are limited English proficient.
115.17
Hiring and promotion decisions.
115.18
Upgrades to facilities and technologies.

# Responsive Planning
115.21
Evidence protocols and forensic medical examinations.
115.22
Policies to ensure investigation of allegations and appropriate agency oversight.

# Training and Education
115.31
Staff training.
115.32
Other training.
115.33
Detainee education.
115.34
Specialized training: Investigations.
115.35
Specialized training: Medical and mental health care.

# Assessment for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
115.41
Assessment for risk of victimization and abusiveness.
115.42
Use of assessment information.
115.43
Protective custody.

# Reporting
115.51
Detainee reporting.
115.52
Grievances.
115.53
Detainee access to outside confidential support services.
115.54
Third-party reporting.

# Official Response Following a Detainee Report
115.61
Staff reporting duties.
115.62
Protection duties.
115.63
Reporting to other confinement facilities.
115.64
Responder duties.
115.65
Coordinated response.
115.66
Protection of detainees from contact with alleged abusers.
115.67
Agency protection against retaliation.
115.68
Post-allegation protective custody.

# Investigations
115.71
Criminal and administrative investigations.
115.72
Evidentiary standard for administrative investigations.
115.73
Reporting to detainees.

# Discipline
115.76
Disciplinary sanctions for staff.
115.77
Corrective action for contractors and volunteers.
115.78
Disciplinary sanctions for detainees.

# Medical and Mental Care
115.81
Medical and mental health assessments; history of sexual abuse.
115.82
Access to emergency medical and mental health services.
115.83
Ongoing medical and mental health care for sexual abuse victims and abusers.

# Data Collection and Review
115.86
Sexual abuse incident reviews.
115.87
Data collection.
115.88
Data review for corrective action.
115.89
Data storage, publication, and destruction.

# Audits and Compliance
115.93
Audits of standards.

# Additional Provisions in Agency Policies
115.95
Additional provisions in agency policies.

# Subpart B—Standards for DHS Holding Facilities

# Coverage
115.110
Coverage of DHS holding facilities.

# Prevention Planning
115.111
Zero tolerance of sexual abuse; Prevention of Sexual Assault Coordinator.
115.112
Contracting with non-DHS entities for the confinement of detainees.
115.113
Detainee supervision and monitoring.
115.114
Juvenile and family detainees.
115.115
Limits to cross-gender viewing and searches.
115.116
Accommodating detainees with disabilities and detainees who are limited English proficient.
115.117
Hiring and promotion decisions.
115.118
Upgrades to facilities and technologies.

# Responsive Planning
115.121
Evidence protocols and forensic medical examinations.
115.122
Policies to ensure investigation of allegations and appropriate agency oversight.

# Training and Education
115.131
Employee, contractor, and volunteer training.
115.132
Notification to detainees of the agency's zero-tolerance policy.
115.133
[Reserved]
115.134
Specialized training: Investigations.

# Assessment for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
115.141
Assessment for risk of victimization and abusiveness.

# Reporting
115.151
Detainee reporting.
115.152-115.153
[Reserved]
115.154
Third-party reporting.

# Official Response Following a Detainee Report
115.161
Staff reporting duties.
115.162
Agency protection duties.
115.163
Reporting to other confinement facilities.
115.164
Responder duties.
115.165
Coordinated response.
115.166
Protection of detainees from contact with alleged abusers.
115.167
Agency protection against retaliation.

# Investigations
115.171
Criminal and administrative investigations.
115.172
Evidentiary standard for administrative investigations.

# Discipline
115.176
Disciplinary sanctions for staff.
115.177
Corrective action for contractors and volunteers.

# Medical and Mental Care
115.181
[Reserved]
115.182
Access to emergency medical services.

# Data Collection and Review
115.186
Sexual abuse incident reviews.
115.187
Data collection.
115.188
Data review for corrective action.
115.189
Data storage, publication, and destruction.

# Audits and Compliance
115.193
Audits of standards.

# Additional Provisions in Agency Policies
115.195
Additional provisions in agency policies.

# Subpart C—External Auditing and Corrective Action
115.201
Scope of audits.
115.202
Auditor qualifications.
115.203
Audit contents and findings.
115.204
Audit corrective action plan.
115.205
Audit appeals.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552, 552a; 8 U.S.C. 1103, 1182, 1223, 1224, 1225, 1226, 1227, 1228, 1231, 1251, 1253, 1255, 1330, 1362; 18 U.S.C. 4002, 4013(c)(4); Pub. L. 107-296, 116 Stat. 2135 (6 U.S.C. 101,
et seq.
); 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
79 FR 13165, Mar. 7, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 115.5
General definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Agency
means the unit or component of DHS responsible for operating or supervising any facility, or part of a facility, that confines detainees.
Agency head
means the principal official of an agency.
Contractor
means a person who or entity that provides services on a recurring basis pursuant to a contractual agreement with the agency or facility.
Detainee
means any person detained in an immigration detention facility or holding facility.
Employee
means a person who works directly for the agency.
Exigent circumstances
means any set of temporary and unforeseen circumstances that require immediate action in order to combat a threat to the security or institutional order of a facility or a threat to the safety or security of any person.
Facility
means a place, building (or part thereof), set of buildings, structure, or area (whether or not enclosing a building or set of buildings) that was built or retrofitted for the purpose of detaining individuals and is routinely used by the agency to detain individuals in its custody. References to requirements placed on facilities extend to the entity responsible for the direct operation of the facility.
Facility head
means the principal official responsible for a facility.
Family unit
means a group of detainees that includes one or more non-United States citizen juvenile(s) accompanied by his/her/their parent(s) or legal guardian(s), whom the agency will evaluate for safety purposes to protect juveniles from sexual abuse and violence.
Gender nonconforming
means having an appearance or manner that does not conform to traditional societal gender expectations.
Holding facility
means a facility that contains holding cells, cell blocks, or other secure enclosures that are:
(1) Under the control of the agency; and
(2) Primarily used for the short-term confinement of individuals who have recently been detained, or are being transferred to or from a court, jail, prison, other agency, or other unit of the facility or agency.
Immigration detention facility
means a confinement facility operated by or pursuant to contract with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) that routinely holds persons for over 24 hours pending resolution or completion of immigration removal operations or processes, including facilities that are operated by ICE, facilities that provide detention services under a contract awarded by ICE, and facilities
used by ICE pursuant to an Intergovernmental Service Agreement.
Intersex
means having sexual or reproductive anatomy or chromosomal pattern that does not seem to fit typical definitions of male or female. Intersex medical conditions are sometimes referred to as disorders of sex development.
Juvenile
means any person under the age of 18.
Law enforcement staff
means officers or agents of the agency or facility that are responsible for the supervision and control of detainees in a holding facility.
Medical practitioner
means a health professional who, by virtue of education, credentials, and experience, is permitted by law to evaluate and care for patients within the scope of his or her professional practice. A “qualified medical practitioner” refers to such a professional who has also successfully completed specialized training for treating sexual abuse victims.
Mental health practitioner
means a mental health professional who, by virtue of education, credentials, and experience, is permitted by law to evaluate and care for patients within the scope of his or her professional practice. A “qualified mental health practitioner” refers to such a professional who has also successfully completed specialized training for treating sexual abuse victims.
Pat-down search
means a sliding or patting of the hands over the clothed body of a detainee by staff to determine whether the individual possesses contraband.
Security staff
means employees primarily responsible for the supervision and control of detainees in housing units, recreational areas, dining areas, and other program areas of an immigration detention facility.
Staff
means employees or contractors of the agency or facility, including any entity that operates within the facility.
Strip search
means a search that requires a person to remove or arrange some or all clothing so as to permit a visual inspection of the person's breasts, buttocks, or genitalia.
Substantiated allegation
means an allegation that was investigated and determined to have occurred.
Transgender
means a person whose gender identity (
i.e.
, internal sense of feeling male or female) is different from the person's assigned sex at birth.
Unfounded allegation
means an allegation that was investigated and determined not to have occurred.
Unsubstantiated allegation
means an allegation that was investigated and the investigation produced insufficient evidence to make a final determination as to whether or not the event occurred.
Volunteer
means an individual who donates time and effort on a recurring basis to enhance the activities and programs of the agency or facility.
§ 115.6
Definitions related to sexual abuse and assault.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Sexual abuse
includes—
(1) Sexual abuse and assault of a detainee by another detainee; and
(2) Sexual abuse and assault of a detainee by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer.
Sexual abuse of a detainee by another detainee
includes any of the following acts by one or more detainees, prisoners, inmates, or residents of the facility in which the detainee is housed who, by force, coercion, or intimidation, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, engages in or attempts to engage in:
(1) Contact between the penis and the vulva or anus and, for purposes of this paragraph (1), contact involving the penis upon penetration, however slight;
(2) Contact between the mouth and the penis, vulva, or anus;
(3) Penetration, however slight, of the anal or genital opening of another person by a hand or finger or by any object;
(4) Touching of the genitalia, anus, groin, breast, inner thighs or buttocks, either directly or through the clothing, with an intent to abuse, humiliate, harass, degrade or arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any person; or
(5) Threats, intimidation, or other actions or communications by one or more detainees aimed at coercing or
pressuring another detainee to engage in a sexual act.
Sexual abuse of a detainee by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer
includes any of the following acts, if engaged in by one or more staff members, volunteers, or contract personnel who, with or without the consent of the detainee, engages in or attempts to engage in:
(1) Contact between the penis and the vulva or anus and, for purposes of this paragraph (1), contact involving the penis upon penetration, however slight;
(2) Contact between the mouth and the penis, vulva, or anus;
(3) Penetration, however slight, of the anal or genital opening of another person by a hand or finger or by any object that is unrelated to official duties or where the staff member, contractor, or volunteer has the intent to abuse, arouse, or gratify sexual desire;
(4) Intentional touching of the genitalia, anus, groin, breast, inner thighs or buttocks, either directly or through the clothing, that is unrelated to official duties or where the staff member, contractor, or volunteer has the intent to abuse, arouse, or gratify sexual desire;
(5) Threats, intimidation, harassment, indecent, profane or abusive language, or other actions or communications, aimed at coercing or pressuring a detainee to engage in a sexual act;
(6) Repeated verbal statements or comments of a sexual nature to a detainee;
(7) Any display of his or her uncovered genitalia, buttocks, or breast in the presence of an inmate, detainee, or resident, or
(8) Voyeurism, which is defined as the inappropriate visual surveillance of a detainee for reasons unrelated to official duties. Where not conducted for reasons relating to official duties, the following are examples of voyeurism: staring at a detainee who is using a toilet in his or her cell to perform bodily functions; requiring an inmate detainee to expose his or her buttocks, genitals, or breasts; or taking images of all or part of a detainee's naked body or of a detainee performing bodily functions.

# Subpart A—Standards for Immigration Detention Facilities

# Coverage
§ 115.10
Coverage of DHS immigration detention facilities.
This subpart covers ICE immigration detention facilities. Standards set forth in this subpart A are not applicable to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) holding facilities.

# Prevention Planning
§ 115.11
Zero tolerance of sexual abuse; Prevention of Sexual Assault Coordinator.
(a) The agency shall have a written policy mandating zero tolerance toward all forms of sexual abuse and outlining the agency's approach to preventing, detecting, and responding to such conduct.
(b) The agency shall employ or designate an upper-level, agency-wide Prevention of Sexual Assault Coordinator (PSA Coordinator) with sufficient time and authority to develop, implement, and oversee agency efforts to comply with these standards in all of its immigration detention facilities.
(c) Each facility shall have a written policy mandating zero tolerance toward all forms of sexual abuse and outlining the facility's approach to preventing, detecting, and responding to such conduct. The agency shall review and approve each facility's written policy.
(d) Each facility shall employ or designate a Prevention of Sexual Assault Compliance Manager (PSA Compliance Manager) who shall serve as the facility point of contact for the agency PSA Coordinator and who has sufficient time and authority to oversee facility efforts to comply with facility sexual abuse prevention and intervention policies and procedures.
§ 115.12
Contracting with non-DHS entities for the confinement of detainees.
(a) When contracting for the confinement of detainees in immigration detention facilities operated by non-DHS private or public agencies or other entities, including other government agencies, the agency shall include in
any new contracts, contract renewals, or substantive contract modifications the entity's obligation to adopt and comply with these standards.
(b) Any new contracts, contract renewals, or substantive contract modifications shall provide for agency contract monitoring to ensure that the contractor is complying with these standards.
§ 115.13
Detainee supervision and monitoring.
(a) Each facility shall ensure that it maintains sufficient supervision of detainees, including through appropriate staffing levels and, where applicable, video monitoring, to protect detainees against sexual abuse.
(b) Each facility shall develop and document comprehensive detainee supervision guidelines to determine and meet the facility's detainee supervision needs, and shall review those guidelines at least annually.
(c) In determining adequate levels of detainee supervision and determining the need for video monitoring, the facility shall take into consideration generally accepted detention and correctional practices, any judicial findings of inadequacy, the physical layout of each facility, the composition of the detainee population, the prevalence of substantiated and unsubstantiated incidents of sexual abuse, the findings and recommendations of sexual abuse incident review reports, and any other relevant factors, including but not limited to the length of time detainees spend in agency custody.
(d) Each facility shall conduct frequent unannounced security inspections to identify and deter sexual abuse of detainees. Such inspections shall be implemented for night as well as day shifts. Each facility shall prohibit staff from alerting others that these security inspections are occurring, unless such announcement is related to the legitimate operational functions of the facility.
§ 115.14
Juvenile and family detainees.
(a) Juveniles shall be detained in the least restrictive setting appropriate to the juvenile's age and special needs, provided that such setting is consistent with the need to protect the juvenile's well-being and that of others, as well as with any other laws, regulations, or legal requirements.
(b) The facility shall hold juveniles apart from adult detainees, minimizing sight, sound, and physical contact, unless the juvenile is in the presence of an adult member of the family unit, and provided there are no safety or security concerns with the arrangement.
(c) In determining the existence of a family unit for detention purposes, the agency shall seek to obtain reliable evidence of a family relationship.
(d) The agency and facility shall provide priority attention to unaccompanied alien children as defined by 6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2), including transfer to a Department of Health and Human Services Office of Refugee Resettlement facility within 72 hours, except in exceptional circumstances, in accordance with 8 U.S.C. 1232(b)(3).
(e) If a juvenile who is an unaccompanied alien child has been convicted as an adult of a crime related to sexual abuse, the agency shall provide the facility and the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Refugee Resettlement with the releasable information regarding the conviction(s) to ensure the appropriate placement of the alien in a Department of Health and Human Services Office of Refugee Resettlement facility.
§ 115.15
Limits to cross-gender viewing and searches.
(a) Searches may be necessary to ensure the safety of officers, civilians and detainees; to detect and secure evidence of criminal activity; and to promote security, safety, and related interests at immigration detention facilities.
(b) Cross-gender pat-down searches of male detainees shall not be conducted unless, after reasonable diligence, staff of the same gender is not available at the time the pat-down search is required or in exigent circumstances.
(c) Cross-gender pat-down searches of female detainees shall not be conducted unless in exigent circumstances.
(d) All cross-gender pat-down searches shall be documented.
(e) Cross-gender strip searches or cross-gender visual body cavity
searches shall not be conducted except in exigent circumstances, including consideration of officer safety, or when performed by medical practitioners. Facility staff shall not conduct visual body cavity searches of juveniles and, instead, shall refer all such body cavity searches of juveniles to a medical practitioner.
(f) All strip searches and visual body cavity searches shall be documented.
(g) Each facility shall implement policies and procedures that enable detainees to shower, perform bodily functions, and change clothing without being viewed by staff of the opposite gender, except in exigent circumstances or when such viewing is incidental to routine cell checks or is otherwise appropriate in connection with a medical examination or monitored bowel movement. Such policies and procedures shall require staff of the opposite gender to announce their presence when entering an area where detainees are likely to be showering, performing bodily functions, or changing clothing.
(h) The facility shall permit detainees in Family Residential Facilities to shower, perform bodily functions, and change clothing without being viewed by staff, except in exigent circumstances or when such viewing is incidental to routine cell checks or is otherwise appropriate in connection with a medical examination or monitored bowel movement.
(i) The facility shall not search or physically examine a detainee for the sole purpose of determining the detainee's genital characteristics. If the detainee's gender is unknown, it may be determined during conversations with the detainee, by reviewing medical records, or, if necessary, learning that information as part of a standard medical examination that all detainees must undergo as part of intake or other processing procedure conducted in private, by a medical practitioner.
(j) The agency shall train security staff in proper procedures for conducting pat-down searches, including cross-gender pat-down searches and searches of transgender and intersex detainees. All pat-down searches shall be conducted in a professional and respectful manner, and in the least intrusive manner possible, consistent with security needs and agency policy, including consideration of officer safety.
§ 115.16
Accommodating detainees with disabilities and detainees who are limited English proficient.
(a) The agency and each facility shall take appropriate steps to ensure that detainees with disabilities (including, for example, detainees who are deaf or hard of hearing, those who are blind or have low vision, or those who have intellectual, psychiatric, or speech disabilities) have an equal opportunity to participate in or benefit from all aspects of the agency's and facility's efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to sexual abuse. Such steps shall include, when necessary to ensure effective communication with detainees who are deaf or hard of hearing, providing access to in-person, telephonic, or video interpretive services that enable effective, accurate, and impartial interpretation, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary. In addition, the agency and facility shall ensure that any written materials related to sexual abuse are provided in formats or through methods that ensure effective communication with detainees with disabilities, including detainees who have intellectual disabilities, limited reading skills, or who are blind or have low vision. An agency or facility is not required to take actions that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a service, program, or activity, or in undue financial and administrative burdens, as those terms are used in regulations promulgated under title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, 28 CFR 35.164.
(b) The agency and each facility shall take steps to ensure meaningful access to all aspects of the agency's and facility's efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to sexual abuse to detainees who are limited English proficient, including steps to provide in-person or telephonic interpretive services that enable effective, accurate, and impartial interpretation, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary.
(c) In matters relating to allegations of sexual abuse, the agency and each facility shall provide in-person or telephonic interpretation services that enable effective, accurate, and impartial interpretation, by someone other than another detainee, unless the detainee expresses a preference for another detainee to provide interpretation and the agency determines that such interpretation is appropriate and consistent with DHS policy. The provision of interpreter services by minors, alleged abusers, detainees who witnessed the alleged abuse, and detainees who have a significant relationship with the alleged abuser is not appropriate in matters relating to allegations of sexual abuse.
§ 115.17
Hiring and promotion decisions.
(a) An agency or facility shall not hire or promote anyone who may have contact with detainees, and shall not enlist the services of any contractor or volunteer who may have contact with detainees, who has engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1997); who has been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse; or who has been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity.
(b) An agency or facility considering hiring or promoting staff shall ask all applicants who may have contact with detainees directly about previous misconduct described in paragraph (a) of this section, in written applications or interviews for hiring or promotions and in any interviews or written self-evaluations conducted as part of reviews of current employees. Agencies and facilities shall also impose upon employees a continuing affirmative duty to disclose any such misconduct. The agency, consistent with law, shall make its best efforts to contact all prior institutional employers of an applicant for employment, to obtain information on substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or any resignation during a pending investigation of alleged sexual abuse.
(c) Before hiring new staff who may have contact with detainees, the agency or facility shall conduct a background investigation to determine whether the candidate for hire is suitable for employment with the facility or agency, including a criminal background records check. Upon request by the agency, the facility shall submit for the agency's approval written documentation showing the detailed elements of the facility's background check for each staff member and the facility's conclusions. The agency shall conduct an updated background investigation every five years for agency employees who may have contact with detainees. The facility shall require an updated background investigation every five years for those facility staff who may have contact with detainees and who work in immigration-only detention facilities.
(d) The agency or facility shall also perform a background investigation before enlisting the services of any contractor who may have contact with detainees. Upon request by the agency, the facility shall submit for the agency's approval written documentation showing the detailed elements of the facility's background check for each contractor and the facility's conclusions.
(e) Material omissions regarding such misconduct, or the provision of materially false information, shall be grounds for termination or withdrawal of an offer of employment, as appropriate.
(f) Unless prohibited by law, the agency shall provide information on substantiated allegations of sexual abuse involving a former employee upon receiving a request from an institutional employer for whom such employee has applied to work.
(g) In the event the agency contracts with a facility for the confinement of detainees, the requirements of this section otherwise applicable to the agency also apply to the facility and its staff.
§ 115.18
Upgrades to facilities and technologies.
(a) When designing or acquiring any new facility and in planning any substantial expansion or modification of
existing facilities, the facility or agency, as appropriate, shall consider the effect of the design, acquisition, expansion, or modification upon their ability to protect detainees from sexual abuse.
(b) When installing or updating a video monitoring system, electronic surveillance system, or other monitoring technology in an immigration detention facility, the facility or agency, as appropriate, shall consider how such technology may enhance their ability to protect detainees from sexual abuse.

# Responsive Planning
§ 115.21
Evidence protocols and forensic medical examinations.
(a) To the extent that the agency or facility is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse involving detainees, it shall follow a uniform evidence protocol that maximizes the potential for obtaining usable physical evidence for administrative proceedings and criminal prosecutions. The protocol shall be developed in coordination with DHS and shall be developmentally appropriate for juveniles, where applicable.
(b) The agency and each facility developing an evidence protocol referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, shall consider how best to utilize available community resources and services to provide valuable expertise and support in the areas of crisis intervention and counseling to most appropriately address victims' needs. Each facility shall establish procedures to make available, to the full extent possible, outside victim services following incidents of sexual abuse; the facility shall attempt to make available to the victim a victim advocate from a rape crisis center. If a rape crisis center is not available to provide victim advocate services, the agency shall provide these services by making available a qualified staff member from a community-based organization, or a qualified agency staff member. A qualified agency staff member or a qualified community-based staff member means an individual who has received education concerning sexual assault and forensic examination issues in general. The outside or internal victim advocate shall provide emotional support, crisis intervention, information, and referrals.
(c) Where evidentiarily or medically appropriate, at no cost to the detainee, and only with the detainee's consent, the facility shall arrange for an alleged victim detainee to undergo a forensic medical examination by qualified health care personnel, including a Sexual Assault Forensic Examiner (SAFE) or Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) where practicable. If SAFEs or SANEs cannot be made available, the examination can be performed by other qualified health care personnel.
(d) As requested by a victim, the presence of his or her outside or internal victim advocate, including any available victim advocacy services offered by a hospital conducting a forensic exam, shall be allowed for support during a forensic exam and investigatory interviews.
(e) To the extent that the agency is not responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse, the agency or the facility shall request that the investigating agency follow the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
§ 115.22
Policies to ensure investigation of allegations and appropriate agency oversight.
(a) The agency shall establish an agency protocol, and shall require each facility to establish a facility protocol, to ensure that each allegation of sexual abuse is investigated by the agency or facility, or referred to an appropriate investigative authority. The agency shall ensure that an administrative or criminal investigation is completed for all allegations of sexual abuse.
(b) The agency shall ensure that the agency and facility protocols required by paragraph (a) of this section, include a description of responsibilities of the agency, the facility, and any other investigating entities; and require the documentation and maintenance, for at least five years, of all reports and referrals of allegations of sexual abuse.
(c) The agency shall post its protocols on its Web site; each facility shall also post its protocols on its Web site, if it has one, or otherwise make the protocol available to the public.
(d) Each facility protocol shall ensure that all allegations are promptly reported to the agency as described in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, and, unless the allegation does not involve potentially criminal behavior, are promptly referred for investigation to an appropriate law enforcement agency with the legal authority to conduct criminal investigations. A facility may separately, and in addition to the above reports and referrals, conduct its own investigation.
(e) When a detainee, prisoner, inmate, or resident of the facility in which an alleged detainee victim is housed is alleged to be the perpetrator of detainee sexual abuse, the facility shall ensure that the incident is promptly reported to the Joint Intake Center, the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility or the DHS Office of Inspector General, as well as the appropriate ICE Field Office Director, and, if it is potentially criminal, referred to an appropriate law enforcement agency having jurisdiction for investigation.
(f) When a staff member, contractor, or volunteer is alleged to be the perpetrator of detainee sexual abuse, the facility shall ensure that the incident is promptly reported to the Joint Intake Center, the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility or the DHS Office of Inspector General, as well as to the appropriate ICE Field Office Director, and to the local government entity or contractor that owns or operates the facility. If the incident is potentially criminal, the facility shall ensure that it is promptly referred to an appropriate law enforcement agency having jurisdiction for investigation.
(g) The agency shall ensure that all allegations of detainee sexual abuse are promptly reported to the PSA Coordinator and to the appropriate offices within the agency and within DHS to ensure appropriate oversight of the investigation.
(h) The agency shall ensure that any alleged detainee victim of sexual abuse that is criminal in nature is provided timely access to U nonimmigrant status information.

# Training and Education
§ 115.31
Staff training.
(a) The agency shall train, or require the training of, all employees who may have contact with immigration detainees, and all facility staff, to be able to fulfill their responsibilities under this part, including training on:
(1) The agency's and the facility's zero-tolerance policies for all forms of sexual abuse;
(2) The right of detainees and staff to be free from sexual abuse, and from retaliation for reporting sexual abuse;
(3) Definitions and examples of prohibited and illegal sexual behavior;
(4) Recognition of situations where sexual abuse may occur;
(5) Recognition of physical, behavioral, and emotional signs of sexual abuse, and methods of preventing and responding to such occurrences;
(6) How to avoid inappropriate relationships with detainees;
(7) How to communicate effectively and professionally with detainees, including lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or gender nonconforming detainees;
(8) Procedures for reporting knowledge or suspicion of sexual abuse; and
(9) The requirement to limit reporting of sexual abuse to personnel with a need-to-know in order to make decisions concerning the victim's welfare and for law enforcement or investigative purposes.
(b) All current facility staff, and all agency employees who may have contact with immigration detention facility detainees, shall be trained within one year of May 6, 2014, and the agency or facility shall provide refresher information every two years.
(c) The agency and each facility shall document that staff that may have contact with immigration facility detainees have completed the training.
§ 115.32
Other training.
(a) The facility shall ensure that all volunteers and other contractors (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section) who have contact with detainees have been trained on their responsibilities under the agency's and the facility's sexual abuse prevention, detection,
intervention and response policies and procedures.
(b) The level and type of training provided to volunteers and other contractors shall be based on the services they provide and level of contact they have with detainees, but all volunteers and other contractors who have contact with detainees shall be notified of the agency's and the facility's zero-tolerance policies regarding sexual abuse and informed how to report such incidents.
(c) Each facility shall receive and maintain written confirmation that volunteers and other contractors who have contact with immigration facility detainees have completed the training.
(d) In this section, the term
other contractor
means a person who provides services on a non-recurring basis to the facility pursuant to a contractual agreement with the agency or facility.
§ 115.33
Detainee education.
(a) During the intake process, each facility shall ensure that the detainee orientation program notifies and informs detainees about the agency's and the facility's zero-tolerance policies for all forms of sexual abuse and includes (at a minimum) instruction on:
(1) Prevention and intervention strategies;
(2) Definitions and examples of detainee-on-detainee sexual abuse, staff-on-detainee sexual abuse and coercive sexual activity;
(3) Explanation of methods for reporting sexual abuse, including to any staff member, including a staff member other than an immediate point-of-contact line officer (e.g., the compliance manager or a mental health specialist), the DHS Office of Inspector General, and the Joint Intake Center;
(4) Information about self-protection and indicators of sexual abuse;
(5) Prohibition against retaliation, including an explanation that reporting sexual abuse shall not negatively impact the detainee's immigration proceedings; and
(6) The right of a detainee who has been subjected to sexual abuse to receive treatment and counseling.
(b) Each facility shall provide the detainee notification, orientation, and instruction in formats accessible to all detainees, including those who are limited English proficient, deaf, visually impaired or otherwise disabled, as well as to detainees who have limited reading skills.
(c) The facility shall maintain documentation of detainee participation in the intake process orientation.
(d) Each facility shall post on all housing unit bulletin boards the following notices:
(1) The DHS-prescribed sexual assault awareness notice;
(2) The name of the Prevention of Sexual Abuse Compliance Manager; and
(3) The name of local organizations that can assist detainees who have been victims of sexual abuse.
(e) The facility shall make available and distribute the DHS-prescribed “Sexual Assault Awareness Information” pamphlet.
(f) Information about reporting sexual abuse shall be included in the agency Detainee Handbook made available to all immigration detention facility detainees.
§ 115.34
Specialized training: Investigations.
(a) In addition to the general training provided to all facility staff and employees pursuant to § 115.31, the agency or facility shall provide specialized training on sexual abuse and effective cross-agency coordination to agency or facility investigators, respectively, who conduct investigations into allegations of sexual abuse at immigration detention facilities. All investigations into alleged sexual abuse must be conducted by qualified investigators.
(b) The agency and facility must maintain written documentation verifying specialized training provided to investigators pursuant to this section.
§ 115.35
Specialized training: Medical and mental health care.
(a) The agency shall provide specialized training to DHS or agency employees who serve as full- and part-time medical practitioners or full- and part-time mental health practitioners in immigration detention facilities where medical and mental health care is provided.
(b) The training required by this section shall cover, at a minimum, the following topics:
(1) How to detect and assess signs of sexual abuse;
(2) How to respond effectively and professionally to victims of sexual abuse,
(3) How and to whom to report allegations or suspicions of sexual abuse, and
(4) How to preserve physical evidence of sexual abuse. If medical staff employed by the agency conduct forensic examinations, such medical staff shall receive the appropriate training to conduct such examinations.
(c) The agency shall review and approve the facility's policy and procedures to ensure that facility medical staff is trained in procedures for examining and treating victims of sexual abuse, in facilities where medical staff may be assigned these activities.

# Assessment for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
§ 115.41
Assessment for risk of victimization and abusiveness.
(a) The facility shall assess all detainees on intake to identify those likely to be sexual aggressors or sexual abuse victims and shall house detainees to prevent sexual abuse, taking necessary steps to mitigate any such danger. Each new arrival shall be kept separate from the general population until he/she is classified and may be housed accordingly.
(b) The initial classification process and initial housing assignment should be completed within twelve hours of admission to the facility.
(c) The facility shall also consider, to the extent that the information is available, the following criteria to assess detainees for risk of sexual victimization:
(1) Whether the detainee has a mental, physical, or developmental disability;
(2) The age of the detainee;
(3) The physical build and appearance of the detainee;
(4) Whether the detainee has previously been incarcerated or detained;
(5) The nature of the detainee's criminal history;
(6) Whether the detainee has any convictions for sex offenses against an adult or child;
(7) Whether the detainee has self-identified as gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or gender nonconforming;
(8) Whether the detainee has self-identified as having previously experienced sexual victimization; and
(9) The detainee's own concerns about his or her physical safety.
(d) The initial screening shall consider prior acts of sexual abuse, prior convictions for violent offenses, and history of prior institutional violence or sexual abuse, as known to the facility, in assessing detainees for risk of being sexually abusive.
(e) The facility shall reassess each detainee's risk of victimization or abusiveness between 60 and 90 days from the date of initial assessment, and at any other time when warranted based upon the receipt of additional, relevant information or following an incident of abuse or victimization.
(f) Detainees shall not be disciplined for refusing to answer, or for not disclosing complete information in response to, questions asked pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(7), (c)(8), or (c)(9) of this section.
(g) The facility shall implement appropriate controls on the dissemination within the facility of responses to questions asked pursuant to this standard in order to ensure that sensitive information is not exploited to the detainee's detriment by staff or other detainees or inmates.
§ 115.42
Use of assessment information.
(a) The facility shall use the information from the risk assessment under § 115.41 of this part to inform assignment of detainees to housing, recreation and other activities, and voluntary work. The agency shall make individualized determinations about how to ensure the safety of each detainee.
(b) When making assessment and housing decisions for a transgender or intersex detainee, the facility shall consider the detainee's gender self-identification and an assessment of the effects of placement on the detainee's
health and safety. The facility shall consult a medical or mental health professional as soon as practicable on this assessment. The facility should not base placement decisions of transgender or intersex detainees solely on the identity documents or physical anatomy of the detainee; a detainee's self-identification of his/her gender and self-assessment of safety needs shall always be taken into consideration as well. The facility's placement of a transgender or intersex detainee shall be consistent with the safety and security considerations of the facility, and placement and programming assignments for each transgender or intersex detainee shall be reassessed at least twice each year to review any threats to safety experienced by the detainee.
(c) When operationally feasible, transgender and intersex detainees shall be given the opportunity to shower separately from other detainees.
§ 115.43
Protective custody.
(a) The facility shall develop and follow written procedures consistent with the standards in this subpart for each facility governing the management of its administrative segregation unit. These procedures, which should be developed in consultation with the ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations Field Office Director having jurisdiction for the facility, must document detailed reasons for placement of an individual in administrative segregation on the basis of a vulnerability to sexual abuse or assault.
(b) Use of administrative segregation by facilities to protect detainees vulnerable to sexual abuse or assault shall be restricted to those instances where reasonable efforts have been made to provide appropriate housing and shall be made for the least amount of time practicable, and when no other viable housing options exist, as a last resort. The facility should assign detainees vulnerable to sexual abuse or assault to administrative segregation for their protection until an alternative means of separation from likely abusers can be arranged, and such an assignment shall not ordinarily exceed a period of 30 days.
(c) Facilities that place vulnerable detainees in administrative segregation for protective custody shall provide those detainees access to programs, visitation, counsel and other services available to the general population to the maximum extent practicable.
(d) Facilities shall implement written procedures for the regular review of all vulnerable detainees placed in administrative segregation for their protection, as follows:
(1) A supervisory staff member shall conduct a review within 72 hours of the detainee's placement in administrative segregation to determine whether segregation is still warranted; and
(2) A supervisory staff member shall conduct, at a minimum, an identical review after the detainee has spent seven days in administrative segregation, and every week thereafter for the first 30 days, and every 10 days thereafter.
(e) Facilities shall notify the appropriate ICE Field Office Director no later than 72 hours after the initial placement into segregation, whenever a detainee has been placed in administrative segregation on the basis of a vulnerability to sexual abuse or assault.
(f) Upon receiving notification pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, the ICE Field Office Director shall review the placement and consider:
(1) Whether continued placement in administrative segregation is warranted;
(2) Whether any alternatives are available and appropriate, such as placing the detainee in a less restrictive housing option at another facility or other appropriate custodial options; and
(3) Whether the placement is only as a last resort and when no other viable housing options exist.

# Reporting
§ 115.51
Detainee reporting.
(a) The agency and each facility shall develop policies and procedures to ensure that detainees have multiple ways to privately report sexual abuse, retaliation for reporting sexual abuse, or
staff neglect or violations of responsibilities that may have contributed to such incidents. The agency and each facility shall also provide instructions on how detainees may contact their consular official, the DHS Office of the Inspector General or, as appropriate, another designated office, to confidentially and, if desired, anonymously, report these incidents.
(b) The agency shall also provide, and the facility shall inform the detainees of, at least one way for detainees to report sexual abuse to a public or private entity or office that is not part of the agency, and that is able to receive and immediately forward detainee reports of sexual abuse to agency officials, allowing the detainee to remain anonymous upon request.
(c) Facility policies and procedures shall include provisions for staff to accept reports made verbally, in writing, anonymously, and from third parties and to promptly document any verbal reports.
§ 115.52
Grievances.
(a) The facility shall permit a detainee to file a formal grievance related to sexual abuse at any time during, after, or in lieu of lodging an informal grievance or complaint.
(b) The facility shall not impose a time limit on when a detainee may submit a grievance regarding an allegation of sexual abuse.
(c) The facility shall implement written procedures for identifying and handling time-sensitive grievances that involve an immediate threat to detainee health, safety, or welfare related to sexual abuse.
(d) Facility staff shall bring medical emergencies to the immediate attention of proper medical personnel for further assessment.
(e) The facility shall issue a decision on the grievance within five days of receipt and shall respond to an appeal of the grievance decision within 30 days. Facilities shall send all grievances related to sexual abuse and the facility's decisions with respect to such grievances to the appropriate ICE Field Office Director at the end of the grievance process.
(f) To prepare a grievance, a detainee may obtain assistance from another detainee, the housing officer or other facility staff, family members, or legal representatives. Staff shall take reasonable steps to expedite requests for assistance from these other parties.
§ 115.53
Detainee access to outside confidential support services.
(a) Each facility shall utilize available community resources and services to provide valuable expertise and support in the areas of crisis intervention, counseling, investigation and the prosecution of sexual abuse perpetrators to most appropriately address victims' needs. The facility shall maintain or attempt to enter into memoranda of understanding or other agreements with community service providers or, if local providers are not available, with national organizations that provide legal advocacy and confidential emotional support services for immigrant victims of crime.
(b) Each facility's written policies shall establish procedures to include outside agencies in the facility's sexual abuse prevention and intervention protocols, if such resources are available.
(c) Each facility shall make available to detainees information about local organizations that can assist detainees who have been victims of sexual abuse, including mailing addresses and telephone numbers (including toll-free hotline numbers where available). If no such local organizations exist, the facility shall make available the same information about national organizations. The facility shall enable reasonable communication between detainees and these organizations and agencies, in as confidential a manner as possible.
(d) Each facility shall inform detainees, prior to giving them access to outside resources, of the extent to which such communications will be monitored and the extent to which reports of abuse will be forwarded to authorities in accordance with mandatory reporting laws.
§ 115.54
Third-party reporting.
Each facility shall establish a method to receive third-party reports of sexual abuse in its immigration detention facilities and shall make available to
the public information on how to report sexual abuse on behalf of a detainee.

# Official Response Following a Detainee Report
§ 115.61
Staff reporting duties.
(a) The agency and each facility shall require all staff to report immediately and according to agency policy any knowledge, suspicion, or information regarding an incident of sexual abuse that occurred in a facility; retaliation against detainees or staff who reported or participated in an investigation about such an incident; and any staff neglect or violation of responsibilities that may have contributed to an incident or retaliation. The agency shall review and approve facility policies and procedures and shall ensure that the facility specifies appropriate reporting procedures, including a method by which staff can report outside of the chain of command.
(b) Staff members who become aware of alleged sexual abuse shall immediately follow the reporting requirements set forth in the agency's and facility's written policies and procedures.
(c) Apart from such reporting, staff shall not reveal any information related to a sexual abuse report to anyone other than to the extent necessary to help protect the safety of the victim or prevent further victimization of other detainees or staff in the facility, or to make medical treatment, investigation, law enforcement, or other security and management decisions.
(d) If the alleged victim is under the age of 18 or considered a vulnerable adult under a State or local vulnerable persons statute, the agency shall report the allegation to the designated State or local services agency under applicable mandatory reporting laws.
§ 115.62
Protection duties.
If an agency employee or facility staff member has a reasonable belief that a detainee is subject to a substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse, he or she shall take immediate action to protect the detainee.
§ 115.63
Reporting to other confinement facilities.
(a) Upon receiving an allegation that a detainee was sexually abused while confined at another facility, the agency or facility whose staff received the allegation shall notify the appropriate office of the agency or the administrator of the facility where the alleged abuse occurred.
(b) The notification provided in paragraph (a) of this section shall be provided as soon as possible, but no later than 72 hours after receiving the allegation.
(c) The agency or facility shall document that it has provided such notification.
(d) The agency or facility office that receives such notification, to the extent the facility is covered by this subpart, shall ensure that the allegation is referred for investigation in accordance with these standards and reported to the appropriate ICE Field Office Director.
§ 115.64
Responder duties.
(a) Upon learning of an allegation that a detainee was sexually abused, the first security staff member to respond to the report, or his or her supervisor, shall be required to:
(1) Separate the alleged victim and abuser;
(2) Preserve and protect, to the greatest extent possible, any crime scene until appropriate steps can be taken to collect any evidence;
(3) If the abuse occurred within a time period that still allows for the collection of physical evidence, request the alleged victim not to take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, including, as appropriate, washing, brushing teeth, changing clothes, urinating, defecating, smoking, drinking, or eating; and
(4) If the sexual abuse occurred within a time period that still allows for the collection of physical evidence, ensure that the alleged abuser does not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, including, as appropriate, washing, brushing teeth, changing clothes, urinating, defecating, smoking, drinking, or eating.
(b) If the first staff responder is not a security staff member, the responder
shall be required to request that the alleged victim not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence and then notify security staff.
§ 115.65
Coordinated response.
(a) Each facility shall develop a written institutional plan to coordinate actions taken by staff first responders, medical and mental health practitioners, investigators, and facility leadership in response to an incident of sexual abuse.
(b) Each facility shall use a coordinated, multidisciplinary team approach to responding to sexual abuse.
(c) If a victim of sexual abuse is transferred between facilities covered by subpart A or B of this part, the sending facility shall, as permitted by law, inform the receiving facility of the incident and the victim's potential need for medical or social services.
(d) If a victim is transferred from a DHS immigration detention facility to a facility not covered by paragraph (c) of this section, the sending facility shall, as permitted by law, inform the receiving facility of the incident and the victim's potential need for medical or social services, unless the victim requests otherwise.
§ 115.66
Protection of detainees from contact with alleged abusers.
Staff, contractors, and volunteers suspected of perpetrating sexual abuse shall be removed from all duties requiring detainee contact pending the outcome of an investigation.
§ 115.67
Agency protection against retaliation.
(a) Staff, contractors, and volunteers, and immigration detention facility detainees, shall not retaliate against any person, including a detainee, who reports, complains about, or participates in an investigation into an allegation of sexual abuse, or for participating in sexual activity as a result of force, coercion, threats, or fear of force.
(b) The agency shall employ multiple protection measures, such as housing changes, removal of alleged staff or detainee abusers from contact with victims, and emotional support services for detainees or staff who fear retaliation for reporting sexual abuse or for cooperating with investigations.
(c) For at least 90 days following a report of sexual abuse, the agency and facility shall monitor to see if there are facts that may suggest possible retaliation by detainees or staff, and shall act promptly to remedy any such retaliation. Items the agency should monitor include any detainee disciplinary reports, housing or program changes, or negative performance reviews or reassignments of staff. DHS shall continue such monitoring beyond 90 days if the initial monitoring indicates a continuing need.
§ 115.68
Post-allegation protective custody.
(a) The facility shall take care to place detainee victims of sexual abuse in a supportive environment that represents the least restrictive housing option possible (e.g., protective custody), subject to the requirements of § 115.43.
(b) Detainee victims shall not be held for longer than five days in any type of administrative segregation, except in highly unusual circumstances or at the request of the detainee.
(c) A detainee victim who is in protective custody after having been subjected to sexual abuse shall not be returned to the general population until completion of a proper re-assessment, taking into consideration any increased vulnerability of the detainee as a result of the sexual abuse.
(d) Facilities shall notify the appropriate ICE Field Office Director whenever a detainee victim has been held in administrative segregation for 72 hours.
(e) Upon receiving notification that a detainee victim has been held in administrative segregation, the ICE Field Office Director shall review the placement and consider:
(1) Whether the placement is only as a last resort and when no other viable housing options exist; and
(2) In cases where the detainee has been held in administrative segregation for longer than 5 days, whether the placement is justified by highly unusual circumstances or at the detainee's request.

# Investigations
§ 115.71
Criminal and administrative investigations.
(a) If the facility has responsibility for investigating allegations of sexual abuse, all investigations into alleged sexual abuse must be prompt, thorough, objective, and conducted by specially trained, qualified investigators.
(b) Upon conclusion of a criminal investigation where the allegation was substantiated, an administrative investigation shall be conducted. Upon conclusion of a criminal investigation where the allegation was unsubstantiated, the facility shall review any available completed criminal investigation reports to determine whether an administrative investigation is necessary or appropriate. Administrative investigations shall be conducted after consultation with the appropriate investigative office within DHS, and the assigned criminal investigative entity.
(c)(1) The facility shall develop written procedures for administrative investigations, including provisions requiring:
(i) Preservation of direct and circumstantial evidence, including any available physical and DNA evidence and any available electronic monitoring data;
(ii) Interviewing alleged victims, suspected perpetrators, and witnesses;
(iii) Reviewing prior complaints and reports of sexual abuse involving the suspected perpetrator;
(iv) Assessment of the credibility of an alleged victim, suspect, or witness, without regard to the individual's status as detainee, staff, or employee, and without requiring any detainee who alleges sexual abuse to submit to a polygraph;
(v) An effort to determine whether actions or failures to act at the facility contributed to the abuse; and
(vi) Documentation of each investigation by written report, which shall include a description of the physical and testimonial evidence, the reasoning behind credibility assessments, and investigative facts and findings; and
(vii) Retention of such reports for as long as the alleged abuser is detained or employed by the agency or facility, plus five years.
(2) Such procedures shall govern the coordination and sequencing of the two types of investigations, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, to ensure that the criminal investigation is not compromised by an internal administrative investigation.
(d) The agency shall review and approve the facility policy and procedures for coordination and conduct of internal administrative investigations with the assigned criminal investigative entity to ensure non-interference with criminal investigations.
(e) The departure of the alleged abuser or victim from the employment or control of the facility or agency shall not provide a basis for terminating an investigation.
(f) When outside agencies investigate sexual abuse, the facility shall cooperate with outside investigators and shall endeavor to remain informed about the progress of the investigation.
§ 115.72
Evidentiary standard for administrative investigations.
When an administrative investigation is undertaken, the agency shall impose no standard higher than a preponderance of the evidence in determining whether allegations of sexual abuse are substantiated.
§ 115.73
Reporting to detainees.
The agency shall, when the detainee is still in immigration detention, or where otherwise feasible, following an investigation into a detainee's allegation of sexual abuse, notify the detainee as to the result of the investigation and any responsive action taken.

# Discipline
§ 115.76
Disciplinary sanctions for staff.
(a) Staff shall be subject to disciplinary or adverse action up to and including removal from their position and the Federal service for substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or for violating agency or facility sexual abuse policies.
(b) The agency shall review and approve facility policies and procedures
regarding disciplinary or adverse actions for staff and shall ensure that the facility policy and procedures specify disciplinary or adverse actions for staff, up to and including removal from their position and from the Federal service, when there is a substantiated allegation of sexual abuse, or when there has been a violation of agency sexual abuse rules, policies, or standards. Removal from their position and from the Federal service is the presumptive disciplinary sanction for staff who have engaged in or attempted or threatened to engage in sexual abuse, as defined under the definition of sexual abuse of a detainee by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer, paragraphs (1)-(4) and (7)-(8) of the definition of “sexual abuse of a detainee by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer” in § 115.6.
(c) Each facility shall report all removals or resignations in lieu of removal for violations of agency or facility sexual abuse policies to appropriate law enforcement agencies, unless the activity was clearly not criminal.
(d) Each facility shall make reasonable efforts to report removals or resignations in lieu of removal for violations of agency or facility sexual abuse policies to any relevant licensing bodies, to the extent known.
§ 115.77
Corrective action for contractors and volunteers.
(a) Any contractor or volunteer who has engaged in sexual abuse shall be prohibited from contact with detainees. Each facility shall make reasonable efforts to report to any relevant licensing body, to the extent known, incidents of substantiated sexual abuse by a contractor or volunteer. Such incidents shall also be reported to law enforcement agencies, unless the activity was clearly not criminal.
(b) Contractors and volunteers suspected of perpetrating sexual abuse shall be removed from all duties requiring detainee contact pending the outcome of an investigation.
(c) The facility shall take appropriate remedial measures, and shall consider whether to prohibit further contact with detainees by contractors or volunteers who have not engaged in sexual abuse, but have violated other provisions within these standards.
§ 115.78
Disciplinary sanctions for detainees.
(a) Each facility shall subject a detainee to disciplinary sanctions pursuant to a formal disciplinary process following an administrative or criminal finding that the detainee engaged in sexual abuse.
(b) At all steps in the disciplinary process provided in paragraph (a), any sanctions imposed shall be commensurate with the severity of the committed prohibited act and intended to encourage the detainee to conform with rules and regulations in the future.
(c) Each facility holding detainees in custody shall have a detainee disciplinary system with progressive levels of reviews, appeals, procedures, and documentation procedure.
(d) The disciplinary process shall consider whether a detainee's mental disabilities or mental illness contributed to his or her behavior when determining what type of sanction, if any, should be imposed.
(e) The facility shall not discipline a detainee for sexual contact with staff unless there is a finding that the staff member did not consent to such contact.
(f) For the purpose of disciplinary action, a report of sexual abuse made in good faith based upon a reasonable belief that the alleged conduct occurred shall not constitute falsely reporting an incident or lying, even if an investigation does not establish evidence sufficient to substantiate the allegation.

# Medical and Mental Care
§ 115.81
Medical and mental health assessments; history of sexual abuse.
(a) If the assessment pursuant to § 115.41 indicates that a detainee has experienced prior sexual victimization or perpetrated sexual abuse, staff shall, as appropriate, ensure that the detainee is immediately referred to a qualified medical or mental health practitioner for medical and/or mental health follow-up as appropriate.
(b) When a referral for medical follow-up is initiated, the detainee shall receive a health evaluation no later than two working days from the date of assessment.
(c) When a referral for mental health follow-up is initiated, the detainee shall receive a mental health evaluation no later than 72 hours after the referral.
§ 115.82
Access to emergency medical and mental health services.
(a) Detainee victims of sexual abuse shall have timely, unimpeded access to emergency medical treatment and crisis intervention services, including emergency contraception and sexually transmitted infections prophylaxis, in accordance with professionally accepted standards of care.
(b) Emergency medical treatment services provided to the victim shall be without financial cost and regardless of whether the victim names the abuser or cooperates with any investigation arising out of the incident.
§ 115.83
Ongoing medical and mental health care for sexual abuse victims and abusers.
(a) Each facility shall offer medical and mental health evaluation and, as appropriate, treatment to all detainees who have been victimized by sexual abuse while in immigration detention.
(b) The evaluation and treatment of such victims shall include, as appropriate, follow-up services, treatment plans, and, when necessary, referrals for continued care following their transfer to, or placement in, other facilities, or their release from custody.
(c) The facility shall provide such victims with medical and mental health services consistent with the community level of care.
(d) Detainee victims of sexually abusive vaginal penetration by a male abuser while incarcerated shall be offered pregnancy tests. If pregnancy results from an instance of sexual abuse, the victim shall receive timely and comprehensive information about lawful pregnancy-related medical services and timely access to all lawful pregnancy-related medical services.
(e) Detainee victims of sexual abuse while detained shall be offered tests for sexually transmitted infections as medically appropriate.
(f) Treatment services shall be provided to the victim without financial cost and regardless of whether the victim names the abuser or cooperates with any investigation arising out of the incident.
(g) The facility shall attempt to conduct a mental health evaluation of all known detainee-on-detainee abusers within 60 days of learning of such abuse history and offer treatment when deemed appropriate by mental health practitioners.

# Data Collection and Review
§ 115.86
Sexual abuse incident reviews.
(a) Each facility shall conduct a sexual abuse incident review at the conclusion of every investigation of sexual abuse and, where the allegation was not determined to be unfounded, prepare a written report within 30 days of the conclusion of the investigation recommending whether the allegation or investigation indicates that a change in policy or practice could better prevent, detect, or respond to sexual abuse. The facility shall implement the recommendations for improvement, or shall document its reasons for not doing so in a written response. Both the report and response shall be forwarded to the agency PSA Coordinator.
(b) The review team shall consider whether the incident or allegation was motivated by race; ethnicity; gender identity; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or intersex identification, status, or perceived status; or gang affiliation; or was motivated or otherwise caused by other group dynamics at the facility.
(c) Each facility shall conduct an annual review of all sexual abuse investigations and resulting incident reviews to assess and improve sexual abuse intervention, prevention and response efforts. If the facility has not had any reports of sexual abuse during the annual reporting period, then the facility shall prepare a negative report. The results and findings of the annual review shall be provided to the facility administrator, Field Office Director or his or her designee, and the agency PSA Coordinator.
§ 115.87
Data collection.
(a) Each facility shall maintain in a secure area all case records associated with claims of sexual abuse, including incident reports, investigative reports, offender information, case disposition, medical and counseling evaluation findings, and recommendations for post-release treatment, if necessary, and/or counseling in accordance with these standards and applicable agency policies, and in accordance with established schedules. The DHS Office of Inspector General shall maintain the official investigative file related to claims of sexual abuse investigated by the DHS Office of Inspector General.
(b) On an ongoing basis, the PSA Coordinator shall work with relevant facility PSA Compliance Managers and DHS entities to share data regarding effective agency response methods to sexual abuse.
(c) On a regular basis, the PSA Coordinator shall prepare a report for ICE leadership compiling information received about all incidents or allegations of sexual abuse of detainees in immigration detention during the period covered by the report, as well as ongoing investigations and other pending cases.
(d) On an annual basis, the PSA Coordinator shall aggregate, in a manner that will facilitate the agency's ability to detect possible patterns and help prevent future incidents, the incident-based sexual abuse data, including the number of reported sexual abuse allegations determined to be substantiated, unsubstantiated, or unfounded, or for which investigation is ongoing, and for each incident found to be substantiated, information concerning:
(1) The date, time, location, and nature of the incident;
(2) The demographic background of the victim and perpetrator (including citizenship, age, gender, and whether either has self-identified as gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or gender nonconforming);
(3) The reporting timeline for the incident (including the name of individual who reported the incident, and the date and time the report was received);
(4) Any injuries sustained by the victim;
(5) Post-report follow up responses and action taken by the facility (e.g., housing placement/custody classification, medical examination, mental health counseling, etc.); and
(6) Any sanctions imposed on the perpetrator.
(e) Upon request, the agency shall provide all data described in this section from the previous calendar year to the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties no later than June 30.
§ 115.88
Data review for corrective action.
(a) The agency shall review data collected and aggregated pursuant to § 115.87 of this part in order to assess and improve the effectiveness of its sexual abuse prevention, detection, and response policies, practices, and training, including by:
(1) Identifying problem areas;
(2) Taking corrective action on an ongoing basis; and
(3) Preparing an annual report of its findings and corrective actions for each immigration detention facility, as well as the agency as a whole.
(b) Such report shall include a comparison of the current year's data and corrective actions with those from prior years and shall provide an assessment of the agency's progress in preventing, detecting, and responding to sexual abuse.
(c) The agency's report shall be approved by the agency head and made readily available to the public through its Web site.
(d) The agency may redact specific material from the reports, when appropriate for safety or security, but must indicate the nature of the material redacted.
§ 115.89
Data storage, publication, and destruction.
(a) The agency shall ensure that data collected pursuant to § 115.87 are securely retained in accordance with agency record retention policies and the agency protocol regarding investigation of allegations.
(b) The agency shall make all aggregated sexual abuse data from immigration detention facilities under its direct control and from any private agencies with which it contracts available
to the public at least annually on its Web site consistent with existing agency information disclosure policies and processes.
(c) Before making aggregated sexual abuse data publicly available, the agency shall remove all personal identifiers.
(d) The agency shall maintain sexual abuse data collected pursuant to § 115.87 for at least 10 years after the date of the initial collection unless Federal, State, or local law requires otherwise.

# Audits and Compliance
§ 115.93
Audits of standards.
(a) During the three-year period starting on July 6. 2015, and during each three-year period thereafter, the agency shall ensure that each immigration detention facility that has adopted these standards is audited at least once.
(b) The agency may require an expedited audit if the agency has reason to believe that a particular facility may be experiencing problems relating to sexual abuse. The agency may also include referrals to resources that may assist the facility with PREA-related issues.
(c) Audits under this section shall be conducted pursuant to §§ 115.201 through 115.205.
(d) Audits under this section shall be coordinated by the agency with the DHS Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, which may request an expedited audit if it has reason to believe that an expedited audit is appropriate.

# Additional Provisions in Agency Policies
§ 115.95
Additional provisions in agency policies.
The regulations in this subpart A establish minimum requirements for agencies and facilities. Agency and facility policies may include additional requirements.

# Subpart B—Standards for DHS Holding Facilities

# Coverage
§ 115.110
Coverage of DHS holding facilities.
This subpart B covers all DHS holding facilities. Standards found in subpart A of this part are not applicable to DHS facilities except ICE immigration detention facilities.

# Prevention Planning
§ 115.111
Zero tolerance of sexual abuse; Prevention of Sexual Assault Coordinator.
(a) The agency shall have a written policy mandating zero tolerance toward all forms of sexual abuse and outlining the agency's approach to preventing, detecting, and responding to such conduct.
(b) The agency shall employ or designate an upper-level, agency-wide PSA Coordinator with sufficient time and authority to develop, implement, and oversee agency efforts to comply with these standards in all of its holding facilities.
§ 115.112
Contracting with non-DHS entities for the confinement of detainees.
(a) An agency that contracts for the confinement of detainees in holding facilities operated by non-DHS private or public agencies or other entities, including other government agencies, shall include in any new contracts, contract renewals, or substantive contract modifications the entity's obligation to adopt and comply with these standards.
(b) Any new contracts, contract renewals, or substantive contract modifications shall provide for agency contract monitoring to ensure that the contractor is complying with these standards.
(c) To the extent an agency contracts for confinement of holding facility detainees, all rules in this subpart that apply to the agency shall apply to the contractor, and all rules that apply to staff or employees shall apply to contractor staff.
§ 115.113
Detainee supervision and monitoring.
(a) The agency shall ensure that each facility maintains sufficient supervision of detainees, including through appropriate staffing levels and, where applicable, video monitoring, to protect detainees against sexual abuse.
(b) The agency shall develop and document comprehensive detainee supervision guidelines to determine and meet each facility's detainee supervision needs, and shall review those supervision guidelines and their application at each facility at least annually.
(c) In determining adequate levels of detainee supervision and determining the need for video monitoring, agencies shall take into consideration the physical layout of each holding facility, the composition of the detainee population, the prevalence of substantiated and unsubstantiated incidents of sexual abuse, the findings and recommendations of sexual abuse incident review reports, and any other relevant factors, including but not limited to the length of time detainees spend in agency custody.
§ 115.114
Juvenile and family detainees.
(a) Juveniles shall be detained in the least restrictive setting appropriate to the juvenile's age and special needs, provided that such setting is consistent with the need to protect the juvenile's well-being and that of others, as well as with any other laws, regulations, or legal requirements.
(b) Unaccompanied juveniles shall generally be held separately from adult detainees. The juvenile may temporarily remain with a non-parental adult family member where:
(1) The family relationship has been vetted to the extent feasible, and
(2) The agency determines that remaining with the non-parental adult family member is appropriate, under the totality of the circumstances.
§ 115.115
Limits to cross-gender viewing and searches.
(a) Searches may be necessary to ensure the safety of officers, civilians and detainees; to detect and secure evidence of criminal activity; and to promote security, safety, and related interests at DHS holding facilities.
(b) Cross-gender strip searches or cross-gender visual body cavity searches shall not be conducted except in exigent circumstances, including consideration of officer safety, or when performed by medical practitioners. An agency shall not conduct visual body cavity searches of juveniles and, instead, shall refer all such body cavity searches of juveniles to a medical practitioner.
(c) All strip searches and visual body cavity searches shall be documented.
(d) The agency shall implement policies and procedures that enable detainees to shower (where showers are available), perform bodily functions, and change clothing without being viewed by staff of the opposite gender, except in exigent circumstances or when such viewing is incidental to routine cell checks or is otherwise appropriate in connection with a medical examination or monitored bowel movement under medical supervision. Such policies and procedures shall require staff of the opposite gender to announce their presence when entering an area where detainees are likely to be showering, performing bodily functions, or changing clothing.
(e) The agency and facility shall not search or physically examine a detainee for the sole purpose of determining the detainee's gender. If the detainee's gender is unknown, it may be determined during conversations with the detainee, by reviewing medical records (if available), or, if necessary, learning that information as part of a broader medical examination conducted in private, by a medical practitioner.
(f) The agency shall train law enforcement staff in proper procedures for conducting pat-down searches, including cross-gender pat-down searches and searches of transgender and intersex detainees. All pat-down searches shall be conducted in a professional and respectful manner, and in the least intrusive manner possible, consistent with security needs and agency policy, including consideration of officer safety.
§ 115.116
Accommodating detainees with disabilities and detainees who are limited English proficient.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure that detainees with disabilities (including, for example, detainees who are deaf or hard of hearing, those who are blind or have low vision, or those who have intellectual, psychiatric, or speech disabilities), have an equal opportunity to participate in or benefit from all aspects of the agency's efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to sexual abuse. Such steps shall include, when necessary to ensure effective communication with detainees who are deaf or hard of hearing, providing access to in-person, telephonic, or video interpretive services that enable effective, accurate, and impartial interpretation, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary. In addition, the agency shall ensure that any written materials related to sexual abuse are provided in formats or through methods that ensure effective communication with detainees with disabilities, including detainees who have intellectual disabilities, limited reading skills, or who are blind or have low vision. An agency is not required to take actions that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a service, program, or activity, or in undue financial and administrative burdens, as those terms are used in regulations promulgated under title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, 28 CFR 35.164.
(b) The agency shall take reasonable steps to ensure meaningful access to all aspects of the agency's efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to sexual abuse to detainees who are limited English proficient, including steps to provide in-person or telephonic interpretive services that enable effective, accurate, and impartial interpretation, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary.
(c) In matters relating to allegations of sexual abuse, the agency shall provide in-person or telephonic interpretation services that enable effective, accurate, and impartial interpretation, by someone other than another detainee, unless the detainee expresses a preference for another detainee to provide interpretation, and the agency determines that such interpretation is appropriate and consistent with DHS policy. The provision of interpreter services by minors, alleged abusers, detainees who witnessed the alleged abuse, and detainees who have a significant relationship with the alleged abuser is not appropriate in matters relating to allegations of sexual abuse is not appropriate in matters relating to allegations of sexual abuse.
§ 115.117
Hiring and promotion decisions.
(a) The agency shall not hire or promote anyone who may have contact with detainees, and shall not enlist the services of any contractor or volunteer who may have contact with detainees, who has engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1997); who has been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse; or who has been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity.
(b) When the agency is considering hiring or promoting staff, it shall ask all applicants who may have contact with detainees directly about previous misconduct described in paragraph (a) of this section, in written applications or interviews for hiring or promotions and in any interviews or written self-evaluations conducted as part of reviews of current employees. The agency shall also impose upon employees a continuing affirmative duty to disclose any such misconduct.
(c) Before hiring new employees who may have contact with detainees, the agency shall require a background investigation to determine whether the candidate for hire is suitable for employment with the agency. The agency shall conduct an updated background investigation for agency employees every five years.
(d) The agency shall also perform a background investigation before enlisting the services of any contractor who may have contact with detainees.
(e) Material omissions regarding such misconduct, or the provision of materially false information, shall be grounds for termination or withdrawal of an offer of employment, as appropriate.
(f) Unless prohibited by law, the agency shall provide information on substantiated allegations of sexual abuse involving a former employee upon receiving a request from an institutional employer for whom such employee has applied to work.
(g) In the event the agency contracts with a facility for the confinement of detainees, the requirements of this section otherwise applicable to the agency also apply to the facility.
§ 115.118
Upgrades to facilities and technologies.
(a) When designing or acquiring any new holding facility and in planning any substantial expansion or modification of existing holding facilities, the agency shall consider the effect of the design, acquisition, expansion, or modification upon the agency's ability to protect detainees from sexual abuse.
(b) When installing or updating a video monitoring system, electronic surveillance system, or other monitoring technology in a holding facility, the agency shall consider how such technology may enhance the agency's ability to protect detainees from sexual abuse.

# Responsive Planning
§ 115.121
Evidence protocols and forensic medical examinations.
(a) To the extent that the agency is responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse in its holding facilities, the agency shall follow a uniform evidence protocol that maximizes the potential for obtaining usable physical evidence for administrative proceedings and criminal prosecutions. The protocol shall be developed in coordination with DHS and shall be developmentally appropriate for juveniles, where applicable.
(b) In developing the protocol referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, the agency shall consider how best to utilize available community resources and services to provide valuable expertise and support in the areas of crisis intervention and counseling to most appropriately address victims' needs.
(c) Where evidentiarily or medically appropriate, at no cost to the detainee, and only with the detainee's consent, the agency shall arrange for or refer the alleged victim detainee to a medical facility to undergo a forensic medical examination, including a Sexual Assault Forensic Examiner (SAFE) or Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) where practicable. If SAFEs or SANEs cannot be made available, the examination can be performed by other qualified health care personnel.
(d) If, in connection with an allegation of sexual abuse, the detainee is transported for a forensic examination to an outside hospital that offers victim advocacy services, the detainee shall be permitted to use such services to the extent available, consistent with security needs.
(e) To the extent that the agency is not responsible for investigating allegations of sexual abuse, the agency shall request that the investigating agency follow the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
§ 115.122
Policies to ensure investigation of allegations and appropriate agency oversight.
(a) The agency shall establish a protocol to ensure that each allegation of sexual abuse is investigated by the agency, or referred to an appropriate investigative authority.
(b) The agency protocol shall be developed in coordination with DHS investigative entities; shall include a description of the responsibilities of both the agency and the investigative entities; and shall require the documentation and maintenance, for at least five years, of all reports and referrals of allegations of sexual abuse. The agency shall post its protocol on its Web site, redacted if appropriate.
(c) The agency protocol shall ensure that each allegation is promptly reported to the Joint Intake Center and, unless the allegation does not involve
potentially criminal behavior, promptly referred for investigation to an appropriate law enforcement agency with the legal authority to conduct criminal investigations. The agency may separately, and in addition to the above reports and referrals, conduct its own investigation.
(d) The agency shall ensure that all allegations of detainee sexual abuse are promptly reported to the PSA Coordinator and to the appropriate offices within the agency and within DHS to ensure appropriate oversight of the investigation.
(e) The agency shall ensure that any alleged detainee victim of sexual abuse that is criminal in nature is provided timely access to U nonimmigrant status information.

# Training and Education
§ 115.131
Employee, contractor, and volunteer training.
(a) The agency shall train, or require the training of all employees, contractors, and volunteers who may have contact with holding facility detainees, to be able to fulfill their responsibilities under these standards, including training on:
(1) The agency's zero-tolerance policies for all forms of sexual abuse;
(2) The right of detainees and employees to be free from sexual abuse, and from retaliation for reporting sexual abuse;
(3) Definitions and examples of prohibited and illegal sexual behavior;
(4) Recognition of situations where sexual abuse may occur;
(5) Recognition of physical, behavioral, and emotional signs of sexual abuse, and methods of preventing such occurrences;
(6) Procedures for reporting knowledge or suspicion of sexual abuse;
(7) How to communicate effectively and professionally with detainees, including lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or gender nonconforming detainees; and
(8) The requirement to limit reporting of sexual abuse to personnel with a need-to-know in order to make decisions concerning the victim's welfare and for law enforcement or investigative purposes.
(b) All current employees, contractors and volunteers who may have contact with holding facility detainees shall be trained within two years of the effective date of these standards, and the agency shall provide refresher information, as appropriate.
(c) The agency shall document those employees who may have contact with detainees have completed the training and receive and maintain for at least five years confirmation that contractors and volunteers have completed the training.
§ 115.132
Notification to detainees of the agency's zero-tolerance policy.
The agency shall make public its zero-tolerance policy regarding sexual abuse and ensure that key information regarding the agency's zero-tolerance policy is visible or continuously and readily available to detainees, for example, through posters, detainee handbooks, or other written formats.
§ 115.133
[Reserved]
§ 115.134
Specialized training: Investigations.
(a) In addition to the training provided to employees, DHS agencies with responsibility for holding facilities shall provide specialized training on sexual abuse and effective cross-agency coordination to agency investigators who conduct investigations into allegations of sexual abuse at holding facilities. All investigations into alleged sexual abuse must be conducted by qualified investigators.
(b) The agency must maintain written documentation verifying specialized training provided to agency investigators pursuant to this section.

# Assessment for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
§ 115.141
Assessment for risk of victimization and abusiveness.
(a) Before placing any detainees together in a holding facility, agency staff shall consider whether, based on the information before them, a detainee may be at a high risk of being sexually abused and, when appropriate, shall take necessary steps to mitigate any such danger to the detainee.
(b) All detainees who may be held overnight with other detainees shall be assessed to determine their risk of being sexually abused by other detainees or sexually abusive toward other detainees; staff shall ask each such detainee about his or her own concerns about his or her physical safety.
(c) The agency shall also consider, to the extent that the information is available, the following criteria to assess detainees for risk of sexual victimization:
(1) Whether the detainee has a mental, physical, or developmental disability;
(2) The age of the detainee;
(3) The physical build and appearance of the detainee;
(4) Whether the detainee has previously been incarcerated or detained;
(5) The nature of the detainee's criminal history; and
(6) Whether the detainee has any convictions for sex offenses against an adult or child;
(7) Whether the detainee has self-identified as gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or gender nonconforming;
(8) Whether the detainee has self-identified as having previously experienced sexual victimization; and
(9) The detainee's own concerns about his or her physical safety.
(d) If detainees are identified pursuant to the assessment under this section to be at high risk of victimization, staff shall provide such detainees with heightened protection, to include continuous direct sight and sound supervision, single-cell housing, or placement in a cell actively monitored on video by a staff member sufficiently proximate to intervene, unless no such option is determined to be feasible.
(e) The facility shall implement appropriate controls on the dissemination of sensitive information provided by detainees under this section.

# Reporting
§ 115.151
Detainee reporting.
(a) The agency shall develop policies and procedures to ensure that the detainees have multiple ways to privately report sexual abuse, retaliation for reporting sexual abuse, or staff neglect or violations of responsibilities that may have contributed to such incidents, and shall provide instructions on how detainees may contact the DHS Office of the Inspector General or, as appropriate, another designated office, to confidentially and, if desired, anonymously, report these incidents.
(b) The agency shall also provide, and shall inform the detainees of, at least one way for detainees to report sexual abuse to a public or private entity or office that is not part of the agency, and that is able to receive and immediately forward detainee reports of sexual abuse to agency officials, allowing the detainee to remain anonymous upon request.
(c) Agency policies and procedures shall include provisions for staff to accept reports made verbally, in writing, anonymously, and from third parties and to promptly document any verbal reports.
§§ 115.152-115.153
[Reserved]
§ 115.154
Third-party reporting.
The agency shall establish a method to receive third-party reports of sexual abuse in its holding facilities. The agency shall make available to the public information on how to report sexual abuse on behalf of a detainee.

# Official Response Following a Detainee Report
§ 115.161
Staff reporting duties.
(a) The agency shall require all staff to report immediately and according to agency policy any knowledge, suspicion, or information regarding an incident of sexual abuse that occurred to any detainee; retaliation against detainees or staff who reported or participated in an investigation about such an incident; and any staff neglect or violation of responsibilities that may have contributed to an incident or retaliation. Agency policy shall include methods by which staff can report misconduct outside of their chain of command.
(b) Staff members who become aware of alleged sexual abuse shall immediately follow the reporting requirements set forth in the agency's written policies and procedures.
(c) Apart from such reporting, the agency and staff shall not reveal any information related to a sexual abuse report to anyone other than to the extent necessary to help protect the safety of the victim or prevent further victimization of other detainees or staff in the facility, or to make medical treatment, investigation, law enforcement, or other security and management decisions.
(d) If the alleged victim is under the age of 18 or considered a vulnerable adult under a State or local vulnerable persons statute, the agency shall report the allegation to the designated State or local services agency under applicable mandatory reporting laws.
§ 115.162
Agency protection duties.
When an agency employee has a reasonable belief that a detainee is subject to a substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse, he or she shall take immediate action to protect the detainee.
§ 115.163
Reporting to other confinement facilities.
(a) Upon receiving an allegation that a detainee was sexually abused while confined at another facility, the agency that received the allegation shall notify the appropriate office of the agency or the administrator of the facility where the alleged abuse occurred.
(b) The notification provided in paragraph (a) of this section shall be provided as soon as possible, but no later than 72 hours after receiving the allegation.
(c) The agency shall document that it has provided such notification.
(d) The agency office that receives such notification, to the extent the facility is covered by this subpart, shall ensure that the allegation is referred for investigation in accordance with these standards.
§ 115.164
Responder duties.
(a) Upon learning of an allegation that a detainee was sexually abused, the first law enforcement staff member to respond to the report, or his or her supervisor, shall be required to:
(1) Separate the alleged victim and abuser;
(2) Preserve and protect, to the greatest extent possible, any crime scene until appropriate steps can be taken to collect any evidence;
(3) If the sexual abuse occurred within a time period that still allows for the collection of physical evidence, request the alleged victim not to take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, including, as appropriate, washing, brushing teeth, changing clothes, urinating, defecating, smoking, drinking, or eating; and
(4) If the abuse occurred within a time period that still allows for the collection of physical evidence, ensure that the alleged abuser does not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence, including, as appropriate, washing, brushing teeth, changing clothes, urinating, defecating, smoking, drinking, or eating.
(b) If the first staff responder is not a law enforcement staff member, the responder shall be required to request that the alleged victim not take any actions that could destroy physical evidence and then notify law enforcement staff.
§ 115.165
Coordinated response.
(a) The agency shall develop a written institutional plan and use a coordinated, multidisciplinary team approach to responding to sexual abuse.
(b) If a victim of sexual abuse is transferred between facilities covered by subpart A or B of this part, the agency shall, as permitted by law, inform the receiving facility of the incident and the victim's potential need for medical or social services.
(c) If a victim is transferred from a DHS holding facility to a facility not covered by paragraph (b) of this section, the agency shall, as permitted by law, inform the receiving facility of the incident and the victim's potential need for medical or social services, unless the victim requests otherwise.
§ 115.166
Protection of detainees from contact with alleged abusers.
Agency management shall consider whether any staff, contractor, or volunteer alleged to have perpetrated sexual abuse should be removed from duties requiring detainee contact pending the outcome of an investigation, and
shall do so if the seriousness and plausibility of the allegation make removal appropriate.
§ 115.167
Agency protection against retaliation.
Agency employees shall not retaliate against any person, including a detainee, who reports, complains about, or participates in an investigation into an allegation of sexual abuse, or for participating in sexual activity as a result of force, coercion, threats, or fear of force.

# Investigations
§ 115.171
Criminal and administrative investigations.
(a) If the agency has responsibility for investigating allegations of sexual abuse, all investigations into alleged sexual abuse must be prompt, thorough, objective, and conducted by specially trained, qualified investigators.
(b) Upon conclusion of a criminal investigation where the allegation was substantiated, an administrative investigation shall be conducted. Upon conclusion of a criminal investigation where the allegation was unsubstantiated, the agency shall review any available completed criminal investigation reports to determine whether an administrative investigation is necessary or appropriate. Administrative investigations shall be conducted after consultation with the appropriate investigative office within DHS and the assigned criminal investigative entity.
(c) The agency shall develop written procedures for administrative investigations, including provisions requiring:
(1) Preservation of direct and circumstantial evidence, including any available physical and DNA evidence and any available electronic monitoring data;
(2) Interviewing alleged victims, suspected perpetrators, and witnesses;
(3) Reviewing prior complaints and reports of sexual abuse involving the suspected perpetrator;
(4) Assessment of the credibility of an alleged victim, suspect, or witness, without regard to the individual's status as detainee, staff, or employee, and without requiring any detainee who alleges sexual abuse to submit to a polygraph;
(5) Documentation of each investigation by written report, which shall include a description of the physical and testimonial evidence, the reasoning behind credibility assessments, and investigative facts and findings; and
(6) Retention of such reports for as long as the alleged abuser is detained or employed by the agency, plus five years. Such procedures shall establish the coordination and sequencing of the two types of investigations, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, to ensure that the criminal investigation is not compromised by an internal administrative investigation.
(d) The departure of the alleged abuser or victim from the employment or control of the agency shall not provide a basis for terminating an investigation.
(e) When outside agencies investigate sexual abuse, the agency shall cooperate with outside investigators and shall endeavor to remain informed about the progress of the investigation.
§ 115.172
Evidentiary standard for administrative investigations.
When an administrative investigation is undertaken, the agency shall impose no standard higher than a preponderance of the evidence in determining whether allegations of sexual abuse are substantiated.

# Discipline
§ 115.176
Disciplinary sanctions for staff.
(a) Staff shall be subject to disciplinary or adverse action up to and including removal from their position and the Federal service for substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or violating agency sexual abuse policies.
(b) The agency shall review and approve policy and procedures regarding disciplinary or adverse action for staff and shall ensure that the policy and procedures specify disciplinary or adverse actions for staff, up to and including removal from their position and from the Federal service, when there is a substantiated allegation of sexual abuse, or when there has been a violation of agency sexual abuse rules,
policies, or standards. Removal from their position and from the Federal service is the presumptive disciplinary sanction for staff who have engaged in or attempted or threatened to engage in sexual abuse, as defined under the definition of sexual abuse of a detainee by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer, paragraphs (1)-(4) and (7)-(8) of the definition of “sexual abuse of a detainee by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer” in § 115.6.
(c) Each facility shall report all removals or resignations in lieu of removal for violations of agency or facility sexual abuse policies to appropriate law enforcement agencies, unless the activity was clearly not criminal.
(d) Each agency shall make reasonable efforts to report removals or resignations in lieu of removal for violations of agency or facility sexual abuse policies to any relevant licensing bodies, to the extent known.
§ 115.177
Corrective action for contractors and volunteers.
(a) Any contractor or volunteer suspected of perpetrating sexual abuse shall be prohibited from contact with detainees. The agency shall also consider whether to prohibit further contact with detainees by contractors or volunteers who have not engaged in sexual abuse, but have violated other provisions within these standards. The agency shall be responsible for promptly reporting sexual abuse allegations and incidents involving alleged contractor or volunteer perpetrators to an appropriate law enforcement agency as well as to the Joint Intake Center or another appropriate DHS investigative office in accordance with DHS policies and procedures. The agency shall make reasonable efforts to report to any relevant licensing body, to the extent known, incidents of substantiated sexual abuse by a contractor or volunteer.
(b) Contractors and volunteers suspected of perpetrating sexual abuse may be removed from all duties requiring detainee contact pending the outcome of an investigation, as appropriate.

# Medical and Mental Care
§ 115.181
[Reserved]
§ 115.182
Access to emergency medical services.
(a) Detainee victims of sexual abuse shall have timely, unimpeded access to emergency medical treatment and crisis intervention services, including emergency contraception and sexually transmitted infections prophylaxis, in accordance with professionally accepted standards of care.
(b) Emergency medical treatment services provided to the victim shall be without financial cost and regardless of whether the victim names the abuser or cooperates with any investigation arising out of the incident.

# Data Collection and Review
§ 115.186
Sexual abuse incident reviews.
(a) The agency shall conduct a sexual abuse incident review at the conclusion of every investigation of sexual abuse and, where the allegation was not determined to be unfounded, prepare a written report recommending whether the allegation or investigation indicates that a change in policy or practice could better prevent, detect, or respond to sexual abuse. Such review shall ordinarily occur within 30 days of the agency receiving the investigation results from the investigative authority. The agency shall implement the recommendations for improvement, or shall document its reasons for not doing so in a written response. Both the report and response shall be forwarded to the agency PSA Coordinator.
(b) The agency shall conduct an annual review of all sexual abuse investigations and resulting incident reviews to assess and improve sexual abuse intervention, prevention and response efforts.
§ 115.187
Data collection.
(a) The agency shall maintain in a secure area all agency case records associated with claims of sexual abuse, in accordance with these standards and applicable agency policies, and in accordance with established schedules. The DHS Office of Inspector General
shall maintain the official investigative file related to claims of sexual abuse investigated by the DHS Office of Inspector General.
(b) On an annual basis, the PSA Coordinator shall aggregate, in a manner that will facilitate the agency's ability to detect possible patterns and help prevent future incidents, the incident-based sexual abuse data available, including the number of reported sexual abuse allegations determined to be substantiated, unsubstantiated, or unfounded, or for which investigation is ongoing, and for each incident found to be substantiated, such information as is available to the PSA Coordinator concerning:
(1) The date, time, location, and nature of the incident;
(2) The demographic background of the victim and perpetrator (including citizenship, age, gender, and whether either has self-identified as gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or gender nonconforming);
(3) The reporting timeline for the incident (including the name of individual who reported the incident, and the date and time the report was received);
(4) Any injuries sustained by the victim;
(5) Post-report follow up responses and action taken by the agency (e.g., supervision, referral for medical or mental health services, etc.); and
(6) Any sanctions imposed on the perpetrator.
(c) The agency shall maintain, review, and collect data as needed from all available agency records.
(d) Upon request, the agency shall provide all such data from the previous calendar year to the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties no later than June 30.
§ 115.188
Data review for corrective action.
(a) The agency shall review data collected and aggregated pursuant to § 115.187 in order to assess and improve the effectiveness of its sexual abuse prevention, detection, and response policies, practices, and training, including by:
(1) Identifying problem areas;
(2) Taking corrective action on an ongoing basis; and
(3) Preparing an annual report of its findings and corrective actions for the agency as a whole.
(b) Such report shall include a comparison of the current year's data and corrective actions with those from prior years and shall provide an assessment of the agency's progress in preventing, detecting, and responding to sexual abuse.
(c) The agency's report shall be approved by the agency head and made readily available to the public through its Web site.
(d) The agency may redact specific material from the reports, when appropriate for safety or security, but must indicate the nature of the material redacted.
§ 115.189
Data storage, publication, and destruction.
(a) The agency shall ensure that data collected pursuant to § 115.187 are securely retained in accordance with agency record retention policies and the agency protocol regarding investigation of allegations.
(b) The agency shall make all aggregated sexual abuse data from holding facilities under its direct control and from any private agencies with which it contracts available to the public at least annually on its Web site consistent with agency information disclosure policies and processes.
(c) Before making aggregated sexual abuse data publicly available, the agency shall remove all personal identifiers.
(d) The agency shall maintain sexual abuse data collected pursuant to § 115.187 for at least 10 years after the date of the initial collection unless Federal, State, or local law requires otherwise.

# Audits and Compliance
§ 115.193
Audits of standards.
(a) Within three years of July 6, 2015, the agency shall ensure that each of its immigration holding facilities that houses detainees overnight and has adopted these standards is audited. For any such holding facility established
after July 6, 2015, the agency shall ensure that the facility is audited within three years. Audits of new holding facilities as well as holding facilities that have previously failed to meet the standards shall occur as soon as practicable within the three-year cycle; however, where it is necessary to prioritize, priority shall be given to facilities that have previously failed to meet the standards.
(1) Audits required under this paragraph (a) shall:
(i) Include a determination whether the holding facility is low-risk based on its physical characteristics and whether it passes the audit conducted pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section,
(ii) Be conducted pursuant to §§ 115.201 through 115.205, and
(iii) Be coordinated by the agency with the DHS Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, which may request an expedited audit if it has reason to believe that an expedited audit is appropriate.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) Following an audit, the agency shall ensure that any immigration holding facility that houses detainees overnight and is determined to be low-risk, based on its physical characteristics and passing its most recent audit, is audited at least once every five years.
(1) Audits required under this paragraph (b) shall:
(i) Include a determination whether the holding facility is low-risk based on its physical characteristics and whether it passes the audit conducted pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section,
(ii) Be conducted pursuant to §§ 115.201 through 115.205, and
(iii) Be coordinated by the agency with the DHS Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, which may request an expedited audit if it has reason to believe that an expedited audit is appropriate.
(2) [Reserved]
(c) Following an audit, the agency shall ensure that any immigration holding facility that houses detainees overnight and is determined to not be low-risk, based on its physical characteristics or not passing its most recent audit, is audited at least once every three years.
(1) Audits required under this paragraph (c) shall:
(i) Include a determination whether the holding facility is low-risk based on its physical characteristics and whether it passes the audit conducted by paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section,
(ii) Be conducted pursuant to §§ 115.201 through 115.205, and
(iii) Be coordinated by the agency with the DHS Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, which may request an expedited audit if it has reason to believe that an expedited audit is appropriate.
(2) [Reserved]

# Additional Provisions in Agency Policies
§ 115.195
Additional provisions in agency policies.
The regulations in this subpart B establish minimum requirements for agencies. Agency policies may include additional requirements.

# Subpart C—External Auditing and Corrective Action
§ 115.201
Scope of audits.
(a) The agency shall develop and issue an instrument that is coordinated with the DHS Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, which will provide guidance on the conduct of and contents of the audit;
(b) The auditor shall review all relevant agency policies, procedures, reports, internal and external audits, and accreditations for each facility type.
(c) The audits shall review, at a minimum, a sampling of relevant documents and other records and information for the most recent one-year period.
(d) The auditor shall have access to, and shall observe, all areas of the audited facilities.
(e) The agency shall provide the auditor with relevant documentation to complete a thorough audit of the facility.
(f) The auditor shall retain and preserve all documentation (including, e.g., videotapes and interview notes)
relied upon in making audit determinations. Such documentation shall be provided to the agency upon request.
(g) The auditor shall interview a representative sample of detainees and of staff, and the facility shall make space available suitable for such interviews.
(h) The auditor shall review a sampling of any available videotapes and other electronically available data that may be relevant to the provisions being audited.
(i) The auditor shall be permitted to conduct private interviews with detainees.
(j) Detainees shall be permitted to send confidential information or correspondence to the auditor.
(k) Auditors shall attempt to solicit input from community-based or victim advocates who may have insight into relevant conditions in the facility.
(l) All sensitive but unclassified information provided to auditors will include appropriate designations and limitations on further dissemination. Auditors will be required to follow all appropriate procedures for handling and safeguarding such information.
§ 115.202
Auditor qualifications.
(a) An audit shall be conducted by entities or individuals outside of the agency and outside of DHS that have relevant audit experience.
(b) All auditors shall be certified by the agency, in coordination with DHS. The agency, in coordination with DHS, shall develop and issue procedures regarding the certification process, which shall include training requirements.
(c) No audit may be conducted by an auditor who has received financial compensation from the agency being audited (except for compensation received for conducting other audits, or other consulting related to detention reform) within the three years prior to the agency's retention of the auditor.
(d) The agency shall not employ, contract with, or otherwise financially compensate the auditor for three years subsequent to the agency's retention of the auditor, with the exception of contracting for subsequent audits or other consulting related to detention reform.
§ 115.203
Audit contents and findings.
(a) Each audit shall include a certification by the auditor that no conflict of interest exists with respect to his or her ability to conduct an audit of the facility under review.
(b) Audit reports shall state whether facility policies and procedures comply with relevant standards.
(c) For each of these standards, the auditor shall determine whether the audited facility reaches one of the following findings: Exceeds Standard (substantially exceeds requirement of standard); Meets Standard (substantial compliance; complies in all material ways with the standard for the relevant review period); Does Not Meet Standard (requires corrective action). The audit summary shall indicate, among other things, the number of provisions the facility has achieved at each grade level.
(d) Audit reports shall describe the methodology, sampling sizes, and basis for the auditor's conclusions with regard to each standard provision for each audited facility, and shall include recommendations for any required corrective action.
(e) Auditors shall redact any personally identifiable detainee or staff information from their reports, but shall provide such information to the agency upon request.
(f) The agency shall ensure that the auditor's final report is published on the agency's Web site if it has one, or is otherwise made readily available to the public. The agency shall redact any sensitive but unclassified information (including law enforcement sensitive information) prior to providing such reports publicly.
§ 115.204
Audit corrective action plan.
(a) A finding of “Does Not Meet Standard” with one or more standards shall trigger a 180-day corrective action period.
(b) The agency and the facility shall develop a corrective action plan to achieve compliance.
(c) The auditor shall take necessary and appropriate steps to verify implementation of the corrective action plan, such as reviewing updated policies and procedures or re-inspecting portions of a facility.
(d) After the 180-day corrective action period ends, the auditor shall issue a final determination as to whether the facility has achieved compliance with those standards requiring corrective action.
(e) If the facility does not achieve compliance with each standard, it may (at its discretion and cost) request a subsequent audit once it believes that is has achieved compliance.
§ 115.205
Audit appeals.
(a) A facility may lodge an appeal with the agency regarding any specific audit finding that it believes to be incorrect. Such appeal must be lodged within 90 days of the auditor's final determination.
(b) If the agency determines that the facility has stated good cause for a re-evaluation, the facility may commission a re-audit by an auditor mutually agreed upon by the agency and the facility. The facility shall bear the costs of this re-audit.
(c) The findings of the re-audit shall be considered final.
Pt. 126

# PART 126—TRANSPORTATION SECURITY OVERSIGHT BOARD REVIEW PANEL PROCESS AND PROCEDURES
Sec.
126.1
Purpose and scope.
126.3
Definitions.
126.5
Appointment of TSOB Review Panel and TSOB Docket Clerk.
126.7
Function of TSOB Review Panel.
126.9
Scope of review.
126.11
Counsel.
126.13
Notice of appeal and service.
126.15
Entry of appearance.
126.17
Procedures for classified information, Sensitive Security Information (SSI), and other protected information.
126.19
Filing and supplementing the record.
126.21
Motions.
126.23
Briefs.
126.25
Oral argument.
126.27
Deliberations and action.
126.29
Effect of TSOB Review Panel action.
126.31
Administration of proceedings.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 115, 46111; Department of Homeland Security Delegation No. 7071.1.

# Source:
89 FR 17702, Mar. 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 126.1
Purpose and scope.
This part establishes the procedures by which a Transportation Security Oversight Board (TSOB) Review Panel reviews and acts to resolve an appeal from an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) decision regarding a Determination of Security Threat made by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA).
§ 126.3
Definitions.
Classified information
has the meaning given to that term in Executive Order 13526 or any successor Executive Order.
Communication technology
means telephone or a videoconferencing platform.
Other protected information
means other information that the government is authorized by statute, regulation, or Executive order to withhold.
Sensitive Security Information (SSI)
means information described in 49 CFR 1520.5.
Substantial evidence
means such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.
Transportation Security Oversight Board (TSOB)
means the board established pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 115.
Transportation Security Oversight Board (TSOB) Review Panel
means the panel established pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 46111(d) to consider an appeal from a decision of an administrative law judge as the result of a hearing under 49 U.S.C. 46111(b).
§ 126.5
Appointment of TSOB Review Panel and TSOB Docket Clerk.
(a) Upon request by the Chairman of the TSOB, TSOB members will designate at least one official who meets the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section to participate in a TSOB Review Panel pool for a period of two years. The Review Panel nominees must—
(1) Be a member of the Senior Executive Service (SES) or a Senior Level (SL) employee;
(2) Hold a security clearance commensurate with the record under review;
(3) Not be employed by TSA or the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA);
(4) To the extent practicable, have a legal background and be engaged in the practice of law on behalf of the United States Government; and
(5) To the extent practicable, be familiar with transportation security issues.
(b) Upon the expiration of each two-year period, TSOB members will again designate officials to participate in the TSOB Review Panel pool.
(c) The General Counsel of the Department of Homeland Security, or the General Counsel's designee, will appoint an individual from within the Office of the General Counsel to serve as the TSOB Docket Clerk. The TSOB Docket Clerk will serve as the TSOB Review Panel's point of contact for both the public and the parties to ALJ proceedings.
(d) When the TSOB Docket Clerk receives a properly and timely filed appeal from an ALJ's decision, the TSOB Chairperson selects at least three individuals from the TSOB Review Panel pool to serve on a Review Panel to review the ALJ's decision. The TSOB Chairperson has discretion to choose which individuals from the pool will serve on a TSOB Review Panel. In making selections for a TSOB Review Panel, the TSOB Chairperson will consider selecting at least one person with the qualifications set out in paragraph (a)(4) of this section to serve as a Panel Member, and will consider, based upon the composition of the pool as well as the issues raised in the appeal, appointing more than one person with the qualifications set out in paragraph (a)(4) to the TSOB Review Panel.
§ 126.7
Function of TSOB Review Panel.
A TSOB Review Panel reviews an ALJ's decision regarding a Determination of Security Threat issued by the TSA Administrator and may affirm, modify, or reverse the ALJ's decision. The TSOB Review Panel also may remand the matter to the ALJ with instructions to address particular issues or consider additional testimony or evidence.
§ 126.9
Scope of review.
(a) A TSOB Review Panel reviews an ALJ's decision to address whether the decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record before the TSOB Review Panel.
(b) A TSOB Review Panel will not consider the constitutionality of any statute, regulation, Executive order, or order issued by the TSA.
§ 126.11
Counsel.
(a)(1) Parties to proceedings before a TSOB Review Panel may be represented by an attorney who is in good standing with the bar of any State, district, territory, or possession of the United States. Parties desiring representation must obtain such representation at their own expense.
(2) TSA will designate counsel to represent TSA before a TSOB Review Panel. The attorney must hold a security clearance that enables access to all materials related to the appeal.
(b) The General Counsel of the Department of Homeland Security, or the General Counsel's designee, will appoint legal counsel to assist a TSOB Review Panel. Counsel appointed to assist the TSOB Review Panel will facilitate communication between the TSOB Docket Clerk and the TSOB Review Panel, and assist with legal research and drafting for the Panel, as needed. Appointed counsel must hold a security clearance that enables access to all materials related to the appeal.
§ 126.13
Notice of appeal and service.
(a)
Notice of appeal.
A party seeking review of the ALJ's decision must file a notice of appeal with the TSOB Docket Clerk electronically at
TSOB_docket@hq.dhs.gov
or via certified U.S. mail at ATTN: TSOB Docket Clerk, Office of the General Counsel, Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC, 20528-0485. A notice of appeal must be filed within 60 calendar days of the date of issuance of the ALJ's written decision.
(b)
Service.
To file any document with a TSOB Review Panel, a party must send the document to the TSOB Docket Clerk electronically at
TSOB_docket@hq.dhs.gov,
or via certified U.S. mail at ATTN: TSOB Docket Clerk, Office of the General Counsel, Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC, 20528-0485. Parties are
strongly encouraged to file all documents and consent to electronic service. A party may consent to electronic service by filing a document expressly stating such a preference with the TSOB Docket Clerk and serving a copy on all other parties. Any document filed with the TSOB Docket Clerk (except a notice of protected information, the administrative record, ex parte motions, and documents containing classified information, Sensitive Security Information (SSI), or other protected information that accompanies a motion to supplement the record) must also be served on all other parties by certified U.S. mail or electronically/electronic service.
(c)
Filing date.
For purposes of all deadlines in this part, the date of filing of a notice of appeal or any document filed with a TSOB Review Panel is the date on which the document is received by the TSOB Docket Clerk.
(d)
Untimely appeals.
A TSOB Review Panel must reject and summarily dismiss a notice of appeal that is filed more than 60 calendar days after the date of issuance of the ALJ's written decision. A TSOB Review Panel may, in its discretion, accept an untimely notice of appeal upon a written showing of good cause for failure to meet the filing deadline.
(e)
Failure to perfect the appeal.
A TSOB Review Panel may dismiss an appeal, on its own initiative or upon motion of any party, when a party has filed a notice of appeal but failed to perfect the appeal by timely filing a brief in accordance with § 126.23.
(f)
Effect of dismissal of appeal.
Where an appeal is dismissed in accordance with paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section the ALJ's written decision becomes final.
§ 126.15
Entry of appearance.
(a) All parties to a proceeding before a TSOB Review Panel must enter their appearances in writing with the TSOB Docket Clerk within 15 calendar days after filing or being served with a notice of appeal. A party's written notice of entry of appearance must identify counsel, if applicable.
(b) Counsel beginning representation of a party after that party has already entered an appearance must file a separate notice of entry of appearance within 15 calendar days of beginning representation.
§ 126.17
Procedures for classified information, Sensitive Security Information (SSI), and other protected information.
(a)
Notice of protected information.
Within 30 calendar days of filing or being served with a notice of appeal, TSA must file a notice of protected information indicating whether the record of proceedings before the ALJ contains classified information, SSI, or other protected information. The notice of protected information must be filed with the TSOB Docket Clerk in accordance with § 126.13(b). If the TSA presented classified information, SSI, or other protected information to the ALJ at an ex parte proceeding or provided such information for in camera review during the ALJ proceedings, then the TSOB Review Panel will also consider that information at an ex parte proceeding or in camera.
(b)
Access to protected information.
A TSOB Review Panel may not disclose Classified Information or other protected information to any non-government party or counsel. A TSOB Review Panel may not disclose SSI to any non-government party or counsel unless the TSA has determined that the party had a preexisting need to know specific SSI as a covered person pursuant to 49 CFR 1520.7 and 1520.11.
§ 126.19
Filing and supplementing the record.
(a)
Filing the record.
The TSA must file a complete record of administrative proceedings, including a certified and unredacted transcript of all proceedings before the ALJ (including ex parte proceedings) and all material filed with the ALJ (including material containing classified information, SSI, or other protected information that was reviewed by the ALJ in camera), with the TSOB Docket Clerk within 30 calendar days after filing or being served with a notice of appeal. Upon motion filed by the TSA, or on its own initiative, the TSOB Review Panel may extend the time to file the record. The TSOB Docket Clerk notifies all parties of the date when the record is filed.
Within 30 calendar days of the date the record is filed, non-government parties may file a motion requesting that the TSA provide them with a redacted copy of any part of the record (excluding ex parte proceedings and materials reviewed in camera) that they do not possess. The TSA redacts classified information or other protected information from any part of the record it provides to non-government parties, except to the extent that the TSA has determined that the party had a preexisting need to know specific SSI as a covered person pursuant to 49 CFR 1520.7 and 1520.11.
(b)
Supplementing the record.
(1) A party may file a motion to supplement the record when anything relevant to an issue on appeal occurs after the ALJ issued a decision, or the party can show good cause, as determined by the TSOB Review Panel, for failing to submit material for the record at an earlier stage of the administrative proceedings. When the TSA seeks to supplement the record with material that contains classified information, SSI or other protected information, it may file a motion to supplement the record ex parte.
(2) A TSOB Review Panel may grant a motion to supplement the record when it finds that the supplemental material is relevant to an issue on appeal and that a condition described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies.
(3) A TSOB Review Panel may grant a motion to supplement the record by remanding the case to the ALJ for additional proceedings, where good cause is shown.
§ 126.21
Motions.
(a)
Form of motions.
(1) A motion filed with a TSOB Review Panel must comply with the requirements set forth in § 126.23(c)(1) through (4).
(2) Motions must be filed with the TSOB Docket Clerk and served on all parties in accordance with § 126.13(b). The TSOB Docket Clerk provides all motions to the TSOB Review Panel.
(b)
Duty to confer.
Before filing any motion, a party must confer or make reasonable, good-faith efforts to confer with all other parties to resolve the issues that are the subject of the motion. The moving party must state in the motion, or in a certificate attached to the motion, the specific efforts made to comply with this duty to confer. The moving party must also state in the motion the other parties' positions with regard to the relief requested. If no party opposes the relief requested in a motion, the moving party includes “Unopposed” in the motion's title. TSA does not have a duty to confer before filing an ex parte motion, but must provide notice to all parties that it has made an ex parte filing.
(c)
Motion hearings.
Upon request of any party, or on its own initiative, a TSOB Review Panel may order the parties to appear for a hearing on any motion that was not filed ex parte. Motion hearings may be conducted via communication technology unless all parties agree to appear in person or the TSOB Review Panel in its discretion determines that an in person appearance is necessary for efficient administration of the hearing. The Review Panel considers expense and inconvenience to the parties, the importance of information security, and the quality and reliability of available communication technology when making these determinations.
(d)
Disposition.
A TSOB Review Panel may, consistent with the requirements of due process and after providing the opposing party with an opportunity to review and respond, grant or deny a motion at any time after it is filed.
(e)
Additional procedural requirements for motion practice.
A TSOB Review Panel has discretion to establish via order served on the parties, additional procedural requirements regarding motion practice in response to the exigencies of a particular appeal. Such requirements may include, for example, time periods for filing responses and replies, a deadline for concluding all motion practice, and page limitations different from the default 35-page limit established in § 126.23(c)(3). A TSOB Review Panel may not require disclosure of classified information, SSI, or other protected information.
§ 126.23
Briefs.
(a)
Appellant brief.
(1) A party appealing the ALJ's decision must perfect the appeal by filing an appellant brief with the TSOB Docket Clerk and serving
that brief on all other parties in accordance with § 126.13(b) within 60 calendar days after the date on which TSA files the record in accordance with § 126.19(a), unless all parties consent to an extension of the filing deadline and provide notice of such agreement to the TSOB Docket Clerk or the TSOB Review Panel extends the filing deadline upon a motion by the appellant.
(2) The appellant brief must enumerate the appellant's objections to the ALJ's decision.
(b)
Appellee brief.
Within 30 calendar days after being served with an appellant brief, a party may file an appellee brief in response with the TSOB Docket Clerk. Any such brief must be served on all other parties in accordance with § 126.13(b) at the same time it is filed with the TSOB Docket Clerk. The parties may consent to an extension of the filing deadline and provide notice of such agreement to the TSOB Docket Clerk or the TSOB Review Panel may extend the deadline for filing an appellee brief upon a motion by the appellee.
(c)
Brief requirements.
A brief submitted to a TSOB Review Panel must adhere to the following specifications:
(1) The brief must be typewritten in Times New Roman, 12-point font, double-spaced, and, if submitted as a hard copy via certified U.S. mail, must be printed single-sided on 8 1/2-by-11 inch paper;
(2) The brief must set forth the name, address, email address, and telephone number of the party or attorney filing it;
(3) The brief must contain no more than 35 pages of text (excepting any tables, appendices, or cover sheets) unless prior permission to file excess pages has been granted by the TSOB Review Panel after consideration of a duly filed motion showing good cause as determined by the TSOB Review Panel;
(4) If submitted as a hard copy via certified U.S. mail, the brief must be bound in any manner that is secure, does not obscure the text, and permits easy reproduction; and
(5) If oral argument is desired, the brief should contain a request for oral argument that explains why oral argument will contribute substantially to the development of an issue on appeal.
§ 126.25
Oral argument.
(a) Upon receipt of a request from any party contained in a brief or in a motion, or on its own initiative, a TSOB Review Panel may order the parties to present oral argument. The Review Panel orders oral argument if it determines that oral argument will contribute substantially to the development of an issue on appeal.
(b) A TSOB Review Panel has discretion, within the requirements of all relevant statutory and regulatory provisions for information security, to choose the method and location of oral argument. The Review Panel will consider expense and inconvenience to the parties, the importance of information security, the quality and reliability of available communication technology, and concern for the efficient administration of proceedings when establishing the method and location of oral argument.
(c) A TSOB Review Panel has discretion to structure and establish procedural rules for oral argument via order served on the parties. Such rules may include time limits for argument and the order in which parties present argument.
(d) Classified information, SSI, or other protected information may not be disclosed during oral argument. A TSOB Review Panel may hold ex parte proceedings to allow for the presentation of classified information, SSI, or other protected information.
§ 126.27
Deliberations and action.
(a)
Deliberations.
TSOB Review Panel deliberations are closed proceedings. Any materials created by Review Panel members, the TSOB Docket Clerk, and the Review Panel's appointed counsel for use in deliberations are not part of the final administrative record.
(b)
Action.
A TSOB Review Panel may affirm, modify, or reverse the ALJ's decision. It may also remand the matter to the ALJ with instructions to address particular issues or consider additional testimony or evidence.
(1) A TSOB Review Panel requires a simple majority to decide an action.
(2) In case of a disagreement among TSOB Review Panel members, a dissenting report may be served with the
written explanation of the Review Panel's action. A dissenting report must be prepared in accordance with the requirements for the Review Panel's written explanation.
(c)
Written explanation.
A TSOB Review Panel will explain its action in writing to the maximum extent permitted by prudent concern for the national security interests of the United States and applicable laws and regulations governing information disclosure. If necessary, the Review Panel may prepare its written explanation in both a protected format (which may contain classified information, SSI, and other protected information) and a non-protected format (which must not contain classified information, SSI, and other protected information). The Review Panel serves non-government parties with the non-protected written explanation and government parties with the protected written explanation. The Review Panel is prohibited from providing the protected written explanation to non-government parties; however, the protected written explanation, if any, is part of the final administrative record that TSA must submit to a U.S. Court of Appeals in the event that a party seeks judicial review of the Review Panel's action.
(d)
Timing.
A TSOB Review Panel endeavors to resolve an appeal and issue a written explanation of its action to the parties no later than 60 calendar days after the last of the following events:
(1) Receipt of a timely filed appellant brief;
(2) receipt of a timely filed appellee brief; or
(3) Oral argument.
§ 126.29
Effect of TSOB Review Panel action.
(a) Any person substantially affected by a TSOB Review Panel's action, or the TSA Administrator when he or she decides that the Panel's action will have a significant adverse impact on carrying out 49 U.S.C. subtitle VII, part A, may obtain judicial review in an appropriate U.S. Court of Appeals in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 46110. The Administrators of the FAA and TSA must be made parties to any civil action filed in a U.S. Court of Appeals seeking review of a TSOB Review Panel action.
(b) If judicial review is not obtained, the action of the TSOB Review Panel is final and binding on the parties for the purpose of resolving the particular decision under review.
§ 126.31
Administration of proceedings.
(a) A TSOB Review Panel has authority to govern the conduct of its proceedings and internal operations by establishing any additional rules or procedures that are not inconsistent with this part.
(b) If TSA withdraws its Determination of Security Threat at any time after a notice of appeal has been filed pursuant to § 126.13(a), the proceedings before the TSOB Review Panel are rendered moot and closed. TSA must file a notice of withdrawal of the Determination of Security Threat with the TSOB Docket Clerk within five calendar days of such withdrawal.
(c) TSOB Review Panel proceedings will generally be closed to the public. A TSOB Review Panel may, in its discretion, open its proceedings to the public. Classified information, SSI, or other protected information shall not be disclosed during administrative proceedings, in accordance with § 126.25(d).
Pt. 158

# PART 158—CYBERSECURITY TALENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (CTMS)

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
158.101
Purpose.
158.102
Scope of authority.
158.103
Coverage.
158.104
Definitions.

# Subpart B—DHS Cybersecurity Service
158.201
Cybersecurity mission.
158.202
Cybersecurity Service (DHS-CS).
158.203
Positions in the DHS-CS.
158.204
Employees in the DHS-CS.
158.205
Assignments in the DHS-CS.

# Subpart C—Leadership
158.301
Administering CTMS and Managing the DHS-CS.
158.302
Cybersecurity Talent Management Board (CTMB).
158.303
Talent management principles.
158.304
Strategic talent priorities.
158.305
DHS-CS core values.

# Subpart D—Strategic Talent Planning
158.401
Strategic talent planning process.
158.402
DHS-CS cybersecurity work and CTMS qualifications identification.
158.403
Talent market analysis.
158.404
Work valuation system.
158.405
Exemption from General Schedule position classification.

# Subpart E—Acquiring Talent

# Talent Acquisition System
158.501
Talent acquisition system.
158.502
Exemption from other laws regarding appointment.

# Sourcing and Recruiting
158.510
Strategic recruitment.
158.511
Outreach and sourcing.
158.512
Interview expenses.

# Assessment and Hiring
158.520
Assessment.
158.521
Employment eligibility requirements and employment-related criteria.
158.522
Selection and appointment.
158.523
Appointment types and circumstances.
158.524
Initial service period.
158.525
Hiring of former DHS-CS employees.

# Subpart F—Compensating Talent

# Compensation System
158.601
Compensation strategy.
158.602
Compensation system.
158.603
Employee compensation.
158.604
Aggregate compensation limit.
158.605
Exemption from other laws regarding compensation.

# Salaries
158.610
Salary system.
158.611
Salary structure.
158.612
Local cybersecurity talent market supplement (LCTMS).
158.613
Salary range.
158.614
Salary limitations.

# Salary Administration
158.620
Setting salaries.
158.621
Adjusting salaries.
158.622
Administering salary in accordance with relevant provisions of other laws.

# Recognition
158.630
Employee recognition.
158.631
Recognition adjustments.
158.632
Recognition payments.
158.633
Recognition time-off.
158.634
Honorary recognition.

# Other Special Payments
158.640
Professional development and training.
158.641
Student loan repayments.
158.642
Special working conditions payment program.
158.643
Allowance in nonforeign areas.

# Other Compensation Provided in Accordance With Relevant Provisions of Other Laws
158.650
Holidays.
158.651
Leave.
158.652
Compensatory time-off for religious observance.
158.653
Other benefits.
158.654
Other payments.
158.655
Administering compensation in accordance with relevant provisions of other laws.

# Subpart G—Deploying Talent
158.701
Deployment program.
158.702
Designating qualified positions.
158.703
Designating and staffing assignments.
158.704
Official worksite.
158.705
Work scheduling.
158.706
Recordkeeping.
158.707
Details and opportunities outside DHS.
185.708
Directed assignments.
158.709
Exemption from other laws regarding deployment.

# Subpart H—Developing Talent
158.801
Definitions.
158.802
Performance management program.
158.803
Career development program.
158.804
Appraisal reviews.
158.805
Mission impact reviews.
158.806
Development reviews.

# Subpart I—Employee Rights, Requirements, and Input
158.901
Federal employee rights and processes.
158.902
Ethics requirements.
158.903
Employee input program.

# Subpart J—Advisory Appointments
158.1001
Advisory appointments and advisory appointees.
158.1002
Appointment of advisory appointees.
158.1003
Compensation for advisory appointees.

# Authority: 6 U.S.C. 658.
Subpart H also issued under 5 U.S.C. Chapters 41 and 43; 5 CFR parts 410 and 430.

# Source:
86 FR 47893, Aug. 26, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 158.101
Purpose.
(a)
Cybersecurity Talent Management System.
This part contains regulations establishing the Cybersecurity Talent Management System (CTMS) and the resulting DHS Cybersecurity Service (DHS-CS). CTMS is designed to recruit and retain individuals with the qualifications necessary to execute the DHS cybersecurity mission and is also designed to adapt to changes in cybersecurity work, the cybersecurity talent market, and the DHS cybersecurity mission.
(b)
DHS Cybersecurity Service.
Under this part, the Secretary or designee establishes and manages the DHS Cybersecurity Service (DHS-CS) described in subpart B of this part.
(c)
Regulations
policy.
The regulations in this part provide the policy framework for establishing and administering CTMS, and establishing and managing the DHS-CS. The Secretary or designee implements this part through CTMS policy defined in § 158.104.
§ 158.102
Scope of authority.
(a)
Authority.
This part implements the Secretary's authority in 6 U.S.C. 658 and governs talent management involving the individuals described in § 158.103.
(b)
Other laws superseded.
Unless explicitly stated otherwise in this part or explicitly provided otherwise by Congress, this part supersedes all other provisions of law and policy relating to appointment, number, classification, or compensation of employees that the Secretary deems are incompatible with the approach to talent management under this part. For compensation authorized under this part, the Department provides all such compensation under the authority in 6 U.S.C. 658, and also provides some types of such compensation in accordance with relevant provisions of other laws, including provisions in 5 U.S.C. and 5 CFR, to the extent compatible with the approach to talent management under this part.
(c)
Preservation of authority.
Nothing in this part shall be deemed or construed to limit the Secretary's authority in 6 U.S.C. 658.
§ 158.103
Coverage.
(a)
Talent management.
This part covers:
(1) Establishing and administering CTMS; and
(2) Establishing and managing the DHS-CS.
(b)
Individuals.
This part applies to any individual:
(1) Being recruited for employment under this part;
(2) Applying for employment under this part;
(3) Serving in a qualified position under this part;
(4) Managing, or participating in the management of, any DHS-CS employee under this part, including as a supervisor or any other employee of the Department who has the authority to take, direct others to take, recommend, or approve any talent management action under this part; or
(5) Serving on the Cybersecurity Talent Management Board described in § 158.302.
§ 158.104
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Additional compensation
means the compensation described in § 158.603(c).
Advisory appointment
means an appointment to a qualified position under subpart J of this part.
Annuitant
has the same meaning as that term in 5 CFR 553.102.
Anticipated mission impact
means the influence the Department anticipates an individual will have on execution of the DHS cybersecurity mission based on the individual's
CTMS qualifications
and application of those qualifications to successfully and proficiently perform
DHS-CS cybersecurity work.
Assignment
means a description of a specific subset of
DHS-CS cybersecurity work
and a specific subset of
CTMS qualifications
necessary to perform that work, the combination of which is associable with a qualified position.
Break in service
means the time when an employee is no longer on the payroll of a Federal agency.
Continuing appointment
means an appointment for an indefinite time period to a qualified position.
CTMS policy
means the Department's decisions implementing and operationalizing the regulations in this
part, and includes directives, instructions, and operating guidance and procedures.
CTMS qualifications
means
qualifications
identified under § 158.402(c).
Cybersecurity incident
has the same meaning as the term “incident” in 6 U.S.C. 659.
Cybersecurity risk
has the same meaning as that term in 6 U.S.C. 659.
Cybersecurity Talent Management Board
or
CTMB
means the group of officials described in § 158.302.
Cybersecurity Talent Management System
or
CTMS
means the approach to talent management, which encompasses the definitions, processes, systems, and programs, established under this part.
Cybersecurity talent market
means the availability, in terms of supply and demand, of talent relating to cybersecurity and employment relating to cybersecurity, including at other Federal agencies such as the Department of Defense.
Cybersecurity threat
has the same meaning as that term in 6 U.S.C. 1501(5).
Cybersecurity work
means activity involving mental or physical effort, or both, to achieve results relating to cybersecurity.
Department
or
DHS
means the Department of Homeland Security.
DHS cybersecurity mission
means the cybersecurity mission described in § 158.201. As stated in that section, the DHS cybersecurity mission encompasses all responsibilities of the Department relating to cybersecurity.
DHS Cybersecurity Service
or
DHS-CS
means the qualified positions designated and established under this part and the employees appointed to those positions under this part.
DHS-CS advisory appointee
means a DHS-CS employee serving in an advisory appointment under this part.
DHS-CS cybersecurity work
means
cybersecurity work
identified under § 158.402(b).
DHS-CS employee
means an
employee
serving in a qualified position under this part.
Employee
has the same meaning as that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.
Excepted service
has the same meaning as that term in 5 U.S.C. 2103.
Executive Schedule
means the pay levels described in 5 U.S.C. 5311.
Former DHS-CS employee
means an individual who previously served, but is not currently serving, in a qualified position.
Functions
has the same meaning as that term in 6 U.S.C. 101(9).
Mission impact
means a DHS-CS employee's influence on execution of the DHS cybersecurity mission by applying the employee's CTMS qualifications to successfully and proficiently perform DHS-CS cybersecurity work.
Mission-related requirements
means characteristics of an individual's expertise or characteristics of cybersecurity work, or both (including cybersecurity talent market-related information), that are associated with successful execution of the DHS cybersecurity mission, and that are determined by officials with appropriate decision-making authority.
Preference eligible
has the same meaning as that term in 5 U.S.C. 2108.
Qualification
means a quality of an individual that correlates with the successful and proficient performance of cybersecurity work, such as capability, experience and training, and education and certification. A capability is a cluster of interrelated attributes that is measurable or observable or both. Interrelated attributes include knowledge, skills, abilities, behaviors, and other characteristics.
Qualified position
means
CTMS qualifications
and
DHS-CS cybersecurity work,
the combination of which is associable with an employee.
Renewable appointment
means a time-limited appointment to a qualified position.
Salary
means an annual rate of pay under this part and is basic pay for purposes under 5 U.S.C. and 5 CFR. The salary for a DHS-CS employee is described in § 158.603.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
Secretary or designee
means the
Secretary
or an official or group of officials authorized to act for the Secretary in the matter concerned.
Strategic talent priorities
means the priorities for CTMS and the DHS-CS set under § 158.304.
Supervisor
means an
employee
of the Department who has authority to hire, direct, assign, promote, reward, transfer, furlough, layoff, recall, suspend, discipline, or remove employees, or to effectively recommend such actions. A supervisor for a DHS-CS employee may be a DHS-CS employee or may be an employee of the Department serving in a position outside the DHS-CS.
Talent management
means a systematic approach to linking employees to mission and organizational goals through intentional strategies and practices for hiring, compensating, and developing employees.
Talent management action
has the same meaning as the term
personnel action
in 5 U.S.C. 2302(a)(2) for applicable actions, and the terms
talent management action
and
personnel action
may be used interchangeably in this part.
Veteran
has the same meaning as that term in 5 U.S.C. 2108.
Work level
means a grouping of
CTMS qualifications
and
DHS-CS cybersecurity work
with sufficiently similar characteristics to warrant similar treatment in talent management under this part.
Work valuation
means a methodology through which an organization defines and evaluates the value of work and the value of individuals capable of performing that work.

# Subpart B—DHS Cybersecurity Service
§ 158.201
Cybersecurity mission.
Cybersecurity is a matter of homeland security and one of the core missions of the Department. Congress and the President charge the Department with responsibilities relating to cybersecurity and grant the Secretary and other officials authorities to carry out those cybersecurity responsibilities. The Department's cybersecurity mission is dynamic to keep pace with the evolving cybersecurity risks and cybersecurity threats facing the Nation and to adapt to any changes in the Department's cybersecurity responsibilities. The DHS cybersecurity mission encompasses all responsibilities of the Department relating to cybersecurity.
§ 158.202
Cybersecurity Service (DHS-CS).
The Secretary or designee establishes and manages the DHS-CS to enhance the cybersecurity of the Nation through the most effective execution of the DHS cybersecurity mission.
§ 158.203
Positions in the DHS-CS.
(a)
Qualified positions.
The Secretary or designee designates and establishes qualified positions in the excepted service as the Secretary or designee determines necessary for the most effective execution of the DHS cybersecurity mission.
(b)
Designating qualified positions.
The Secretary or designee designates qualified positions under the deployment program, described in § 158.701, as part of determining when the Department uses CTMS to recruit and retain individuals possessing CTMS qualifications.
(c)
Establishing qualified positions.
The Secretary or designee establishes a qualified position under the talent acquisition system, described in § 158.501 of this part, by the appointment of an individual to a qualified position previously designated.
§ 158.204
Employees in the DHS-CS.
(a)
DHS-CS employees.
DHS-CS employees serve in the excepted service, and the Department hires, compensates, and develops DHS-CS employees using CTMS.
(b)
Mission execution and assignments.
DHS-CS employees execute the DHS cybersecurity mission by applying their CTMS qualifications to perform the DHS-CS cybersecurity work of their assignments.
(c)
Mission impact and recognition.
Application of a DHS-CS employee's CTMS qualifications to successfully and proficiently perform DHS-CS cybersecurity work results in mission impact attributable to that employee. The Department reviews a DHS-CS employee's mission impact as described in § 158.805, which may result in recognition as described in § 158.630.
(d)
Compensation.
In alignment with the compensation strategy described in § 158.601, the Department provides compensation to a DHS-CS employee as described in § 158.603.
(e)
Recruitment and development.
The Department strategically and proactively recruits individuals as described in § 158.510 and develops DHS-CS employees under the career development program, described in § 158.803, that emphasizes continual learning.
(f)
Core values.
The Department uses the core values, described in § 158.305, to manage the DHS-CS.
§ 158.205
Assignments in the DHS-CS.
(a)
Assignments generally.
Each DHS-CS employee has one or more assignments during the employee's service in the DHS-CS. The Department designates and staffs assignments under the deployment program, described in § 158.701.
(b)
Initial and subsequent assignments.
The Department matches an individual appointed to a qualified position with an initial assignment as described in § 158.703(c). The Department may match DHS-CS employees with one or more subsequent assignments as described in § 158.703(d).

# Subpart C—Leadership
§ 158.301
Administering CTMS and Managing the DHS-CS.
(a) The Secretary or designee is responsible for administering CTMS and managing the DHS-CS, including establishing and maintaining CTMS policy.
(b) The Cybersecurity Talent Management Board (CTMB) is responsible for assisting the Secretary or designee in administering CTMS and managing the DHS-CS.
(c) The Secretary or designee, with assistance from the CTMB, administers CTMS and manages the DHS-CS based on:
(1) Talent management principles described in § 158.303;
(2) Strategic talent priorities described in § 158.304; and
(3) DHS-CS core values described in § 158.305.
§ 158.302
Cybersecurity Talent Management Board (CTMB).
(a)
Purpose.
As part of assisting the Secretary or designee in administering CTMS and managing the DHS-CS, the CTMB periodically evaluates whether CTMS is recruiting and retaining individuals with the qualifications necessary to execute the DHS cybersecurity mission.
(b)
Composition.
The CTMB comprises:
(1) Officials representing DHS organizations involved in executing the DHS cybersecurity mission; and
(2) Officials responsible for developing and administering talent management policy within the Department.
(c)
Membership.
The Secretary or designee:
(1) Appoints officials to serve as members of the CTMB;
(2) Designates the Co-Chairs of the CTMB; and
(3) Ensures CTMB membership fulfills the membership requirements in this section and includes appropriate representation, as determined by the Secretary or designee, from across the Department.
(d)
Operation.
The Secretary or designee establishes the CTMB and minimum requirements for CTMB operation.
(e)
External Assistance.
The CTMB may periodically designate an independent evaluator to conduct an evaluation of CTMS.
§ 158.303
Talent management principles.
(a)
Merit system principles.
CTMS is designed and the Secretary or designee, with assistance from the CTMB, administers CTMS based on the principles of merit and fairness embodied in the merit system principles in 5 U.S.C. 2301(b).
(b)
Prohibited personnel practices.
Any employee of the Department who has the authority to take, direct others to take, recommend, or approve any talent management action under this part must comply with 5 U.S.C. 2302(b) regarding talent management actions under this part.
(c)
Equal employment opportunity principles.
CTMS is designed and the Secretary or designee, with assistance from the CTMB, administers CTMS and manages the DHS-CS in accordance with applicable anti-discrimination laws and policies. Thus, talent management actions under this part that materially affect a term or condition of
employment must be free from discrimination.
§ 158.304
Strategic talent priorities.
The Secretary or designee, with assistance from the CTMB, administers CTMS and manages the DHS-CS based on strategic talent priorities, which the Secretary or designee sets on an ongoing basis using:
(a) Information from strategic talent planning described in § 158.401(c);
(b) The Department's financial and resources planning functions, including the functions described in 6 U.S.C. 342(b);
(c) The Department's comprehensive strategic planning, including the plan described in 5 U.S.C. 306; and
(d) Departmental priorities.
§ 158.305
DHS-CS core values.
The Secretary or designee, with assistance from the CTMB, manages the DHS-CS based on the following core values:
(a) Expertise, including enhancing individual and collective expertise regarding cybersecurity through continual learning;
(b) Innovation, including pursuing new ideas and methods regarding cybersecurity work and cybersecurity generally; and
(c) Adaptability, including anticipating and adjusting to emergent and future cybersecurity risks and cybersecurity threats.

# Subpart D—Strategic Talent Planning
§ 158.401
Strategic talent planning process.
(a)
Purpose.
On an ongoing basis, the Secretary or designee engages in a strategic talent planning process to ensure CTMS adapts to changes in cybersecurity work, the cybersecurity talent market, and the DHS cybersecurity mission.
(b)
Process.
The Secretary or designee establishes and administers a strategic talent planning process that comprises:
(1) Identifying DHS-CS cybersecurity work and CTMS qualifications based on the DHS cybersecurity mission as described in § 158.402;
(2) Analyzing the cybersecurity talent market as described in § 158.403;
(3) Describing and valuing DHS-CS cybersecurity work under the work valuation system described in § 158.404; and
(4) Ensuring CTMS administration and DHS-CS management is continually informed by current, relevant information as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Informing CTMS administration and DHS-CS management.
The Secretary or designee aggregates information generated in the processes described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and information from administering CTMS, and uses that aggregated information to inform all other CTMS processes, systems, and programs under this part.
§ 158.402
DHS-CS cybersecurity work and CTMS qualifications identification.
On an ongoing basis, the Secretary or designee analyzes the DHS cybersecurity mission to identify:
(a) The functions that execute the DHS cybersecurity mission;
(b) The cybersecurity work required to perform, manage, or supervise those functions; and
(c) The set of qualifications, identified in accordance with applicable legal and professional guidelines, necessary to perform that work.
§ 158.403
Talent market analysis.
On an ongoing basis, the Secretary or designee conducts an analysis of the cybersecurity talent market, using generally recognized compensation principles and practices to:
(a) Identify and monitor trends in both employment for and availability of talent related to cybersecurity, including variations in the cost of talent in local cybersecurity talent markets, defined in § 158.612(b)(1), or variations in the cost of living in those markets, or both; and
(b) Identify leading strategies for recruiting and retaining talent related to cybersecurity.
§ 158.404
Work valuation system.
(a) The Secretary or designee establishes and administers a person-focused
work valuation system to facilitate systematic management of the DHS-CS and to address internal equity among DHS-CS employees. The work valuation system is designed to reflect that:
(1) The DHS cybersecurity mission is dynamic;
(2) Cybersecurity work is constantly evolving; and
(3) Individuals, through application of their qualifications, significantly influence how cybersecurity work is performed.
(b) The work valuation system is based on:
(1) CTMS qualifications; and
(2) DHS-CS cybersecurity work.
(c) The Department uses the work valuation system to establish work and career structures, such as work levels, titles, ranks, and specializations, and the Department uses these work and career structures for purposes of talent management under this part, such as:
(1) Describing and categorizing DHS-CS employees, qualified positions, and assignments;
(2) Assessing and selecting individuals for appointment to qualified positions; and
(3) Compensating DHS-CS employees under this part, including establishing and administering one or more salary structures, described in § 158.611.
(d) The Department may also use the work and career structures described in paragraph (c) of this section for budget and fiscal purposes related to administering CTMS and managing the DHS-CS.
§ 158.405
Exemption from General Schedule position classification.
The provisions of 5 U.S.C. Chapter 51 regarding classification and 5 CFR part 511 regarding classification under the General Schedule, among other similar laws, do not apply under CTMS, to the DHS-CS, or to talent management involving the individuals described in § 158.103.

# Subpart E—Acquiring Talent

# Talent Acquisition System
§ 158.501
Talent acquisition system.
(a) The Secretary or designee establishes and administers a talent acquisition system, in accordance with applicable legal and professional guidelines governing the assessment and selection of individuals, to identify and hire individuals possessing CTMS qualifications.
(b) The talent acquisition system comprises the strategies, programs, and processes described in this subpart and in CTMS policy for proactively and strategically recruiting individuals, assessing qualifications of individuals, and considering and selecting individuals for employment in the DHS-CS and appointment to qualified positions.
§ 158.502
Exemption from other laws regarding appointment.
The provisions of the following laws, among other similar laws, do not apply under CTMS, to the DHS-CS, or to talent management involving the individuals described in § 158.103:
(a) The following provisions of 5 U.S.C.:
(1) Section 3320 regarding selection and appointment in the excepted service; and
(2) Chapter 51 regarding classification; and
(b) The following provisions of 5 CFR:
(1) Part 211 regarding veteran preference;
(2) Part 302 regarding employment in the excepted service (except § 302.203 regarding disqualifying factors);
(3) Part 352 regarding reemployment rights (except subpart C regarding detail and transfer of Federal employees to international organizations); and
(4) Part 511 regarding classification under the General Schedule.

# Sourcing and Recruiting
§ 158.510
Strategic recruitment.
(a) On an ongoing basis, the Department develops and implements strategies for publicly communicating about the DHS cybersecurity mission and the DHS-CS and for proactively recruiting
individuals likely to possess CTMS qualifications.
(b) The Department develops and implements strategies described in paragraph (a) of this section based on:
(1) CTMS qualifications and DHS-CS cybersecurity work; and
(2) Strategic talent priorities.
(c) In developing and implementing strategies described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Department may collaborate with:
(1) Other Federal agencies including the Department of Defense, the Office of Personnel Management, and the Department of Veterans Affairs;
(2) Institutions of higher education, as defined in 20 U.S.C. 1001, including historically Black colleges or universities, as described in 20 U.S.C. 1061(2), and other minority-serving institutions, as described in 20 U.S.C. 1067q(a);
(3) National organizations, including veterans service organizations recognized by the Department of Veterans Affairs, and professional associations chartered by Congress under 36 U.S.C. Part B; and
(4) Other similar organizations and groups.
(d) The Department considers the availability of preference eligibles and veterans for appointment under this part, and develops and implements specific strategies to proactively recruit such individuals.
§ 158.511
Outreach and sourcing.
(a) The Department uses a variety of sources, including publicly available information, to identify individuals or groups of individuals for recruitment under this subpart.
(b) CTMS policy implementing this subpart addresses:
(1) Communication of opportunities for employment in the DHS-CS;
(2) Communication of the application processes to individuals being recruited under this part or applying for employment under this part; and
(3) Acceptance and treatment of applications for employment in the DHS-CS, including minimum application requirements established under this part.
§ 158.512
Interview expenses.
(a) An individual being considered for employment in the DHS-CS may receive payment or reimbursement for travel to and from preemployment interviews, which may include participating in the assessment program described in § 158.520.
(b) The Department pays or reimburses interview expenses, described in paragraph (a) of this section, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5706b and the Federal Travel Regulations at 41 CFR chapters 301 through 304.

# Assessment and Hiring
§ 158.520
Assessment.
(a) The Department determines individuals' CTMS qualifications under the assessment program described in this section. To be considered for employment in the DHS-CS, an individual must participate in the assessment program and meet applicable rating or scoring thresholds in each assessment process in which that individual participates.
(b) The Department establishes and administers an assessment program, with one or more assessment processes, based on CTMS qualifications. The assessment program is designed to efficiently and accurately determine individuals' CTMS qualifications.
(c) Each assessment process compares the qualifications of an individual to CTMS qualifications. The Department develops and administers each assessment process in accordance with applicable legal and professional guidelines governing the assessment and selection of individuals.
(d) An assessment process may use standardized instruments and procedures to measure qualifications. An assessment process may also use demonstrations of qualifications determined appropriate by the Secretary or designee, such as rewards earned from the cybersecurity competition described in Executive Order 13870, published, peer-reviewed cybersecurity research, or a cybersecurity invention or discovery granted a patent under 35 U.S.C. Part II.
(e) The Department makes available information to assist individuals in understanding the purpose of, and preparing for participation in, an assessment process.
(f) To maintain the objectivity and integrity of the assessment program, the Department maintains control over the security and release of materials relating to the assessment program, including assessment plans, validation studies, and other content. Except as otherwise required by law, the Department does not release the following:
(1) Sensitive materials relating to the design and administration of the assessment program;
(2) Names or lists of individuals applying for employment in the DHS-CS; and
(3) Results or relative ratings of individuals who participated in the assessment program.
§ 158.521
Employment eligibility requirements and employment-related criteria.
(a)
Employment eligibility requirements.
To be eligible for employment in the DHS-CS, an individual must:
(1) Meet U.S. citizenship requirements as described in governing Appropriation Acts; and
(2) Comply with Selective Service System requirements described in 5 U.S.C. 3328.
(b)
Employment-related criteria.
The Department determines criteria related to employment in the DHS-CS, reviews individuals applying for employment in the DHS-CS using such criteria, and, as part of an offer of appointment to a qualified position, provides written notice of specific, applicable employment-related criteria necessary to obtain and maintain, employment in the DHS-CS. Employment-related criteria include:
(1) Fitness standards and similar factors described in Executive orders, 5 CFR 302.203, and policies of the Department;
(2) Personnel security requirements related to fitness standards and similar factors described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(3) Geographic mobility requirements; and
(4) Other criteria related to any aspect of appointment or employment, including selection, appointments, qualified positions, or assignments, or some or all of the foregoing.
(c)
Accepting and maintaining employment-related criteria.
To be appointed to a qualified position, an individual must accept and satisfy the specific, applicable employment-related criteria associated with the individual's offer of appointment concurrent with the individual's acceptance of the offer of appointment. An individual's acceptance of an appointment to a qualified position constitutes acceptance of applicable employment-related criteria for that qualified position and the individual's agreement to satisfy and maintain those criteria.
(d)
Changes to employment-related criteria.
Employment-related criteria may change, and DHS-CS employees may be required to accept and satisfy such changes to maintain employment in the DHS-CS.
(e)
Disqualification.
The Department may disqualify an individual from consideration for employment in the DHS-CS or from appointment to a qualified position for: Providing false information to the Department, engaging in dishonest conduct with the Department, unauthorized disclosure of assessment materials for purposes of giving any applicant an advantage in the assessment process, or other actions related to an individual's character or conduct that may negatively impact the integrity or efficiency of the DHS-CS.
§ 158.522
Selection and appointment.
(a) The Department selects an individual for employment in the DHS-CS based on the individual's CTMS qualifications, as determined under the assessment program described in § 158.520.
(b) Prior to finalizing the selection of an individual for employment in the DHS-CS, the Department considers the availability of preference eligibles for appointment under this part, including those recruited based on specific strategies described in § 158.510(d), who have participated in the assessment program and met applicable rating or scoring thresholds, as described in § 158.520(a). When a selection is imminent and there are both preference eligibles and non-preference eligibles undergoing final consideration, the Department regards status as a preference eligible as
a positive factor in accordance with CTMS policy.
(c) The Department appoints an individual to a qualified position under the authority in 6 U.S.C. 658 and this part, and all such appointments are in the excepted service and are one of the following types of appointment:
(1) A renewable appointment under § 158.523(a);
(2) A continuing appointment under § 158.523(b); or
(3) An advisory appointment under § 158.523(c).
(d) As part of selecting an individual for employment in the DHS-CS and appointing an individual to a qualified position under this part, the Department:
(1) Determines applicable work and career structures, including the individual's initial work level, using the work valuation system described in § 158.404;
(2) Sets the individual's initial salary using the salary system as described in § 158.620; and
(3) Matches the individual with an initial assignment as described in § 158.703(c).
(e) No qualified position may be established through the non-competitive conversion of a current Federal employee from an appointment made outside the authority of this part to an appointment made under this part.
(f) An individual who accepts an appointment to a qualified position under this part voluntarily accepts an appointment in the excepted service.
(g) A DHS-CS employee serves in the same qualified position throughout a single continuing appointment under this part and throughout multiple, consecutive renewable or continuing appointments under this part, regardless of any changes in the employee's assignments, including primary DHS organization, or changes in the employee's official worksite.
§ 158.523
Appointment types and circumstances.
(a)
Renewable appointment.
Appointment of an individual to a renewable appointment is for up to three years. The Department may renew a renewable appointment for any time period of up to three years, subject to any limitation in CTMS policy regarding the number of renewals. Subject to any additional limitation in CTMS policy, the Department may change an unexpired renewable appointment to a continuing appointment for a DHS-CS employee receiving a salary in the standard range described in § 158.613(b). The following types of renewable appointments include special conditions:
(1)
Reemployed annuitant.
Under this part, the Department may appoint an annuitant to a qualified position and must appoint the annuitant to a renewable appointment. An annuitant appointed to a qualified position serves at the will of the Secretary.
(2)
Uncompensated service.
Under this part, the Department may appoint to a qualified position an individual to provide uncompensated service, any such service is gratuitous service, and the Department must appoint such an individual to a renewable appointment. The gratuitous nature of service must be a condition of employment of such an appointment. The Secretary or designee must approve the appointment of each individual providing uncompensated service by name, and such individual if not providing gratuitous service would otherwise be eligible to receive a salary under this part at or above the amount described in § 158.614(a)(2). An individual providing uncompensated service serves at the will of the Secretary. An individual for appointment to a qualified position to provide uncompensated service need not be assessed under this part, and the documentation associated with that individual's qualified position need not include all the information listed in § 158.706(c).
(b)
Continuing appointment.
Appointment of an individual to a continuing appointment is for an indefinite time period.
(c)
Advisory appointment.
Appointment of an individual, including a former DHS-CS employee, to an advisory appointment is governed by subpart J of this part.
(d)
Former DHS-CS employee.
Appointment under this part of a former DHS-CS employee is governed by § 158.525.
(e)
Restoration to duty from uniformed service or compensable injury.
In accordance with 5 CFR part 353, the Department restores to duty a DHS-CS employee who is a covered person described in 5 CFR 353.103.
(f)
Current and former political appointees.
Appointment under this part of a current political appointee and a former political appointee, both as defined by OPM, may be subject to additional requirements outside of this part, including coordination with OPM.
§ 158.524
Initial service period.
(a) All individuals appointed under this part serve an initial service period that constitutes a probationary period of three years beginning on the date of appointment.
(b) Except as stated in paragraph (c) of this section, service in the DHS-CS counts toward completion of a current initial service period under paragraph (a) of this section. No other service in an appointment made outside the authority of this part may count toward completion of an initial service period under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Service as a DHS-CS advisory appointee, as a reemployed annuitant described in § 158.523(a)(1), or providing uncompensated service described in § 158.523(a)(2) does not count towards completion of an initial service period in a subsequent appointment to a qualified position.
(d) CTMS policy implementing this section addresses computation of each DHS-CS employee's initial service period, including accounting for working schedules other than full-time schedules described in § 158.705 and for periods of absence while in pay and nonpay statuses.
§ 158.525
Hiring of former DHS-CS employees.
(a)
Rejoining the DHS-CS.
To facilitate future service in the DHS-CS by former DHS-CS employees, the Department aims to:
(1) Maintain communication with former DHS-CS employees to understand their interest in future service in the DHS-CS;
(2) Provide opportunities for former DHS-CS employees to be considered for appointment again to qualified positions; and
(3) Acknowledge former DHS-CS employees' enhancements to qualifications while outside the DHS-CS.
(b)
Rehiring.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section, to be appointed again to a qualified position a former DHS-CS employee must:
(1) Participate again in the assessment program described in § 158.520 for the Department to determine the former DHS-CS employee's current CTMS qualifications; and
(2) Meet employment eligibility and accept and satisfy applicable employment-related criteria as described in § 158.521.
(c)
Reassessment.
A former DHS-CS employee whose most recent appointment to a qualified position was a renewable appointment or a continuing appointment must participate again in the assessment program described in § 158.520 unless the Department determines otherwise based on factors relevant to the former DHS-CS employee, such as:
(1) Time elapsed since the former DHS-CS employee's most recent appointment to a qualified position under this part;
(2) Similarity of cybersecurity work performed by the former DHS-CS employee since that individual's most recent appointment to a qualified position under this part; or
(3) Similarity of the former DHS-CS employee's CTMS qualifications during the former employee's most recent appointment under this part to the CTMS qualifications of a newly identified assignment under the deployment program in § 158.701.
(d)
Former advisory and political appointees.
Appointment under this part of a former DHS-CS employee who previously served in an advisory appointment or other political appointment may be subject to additional requirements, including coordination with the Office of Personnel Management.
(e)
Prospective advisory appointees.
Appointment of any former DHS-CS employee to an advisory appointment is governed by subpart J of this part.

# Subpart F—Compensating Talent

# Compensation System
§ 158.601
Compensation strategy.
To ensure the DHS-CS fulfills its purpose, as stated in § 158.202, the Secretary or designee aims to establish and administer a compensation system, described in § 158.602, that:
(a) Ensures the compensation for DHS-CS employees is sufficiently competitive to recruit and retain individuals possessing CTMS qualifications;
(b) Values, encourages, and recognizes, in alignment with the DHS-CS core values described in § 158.305:
(1) Exceptional CTMS qualifications and mission impact,
(2) Excellence and innovation in the performance of DHS-CS cybersecurity work, and
(3) Continual learning to adapt to evolving cybersecurity risks and cybersecurity threats; and
(c) Acknowledges the unpredictable nature of cybersecurity work and the expectation that DHS-CS employees occasionally work unusual hours and extended hours, as needed, to execute the DHS cybersecurity mission, especially in response to exigent circumstances and emergencies, including cybersecurity incidents; and
(d) Reflects an understanding of the cybersecurity talent market, including:
(1) Leading compensation practices and trends,
(2) Current cybersecurity work expectations and arrangements, and
(3) An understanding of the concepts of total compensation and total rewards.
§ 158.602
Compensation system.
(a) The Secretary or designee establishes and administers a compensation system based on:
(1) The compensation strategy in § 158.601;
(2) Information from strategic talent planning described in § 158.401(c);
(3) Generally recognized compensation principles and practices; and
(4) Strategic talent priorities.
(b) The compensation system comprises:
(1) The salary system described in § 158.610; and
(2) Additional compensation described in § 158.603.
§ 158.603
Employee compensation.
(a)
Compensation.
As compensation for service in the DHS-CS, a DHS-CS employee receives a salary as described in paragraph (b) of this section. A DHS-CS employee may also receive additional compensation as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Salary.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, a DHS-CS employee receives a salary under the salary system described in § 158.610. The Department sets a DHS-CS employee's salary as described in § 158.620, and salary may include a local cybersecurity talent market supplement described in § 158.612. The Department adjusts a DHS-CS employee's salary as described in § 158.621.
(1)
Uncompensated service.
A DHS-CS employee providing uncompensated service described in § 158.523(a)(2) does not receive a salary under this part.
(2)
Advisory appointees.
A DHS-CS advisory appointee receives a salary as described under subpart J of this part.
(c)
Additional compensation.
In alignment with the compensation strategy in § 158.601 and subject to the requirements of this subpart F, the Department may provide the additional compensation described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to DHS-CS employees, unless a DHS-CS employee is providing uncompensated service under § 158.523(a)(2).
(1)
Types.
Additional compensation under CTMS is:
(i) Recognition under §§ 158.632 through 158.634;
(ii) Other special payments under §§ 158.640 through 158.643; and
(iii) Other types of compensation, including leave and benefits, authorized under §§ 158.650 through 158.654 and provided in accordance with relevant provisions of other laws.
(2)
Combining types.
A DHS-CS employee, except such an employee providing uncompensated service and a DHS-CS advisory appointee, may receive any type of additional compensation described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in combination with any
other such type subject to the requirements of this subpart F, and subject to the limit described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(3)
Limit.
Additional compensation described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is subject to, and may be limited by, the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604.
(4)
Advisory appointees.
A DHS-CS advisory appointee may receive additional compensation as described in subpart J of this part.
(5)
Department discretion.
Any payment or nonpayment of additional compensation under this part, or the amount of any such compensation, is under the Department's discretion, and may be reviewable only as provided for under subpart I of this part.
§ 158.604
Aggregate compensation limit.
(a)
Limiting aggregate compensation.
A DHS-CS employee may not receive additional compensation listed in in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section if such receipt would cause a DHS-CS employee's aggregate compensation for a calendar year to exceed the aggregate compensation limit applicable to that employee. A DHS-CS employee's applicable aggregate compensation limit is the limit amount assigned to the subrange of a salary structure, described in § 158.611, that contains the employee's salary. The Department assigns an aggregate compensation limit to each subrange in a salary structure by assigning the amounts referenced in 5 U.S.C. 5307(d)(1) in ascending order to the subranges, such that each subrange has an aggregate compensation limit that is greater than or equal to the salary maximum of that subrange.
(b)
Aggregate compensation.
For purposes of this part—
(1) A DHS-CS employee's aggregate compensation means the total of the employee's salary, including any local cybersecurity talent market supplement, and the following types of additional compensation the employee receives under this part:
(i) Recognition payments;
(ii) Payments for special working conditions;
(iii) Payments for quarters allowances, overseas differentials and allowances, and remote worksite allowances, foreign currency allowances, and hostile fire pay; and
(iv) Other similar payments described in CTMS policy as being authorized under this part and provided in accordance with other relevant provisions of law.
(2) The following types of compensation a DHS-CS employee receives under this part are excluded from the employee's aggregate compensation:
(i) Payments or reimbursements for professional development and training;
(ii) CTMS student loan repayments;
(iii) CTMS allowances in nonforeign areas;
(iv) Back pay because of an unjustified or unwarranted talent management action;
(v) Severance pay;
(vi) Lump-sum payments for accumulated and accrued annual leave;
(vii) Voluntary separation incentive payments;
(viii) Payments for reservist differentials; and
(ix) Monetary value of any honorary recognition, leave, or other benefits.
(c)
Forfeiture of compensation exceeding limit amount.
Except under corrective action described in paragraph (d) of this section, a DHS-CS employee may not receive any portion of a payment for the additional compensation listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section that would cause the employee's aggregate compensation in any calendar year to exceed the applicable limit amount for that employee described in paragraph (a) of this section and the DHS-CS employee forfeits any such portion of a payment.
(d)
Corrective actions.
The Department may make a corrective action if the Department underestimated or overestimated a DHS-CS employee's aggregate compensation in a calendar year, including if an applicable aggregate compensation limit amount changed, resulting in the employee receiving aggregate compensation in excess of the applicable limit amount for a DHS-CS employee or the Department limiting or prohibiting an employee's aggregate compensation incorrectly. Corrective actions may include the Secretary or
designee waiving a debt to the Federal Government for a DHS-CS employee under 5 U.S.C. 5584, if warranted, or making appropriate corrective payments to a DHS-CS employee.
§ 158.605
Exemption from other laws regarding compensation.
The provisions of the following laws, among other similar laws, do not apply under CTMS, to the DHS-CS, or to talent management involving the individuals described in § 158.103:
(a) The following provisions of 5 U.S.C.:
(1) Chapter 51 regarding classification,
(2) Chapter 53 regarding pay rates and systems (except section 5379 regarding student loan repayments),
(3) Chapter 55, Subchapter V regarding premium pay (except section 5550a regarding compensatory time off for religious observances),
(4) Chapter 61 regarding work schedules (except sections 6103-6104 regarding holidays),
(5) Section 4502 regarding cash awards and time-off awards,
(6) Section 4503 regarding agency awards (except regarding honorary recognition),
(7) Section 4505a regarding performance-based cash awards,
(8) Sections 4507 and 4507a regarding presidential rank awards,
(9) Section 5307 regarding limitation on certain payments,
(10) Section 5384 regarding performance awards for the Senior Executive Service,
(11) Section 5753 regarding recruitment and relocation bonuses,
(12) Section 5754 regarding retention bonuses,
(13) Section 5755 regarding supervisory differentials, and
(14) Section 5757 regarding extended assignment incentives;
(b) The provisions of 29 U.S.C. 206 and 207 regarding minimum wage payments and overtime pay under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended; and
(c) The following provisions of 5 CFR:
(1) Part 451 regarding awards (except regarding honorary recognition);
(2) Part 511 regarding classification under the General Schedule;
(3) Part 530 regarding pay rates and systems;
(4) Part 531 regarding pay under the General Schedule;
(5) Part 534 regarding pay under other systems;
(6) Part 536 regarding grade and pay retention;
(7) Part 550, subparts A regarding premium pay, I regarding pay for duty involving physical hardship or hazard, M regarding firefighter pay, N regarding compensatory time off for travel, and P regarding overtime pay for border patrol agents;
(8) Part 551 regarding pay administration under the Fair Labor Standards Act;
(9) Part 575 regarding recruitment, relocation, and retention incentives, supervisory differentials; and extended assignment incentives; and
(10) Part 610 regarding hours of duty (except subpart B regarding holidays).

# Salaries
§ 158.610
Salary system.
(a) Under the compensation system, described in § 158.602 of this part, the Department establishes and administers a salary system with the goals of maintaining:
(1) Sufficiently competitive salaries for DHS-CS employees as stated in § 158.601(a); and
(2) Equitable salaries among DHS-CS employees.
(b) The salary system comprises:
(1) At least one salary structure, described in § 158.611 of this part, bounded by the salary range described in § 158.613 and incorporating the salary limitations described in § 158.614;
(2) The process for providing a local cybersecurity talent market supplement described in § 158.612; and
(3) The salary administration framework described in §§ 158.620 through 158.622.
§ 158.611
Salary structure.
(a) Under the salary system, described in § 158.610, the Department establishes and administers one or more salary structures based on the strategy, information, principles and practices, and priorities listed in § 158.602(a).
(b) A salary structure:
(1) Is bounded by the salary range described in § 158.613;
(2) Incorporates, as described in paragraph (d) of this section, the salary limitations described in § 158.614; and
(3) May incorporate other salary and cost control strategies, such as control points.
(c) A salary structure includes subranges, within the salary range described in § 158.613 that are associated with work levels established by the work valuation system, described in § 158.404. Each such subrange is associated with at least one such work level.
(d) The Department incorporates the salary limitations described in § 158.614 into a salary structure by assigning each such salary limitation to at least one subrange of the salary structure. The Department assigns such salary limitations in ascending order to the subranges such that each subrange has a salary limitation that is greater than or equal to the salary maximum of that subrange.
(e) The Department may adjust a salary structure annually, or as the Secretary or designee determines necessary, based on the strategy, information, principles and practices, and priorities listed in § 158.602(a).
§ 158.612
Local cybersecurity talent market supplement (LCTMS).
(a)
General.
The Department may provide a DHS-CS employee a LCTMS to ensure the employee receives a sufficiently competitive salary, as described in § 158.610(a). A LCTMS accounts for the difference between a salary as determined under a salary structure, described in § 158.611, and the Department's determination as to what constitutes a sufficiently competitive salary for that local cybersecurity talent market. The Department determines whether a LCTMS is necessary, and establishes and periodically adjusts local cybersecurity talent markets and local cybersecurity talent market supplement percentages, based on the strategy, information, principles and practices, and priorities listed in § 158.602(a).
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1)
Local cybersecurity talent market
means the cybersecurity talent market in a geographic area that the Department defines based on the talent market analysis described in § 158.403, and that may incorporate any pay locality established or modified under 5 U.S.C. 5304.
(2)
Local cybersecurity talent market supplement percentage
means a percentage the Department assigns to a local cybersecurity talent market to increase the amount of a salary provided under a salary structure.
(c)
Salary supplement.
A LCTMS is considered part of salary under this part and for purposes of applying the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604. A LCTMS is also basic pay for purposes under 5 U.S.C. and 5 CFR, except for purposes of determining pay under 5 U.S.C. 7511 and 7512 and 5 CFR part 752.
(d)
Eligibility and termination.
(1) The Department determines eligibility for a LCTMS under this section and CTMS policy implementing this section. A DHS-CS employee is eligible for a LCTMS if the employee's official worksite, as determined under § 158.704, is located in a local cybersecurity talent market with an assigned local cybersecurity talent market supplement percentage for the salary structure under which the employee's salary is provided.
(2) The Department terminates a LCTMS a DHS-CS employee receives when the employee's official worksite, as determined under § 158.704, is no longer in a local cybersecurity talent market with an assigned local cybersecurity talent market supplement percentage, or the salary structure under which the employee's salary is provided no longer has an assigned local cybersecurity labor market supplement, or both.
(3) A reduction in salary for a DHS-CS employee because of a change in any LCTMS for that employee is not a reduction in pay for the purposes of 5 U.S.C. 7512 and 5 CFR part 752.
(e)
Limitation.
A DHS-CS employee may not receive, and is not entitled to, any portion of a LCTMS that would cause the employee's salary to exceed the applicable salary limitation assigned to the subrange of a salary
structure as described in § 158.611 that contains the employee's salary, but the employee may receive the portion of such a LCTMS that would not cause the employee's salary to exceed the applicable salary limitation. A DHS-CS employee may receive a LCTMS that would cause the employee's salary to be in the extended range, described in § 158.613(c), only if the Secretary or designee invokes the extended range under § 158.613(c)(2) for that employee.
§ 158.613
Salary range.
(a)
Range.
The salary range provides the boundaries of the salary system described in § 158.610. The salary range comprises a standard range and an extended range, and the standard range applies unless the Secretary or designee invokes the extended range under paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Standard range.
The upper limit of the standard range is equal to the amount of total annual compensation payable to the Vice President under 3 U.S.C. 104.
(c)
Extended range.
The upper limit of the extended range is 150 percent of the annual rate of basic pay for level I of the Executive Schedule (150% of EX-I). Only DHS-CS employees serving in renewable appointments may receive a salary amount in the extended range, and only if the Secretary or designee invokes the extended range for those employees as described in this paragraph (c).
(1) The Secretary or designee may invoke the extended range for a DHS-CS employee when the Secretary or designee determines, based on the compensation strategy in § 158.601, that the employee's qualifications, the employee's mission impact, and mission-related requirements warrant adjusting the employee's salary beyond the standard range. The Secretary or designee must approve the salary adjustment of each such employee by name, and to receive a salary in the extended range the employee must either already be in a renewable appointment or accept a renewable appointment. While the employee is receiving a salary in an amount in the extended range, the Department may not change that employee's appointment to a continuing appointment.
(2) The Secretary or designee may invoke the extended range for an individual selected for appointment to a qualified position when the Secretary or designee determines, based on the compensation strategy in § 158.601, that the individual's qualifications, the individual's anticipated mission impact, and mission-related requirements warrant setting the individual's salary beyond the standard range. The Secretary or designee must approve the appointment of each such individual to a qualified position by name, and the individual must be appointed to a renewable appointment only. While that individual is receiving a salary under this part in an amount in the extended range, the Department may not change that individual's appointment to a continuing appointment at any time.
(d)
Maximum.
No DHS-CS employee may receive a salary under this part in excess of 150% of EX-I.
§ 158.614
Salary limitations.
(a) The salary system, described in § 158.610, has the following limitations on maximum rates of salary that apply within the CTMS salary range described in § 158.613 of this part:
(1) The annual rate of basic pay for GS-15, step 10 under the General Schedule (excluding locality pay or any other additional pay as defined in 5 CFR chapter 1);
(2) The annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule;
(3) The annual rate of basic pay for level II of the Executive Schedule;
(4) The annual rate of basic pay for level I of the Executive Schedule; and
(5) The total annual compensation payable to the Vice President under 3 U.S.C. 104.
(b) The Department may establish additional limitations on maximum rates of salary for the salary system.
(c) The salary system incorporates each limitation on maximum rates of salary described in this section into each salary structure established under § 158.611.

# Salary Administration
§ 158.620
Setting salaries.
(a) The Department sets the salary for an individual accepting an appointment to a qualified position as part of selection and appointment of the individual, described in § 158.522. The Department sets the individual's salary within a subrange of a salary structure described in § 158.611 based on consideration of:
(1) The individual's CTMS qualifications, determined under the assessment program described in § 158.520;
(2) Applicable work and career structures, including the individual's initial work level, determined as part of selection and appointment under § 158.522;
(3) The individual's anticipated mission impact;
(4) Mission-related requirements; and
(5) Strategic talent priorities.
(b) In setting the salary for an individual appointed to a qualified position under this part, the Department may set the individual's salary without regard to any prior salary of the individual, including any salary or basic pay while serving in a previous appointment under this part or in another previous Federal appointment made outside the authority of this part.
(c) In setting the salary for an individual appointed to a qualified position under this part, the Department may provide a local cybersecurity talent market supplement described in § 158.612.
§ 158.621
Adjusting salaries.
(a) The Department adjusts a DHS-CS employee's salary, or the salaries of a group of DHS-CS employees, by paying a recognition adjustment under § 158.631, or paying a local cybersecurity talent market supplement under § 158.612, or both.
(b) The Department does not provide DHS-CS employees with any automatic salary increase or any salary increase based on length of service in the DHS-CS or in any position outside the DHS-CS.
(c) If the Department adjusts a salary structure under § 158.611(e) that results in an increase to the salary minimum for one or more subranges of the salary structure, for any DHS-CS employee receiving a salary in an affected subrange at the affected salary minimum, DHS adjusts the employee's salary to reflect the adjustment to the salary structure and the new salary minimum for the affected subrange. Such a salary adjustment is not considered a recognition adjustment under § 158.631.
§ 158.622
Administering salary in accordance with relevant provisions of other laws.
(a) Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this section, the Department administers salary under this part in accordance with the provisions of 5 CFR part 550 regarding pay administration generally.
(b) The following provisions of 5 CFR part 550 do not apply to administering salary under this part and do not apply under CTMS, to the DHS-CS, or to talent management involving the individuals described in § 158.103 of this part:
(1) Subpart A regarding premium pay;
(2) Subpart I regarding pay for duty involving physical hardship or hazard;
(3) Subpart M regarding firefighter pay;
(4) Subpart N compensatory time-off for travel; and
(5) Subpart P regarding overtime for board patrol agents.
(c) The Department also administers salary under this part in accordance with the provisions of the following:
(1) 5 U.S.C. 5520, 42 U.S.C. 659 and 5 CFR parts 581 and 582, regarding garnishment;
(2) 31 U.S.C. 3702 and 5 CFR part 178 regarding claims settlement;
(3) 31 U.S.C. 3711 and 3716 and 31 CFR chapter IX parts 900 through 904 regarding debt collection;
(4) 5 U.S.C. Chapter 55 Subchapter VII regarding payments to missing employees; and
(5) Other relevant provisions of other laws specifically adopted in CTMS policy.
(d) For purposes of salary administration under this section, the Department administers salary based on consideration of a DHS-CS employee's work schedule under the work scheduling system, described in § 158.705, and
may convert the employee's salary into an hourly rate, biweekly rate, or other rate.

# Recognition
§ 158.630
Employee recognition.
(a)
DHS-CS employees.
In alignment with the compensation strategy in § 158.601 and the performance management program described in § 158.802 of this part, the Department may provide recognition under §§ 158.631 through 158.634, on a periodic or
ad hoc
basis, to a DHS-CS employee based on the employee's mission impact. In providing such recognition, the Department may also consider mission-related requirements and strategic talent priorities.
(b)
Prospective employees.
In alignment with the compensation strategy in § 158.601, the Department may offer, and provide upon appointment, recognition payments under § 158.632(b) and recognition time-off under § 158.633(b), on a periodic or
ad hoc
basis, to an individual selected for employment in the DHS-CS based on:
(1) The individual's CTMS qualifications determined under the assessment program described in § 158.520;
(2) The individual's anticipated mission impact;
(3) Mission-related requirements; and
(4) Strategic talent priorities.
(c)
Eligibility.
The Department determines eligibility for recognition under this section, §§ 158.631 through 158.634, and CTMS policy implementing this section. The Department may defer providing recognition to a DHS-CS employee under this part if the Department is in the process of determining whether the employee's performance is unacceptable, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 4301(3), or whether the employee has engaged in misconduct. If the Department determines a DHS-CS employee's performance is unacceptable, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 4301(3), or the employee receives an unacceptable rating of record under § 158.804, or the Department determines the employee has engaged in misconduct, the employee is ineligible to receive recognition under this part.
(d)
Policy.
CTMS policy implementing this section addresses:
(1) Eligibility criteria;
(2) Requirements for documenting the reason and basis for recognition provided to a DHS-CS employee;
(3) Appropriate levels of review and approval for providing recognition;
(4) Any limitations on the total number, frequency, or amount of recognition a DHS-CS employee may receive within any specific time period;
(5) Any service agreement requirements; and
(6) Processes for evaluating the effectiveness of recognition in supporting the purpose of CTMS described in § 158.101, the purpose of the DHS-CS described in § 158.202, and the operationalization of the compensation strategy described in § 158.601.
(e)
Advisory appointees.
Recognition under this part for a DHS-CS advisory appointee is subject to additional requirements and restrictions in subpart J of this part.
§ 158.631
Recognition adjustments.
(a) Under this section and § 158.630, the Department may provide a recognition adjustment to a DHS-CS employee for the reasons and bases stated in § 158.630(a). A recognition adjustment is an adjustment to the DHS-CS employee's salary provided under a salary structure described in § 158.611. A recognition adjustment does not alter any local cybersecurity talent market supplement for that employee.
(b) No DHS-CS employee may receive a recognition adjustment that would cause the employee's salary to exceed the salary range maximum described in § 158.613(d) or the applicable salary limitation assigned to the subrange of a salary structure as described in § 158.611(d) that contains the employee's salary. A DHS-CS employee may not receive a recognition adjustment that would cause the employee's salary amount to be in the extended range, described in § 158.613(c), unless the Secretary or designee invokes the extended range for that employee under § 158.613(c)(1).
(c) A recognition adjustment under this section is not a promotion for any purpose under Title 5 U.S.C. or 5 CFR.
(d) A recognition adjustment under this section for a DHS-CS advisory appointee is subject to additional requirements and restrictions in subpart J of this part.
§ 158.632
Recognition payments.
(a) Under this section and § 158.630, and for the reasons and bases stated in § 158.630(a), the Department may provide a recognition payment to a DHS-CS employee in an amount of up to 20 percent, or up to 50 percent with approval of the Secretary or designee, of the receiving DHS-CS employee's salary. The Department may require a service agreement of not less than six months and not more than three years as part of providing a recognition payment to a DHS-CS employee.
(b) Under this section and § 158.630, and for the reasons and bases stated in § 158.630(b) and as part of an offer of employment in the DHS-CS, the Department may offer a recognition payment to an individual selected for employment in the DHS-CS in an amount of up to 20 percent of the receiving individual's initial salary in the DHS-CS. The Department requires a service agreement of not less than six months and not more than three years as part of providing, upon appointment, a recognition payment to an individual selected for employment in the DHS-CS.
(c) The Department may provide a recognition payment as a lump sum payment, an installment payment, or a recurring payment.
(d) The Department may provide a recognition payment under this section to a former DHS-CS employee or to the legal heirs or estate of a former DHS-CS employee in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 4505.
(e) Acceptance of a recognition payment constitutes agreement for Federal Government use of any idea, method, device, or similar that is the basis of the payment.
(f) A recognition payment under this section is subject to and may be limited by the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604.
(g) A recognition payment is not salary under this part and is not basic pay for any purpose under 5 U.S.C. or 5 CFR.
(h) A recognition payment under this section is based on the following types of awards and incentives provided under 5 U.S.C.:
(1) Cash awards under 5 U.S.C. 4502;
(2) Agency awards under 5 U.S.C. 4503;
(3) Performance-based cash awards under 5 U.S.C. 4505a and 5384;
(4) Presidential rank awards under 5 U.S.C. 4507 and 4507a; and
(5) Recruitment, relocation, and retention incentives 5 U.S.C. 5753 and 5754.
(i) A recognition payment under this section is in lieu of the types of awards and incentives provided under 5 U.S.C. listed in paragraph (h) of this section, and a DHS-CS employee is ineligible to receive any such awards or incentives.
(j) An individual selected for employment in the DHS-CS is ineligible to receive, as part of the offer of employment, any other offer of a monetary award or incentive, a payment in addition to salary, or other monetary recognition from the Department except as provided in this section and § 158.630. An individual appointed to an advisory appointment is also ineligible to receive, as part of an offer of employment in the DHS-CS, any offer of recognition under this section.
(k) A recognition payment under this section for a DHS-CS advisory appointee is subject to additional requirements and restrictions in subpart J of this part.
§ 158.633
Recognition time-off.
(a) Under this section and § 158.630, and for the reasons and bases stated in § 158.630(a), the Department may provide recognition time-off to a DHS-CS employee for use within a designated timeframe not to exceed 26 work periods, as defined in § 158.705(c). Recognition time-off is time-off from duty without charge to leave or loss of compensation.
(b) Under this section and § 158.630, and for the reasons and bases stated in § 158.630(b) and as part of an offer of employment in the DHS-CS, the Department may offer up to 40 hours of recognition time-off to an individual selected for employment in the DHS-CS for use within a designated timeframe not to exceed 26 work periods, as defined in § 158.705(b). The Department
may require a service agreement as part of providing, upon appointment, recognition time-off to an individual selected for employment in the DHS-CS.
(c) All recognition time-off provided, and the use of such time-off, must be recorded in a timekeeping system for purposes of salary administration and leave administration under this part.
(d) Recognition time-off provided under this section may not, under any circumstances, be converted to a cash payment to the receiving DHS-CS employee or any other type of time-off or leave.
(e) Recognition time-off under this section is based on time-off awards provided under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 4502(e).
(f) Recognition time-off under this section is in lieu of the time-off awards provided under 5 U.S.C. 4502(e), and a DHS-CS employee is ineligible to receive any such awards.
(g) An individual selected for employment in the DHS-CS is ineligible to receive, as part of the offer of employment, any other offer of time-off or time-off award from the Department except as provided in this section and §§ 158.630 and 158.651. An individual appointed to an advisory appointment is also ineligible to receive, as part of an offer of employment in the DHS-CS, any offer of recognition under this section.
(h) A recognition time-off provided under this section to a DHS-CS advisory appointee is subject to additional requirements and restrictions in subpart J of this part.
§ 158.634
Honorary recognition.
(a) Under this section and § 158.630, the Department may establish one or more honorary recognition programs to provide honorary recognition to DHS-CS employees for the reasons and bases stated in § 158.630(a). The Department may incur necessary expenses for honorary recognition under an honorary recognition program established under this section.
(b) Honorary recognition under this section is based on honorary recognition provided under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 4503, and a DHS-CS employee may be eligible to receive honorary recognition under 5 U.S.C. 4503 and 5 CFR part 451 in addition to any honorary recognition under this section.
(c) The Department may provide honorary recognition under this section to a former DHS-CS employee or to the legal heirs or estate of a former DHS-CS employee in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 4505.
(d) Honorary recognition under this section for a DHS-CS advisory appointee is subject to additional requirements in subpart J of this part.

# Other Special Payments
§ 158.640
Professional development and training.
(a) In alignment with the compensation strategy described in § 158.601 and the career development program described in § 158.803, the Department may provide professional development and training opportunities, payments, and reimbursements for DHS-CS employees.
(b) CTMS policy implementing this section addresses:
(1) Eligibility criteria;
(2) Requirements for documenting the reason and basis for professional development and training opportunities, payments, and reimbursements provided to a DHS-CS employee;
(3) Appropriate levels of review and approval for providing professional development and training opportunities, payments, and reimbursements;
(4) Any limitations on the total number or frequency of professional development and training opportunities, and any limitations on the total number, frequency, or amount of professional development and training payments and reimbursements a DHS-CS employee may receive, within any specific time period;
(5) Any service agreement requirements;
(6) Requirements for communicating to DHS-CS employees and their supervisors about professional development and training opportunities; and
(7) Processes for evaluating the effectiveness of the professional development and training in supporting the purpose of CTMS described in § 158.101, the purpose of the DHS-CS described in § 158.202, and the operationalization of
the compensation strategy described in § 158.601.
(c) Any payment or reimbursement under this section is excluded from the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604.
(d) Any payment or reimbursement under this section is not salary under this part and is not basic pay for any purpose under 5 U.S.C. or 5 CFR.
(e) Professional development and training under this section is based on the following training and professional development opportunities, payments, and reimbursements provided under 5 U.S.C.:
(1) Sabbaticals under 5 U.S.C. 3396;
(2) Academic degree training under 5 U.S.C. 4107;
(3) Expenses of training under 5 U.S.C. 4109;
(4) Expenses of attendance at meetings under 5 U.S.C. 4110; and
(5) Payment of expenses to obtain professional credentials under 5 U.S.C. 5757.
(f) In addition to any professional development and training under this section, a DHS-CS employee may be eligible to receive the training and professional development opportunities, payments, and reimbursements provided under 5 U.S.C. listed in paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) Professional development and training under this section for a DHS-CS advisory appointee is subject to additional requirements and restrictions in subpart J of this part.
§ 158.641
Student loan repayments.
(a) In alignment with the compensation strategy described in § 158.601, the Department may provide a student loan repayment to a DHS-CS employee under this section and in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5379 and 5 CFR part 537, except that:
(1) The maximum payment amounts under 5 U.S.C. 5379 and 5 CFR part 537 do not apply, and the Department may provide and a DHS-CS employee may receive a student loan repayment under this section so long as such repayment does not exceed $16,500 per employee per calendar year and a total of $90,000 per employee;
(2) The minimum service period length of three years under 5 U.S.C. 5379 and 5 CFR part 537 does not apply, and instead the length of a minimum service period for a DHS-CS employee receiving a student loan repayment under this section is determined under CTMS policy and based on the amount of the repayment received by the employee; and
(3) Eligibility criteria related to time-limited appointments under 5 U.S.C. 5379 and 5 CFR part 537 do not apply, and a DHS-CS employee in a renewable appointment may receive a student loan payment under this section.
(b) In alignment with eligibility criteria under 5 U.S.C. 5379 and 5 CFR part 537:
(1) If the Department determines a DHS-CS employee's performance is unacceptable, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 4301(3), or the employee receives an unacceptable rating of record under § 158.804, or the Department determines the employee has engaged in misconduct, the employee is ineligible to receive a student loan repayment under this section.
(2) A DHS-CS advisory appointee is ineligible to receive a student loan repayment under this section.
(c) CTMS policy implementing this section addresses:
(1) Eligibility criteria;
(2) Requirements for documenting the reason and basis for a student loan repayment provided to a DHS-CS employee;
(3) Appropriate levels of review and approval for providing a student loan repayment;
(4) Service agreement requirements, including minimum service periods;
(5) Any additional limitations on student loan repayments; and
(6) Processes for evaluating the effectiveness of student loan repayments in supporting the purpose of CTMS described in § 158.101, the purpose of the DHS-CS described in § 158.202, and the operationalization of the compensation strategy described in § 158.601.
(d) Any student loan repayment provided under this section is excluded from the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604.
(e) Any student loan repayment provided under this section is not salary
under this part and is not basic pay for any purpose under 5 U.S.C. or 5 CFR.
§ 158.642
Special working conditions payment program.
(a) In alignment with the compensation strategy described in § 158.601, the Department may establish a program to provide payments to DHS-CS employees to address special working conditions that are otherwise unaccounted for or the Department determines are accounted for insufficiently in DHS-CS employees' other types of additional compensation and salary.
(b) Special working conditions include circumstances in which a supervisor or other appropriate official requires a DHS-CS employee to perform DHS-CS cybersecurity work that involves, as determined by the Department:
(1) Unusual physical or mental hardship;
(2) Performing work at atypical locations, at unexpected times, or for an uncommon duration of time exceeding the expectation described in § 158.601(c) about working unusual hours and extended hours; or
(3) A combination of the conditions described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c) A payment for special working conditions is a payment of up to 25 percent of the receiving DHS-CS employee's salary as computed for a work period, defined in § 158.705(b), or a series of work periods.
(d) The Department determines whether to establish, adjust, or cancel a program under this section based on information from:
(1) The work scheduling system described in § 158.705; and
(2) Strategic talent planning described in § 158.401(c), including information about current compensation practices of other cybersecurity employers analyzed under the talent market analysis described in § 158.403.
(e) The Department determines eligibility for a payment for special working conditions under this section and CTMS policy implementing this section.
(1) A DHS-CS employee who receives a payment for special working conditions under a program established under this section is not automatically eligible or entitled to receive any additional such payments.
(2) A DHS-CS employee receiving a salary equal to or greater than EX-IV is ineligible to receive a payment under this section.
(3) A DHS-CS advisory appointee is ineligible to receive a payment for special working conditions under this section.
(f) CTMS policy implementing this section addresses:
(1) Eligibility criteria;
(2) Requirements for documenting the reason and basis for payments for special working conditions provided to a DHS-CS employee;
(3) Appropriate levels of review and approval for providing payments for special working conditions;
(4) Any limitations on payments for special working conditions;
(5) Requirements for determining whether a payment for special working conditions is a lump sum payment, paid in installments, or a recurring payment; and
(6) Processes for evaluating the effectiveness of any special working conditions payment program in supporting the purpose of CTMS described in § 158.101, the purpose of the DHS-CS described in § 158.202, and the operationalization of the compensation strategy described in § 158.601.
(g) Any payment under this section is subject to and may be limited by the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604.
(h) Any payment under this section is not salary under this part and is not basic pay for any purpose under Title 5 U.S.C. or 5 CFR.
(i) A payment for special working conditions under this section is based on the following types of payments provided under 5 U.S.C.:
(1) Night, standby and hazardous duty differential under 5 U.S.C. 5545;
(2) Pay for Sunday and holiday work under 5 U.S.C. 5546; and
(3) Extended assignment incentives under 5 U.S.C. 5757.
(j) A payment for special working conditions under this section is in lieu of the types of payment provided under 5 U.S.C. listed in paragraph (g) of this
section, and a DHS-CS employee is ineligible to receive any such payments under 5 U.S.C.
§ 158.643
Allowance in nonforeign areas.
(a) A DHS-CS employee is eligible for and may receive an allowance under 5 U.S.C. 5941 and implementing regulations in 5 CFR part 591, subpart B, on the same basis and to the same extent as if the employee is an employee covered by those authorities.
(b) The Department provides an allowance described in paragraph (a) of this section to any DHS-CS employee who is eligible, as described in paragraph (a), for such allowance.
(c) Any allowance provided under this section is excluded from the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604.
(d) Any allowance provided under this section is not salary under this part and is not basic pay for any purpose under 5 U.S.C. or 5 CFR.
(e) Any allowance under this section for a DHS-CS advisory appointee is subject to additional requirements and restrictions in subpart J of this part.

# Other Compensation Provided in Accordance With Relevant Provisions of Other Laws
§ 158.650
Holidays.
In alignment with salary administration under § 158.622 and work scheduling under § 158.705, the Department provides holidays to a DHS-CS employee under this section and in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 6103-6104 and 5 CFR part 610, subpart B.
§ 158.651
Leave.
(a)
Leave.
In alignment with salary administration under § 158.622 and work scheduling under § 158.705, the Department provides leave to a DHS-CS employee under this section and in accordance with 5 U.S.C. Chapter 63 and 5 CFR part 630, including:
(1) Annual leave, as described in 5 U.S.C. Chapter 63, Subchapter I;
(2) Sick leave, as described in 5 U.S.C. Chapter 63, Subchapter I;
(3) Other paid leave, as described in 5 U.S.C. Chapter 63, Subchapter II;
(4) Voluntary transfers of leave, as described in 5 U.S.C. Chapter 63, Subchapter III;
(5) Voluntary leave bank programs, as described in 5 U.S.C. Chapter 63, Subchapter IV;
(6) Family and medical leave, as described in 5 U.S.C. Chapter 63, Subchapter V; and
(7) Leave transfer in disasters and emergencies, as described in 5 U.S.C. Chapter 63, Subchapter VI.
(b)
Annual leave accrual.
A DHS-CS employee's annual leave accrual amount is determined under 5 U.S.C. 6303.
(c)
Annual leave accumulation.
A DHS-CS employee's annual leave accumulation amount is determined under 5 U.S.C. 6304, except that the Department may apply 5 U.S.C. 6304(f)(2)(A) to DHS-CS employees receiving a salary under this part that exceeds 120 percent of the minimum annual rate of basic pay for GS-15 under the General Schedule.
(d)
Leave credits.
The annual leave and sick leave accrued to the credit of a current Federal employee who is appointed to a qualified position under this part without a break in service of more than three calendar days is transferred to the employee's credit in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 6308.
(e)
Annual leave balance upon leaving the DHS-CS.
When a DHS-CS employee moves to a position outside of the DHS-CS, any leave balance for the employee is addressed in accordance with 5 CFR 630.209 and 630.501.
(f)
Leave administration.
The Department administers leave under this section as described in this section and in § 158.655, and in accordance with the relevant provisions of other laws referenced in this section and CTMS policy.
§ 158.652
Compensatory time-off for religious observance.
In alignment with salary administration under § 158.622 of this part and work scheduling under § 158.705, the Department provides compensatory time-off for religious observance to a DHS-CS employee under this section and in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5550a and 5 CFR 550, subpart J.
§ 158.653
Other benefits.
(a) In alignment with salary administration under § 158.622, leave administration under § 158.651, and work scheduling under § 158.705, the Department provides benefits, including retirement, health benefits, and insurance programs, to a DHS-CS employee under this section and in accordance with 5 U.S.C. Chapters 81-90 and 5 CFR parts 831 and 838-894.
(b) The Department administers the benefits of an annuitant appointed to a qualified position in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8344, 5 U.S.C. 8468, 5 CFR 553.203, or 5 CFR part 837, as applicable.
(c) The Department provides a transportation subsidy to a DHS-CS employee under this section and in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 7905.
§ 158.654
Other payments.
(a) The Department provides the following other types of payments to a DHS-CS employee under this section and in accordance with the relevant provisions of law referenced in this section:
(1) Severance pay under this section, and the Department provides any severance pay in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5595 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart G, except that separation from the DHS-CS because of a lapse or nonrenewal of a DHS-CS employee's appointment under this part or because of a DHS-CS employee's refusal to accepted a directed subsequent assignment, described in § 158.708, is not an involuntary separation, and the former DHS-CS employee is not entitled to severance pay.
(2) Lump-sum leave payouts under this section, and the Department provides any lump-sum leave payouts in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5551 and 5552 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart L.
(3) Voluntary separation incentive payments under this section, and the Department provides any such payments in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3521-3525 and 5 CFR part 576.
(4) Reservist differential under this section, and the Department provides any such differential in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5538.
(5) Quarters allowances under this section, and the Department provides any such allowances in accordance with 5 U.S.C. Chapter 59, Subchapter II, the Department of State Standardized Regulations and any implementing supplements issued by the Department of State, and 5 CFR part 591, subpart C.
(6) Overseas differentials and allowances under this section, and the Department provides any such differentials and allowances in accordance with 5 U.S.C. Chapter 59, Subchapter III, the Department of State Standardized Regulations and any implementing supplements issued by the Department of State, and 5 CFR part 591, subpart C.
(7) Remote worksite allowances, foreign currency allowances, and hostile fire pay under this section, and the Department provides any such allowances and pay in accordance with 5 U.S.C. Chapter 59, Subchapter IV.
(8) Other similar payments described in CTMS policy as being authorized under this part and provided in accordance with relevant provisions of other laws.
(b) A payment for any quarter allowances, overseas differentials and allowances, and remote worksite allowances, foreign currency allowances, and hostile fire pay under paragraphs (a)(5) through (7) of this section is subject to and may be limited by the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604. A payment for any severance pay, lump-sum leave payout, voluntary separation inventive payment, and reservist differential under paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section is not subject to the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604. A payment under paragraph (a)(8) of this section may be subject to and limited by the aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604, as described in CTMS policy.
(c) Any payment under this section is not salary under this part and is not basic pay for any purpose under Title 5 U.S.C. or 5 CFR.
§ 158.655
Administering compensation in accordance with relevant provisions of other laws.
(a) For purposes of administering compensation authorized under §§ 158.650 through 158.654 in accordance with relevant provisions of other laws:
(1) The Department may convert a DHS-CS employee's salary into an hourly rate, biweekly rate, or other
rate, and administer compensation based on consideration of the DHS-CS employee's work schedule under the work scheduling system described in § 158.705;
(2) A DHS-CS employee's hours of work and related computations are determined under the relevant provisions of law referenced in §§ 158.650 through 158.654 and CTMS policy implementing this section;
(3) A DHS-CS employee on a part-time schedule described in § 158.705 is treated as if the employee is serving “part-time career employment” defined in 5 CFR 340.101; and
(4) A DHS-CS employee on a contingent schedule described in § 158.705 is treated as if the employee is serving “intermittent employment” defined in 5 CFR 340.401.
(b) If, in administering compensation under §§ 158.650 through 158.654, the Department determines it is necessary to clarify the relationship between those sections and the relevant provisions of law referenced in those sections and any other relevant provisions of other laws, the Department will address the issue in new or revised CTMS policy.

# Subpart G—Deploying Talent
§ 158.701
Deployment program.
(a)
Deployment program.
The Secretary or designee establishes and administers a deployment program to:
(1) Guide when the Department uses CTMS to recruit and retain individuals possessing CTMS qualifications; and
(2) Operationalize aspects of the work valuation system, the talent acquisition system and the compensation system, described in §§ 158.404, 158.501, and 158.602 respectively.
(b) Under the deployment program, the Department:
(1) Designates qualified positions as described in § 158.702;
(2) Designates and staffs assignments as described in § 158.703;
(3) Determines and documents a DHS-CS employee's official worksite as described in § 158.704;
(4) Administers a work scheduling system as described in § 158.705; and
(5) Performs necessary recordkeeping as described in § 158.706.
§ 158.702
Designating qualified positions.
(a) When a DHS organization requires individuals possessing CTMS qualifications to ensure the most effective execution of the DHS cybersecurity mission and the recruitment and retention of such individuals would likely be enhanced by using CTMS, the Secretary or designee designates qualified positions.
(b) CTMS policy implementing this section addresses:
(1) Procedures for DHS organizations to request using CTMS;
(2) Requirements for DHS organization using CTMS; and
(3) Information necessary to designate qualified positions.
(c) Designating qualified positions may result in:
(1) Establishing one or more qualified positions under the talent acquisition system, described in § 158.501; or
(2) Designating and staffing one or more assignments as described in § 158.703; or
(3) Both results described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(d) Designating qualified positions involves budget and fiscal considerations related to establishing one or more qualified positions under the talent acquisition system, described in § 158.501.
§ 158.703
Designating and staffing assignments.
(a)
Designating assignments.
The Department designates assignments by defining combinations of CTMS qualifications and DHS-CS cybersecurity work associable with qualified positions. CTMS policy implementing this section addresses procedures for DHS organizations to designate assignments, including as a result of designating qualified positions as described in § 158.702.
(b)
Staffing assignments.
The Department staffs assignments by:
(1) Matching assignments with DHS-CS employees as described in paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) Matching assignments with newly appointed individuals as described in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(3) Seeking to recruit individuals and establish new qualified positions under
the talent acquisition system described in § 158.501 and then matching assignments with newly appointed individuals as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Initial assignment.
Upon appointment of an individual to a qualified position, the Department matches the individual with an assignment based on the alignment of the individual's CTMS qualifications, determined under the assessment program described in § 158.520, to the CTMS qualifications of an assignment. In matching an individual with an initial assignment, the Department may also consider:
(1) Input from the individual;
(2) Input from DHS organizations;
(3) Mission-related requirements; and
(4) Strategic talent priorities.
(d)
Subsequent assignments.
The Department matches DHS-CS employees with assignments subsequent to employees' initial assignments, as necessary.
(1) The Department matches a DHS-CS employee with a subsequent assignment based on the alignment of the employee's CTMS qualifications with the CTMS qualifications of an assignment. In matching a DHS-CS employee with a subsequent assignment, the Department may also consider:
(i) Input from the employee;
(ii) Input from DHS organizations, especially the primary DHS organization of the employee's current assignment;
(iii) Information about the employee from the performance management program described in § 158.802 and the career development program described in § 158.803;
(iv) Mission-related requirements; and
(v) Strategic talent priorities.
(2) A DHS-CS employee may have multiple assignments throughout the employee's service in a qualified position, but may only have one assignment at a time. A DHS-CS employee's subsequent assignments may have assignment information, described in § 158.706(e), that is different than the assignment information of the employee's initial assignment, including primary DHS organization.
(3) In alignment with the career development program described in § 158.803 and based on information from development reviews described in § 158.806 the Department communicates with DHS-CS employees on an ongoing basis about subsequent assignment opportunities;
§ 158.704
Official worksite.
(a)
Definition.
A DHS-CS employee's official worksite is the geographic location where the employee regularly performs DHS-CS cybersecurity work or where the employee's DHS-CS cybersecurity work is based, as determined and documented by the Department under this section.
(b)
Determination.
The Department determines a DHS-CS employee's official work site for purposes of administering compensation under this part, especially eligibility for any compensation described in §§ 158.612 and 158.643. The Department's determination of a DHS-CS employee's official worksite includes consideration of any of the following for the employee: Telework, variation in location where the employee performs DHS-CS cybersecurity work, and temporary situations affecting the location where the employee performs DHS-CS cybersecurity work.
(c)
Documentation.
Upon appointment of an individual to a qualified position, the Department documents the individual's official worksite as part of documenting the employee's appointment to a qualified position and the employee's assignment, as described in § 158.706. The Department updates documentation of a DHS-CS employee's official worksite, if the geographic location where the DHS-CS employee regularly performs DHS-CS cybersecurity work changes and such change impacts the determination of the DHS-CS employee's official worksite under paragraph (a) of this section and such change is expected to last, or does last, for six months or more.
§ 158.705
Work scheduling.
(a)
Work scheduling system.
The Secretary or designee establishes and administers a work scheduling system for DHS-CS employees to ensure:
(1) Agility for the Department in scheduling DHS-CS cybersecurity work to execute the DHS cybersecurity mission;
(2) Availability of DHS-CS employees to perform the DHS-CS cybersecurity work of their assignments;
(3) Clear expectations for DHS-CS employees about when they are expected to perform DHS-CS cybersecurity work associated with their assignments;
(4) Flexibility for DHS-CS employees in scheduling and performing DHS-CS cybersecurity work associated with their assignments; and
(5) Recording of, accounting for, and monitoring of hours worked by DHS-CS employees.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section—
(1)
Work period
means a two-week period of 14 consecutive days that begins on a Sunday and ends on a Saturday, and is the equivalent of a
biweekly pay period
defined in 5 U.S.C. 5504 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart F.
(2)
Minimum hours of work
means the minimum number of hours that a DHS-CS employee is required to work, or account for with time-off, during a work period, and is the equivalent to the term
basic work requirement
defined in 5 U.S.C. 6121.
(3)
Time-off
means leave under § 158.651, time-off under § 158.652, and recognition time-off under § 158.633, or other time-off of duty available for DHS-CS employees.
(4)
Full-time schedule
means 80 hours per work period.
(5)
Part-time schedule
means a specified number of hours less than 80 hours per work period. When DHS-CS cybersecurity work associated with a DHS-CS employee's assignment regularly requires the DHS-CS employee to exceed that employee's specified number of hours per work period, the Department considers, with input from the employee and the employee's supervisor, whether to change the employee's work schedule from part-time to full-time to ensure appropriate compensation under this part, including accrual of leave under § 158.651 and the DHS-CS employee's share of health benefits premiums provided under § 158.653.
(6)
Contingent schedule
means an irregular number of hours up to 80 hours per work period. A contingent schedule is appropriate only when the DHS-CS cybersecurity work associated with a DHS-CS employee's assignment is sporadic and cannot be regularly scheduled in advance. When DHS-CS cybersecurity work associated with a DHS-CS employee's assignment is able to be scheduled in advance on a regular basis, the Department changes the employee's work schedule from contingent to part-time or full-time, as appropriate, to ensure appropriate compensation under this part, including accrual of leave under § 158.651 and the DHS-CS employee's share of health benefits premiums provided under § 158.653.
(c)
Employee work schedules.
(1) A DHS-CS employee's work schedule, and any minimum hours of work associated with the employee's schedule, is determined at the time of appointment and recorded as part of documenting the employee's appointment to a qualified position under § 158.706. A DHS-CS employee on a contingent schedule does not have a minimum number of hours of work but has a maximum number of total hours for the employee's appointment that is determined at the time of appointment and recorded as part of documenting the employee's appointment to a qualified position under § 158.706.
(2) A DHS-CS employee's work schedule, and any minimum hours of work, may change during the employee's service in a qualified position and the Department records any such changes in the documentation associated with the employee's qualified position under § 158.706.
(d)
Work schedule requirements.
(1) DHS-CS employees are expected to perform DHS-CS cybersecurity work associated with their assignments to execute the DHS cybersecurity mission, especially in response to exigent circumstances and emergencies, including cybersecurity incidents defined in 6 U.S.C. 659, without entitlement to more compensation than the employee's salary described in § 158.603. Hours worked by a DHS-CS employee that exceed the employee's minimum hours of work do not affect the employee's salary or result in any automatic compensation, including a type of additional compensation.
(2) A DHS-CS employee on a full-time schedule is expected to work at least 80 hours per work period.
(3) A DHS-CS employee on a part-time schedule is expected to work at least the employee's specified number of hours of work per work period.
(4) A DHS-CS employee on a contingent schedule is expected to work as necessary to perform the DHS-CS cybersecurity work associated with the employee's assignment, not to exceed the maximum number of total hours for the employee's appointment.
(5) DHS-CS employees must report hours worked by the employee. The Department monitors such hours for purposes of managing the DHS-CS, including considering any changes to DHS-CS employees' schedules, and administering compensation, including assisting in consideration of any additional compensation for DHS-CS employees under § 158.642.
(6) A DHS-CS employee on a full-time schedule or a part-time schedule must account for minimum hours of work by the conclusion of the last day of the work period. If the hours worked by the employee are less than the employee's minimum hours of work, the employee must use time-off approved by the employee's supervisor, or must be placed in an appropriate non-pay status for the purposes described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, to account for the difference between hours actually worked by the employee and the employee's minimum hours of work.
(7) A DHS-CS employee on a full-time schedule or a part-time schedule, in coordination with the employee's supervisor, may adjust when work hours are completed in a given work period, to ensure time-off for religious observance, while also completing minimum hours of work. A DHS-CS employee on a contingent schedule, in coordination with the employee's supervisor, may adjust when work hours are completed to ensure time-off for religious observance.
(e)
Hours worked and compensation.
The Department uses the work scheduling system described in this section in administering compensation under this part, especially salary administration described in § 158.622 and the compensation described in §§ 158.642, 158.650, 158.651, and 158.652. In alignment with the compensation strategy, described in § 158.601, the work scheduling system:
(1) Acknowledges the unpredictable nature of cybersecurity work and the expectation described in § 158.601(c) about working unusual hours and extended hours as needed; and
(2) Reflects an understanding of the cybersecurity talent market, especially current work expectations and arrangements.
(f)
Policy.
CTMS policy implementing this section addresses:
(1) Procedures for determining, recording, and updating as necessary, DHS-CS employees' work schedules;
(2) Procedures for selecting and communicating anticipated work hours in advance and communicating variances from those work hours;
(3) Requirements regarding reporting and monitoring hours worked;
(4) Procedures for accounting for minimum hours of work; and
(5) Other work scheduling requirements for DHS-CS employees, including DHS-CS employees supporting specific DHS organizations. Such requirements may include designated days, hours, core hours, or limits on the number of work hours per day;
§ 158.706
Recordkeeping.
(a)
Generally.
The Department documents an individual's appointment to a qualified position and creates records of a DHS-CS employee's employment in the DHS-CS in compliance with 5 U.S.C. 2951 and 5 CFR subchapter A, part 9, and subchapter B, parts 293 and 297.
(b)
Documenting a qualified position.
The Department documents a qualified position established under this part by documenting an individual's appointment to a qualified position. Such documentation includes a description of the individual's:
(1) CTMS qualifications and the DHS-CS cybersecurity work that can be performed through application of those qualifications;
(2) Applicable work and career structures established under the work valuation system described in § 158.404;
(3) Salary under the compensation system described in § 158.602;
(3) Assignment information described in paragraph (e) of this section;
(4) Official worksite described in § 158.704; and
(5) Work schedule described in § 158.705.
(c)
Updating qualified position documentation.
The Department updates the documentation associated with a DHS-CS employee's qualified position, described in paragraph (a) of this section, to reflect changes affecting the employee's qualified position, including any changes to the description of information listed in paragraph (a), such as enhancements to the employee's CTMS qualifications. Except as necessary for purposes of recordkeeping under this section, any update to the documentation associated with a DHS-CS employee's qualified position is not a promotion, transfer, or reassignment for any other purpose under 5 U.S.C. or 5 CFR.
(d)
Documenting an assignment.
The Department documents a DHS-CS employee's initial assignment as part of documenting the employee's qualified position under this section. The Department updates the documentation associated with a DHS-CS employee's qualified position for each of the employee's subsequent assignments described in § 158.703.
(e)
Assignment information.
Documentation of each assignment under this section includes the following operational information:
(1) Statement of cybersecurity work activities;
(2) Timeframe, such as anticipated duration;
(3) Primary DHS organization;
(4) Personnel security requirements;
(5) Location, such as official worksite determined under § 158.704;
(6) Information related to work scheduling under § 158.705; and
(7) Information related to the performance management program, including information relevant to appraisal reviews, mission impact reviews, and development reviews, described in subpart H of this part.
(f)
Integrating with existing processes.
For purposes of recordkeeping for DHS-CS employees, including documenting positions and assignments under this section, the Department uses existing Federal personnel recordkeeping processes, standards, requirements, and systems of record. CTMS policy implementing this section addresses integration of the approach to talent management under this part, including definitions used in this part, with existing Federal personnel recordkeeping processes, standards, requirements, and systems of record, as necessary.
§ 158.707
Details and opportunities outside DHS.
(a) DHS-CS employees serving in renewable appointments or continuing appointments may be detailed to:
(1) A position in the excepted service in another agency under 31 U.S.C. 1535;
(2) A position in the SES in another agency under 5 CFR 317.903;
(3) A position in the competitive service in another agency under 31 U.S.C. 1535 and 5 CFR 300.301, if approved by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management;
(4) Certain offices of the White House under 3 U.S.C.112;
(5) The Congress under 2 U.S.C. 4301(f);
(6) An international organization under 5 U.S.C. 3343; or
(7) Another detail opportunity under other provisions of applicable law.
(b) Individuals from outside the DHS-CS may not be detailed to a qualified position.
(c) DHS-CS employees serving in continuing appointments may be assigned to eligible non-Federal organizations under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3371-3375 and 5 CFR part 334.
§ 158.708
Directed assignments.
(a) Occasionally, the Department may direct a subsequent assignment of a DHS-CS employee, and such a directed subsequent assignment may require a change in the employee's official worksite, determined under § 158.704. For such directed subsequent assignments of a DHS-CS employee, the Department pays or reimburses expenses or allowances under and in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations at 41 CFR chapters 301 and 302,
and for such directed assignments that are not temporary, DHS provides notice to and consultation with the employee as described in this paragraph.
(b) Directed subsequent assignments expected to last less than six months are considered temporary, and for purposes under the Federal Travel Regulations at 41 CFR chapters 301 and 302, are temporary duty.
(c) For such directed subsequent assignments expected to last six months or more and with an official worksite in a DHS-CS employee's current commuting area, defined in 5 CFR 550.703, the Department provides the employee written notice at least 30 calendar days before the effective date of the subsequent assignment. This notice requirement may be waived only when the employee consents in writing.
(d) For such directed subsequent assignments expected to last six months or more and with an official worksite outside of a DHS-CS employee's current commuting area, defined in 5 CFR 550.703, DHS consults with the employee on the reasons for, and the employee's preferences regarding, the proposed change in assignment. Following such consultation, the Department provides the employee written notice at least 90 calendar days before the effective date of the assignment. This notice requirement may be waived only when the employee consents in writing.
§ 158.709
Exemption from other laws regarding deployment.
The provisions of laws, among other similar laws, listed in §§ 158.405, 158.502, and 158.605 do not apply under CTMS, to the DHS-CS, or to talent management involving the individuals described in § 158.103.

# Subpart H—Developing Talent

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. Chapters 41 and 43; 5 CFR parts 410 and 430.
§ 158.801
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Appraisal
has the same meaning as that term in 5 CFR 430.203.
Appraisal period
has the same meaning as that term in 5 CFR 430.203.
Appraisal program
has the same meaning as that term in 5 CFR 430.203.
Appraisal system
and
performance appraisal system
have the same meanings as those terms in 5 CFR 430.203.
Mission impact
has the same meaning as defined in § 158.104.
Performance
has the same meaning as that term in 5 CFR 430.203.
Performance rating
has the same meaning as that term in 5 CFR 430.203.
Progress review
has the same meaning as that term in 5 CFR 430.203.
Rating of record
has the same meaning as that term in 5 CFR 430.203.
§ 158.802
Performance management program.
(a) In alignment with the DHS-CS's core values described in § 158.305 and the compensation strategy described in § 158.601, the Secretary or designee establishes and administers a systematic performance management program to:
(1) Establish and maintain individual accountability among DHS-CS employees;
(2) Manage, recognize, and develop the performance of each DHS-CS employee; and
(3) Improve effectiveness of DHS-CS employees in executing the DHS cybersecurity mission.
(b) The performance management program comprises the following ongoing reviews:
(1) Appraisal reviews described in § 158.804;
(2) Mission impact reviews described in § 158.805; and
(3) Development reviews described in § 158.806.
(c) To complete appraisal reviews, mission impact reviews, and development reviews for a DHS-CS employee, the Department may collect, on a periodic or ongoing basis, information and input from:
(1) The DHS-CS employee;
(2) Other DHS-CS employees;
(3) The employee's supervisor; and
(4) Other appropriate officials.
§ 158.803
Career development program.
(a)
Career development program.
In alignment with the DHS-CS's core values described in § 158.305 and the compensation strategy described in
§ 158.601, the Secretary or designee establishes and administers a career development program to:
(1) Guide the career progression of each DHS-CS employee;
(2) Ensure development of the collective expertise of DHS-CS employees through continual learning; and
(3) Ensure continued alignment between the qualifications of DHS-CS employees and CTMS qualifications.
(b)
Career progression.
Career progression in the DHS-CS is based on enhancement of CTMS qualifications and salary progression resulting from recognition adjustments under § 158.631. Career progression in the DHS-CS is not based on length of service in the DHS-CS or the Federal Government. The Department guides the career progression of DHS-CS employees using development strategies based on:
(1) Information from development reviews, described in § 158.806;
(2) Mission-related requirements; and
(3) Strategic talent priorities.
(c)
Commitment to continual learning.
The Department establishes, maintains, and communicates criteria for continual learning. Such criteria include recommended and required learning activities, including completion of specific courses of study, completion of mission-related training defined in 5 CFR 410.101, performance of certain DHS-CS cybersecurity work as part of assignments, and participation in opportunities for professional development and training described in § 158.640. The Department aims to utilize all available opportunities for DHS-CS employee development, including opportunities under this part and under or based on authorities in 5 U.S.C. and 5 CFR relating to continual learning, professional development, and training, as appropriate.
(d)
Verification of qualifications enhancements.
The Department verifies DHS-CS employees' enhancement of CTMS qualifications, which may include review by the CTMB or assessment using standardized instruments and procedures designed to measure the extent to which a DHS-CS employee has enhanced the employee's qualifications. Verification of enhancement to CTMS qualifications may require updating the documentation associated with the employee's qualified position, as described in § 158.706.
§ 158.804
Appraisal reviews.
(a) Under 5 U.S.C. Chapter 43 and 5 CFR part 430, the Department establishes an appraisal program to review and evaluate the performance of DHS-CS employees to ensure DHS-CS employees' individual accountability.
(b) The appraisal program for DHS-CS employees includes one or more progress reviews, as defined in 5 CFR 430.203, and an appraisal of an employee's performance that results in a rating of record, as defined in 5 CFR 430.203.
(c) The Department addresses unacceptable performance, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 4301(3), under the provisions of 5 CFR part 432 or part 752. The CTMB may assist with any decision, or action, or both, made under the authority in this section and 5 CFR part 430 and 5 CFR part 432 or 752.
(d) If the Department determines a DHS-CS employee's performance is unacceptable or the employee receives an unacceptable rating of record, the employee is ineligible to receive recognition under §§ 158.630 through 158.634 and the employee may be excluded from mission impact reviews under § 158.805.
§ 158.805
Mission impact reviews.
(a) The Department reviews a DHS-CS employee's mission impact throughout the employee's service in the DHS-CS and generates a mission impact summary at least annually. The Department may conduct mission impact reviews concurrently with development reviews.
(b) In reviewing a DHS-CS employee's mission impact, individually or as part of a group of DHS-CS employees, or both, the Department considers factors such as:
(1) Superior application of CTMS qualifications to perform DHS-CS cybersecurity work;
(2) Significant enhancements to CTMS qualifications;
(3) Special contributions to cybersecurity technologies, techniques, tactics, or procedures; and
(4) Notable improvements to execution of the DHS cybersecurity mission.
(c) The Department uses mission impact summary information to make distinctions among DHS-CS employees, such as comparing, categorizing, and ranking DHS-CS employees on the basis of mission impact to support decisions related to recognition for DHS-CS employees under §§ 158.630 through 158.634.
§ 158.806
Development reviews.
(a) The Department reviews a DHS-CS employee's career progression, as described in § 158.803(b) throughout the employee's service in the DHS-CS. The Department generates a development summary, at least annually, which may include plans for a DHS-CS employee's continual learning in alignment with the criteria for continual learning under the career development program described in § 158.803.
(b) As part of development reviews, the Department may compare, categorize, and rank DHS-CS employees to support decisions related to professional development and training under § 158.640. The Department may also use information from development reviews in matching subsequent assignments under § 158.703. The Department may conduct development reviews concurrently with mission impact reviews.

# Subpart I—Employee Rights, Requirements, and Input
§ 158.901
Federal employee rights and processes.
(a)
Adverse actions:
Nothing in this part affects the rights of CS employees under 5 U.S.C. Chapter 75, 5 U.S.C. 4303, and 5 CFR parts 432 and 752.
(b)
Reductions in force.
The provisions of 5 U.S.C. Chapter 35, Subchapter I and 5 CFR part 351 regarding reductions in force apply to talent management actions taken under this part.
(c)
Redress with third parties.
Nothing in this part affects the rights, as provided by law, of a DHS-CS employee to seek review before a third party of a talent management action taken under this part involving that employee, including seeking review before the:
(1) Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, regarding discrimination under Federal anti-discrimination laws;
(2) Merit Systems Protection Board, regarding matters such as adverse actions under 5 U.S.C. Chapter 75 or Chapter 43 and individual rights of action under 5 U.S.C. Chapter 12;
(3) Office of Special Counsel, regarding matters such as whistleblower retaliation and other prohibited personnel practices under 5 U.S.C. 2302 and the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. 7321
et seq.
); and
(4) Department of Labor, regarding matters covered by the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (38 U.S.C. 4301
et seq.
).
(d)
Back pay.
Back pay remains available under 5 U.S.C. 5596 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart H, for unjustified or unwarranted talent management actions.
§ 158.902
Ethics requirements.
(a) DHS-CS employees, including such employees providing uncompensated service and DHS-CS advisory appointees, are employees covered by the Ethics in Government Act section 101(f)(3), and are subject to the criminal conflict of interest rules as well as government ethics requirements applicable to Federal employees, including:
(1) Criminal conflict of interest provisions in 18 U.S.C. 201-209;
(2) Ethics in Government Act, as amended, and implementing regulations in 5 CFR, Chapter XVI, Subchapter B, including financial disclosure reporting in 5 CFR part 2634 and the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch in 5 CFR part 2635;
(3) Supplemental Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Department of Homeland Security in 5 CFR part 4601; and
(4) Department policy.
(b) Under the ethics requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section, DHS-CS employees must seek approval for certain outside activities, comply with ethics program requirements, and other applicable laws, including post-government employment restrictions.
§ 158.903
Employee input program.
(a)
Program.
The Department establishes and administers a program for
DHS-CS employees to express employment-related concerns and recommendations for enhancing CTMS administration and DHS-CS management. Under such a program, a DHS-CS employee may request review of certain talent management actions related to the employee's employment in the DHS-CS or related to the processes, systems, and programs established under this part, or both. The Cybersecurity Talent Management Board may use information from this program for the periodic evaluation of CTMS described in § 158.302.
(b)
Policy.
CTMS policy implementing this section addresses:
(1) Talent management actions covered by the employee input program;
(2) The process for DHS-CS employees to express input; and
(3) The interaction of the employee input program with relevant processes for redress with third parties of employment-related actions, including those described in § 158.901.

# Subpart J—Advisory Appointments
§ 158.1001
Advisory appointments and advisory appointees.
(a) An advisory appointment is an appointment to a qualified position that:
(1) The Secretary determines is of a policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character or involves a close and confidential working relationship with the Secretary or other key appointed officials;
(2) Does not have a salary set by statute; and
(3) Is not required to be filled by an appointment by the President.
(b) An advisory appointment to a qualified position is treated as a Schedule C position under 5 CFR 213.3301 except regarding appointment and compensation. Talent management for a DHS-CS advisory appointee is in accordance with the provisions of 5 CFR applicable to Schedule C appointees, except that appointment and compensation for a DHS-CS advisory appointee is governed by this part.
(c) Employment restrictions such as those concerning the criminal conflict of interest statutes, standards of ethical conduct, partisan political activity, and contained in laws such as Executive Orders, government-wide ethics regulations and the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. 7321
et seq.
), apply to a DHS-CS advisory appointee as if the employee were a Schedule C appointee.
(d) The Department tracks and coordinates advisory appointments with the Executive Office of the President and the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), as appropriate.
§ 158.1002
Appointment of advisory appointees.
(a) Appointment of an individual, including a former DHS-CS employee, to an advisory appointment is governed by this subpart J and subpart E of this part.
(b) An individual for appointment to an advisory appointment must participate in the assessment program described in § 158.520. The Secretary or designee must approve the appointment of an individual to an advisory appointment by name, and an individual appointed to an advisory appointment serves at the will of the Secretary.
(c) A DHS-CS advisory appointee may be removed at any time. In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 7511(b), the provisions of 5 U.S.C. Chapter 75, subchapter II do not apply to talent management actions taken under this part for a DHS advisory appointee.
(d) An advisory appointment terminates no later than the end of the term of the U.S. President under which the advisory appointee was appointed.
(e) The Secretary or designee establishes a limit on the number of advisory appointments under this subpart J, and the total number of advisory appointments under this subpart may not exceed that limit at any time.
(f) The Department may not change an advisory appointment to a renewable appointment or continuing appointment.
(g) The Department may not use an advisory appointment solely or primarily for the purpose of detailing any individual to the White House.
§ 158.1003
Compensation for advisory appointees.
(a)
General.
Compensation for a DHS-CS advisory appointee is governed by this subpart J and subpart F of this
part. A DHS-CS advisory appointee may provide uncompensated service and any such service is gratuitous service.
(b)
Compensation.
As compensation for service in the DHS-CS, a DHS-CS advisory appointee receives a salary as described in paragraph (c) this section, unless the appointee is providing uncompensated service. A DHS-CS advisory appointee, except such an employee providing uncompensated service, may also receive additional compensation as described in paragraph (d) of this paragraph.
(c)
Salary.
A DHS-CS advisory appointee receives a salary under the salary system described in § 158.610.
(1)
Setting salary.
The Department determines the salary for an individual accepting an advisory appointment to a qualified position under § 158.620.
(2)
Adjusting salary.
The Department determines any adjustments to salary of a DHS-CS advisory appointee under § 158.621.
(3)
Extended range.
A DHS-CS advisory appointee is ineligible for a salary in the extended range.
(4)
Local cybersecurity talent market supplement.
The Department may provide a DHS-CS advisory appointee a local cybersecurity talent market supplement under § 158.612.
(d)
Additional compensation.
In alignment with the compensation strategy in § 158.601, the Department may provide the following types of additional compensation to a DHS-CS advisory appointee for the purposes of each such type as described under this part and subject to the requirements of this section. An individual appointed to an advisory appointment is ineligible to receive any type of additional compensation under this part as part of an offer of employment in the DHS-CS.
(1)
Types.
Additional compensation under CTMS for a DHS-CS advisory appointee is:
(i) Recognition adjustments under § 158.631, except the Secretary or designee must approve any such recognition for a DHS-CS advisory appointee;
(ii) Recognition payments under § 158.632, except the Secretary or designee must approve any such recognition for a DHS-CS advisory appointee;
(iii) Recognition time-off under § 158.633, except the Secretary or designee must approve any such recognition for a DHS-CS advisory appointee;
(iv) Honorary recognition under § 158.634;
(v) Professional development and training under § 158.640, so long as a professional development and training program described in § 158.640 explicitly covers DHS-CS advisory appointee and prohibits such employees from receiving any payment or reimbursement for costs of academic degree training or expenses to obtain professional credentials, including examinations to obtain such credentials;
(vi) Allowances in nonforeign areas under § 158.643; and
(vii) Other types of compensation, including leave and benefits, authorized under §§ 158.650 through 158.655 and provided in accordance with relevant provisions of other laws.
(2)
Combining types.
A DHS-CS advisory appointee may receive any type of additional compensation described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in combination with any other such type subject to the requirements of subpart F of this part and the requirements and restrictions of this section.
(3)
Restrictions.
Additional compensation described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is subject to, and may be limited by:
(i) The aggregate compensation limit described in § 158.604;
(ii) Prohibitions in 5 U.S.C. 4508, guidance from the Office of Management and Budget and Office of Personnel Management, and any other provisions of law governing compensation for political appointees; and
(iii) Other requirements and restrictions in CTMS policy.
(e)
Compensation administration.
For purposes of administering compensation under this part for a DHS-CS advisory appointee, the Department administers salary and other compensation, including leave, based on consideration of the employee's work schedule under the work scheduling system described in § 158.705, and may convert the appointee's salary into an hourly rate, biweekly rate, or other rate.
PARTS 159-199 [RESERVED]
6 CFR Ch. X (1-1-25 Edition)
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board

# CHAPTER X—PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT BOARD
Part
Page
1000
Organization and delegation of powers and duties of the privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
397
1001
Procedures for disclosure of records under the Freedom of Information Act
399
1002
Implementation of the Privacy Act of 1974
408
1003
Implementation of the Government in the Sunshine Act
410
1004-1099
[Reserved]
Pt. 1000

# PART 1000—ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT BOARD
Sec.
1000.1
Purpose.
1000.2
Definitions.
1000.3
Organization.
1000.4
Functions.
1000.5
Delegations of authority.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552.

# Source:
78 FR 33689, June 5, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1000.1
Purpose.
This part describes the organization of the Board, and the assignment of authorities and the responsibilities of the Board, individual Board members, and employees.
§ 1000.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Board
means the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, established by the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, Public Law 110-53.
Chairman
means the Chairman of the Board, as appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate under section 801(a) of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, Public Law 110-53.
Executive Director
means the individual appointed by the Chairman to act as the Executive Director (or, in the event the Chairman position is vacant, by the Board) to discharge the responsibilities assigned to the Executive Director.
General Counsel
means the individual appointed by the Chairman to act as the chief legal officer of the Board or, if the General Counsel is absent or unavailable, the Deputy General Counsel, or in the event both positions are vacant, the individual(s) designated by the Chairman (or, in the event the Chairman position is vacant, by the Board) to discharge the responsibilities assigned to the General Counsel. If both the General Counsel and Deputy General Counsel are absent and unavailable for a prolonged period of time, the Chairman (or the Board in the event the Chairman position is vacant) may designate any Staff Member who is an active member of the bar of any state, territory, or the District of Columbia to temporarily discharge the responsibilities assigned to the General Counsel until the General Counsel or Deputy General Counsel is again available or a successor has been duly appointed.
Member
means an individual appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, to be a member of the Board.
[78 FR 33689, June 5, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 36456, July 29, 2019]
§ 1000.3
Organization.
(a) The Board is comprised of four part-time Board members and a full-time Chairman, each appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(b) The Board's staff is comprised of the following:
(1) Mission staff who assist the Board with its advice, oversight, and other mission functions, as described in 42 U.S.C. 2000ee(d) and 6 CFR 1000.4; and
(2) Administrative staff who support the Board's operations on a variety of administrative matters, such as budget, contracts, information technology and information assurance, and security; and
(3) Legal staff who provide the Board and agency employees with legal advice and ethical guidance.
[78 FR 33689, June 5, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 36456, July 29, 2019]
§ 1000.4
Functions.
(a) The Board provides advice and counsel to the President and executive departments and agencies to ensure that privacy and civil liberties are appropriately considered in proposed legislation, regulations, and policies, and in the implementation of new and existing legislation, regulations, and policies, related to efforts to protect the Nation from terrorism;
(b) The Board oversees actions by the executive branch relating to efforts to protect the Nation from terrorism to
determine whether such actions appropriately protect privacy and civil liberties and are consistent with governing laws, regulations, and policies regarding privacy and civil liberties; and
(c) The Board receives and reviews reports and other information from privacy and civil liberties officers under 42 U.S.C. 2000ee-1 and, when appropriate, makes recommendations to and coordinates the activities of privacy and civil liberties officers on relevant interagency matters.
§ 1000.5
Delegations of authority.
(a)
The Board.
The Board is the head of the agency. The Board is responsible for the overall planning, direction, and control of the agency's agenda. The delegations of authority in this part do not extend to the following actions which are reserved to the Board:
(1) Disposition of all rulemaking and similar proceedings involving the promulgation of rules or the issuance of statements of general policy.
(2) Determination of advice or recommendations to the President or executive departments and agencies regarding the matters described in 42 U.S.C. 2000ee(d).
(3) Determination of the Board's annual agenda or other statement of operational priorities; and
(4) Redelegation to one or more Board members or staff of those responsibilities delegated to the Chairman in § 1000.3(b), in the event of a vacancy.
(5) Formulation and implementation of policies designed to assure the effective administration of the Board's operations and the efficient operations of the staff.
(6) Any authority that is not delegated by the Board in this part, or otherwise vested in officials other than the Board, is reserved to the Board. The Board may reverse delegations at any time, and all delegated authority reverts to the Board upon the termination or expiration of the delegation.
(b)
The Chairman.
The Chairman is the executive and administrative head of the Board. The Chairman has the authority, duties, and responsibilities assigned to the Chairman under 42 U.S.C. 2000ee(h)(5) and (j)(1) and is responsible for the agency's day-to-day operations. The Chairman is delegated the authority to:
(1) Exercise control over the Board's management and functioning;
(2) Implement and execute the Board's budget;
(3) Develop and effectively use staff support to carry out the functions of the Board, including, but not limited to, the supervision and removal of Board employees and the assignment and distribution of work among staff;
(4) Convene and preside at all meetings of the Board and ensure that every vote and official act of the Board required by law to be recorded is accurately and promptly recorded by the General Counsel;
(5) Redelegate to one or more Board staff persons those responsibilities to the Executive Director or General Counsel under this part, in the event that either position is unfilled.
(6) Authorize any officer or employee of the Board to perform a function vested in, delegated, or otherwise designated to the Chairman.
(c)
Executive Director.
The Executive Director manages the staff and assists with the day-to-day operation of the agency. The Executive Director is delegated authority to—
(1) Manage the Board's mission-related projects in accordance with the priorities set by the Board;
(2) Supervise the Board's mission staff; and
(3) Authorize any officer or employee of the Board to perform a function vested in, delegated, or otherwise designated to the Executive Director.
(d)
General Counsel.
The General Counsel is the Board's chief legal officer, and serves as the Board's legal advisor. The General Counsel is delegated authority to—
(1) Serve as the Board's Designated Ethics Official in accordance with 5 CFR 2638.202;
(2) Certify Board votes and conduct other necessary corporate secretary functions consistent with Board policies and procedures; and
(3) Authorize any officer or employee of the Board to perform a function vested in, delegated, or otherwise designated to the General Counsel.
(e)
Individual Board Members.
Any member delegated authority vested in the Chairman under paragraph (a) of this section may redelegate that authority to one or more Board employees.
(f)
Exercise of authority.
In carrying out any functions delegated under this part, members and staff are governed in the exercise of those functions by all applicable Federal statutes and regulations, and by the regulations, orders, and rules of the Board.
[78 FR 33689, June 5, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 38811, June 28, 2013; 84 FR 36456, July 29, 2019]
Pt. 1001

# PART 1001—PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
Sec.
1001.1
Purpose and scope.
1001.2
Definitions.
1001.3
Availability of records.
1001.4
Categories of exemptions.
1001.5
Requests for records.
1001.6
Responsibility for responding to requests.
1001.7
Administrative appeals.
1001.8
Time frame for Board response.
1001.9
Business information.
1001.10
Fees.
1001.11
Other rights and services.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552, as amended; Executive Order 12600.

# Source:
78 FR 66997, Nov. 8, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1001.1
Purpose and scope.
The regulations in this part implement the provisions of the FOIA.
§ 1001.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part:
Board
means the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, established by the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, Public Law 110-53.
Chairman
means the Chairman of the Board, as appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate under section 801(a) of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, Public Law 110-53, or any person to whom the Board has delegated authority for the matter concerned.
Chief FOIA Officer
means the senior official to whom the Board delegated responsibility for efficient and appropriate compliance with the FOIA.
Commercial use request
means a FOIA request from or on behalf of a person who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers his or her commercial, trade, or profit interests, including pursuit of those interests through litigation.
Confidential business information
means trade secrets and confidential, privileged, or proprietary business or financial information submitted to the Board by a person.
Direct costs
mean in the case of commercial use requesters those expenses the Board has actually incurred to search for, duplicate, and review documents in response to a FOIA request. Direct costs include, but are not limited to, the salary of the employee performing the work and costs associated with duplication.
Educational institution
means a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of undergraduate or graduate higher education, an institution of professional education, or an institution of vocational education, which operates a program or programs of scholarly research.
Fee waiver
means the waiver or reduction of processing fees if a requester can demonstrate that OMB's Fee Guidelines' standards are satisfied, including that the information is in the public interest and is not a commercial interest.
FOIA
means the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended. The FOIA applies to third-party requests for documents concerning the general activities of the government and the Board in particular. A request by a U.S. citizen or an individual lawfully admitted for permanent residence for access to his or her own records is considered a Privacy Act request, under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended.
See
6 CFR 1002.3.
FOIA Officer
means the individual to whom the Board has delegated authority to carry out the Board's day-to-day FOIA administration.
FOIA Public Liaison
means the individual designated by the Chairman to assist FOIA requesters with concerns about the Board's processing of their FOIA request, including assistance in resolving disputes.
Non-commercial scientific institution
means an organization operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any product or research, and not operated on a commercial basis.
Person
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization other than an agency.
Record
means any writing, drawing, map, recording, diskette, DVD, CD-ROM, tape, film, photograph, or other documentary material, regardless of medium, by which information is preserved, including documentary material stored electronically.
Redact
means delete or mark over.
Representative of the news media
means any person or entity that gathers information of potential public interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience.
Requester category
means one of the three categories in which requesters will be placed for the purpose of determining whether a requester will be charged fees for search, review, or duplication. They are:
(1) Commercial requestors,
(2) Non-commercial scientific or educational institutions or news media requestors, and
(3) All other requestors.
Submitter
means any person or entity from whom the Board obtains confidential business information, directly or indirectly.
Unusual circumstances
means, to the extent reasonably necessary for the proper processing of a FOIA request:
(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from physically separate facilities;
(2) The need to search for, collect and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or
(3) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request.
[78 FR 66997, Nov. 8, 2013, as amended at 82 FR 34835, July 27, 2017]
§ 1001.3
Availability of records.
(a) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1), the Board publishes the following records in the
Federal Register
and makes an index of the records publicly available:
(1) Descriptions of the Board's organization and the established places at which, the employees from whom, and the methods by which, the public may obtain information, submit documents, or obtain decisions;
(2) Statements of the general course and method by which the Board's functions are channeled and determined, including the nature and requirements of all formal and informal procedures available;
(3) Rules of procedure, descriptions of forms available or the places at which forms may be obtained, and instructions as to the scope and contents of all papers, reports, or examinations;
(4) Substantive rules of general applicability adopted as authorized by law and statements of general policy or interpretations of general applicability formulated and adopted by the Board; and
(5) Each amendment, revision, or repeal of any material listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(b) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2), the Board shall make the following materials available for public inspection and copying:
(1) Statements of policy and interpretation that have been adopted by the Board and not published in the
Federal Register
;
(2) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public;
(3) Copies of all records, regardless of the form or format, which have been released to any person under paragraph (c) of this section and that, because of their nature or subject matter, the Board determines have become or are
likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records; and
(4) A general index of the records referred to in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(c) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3), the Board shall make available, upon proper request, as described in section 5 of this part, all non-exempt Board records, or portions of records, not previously made public under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d) The FOIA applies only to Board records in existence at the time of the request; the FOIA does not require that the Board create new records in order to respond to FOIA requests. When responsive records are located, the Board adopts a presumption of disclosure and openness.
§ 1001.4
Categories of exemptions.
(a) The FOIA does not require disclosure of matters that are:
(1) Specifically authorized under criteria established by an executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and are, in fact, properly classified under executive order;
(2) Related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Board;
(3) Specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b, as amended), provided that such statute:
(i) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue, establishes particular criteria for withholding, or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld; and
(ii) If enacted after October 28, 2009, specifically cites to Exemption 3 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3);
(4) Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(5) Inter-agency or intra-agency memoranda or letters, which would not be available at law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the Board;
(6) Personnel and medical files and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(7) Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only to the extent that the production of such law enforcement records or information:
(i) Could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings;
(ii) Would deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or impartial adjudication;
(iii) Could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(iv) Could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of a confidential source, including a state, local, or foreign agency or authority or any private institution that furnished information on a confidential basis, and, in the case of a record or information compiled by a criminal investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, information furnished by a confidential source;
(v) Would disclose techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions or would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law; or
(vi) Could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual.
(8) Contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions; or
(9) Geological and geophysical information and data, including maps, concerning wells.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1001.5
Requests for records.
(a) You may request copies of records under this part by email to
FOIA@pclob.gov
or in writing addressed to FOIA Officer, Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Requestors should check the Board's Web site at
https://www.pclob.gov
for the Board's current mailing address. Please provide contact information, such as your phone number, email address, and/or
mailing address, to assist the Board in communicating with you and providing released records.
(b) Your request shall reasonably describe the records sought with sufficient specificity, and when possible, include names, dates, and subject matter, in order to permit the FOIA Officer to locate the records with a reasonable amount of effort. If the FOIA Officer cannot locate responsive records based on your written description, you will be notified and advised that further identifying information is necessary before the request can be fulfilled. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the Board's FOIA Officer or FOIA Public Liaison. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the Board's response to the request is likely to be delayed.
(c) Although requests are considered either FOIA or Privacy Act requests, the Board processes requests for records in accordance with both laws so as to provide the greatest degree of lawful access while safeguarding an individual's personal privacy.
(d) Your request should specify your preferred form or format (including electronic formats) for the records you seek. We will accommodate your request if the record is readily available in that form or format. When you do not specify the form or format of the response, we will provide responsive records in the form or format most convenient to us.
[82 FR 34835, July 27, 2017]
§ 1001.6
Responsibility for responding to requests.
(a)
In general.
The Board delegates authority to grant or deny FOIA requests in whole or in part to the FOIA Officer. When conducting a search for responsive records, the FOIA Officer generally will search for records in existence on the date of the search. If another date is used, the FOIA Officer shall inform the requester of the date used.
(b)
Responses.
The FOIA Officer will notify you of his or her determination to grant or deny your FOIA request in the time frame stated in § 1001.8. The Board will release reasonably segregable non-exempt information. For any adverse determination, including those regarding any disputed fee matter; a denial of a request for a fee waiver; or a determination to withhold a record, in whole or in part, that a record does not exist or cannot be located; or to deny a request for expedited processing; the notice shall include the following information:
(1) The name(s) of any person responsible for the determination to deny the request in whole or in part;
(2) A brief statement of the reason(s) for the denial, including any FOIA exemption applied in denying the request. The FOIA Officer will indicate, if technically feasible, the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which a deletion is made on the released portion of the record, unless including that indication would harm an interest protected by the exemption;
(3) An estimate of the volume of information withheld, if applicable. This estimate does not need to be provided if it is ascertainable based on redactions in partially disclosed records or if the disclosure of the estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable FOIA exemption;
(4) A statement that the adverse determination may be appealed and a description of the requirements for an appeal under § 1001.7; and
(5) A statement notifying you of the assistance available from the Board's FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by OGIS.
(c)
Consultations and referrals.
(1) Upon receipt of a FOIA request for a record within the Board's possession, the FOIA Officer should determine if the Board or another federal agency is best able to determine eligibility for disclosure under the FOIA. If the FOIA Officer determines that another agency is better able to evaluate the releasibility of the record, the FOIA Officer shall:
(1) Upon receipt of a FOIA request for a record within the Board's possession, the FOIA Officer should determine if the Board or another federal agency is best able to determine eligibility for disclosure under the FOIA. As to any such record, the FOIA Officer must proceed in one of the following ways:
(i)
Consultation.
When records originated with the Board, but contain within them information of interest to or originated by another agency or Federal Government office, the FOIA Officer must consult with that other entity prior to making a release determination.
(ii)
Referral.
When the FOIA Officer believes that a different agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record the FOIA Officer will refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to that agency (but only if that other department or agency is subject to FOIA). Ordinarily, the department or agency that originated the record will be presumed best able to determine whether to disclose it. However, if the FOIA Officer and the originating agency jointly agree that the Board is in the best position to respond regarding the record, then the record may be handled as a consultation.
(2) Whenever a request is made for information that is classified, the FOIA Officer shall refer the responsibility for responding to that portion of the request to the agency that originated the information, or has the primary interest in it, as appropriate. Whenever a record contains information that the Board has derivatively classified because it contains information classified by another agency, the FOIA Officer shall refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that information to the agency that classified the underlying information or originated the record.
(3) If responsibility for responding to a request is referred to another department or agency, the FOIA Officer shall notify you of the referral. This notice shall identify the part of the request that has been referred and the name of each department or agency to which the request, or part of the request, has been referred, when appropriate and available, the notice will include a point of contact for the referral agency or department.
(d)
Coordination.
The standard referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the agency to which the referral would be made is classified for national security reasons or otherwise could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests. For instance, if the Board locates within its files materials originating with an Intelligence Community agency, and the involvement of that agency in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then to disclose or give attribution to the involvement of that Intelligence Community agency could cause national security harms. In such an instance, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, the Board will coordinate with the originating agency to seek its views on the disclosability of the record. The release determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination will then be conveyed to the requester by the Board.
[78 FR 66997, Nov. 8, 2013, as amended at 82 FR 34836, July 27, 2017]
§ 1001.7
Administrative appeals.
(a) You may appeal an adverse determination related to your FOIA request, or the Board's failure to respond to your FOIA request within the prescribed time limits, to the Chief FOIA Officer, Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Requestors should check the Board's Web site at
https://www.pclob.gov
for the Board's current mailing address.
(b) Your appeal must be in writing, sent to the address posted on the Board's Web site in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, and it must be postmarked, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted, within 90 calendar days after the date of the letter denying your request, in whole or in part. The appeal should clearly identify the agency determination that is being appealed and the assigned case request number. In case of the Board's failure to respond within the statutory time frame, you may submit an administrative appeal at any time until an agency response has been provided. For the most expeditious handling, your appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, should be marked “Freedom of Information Act appeal.”
(c) Your appeal letter should state facts and may cite legal or other authorities in support of your request.
(d) On receipt of any appeal involving classified information, the Chief FOIA Officer must take appropriate action to ensure compliance with applicable classification rules.
(e) The Chief FOIA Officer shall respond to all administrative appeals in writing and within the time frame stated in § 1001.8(d). If the decision affirms, in whole or in part, the FOIA Officer's determination, the letter shall contain a statement of the reasons for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemption(s) applied, and will inform you of the FOIA's provisions for court review. If the Chief FOIA Officer reverses or modifies the FOIA Officer's determination, in whole or in part, you will be notified in writing and your request will be reprocessed in accordance with that decision. The Board may work with Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) to resolve disputes between FOIA requestors and the Board. A requester may also contact OGIS in the following ways: Via mail to OGIS, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road—OGIS, College Park, MD 20740 (
ogis.archives.gov
), via email at
ogis@nara.gov,
or via the telephone at 202-741-5770 or 877-684-6448. Facsimile is also available at 202-741-5769.
[82 FR 34836, July 27, 2017]
§ 1001.8
Time frame for Board response.
(a)
In general.
The Board ordinarily shall respond to requests according to their order of receipt.
(b)
Multi-track processing.
The Board may use two or more processing tracks by distinguishing between simple and more complex requests based on the amount of work or time needed to process the request.
(c)
Initial decisions.
The Board shall determine whether to comply with a FOIA request within 20 working days after our receipt of the request, unless the time frame for response is extended due to unusual circumstances as further described in paragraph (f) of this section. A request is received by the Board, for purposes of commencing the 20-day timeframe for its response, on the day it is received by the FOIA Officer or, in any event, not later than ten days after the request is first received by any Board office.
(d)
Administrative appeals.
The Chief FOIA Officer shall determine whether to affirm or overturn a decision subject to administrative appeal within 20 working days after receipt of the appeal, unless the time frame for response is extended in accordance with subsection (e) of this section.
(e)
Tolling timelines.
We may toll the 20-day timeframe set forth in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section:
(1) One time to await information that we reasonably requested from you, as permitted by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(A)(iii)(I);
(2) As necessary to clarify with you issues regarding the fee assessment.
(3) If we toll the time frame for response under paragraphs (e)(1) or (2) of this section, the tolling period ends upon our receipt of your response.
(f)
Unusual circumstances.
In the event of unusual circumstances, we may extend the time frame for response provided in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section by providing you with written notice of the unusual circumstances and the date on which a determination is expected to be made. Where the extension is for more than ten working days, we will provide you with an opportunity either to modify your request so that it may be processed within the statutorily-prescribed time limits or to arrange an alternative time period for processing your request or modified request.
(g)
Aggregating requests.
When we reasonably believe that multiple requests submitted by a requester, or by a group of requesters acting in concert, involving clearly related matters, can be viewed as a single request that involves unusual circumstances, we may aggregate the requests for the purposes of fees and processing activities, which may result in an extension of the processing time.
(h)
Expedited processing.
You may request that the Board expedite processing of your FOIA request. To receive expedited processing, you must demonstrate a compelling need for such processing.
(1) For requests for expedited processing, a “compelling need” involves:
(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited treatment could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or
(ii) A request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, with a time urgency to inform the public of actual or alleged federal government activity.
(2) Your request for expedited processing must be in writing and may be made at the time of the initial FOIA request or at any later time.
(3) Your request for expedited processing must include a statement, certified to be true and correct to the best of your knowledge and belief, explaining in detail the basis for requesting expedited processing. If you are a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, you must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the federal government activity involved in the request.
(4) The FOIA Officer will decide whether to grant or deny your request for expedited processing within ten calendar days of receipt. You will be notified in writing of the determination. Appeals of adverse decisions regarding expedited processing shall be processed expeditiously.
§ 1001.9
Business information.
(a)
Designation of confidential business information.
In the event a FOIA request is made for confidential business information previously submitted to the Government by a commercial entity or on behalf of it (hereinafter 'submitter'), the regulations in this section apply. When submitting confidential business information, you must use a good-faith effort to designate, by use of appropriate markings, at the time of submission or at a reasonable time thereafter, any portions of your submission that you consider to be exempt from disclosure under FOIA Exemption 4, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4). Your designation will expire ten years after the date of submission unless you request, and provide justification for, a longer designation period.
(b)
Notice to submitters.
Whenever you designate confidential business information as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, or the Board has reason to believe that your submission may contain confidential business information, we will provide you with prompt written notice of a FOIA request that seeks your business information. The notice shall:
(1) Give you an opportunity to object to disclosure of your information, in whole or in part;
(2) Describe the business information requested or include copies of the requested records or record portions containing the information; and
(3) Inform you of the time frame in which you must respond to the notice.
(c)
Opportunity to object to disclosure.
The Board shall allow you a reasonable time to respond to the notice described in paragraph (b) of this section. If you object to the disclosure of your information, in whole or in part, you must provide us with a detailed written statement of your objection. The statement must specify all grounds for withholding any portion of the information under any FOIA exemption and, when relying on FOIA Exemption 4, it must explain why the information is a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged and confidential. If you fail to respond within the time frame specified in the notice, the Board will conclude that you have no objection to disclosure of your information. The Board will only consider information that we receive within the time frame specified in the notice. Any information provided by a submitter under this subpart may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(d)
Notice of intent to disclose.
The Board will consider your objection and specific grounds for non-disclosure in deciding whether to disclose business information. Whenever the Board decides to disclose business information over your objection, we will provide you with written notice that includes:
(1) A statement of the reasons why each of your bases for withholding were not sustained;
(2) A description of the business information to be disclosed; and
(3) A specified disclosure date, which shall be a reasonable time after the notice.
(e)
Exceptions to the notice requirement.
The notice requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section shall not apply if:
(1) The Board determines that the information shall not be disclosed;
(2) The information lawfully has been published or has been officially made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by statute (other than the FOIA) or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600;
(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (a) of this section appears obviously frivolous, except that, in such a case, the Board shall, within a reasonable time prior to the date the disclosure will be made, give the submitter written notice of the final decision to disclose the information.
(f)
Notice to requesters.
Whenever we provide a submitter with the notice described in paragraph (b) of this section, we also will provide notice to the requester that notice and opportunity to object to the disclosure are being provided to the submitter. The Board also must notify the requester when it notifies the submitter of its intent to disclose the requested information, and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the information.
[78 FR 66997, Nov. 8, 2013, as amended at 82 FR 34836, July 27, 2017]
§ 1001.10
Fees.
(a) We will charge fees that recoup the full allowable direct costs we incur in processing your FOIA request. Fees may be charged for search, review or duplication. As a matter of administrative discretion, the Board may release records without charge or at a reduced rate whenever the Board determines that the interest of the United States government would be served. We will use the most efficient and least costly methods to comply with your request. The Board may charge for search time even if no records are located or the records located are exempt from disclosure. If the Board fails to comply with the FOIA's time limits in which to respond to a request, it may not charge search fees, unless the circumstances outlined in paragraph (o) of this section are met.
(b) With regard to manual searches for records, we will charge the salary rate(s) (calculated as the basic rate of pay plus 16 percent of that basic rate to cover benefits) of the employee(s) performing the search.
(c) In calculating charges for computer searches for records, we will charge at the actual direct cost of providing the service, including the cost of operating computers and other electronic equipment, such as photocopiers and scanners, directly attributable to searching for records potentially responsive to your FOIA request and the portion of the salary of the operators/programmers performing the search.
(d) We may only charge requesters seeking documents for commercial use for time spent reviewing records to determine whether they are exempt from mandatory disclosure. Charges may be assessed only for the initial review—that is, the review undertaken the first time we analyze the applicability of a specific exemption to a particular record or portion of a record. Records or portions of records withheld in full under an exemption that is subsequently determined not to apply may be reviewed again to determine the applicability of other exemptions not previously considered. We may assess the costs for such subsequent review. No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal stage of exemptions applied at the initial review stage.
(e) Records will be duplicated at a rate of $.10 per page, except that the Board may adjust this rate from time to time by rule published in the
Federal Register.
For copies prepared by computer, such as tapes, CDs, DVDs, or printouts, we will charge the actual cost, including operator time, of production. For other methods of reproduction or duplication, we will charge the actual direct costs of producing the document(s). If we estimate that duplication charges are likely to exceed $25, we will notify you of the estimated amount of fees, unless you indicated in advance your willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. Our notice will offer you an opportunity to confer with Board personnel to reformulate
the request to meet your needs at a lower cost. If the Board notifies you that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $25.00, your request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until you commit in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designate some amount of fees you are willing to pay, or in the case of a noncommercial use requester who has not yet been provided with your statutory entitlements, you designate that you seek only that which can be provided by the statutory entitlements. The Board's FOIA Officer or Public Liaison are available to assist you in reformulating your request to meet your needs at a lower cost.
(f) We will charge you the full costs of providing you with the following services:
(1) Certifying that records are true copies; or
(2) Sending records by special methods such as express mail.
(g) We may assess interest charges on an unpaid bill starting on the 31st calendar day following the day on which the billing was sent. Interest shall be at the rate prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the date of the billing until payment is received by the Board.
(h) We will not charge a search fee for requests by educational institutions, non-commercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media. A search fee will be charged for a commercial use request.
(i) The Board will not charge duplication fees for requests by educational institutions, non-commercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media for a non-commercial use request if the agency fails to comply with the FOIA's time limits in which to respond to a request.
(j) Except for a commercial use request, we will not charge you for the first 100 pages of duplication and the first two hours of search.
(k) You may not file multiple requests, each seeking portions of a document or documents, solely for the purpose of avoiding payment of fees. When the Board reasonably believes that a requester, or a group of requesters acting in concert, has submitted requests that constitute a single request involving clearly related matters, we may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly.
(l) We may not require you to make payment before we begin work to satisfy the request or to continue work on a request, unless:
(1) We estimate or determine that the allowable charges that you may be required to pay are likely to exceed $250; or
(2) You have previously failed to pay a fee charged within 30 calendar days of the date of billing.
(m) In cases in which the Board requires advance payment, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If you do not pay the advance payment within 30 calendar days after the date of the Board's fee determination, the request will be closed.
(n) Upon written request, we may waive or reduce fees that are otherwise chargeable under this part. If you request a waiver or reduction in fees, you must demonstrate that a waiver or reduction in fees is in the public interest because disclosure of the requested records is likely to contribute significantly to the public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in your commercial interest. After processing, actual fees must exceed $25, for the Board to require payment of fees.
(o) If the Board has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, the Board may charge search fees, or, in the case of requesters described in paragraph (h) of this section, may charge duplication fees, if the following steps are taken. The Board must have provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA and the agency must have discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii). If this exception is satisfied, the Board
may charge all applicable fees incurred in the processing of the request.
[82 FR 34847, July 27, 2017]
§ 1001.11
Other rights and services.
Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to entitle any person, as of right, to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which such person is not entitled under the FOIA.
[82 FR 34837, July 27, 2017]
Pt. 1002

# PART 1002—IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
Sec.
1002.1
Purpose and scope.
1002.2
Definitions.
1002.3
Privacy Act requests.
1002.4
Responses to Privacy Act requests.
1002.5
Administrative appeals.
1002.6
Fees.
1002.7
Penalties.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
78 FR 66997, Nov. 8, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1002.1
Purpose and scope.
The regulations in this part implement the provisions of the Privacy Act.
§ 1002.2
Definitions.
The following terms used in this part are defined in the Privacy Act:
Individual, maintain,
record, system of records,
statistical record,
and
routine use.
The following definitions also apply in this part:
Board
means the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, established by the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, Pub. L. 110-53.
Chairman
means the Chairman of the Board, as appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate under section 801(a) of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, Pub. L. 110-53, or any person to whom the Board has delegated authority in the matter concerned.
General Counsel
means the Board's principal legal advisor, or his or her designee.
Privacy Act
means the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended.
Privacy Act Officer
means the person designated by the Board to be responsible for the day-to-day administration of the Privacy Act.
§ 1002.3
Privacy Act requests.
(a)
Requests to determine if you are the subject of a record.
You may request that the Board inform you if we maintain a system of records that contains records about you. Your request must follow the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Requests for access.
You may request access to a Board record about you in writing or by appearing in person. You should direct your request to the Privacy Act Officer. Written requests may be sent to: Privacy Act Officer, Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, 2100 K Street NW., Suite 500, Washington, DC 20427. Your request should include the following information:
(1) Your name, address, and telephone number;
(2) The system(s) of records in which the requested information is contained; and
(3) At your option, authorization for copying expenses.
(4)
Written requests.
In addition to the information described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, written requests must include a statement affirming your identity, signed by you and witnessed by two persons (including witnesses' addresses) or notarized.
(i)
Witnessed.
If your statement is witnessed, it must include a sentence above the witnesses' signatures attesting that they personally know you or that you have provided satisfactory proof of your identity.
(ii)
Notarized.
If your statement is notarized, you must provide the notary with adequate proof of your identity in the form of a drivers' license, passport, or other identification acceptable to the notary.
(iii) The Board, in its discretion, may require additional proof of identification depending on the nature and sensitivity of the records in the system of records.
(iv) For the quickest possible handling, your letter and envelope should be marked “Privacy Act Request”.
(5)
In person requests.
In addition to the information described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section,
if you make your request in person, you must provide adequate proof of identification at the time of your request. Adequate proof of identification includes a valid drivers' license, valid passport, or other current identification that includes your address and photograph.
(c)
Requests for amendment or correction of records.
You may request an amendment to or correction of a record about you in person or by writing to the Privacy Act Officer following the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section. Your request for amendment or correction should identify each particular record at issue, state the amendment or correction sought, and describe why the record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete.
(d)
Requests for an accounting of disclosures.
Except for those disclosures for which the Privacy Act does not require an accounting, you may request an accounting of any disclosure by the Board of a record about you. Your request for an accounting of disclosures must be made in writing following the procedures described in subsection (b) of this section.
(e)
Requests for access on behalf of someone else.
(1) If you are making a request on behalf of someone else, your request must include a statement from that individual verifying his or her identity, as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Your request also must include a statement certifying that individual's agreement that records about him or her may be released to you.
(2) If you are the parent or guardian of the individual to whom the requested record pertains, or the individual to whom the record pertains has been deemed incompetent by a court, your request for access to records about that individual must include:
(i) The identity of the individual who is the subject of the record, including his or her name, current address, and date and place of birth;
(ii) Verification of your identity in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section;
(iii) Verification that you are the subject's parent or guardian, which may be established by a copy of the subject's birth certificate identifying you as his or her parent, or a court order establishing you as guardian; and
(iv) A statement certifying that you are making the request on the subject's behalf.
§ 1002.4
Responses to Privacy Act requests.
(a)
Acknowledgement.
The Privacy Act Officer shall provide you with a written acknowledgment of your written request under section 3 within ten business days of our receipt of your request.
(b)
Grants of requests.
If you make your request in person, the Privacy Act Officer shall respond to your request directly, either by granting you access to the requested records, upon payment of any applicable fee and with a written record of the grant of your request and receipt of the records, or by informing you when a response may be expected. If you are accompanied by another person, you must authorize in writing any discussion of the records in the presence of the third person. If your request is in writing, the Privacy Act Officer shall provide you with written notice of the Board's decision to grant your request and the amount of any applicable fee. The Privacy Act Officer shall disclose the records to you promptly, upon payment of any applicable fee.
(c)
Denials of requests in whole or in part.
The Privacy Act Officer shall notify you in writing of his or her determination to deny, in whole or in part, your request. This writing shall include the following information:
(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;
(2) A brief statement of the reason for the denial(s), including any applicable Privacy Act exemption;
(3) A statement that you may appeal the denial and a brief description of the requirements for appeal under § 1002.5.
(d)
Request for records not covered by the Privacy Act or subject to Privacy Act exemption.
If the Privacy Act Officer determines that a requested record is not subject to the Privacy Act or the records are subject to Privacy Act exemption, your request will be processed
in accordance with the Board's Freedom of Information Act procedures at 6 CFR part 1001.
§ 1002.5
Administrative appeals.
Appeal procedures.
(1) You may appeal any decision by the Board to deny, in whole or in part, your request under § 1002.3 no later than 60 days after the decision is rendered.
(2) Your appeal must be in writing, sent to the General Counsel at the address specified in § 1002.3(b) and contain the following information:
(i) Your name;
(ii) Description of the record(s) at issue;
(iii) The system of records in which the record(s) is contained;
(iv) A statement of why your request should be granted.
(3) The General Counsel shall determine whether to uphold or reverse the initial determination within 30 working days of our receipt of your appeal. The General Counsel shall notify you of his or her decision, including a brief statement of the reasons for the decision, in writing. The General Counsel's decision will be the final action of the Board.
(b)
Statement of disagreement.
If your appeal of our determination related to your request for amendment or correction is denied in whole or in part, you may file a Statement of Disagreement that states the basis for your disagreement with the denial. Statements of Disagreement must be concise and must clearly identify each part of any record that is disputed. The Privacy Act Officer will place your Statement of Disagreement in the system of records in which the disputed record is maintained and shall mark the disputed record to indicate that a Statement of Disagreement has been filed and where it may be found.
(c)
Notification of amendment, correction, or disagreement.
Within 30 working days of the amendment or correction of a record, the Privacy Act Officer shall notify all persons, organizations, or agencies to which the Board previously disclosed the record, if an accounting of that disclosure was made, that the record has been corrected or amended. If you filed a Statement of Disagreement, the Privacy Act Officer shall append a copy of it to the disputed record whenever it is disclosed and also may append a concise statement of its reason(s) for denying the request to amend or correct the record.
§ 1002.6
Fees.
We will not charge a fee for search or review of records requested under this part, or for the correction of records. If you request copies of records, we may charge a fee of $.10 per page.
§ 1002.7
Penalties.
Any person who makes a false statement in connection with any request for a record or an amendment or correction thereto under this part is subject to the penalties prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 494 and 495 and 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(3).
Pt. 1003

# PART 1003—IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GOVERNMENT IN THE SUNSHINE ACT
Sec.
1003.1
Purpose and scope.
1003.2
Definitions.
1003.3
Open meetings.
1003.4
Procedures for public announcement of meetings.
1003.5
Grounds on which meetings may be closed or information withheld.
1003.6
Procedures for closing meetings or withholding information, and requests by affected persons to close a meeting.
1003.7
Changes following public announcement.
1003.8
Transcripts, recordings, or minutes of closed meetings.
1003.9
Public availability and retention of transcripts, recordings, and minutes, and applicable fees.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552b.

# Source:
78 FR 67002, Nov. 8, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1003.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The regulations in this part implement the provisions of the Sunshine Act.
(b) Requests for all records other than those described in § 1003.9, shall be governed by the Board's Freedom of Information Act procedures at 6 CFR part 1001.
§ 1003.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this part:
Board
means the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, established by the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, Public Law 110-53.
Chairman
means the Chairman of the Board, as appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate under section 801(a) of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, Public Law 110-53, or any person to whom the Board delegated authority in the matter concerned.
General Counsel
means the Board's principal legal advisor, or his or her designee.
Meeting
means the deliberations of three or more Board members that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Board business. A meeting does not include:
(1) Notational voting or similar consideration of business for the purpose of recording votes, whether by circulation of material to members' individually in writing or by a polling of the members individually by phone.
(2) Action by three or more members to:
(i) Open or close a meeting or to release or withhold information pursuant to section 1003.6 of this part;
(ii) Set an agenda for a proposed meeting;
(iii) Call a meeting on less than seven days' notice, as permitted by § 1003.4; or
(iv) Change the subject matter or the determination to open or to close a publicly announced meeting under § 1003.7.
(3) A session attended by three or more members for the purpose of having the Board's staff or expert consultants, another federal agency, or other persons or organizations brief or otherwise provide information to the Board concerning any matters within the purview of the Board, provided that the members do not engage in deliberations that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official business on such matters.
(4) A gathering of members for the purpose of holding informal, preliminary discussions or exchanges of views which do not effectively predetermine official action.
Member
means an individual duly appointed and confirmed to the Board.
Public observation
means attendance by the public at a meeting of the Board, but does not include public participation.
Public participation
means the presentation or discussion of information, raising of questions, or other manner of involvement in a meeting of the Board by the public in a manner that contributes to the disposition of official Board business.
Sunshine Act
means the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b.
§ 1003.3
Open meetings.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, every portion of a Board meeting shall be open to public observation.
(b) Board meetings, or portions thereof, shall be open to public participation when an announcement to that effect is published under § 1003.4. Public participation shall be conducted in an orderly, non-disruptive manner and in accordance with any procedures the Chairman may establish. Public participation may be terminated for good cause as determined by the Board upon the advice of the General Counsel based on unanticipated developments.
§ 1003.4
Procedures for public announcement of meetings.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Board shall make a public announcement at least seven days prior to a meeting. The public announcement shall include:
(1) The time and place of the meeting;
(2) The subject matter of the meeting;
(3) Whether the meeting is to be open, closed, or portions of a meeting will be closed;
(4) Whether public participation will be allowed;
(5) The name and telephone number of the person who will respond to requests for information about the meeting;
(b) The seven day prior notice required by paragraph (a) of this section may be reduced only if:
(1) A majority of all members determine by recorded vote that Board business requires that such meeting be scheduled in less than seven days; and
(2) The public announcement required by this section is made at the earliest practicable time.
(c) When a meeting has been called by the Chairman, the notice shall contain such agenda items as the Chairman designates. The notice shall be circulated to Members in advance of publication and Members, by majority vote, may add additional agenda items.
(d) When a meeting is called by a majority of Members, the notice shall contain such agenda items as have been approved by a majority of the Board.
(e) The Executive Director will ensure that the final agenda for the meeting conforms to the notice published in the
Federal Register
.
(f) If public notice is provided by means other than publication in the
Federal Register,
notice will be promptly submitted to the
Federal Register
for publication.
[78 FR 67002, Nov. 8, 2013, as amended at 82 FR 34838, July 27, 2017]
§ 1003.5
Grounds on which meetings may be closed or information withheld.
A meeting, or portion thereof, may be closed and information pertinent to such meeting withheld if the Board determines that the meeting or release of information is likely to disclose matters that are:
(a) Specifically authorized under criteria established by an executive order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or foreign policy; and, in fact, are properly classified pursuant to such executive order. In making the determination that this exemption applies, the Board shall rely on the classification assigned to the document or assigned to the information from the federal agency from which the document was received.
(b) Related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Board;
(c) Specifically exempt from disclosure by statute (other than 5 U.S.C. 552), provided that such statute:
(1) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue; or
(2) Establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(d) Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(e) Involved with accusing any person of a crime or formally censuring any person;
(f) Of a personal nature, if disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(g) Either investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes or information which, if written, would be contained in such records, but only to the extent that the production of records or information would:
(1) Interfere with enforcement proceedings;
(2) Deprive a person of a right to either a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
(3) Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(4) Disclose the identity of a confidential source or sources and, in the case of a record compiled either by a criminal law enforcement authority or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, confidential information furnished only by the confidential source(s);
(5) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures; or
(6) Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel;
(h) Contained in or relating to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions;
(i) If prematurely disclosed, likely to significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed action of the Board, except that this subsection shall not apply in any instance where the Board has already disclosed to the public the content or nature of its proposed action or is required by law to make such disclosure on its own initiative prior to taking final action on such proposal; and
(j) Specifically concerned with the Board's issuance of a subpoena, or its
participation in a civil action or proceeding, an action in a foreign court or international tribunal, or an arbitration, or the initiation, conduct, or disposition by the Board of a particular case or formal agency adjudication pursuant to the procedures in 5 U.S.C. 554 or otherwise involving a determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing.
§ 1003.6
Procedures for closing meetings or withholding information, and requests by affected persons to close a meeting.
(a) A meeting or portion of a meeting may be closed and information pertaining to a meeting withheld under § 1003.5 only by vote of a majority of members.
(b) A separate vote of the members shall be taken with respect to each meeting or portion of a meeting proposed to be closed and with respect to information which is proposed to be withheld. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings or portions of a meeting that are proposed to be closed, so long as each meeting or portion thereof in the series involves the same particular matter and is scheduled to be held no more than 30 days after the initial meeting in the series. The vote of each member shall be recorded and no proxies shall be allowed.
(c) A person whose interests may be directly affected by a portion of a meeting may request in writing that the Board close that portion for any of the reasons referred to in § 1003.5(e), (f) and (g). Upon the request of a member, a recorded vote shall be taken whether to close such meeting or portion thereof.
(d) For every meeting closed, the General Counsel shall publicly certify that, in his or her opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public and shall state each relevant basis for closing the meeting. If the General Counsel invokes the bases set forth in § 1003.5(a) or (c), he/she shall rely upon the classification or designation assigned to the information by the originating agency. A copy of such certification, together with a statement by the presiding officer setting forth the time and place of the meeting and the persons present, shall be retained by the Board as part of the transcript, recording, or minutes required by § 1003.8.
§ 1003.7
Changes following public announcement.
(a) The time, place, and agenda items of a meeting following the public announcement described in § 1003.4, or the determination of the Board to open or close a meeting, or a portion thereof, to the public may be changed following public announcement only if:
(1) A majority of all members determine by recorded vote that Board business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible; and
(2) The Board publicly announces such change and the vote of each member thereon at the earliest practicable time.
(b) Changes to the time, place and agenda items of a meeting called by the Chairman pursuant to § 1003.4(c) must be made with the concurrence of the Chairman, except that when Members have, by majority vote, added additional agenda items, the addition of those agenda items does not require the Chairman's concurrence.
[82 FR 34838, July 27, 2017]
§ 1003.8
Transcripts, recordings, or minutes of closed meetings.
Along with the General Counsel's certification and presiding officer's statement referred to in § 1003.6(d), the Board shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting, or a portion thereof, closed to the public. Alternatively, for any meeting closed pursuant to § 1003.5(h) or (j), the Board may maintain a set of minutes adequate to record fully the proceedings, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any roll call vote.
§ 1003.9
Public availability and retention of transcripts, recordings, and minutes, and applicable fees.
(a) The Board shall make available, in a place easily accessible, such as
www.pclob.gov,
to the public the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes
of a meeting, except for items of discussion or testimony related to matters the Board determines may be withheld under § 1003.6.
(b) Copies of the nonexempt portions of the transcripts or minutes shall be provided upon receipt of the actual costs of the transcription or duplication.
(c) The Board shall maintain meeting transcripts, recordings, or minutes of each meeting closed to the public for a period ending at the later of two years following the date of the meeting, or one year after the conclusion of any Board proceeding with respect to the closed meeting.
PARTS 1004-1099 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts, and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
6 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
6 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
Chapter I Notification
59651
5.24 Amended
11830
5.25 (a) and (b) amended
11830
5.26 (c) amended
11830
5.27 (c) amended
11830
5.42 (a) revised
22582
5.43 (a) introductory text revised; (g) added
22582
5.41—5.49 (Subpart C) Appendix A added
22582
5 Appendix C amended
14733, 14735, 45967, 62933
19 Authority citation revised; eff. 1-19-21
82130
19.2 Amended; eff. 1-19-21
82130
19.3 (a), (b), and (e) revised; (f) added; eff. 1-19-21
82130
19.4 (b) and (c) revised; eff. 1-19-21
82131
19.5 Amended; eff. 1-19-21
82131
19.6 Revised; eff. 1-19-21
82131
19.7 Removed; eff. 1-19-21
82131
19.8 Revised; eff. 1-19-21
82131
19.11 Added; eff. 1-19-21
82132
19 Appendix A revised; eff. 1-19-21
82132
19 Appendix B added; eff. 1-19-21
82132
27.300 (b)(3) revised
36478
37.5 (b) and (c) revised
23208
2021
6 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
Chapter I Notification
13971, 52953
Chapter I Policy statement
38209
5 Appendix C amended
15779, 44574, 50603, 55475, 61667, 69977
27 Authority citation revised
41890
27.100 Amended
41890
27.105 Amended
41890
27.110 Revised
41890
27.115 Amended
41891
27.120 Heading revised; (a) and (b) amended
41891
27.200 (a), (b)(1), (c) heading, and (1) amended
41891
27.203 (a)(7), (8), (b)(1)(v), (2), and (c) amended
41891
27.204 (a)(2), (b)(1), (2), and (c) amended; (b)(2) heading added; (b)(3) heading revised
41891
27.205 (a) and (b) amended
41891
27.210 (a), (b)(3), and (c) amended; (b)(1) revised
41891
27.215 (a) introductory text, (3), (b), and (d)(2) amended
41891
27.220 Nomenclature change
41892
27.225 Nomenclature change; (d)(1) amended
41892
27.230 Nomenclature change
41892
27.235 (a) introductory text amended
41892
27.240 (a) and (b) amended
41892
27.245 (a)(1) introductory text, (i), and (b) amended
41892
27.250 (c)(1), (2), (d)(3), (e), and (f) amended
41892
27.255 (a)(1), (2), and (6) amended
41892
27.300 Nomenclature change; (b)(1), (2), (c)(1)(iv), (v), (d), and (f) amended
41892
27.300 (b)(3) revised
57539
27.305 (a) amended
41892
27.310 Nomenclature change; (b)(1), (3), (5), (c), and (d) introductory text amended
41892
27.315 (b) amended
41892
27.320 Amended; (b) amended
41892
27.325 Amended
41892
27.330 (b) amended
41892
27.335 (b)(1) and (2) amended
41892
27.345 Nomenclature change; (b)(3) and (d)(1) through (3) amended
41893
27.400 Nomenclature change; (a), (b) introductory text, (b)(3), (4), (7), (9), (c)(1), (d) introductory text, (6) through (8), (f)(1) introductory text, (2) heading, (4), (g), (h)(1), (i)(1) introductory text, (2) introductory text, (6), and (7) amended
41893
27.405 (a) introductory text, (b), (c), (d)(1), and (2) amended
41893
27.410 Heading and (b) amended
41894
37.5 (b) and (c) revised; interim
23240
158 Added; interim
47893
2022
6 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
Chapter I Notification
31093
5 Authority citation revised
68601
5.2 Amended
68601
5.3 (a)(1) and (b) amended
68601
5.5 (a) and (e)(2) amended
68601
5.8 (a)(1) amended
68601
5.1—5.13 (Subpart A) Appendix I removed
68601
5.20—5.36 (Subpart B) Revised
68601
5 Appendix A revised
68607
5 Appendix C amended
4125, 6403
27.300 (b)(3) revised
1326
29 Authority citation revised
77972
29.1 Revised
77972
29.2 Revised
77972
29.3 Revised
77972
29.4 Revised
77972
29.5 Revised
77972
29.6 Revised
77972
29.7 Revised
77972
29.8 Revised
77972
29.9 Revised
77972
126 Added; interim
48438
2023
6 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
5 Appendix C amended
2797, 19213
27.300 (b)(3) revised
2182
37.4 Added
44192
37.5 (b) and (c) revised
14476
37.17 (e)(1), (g)(1), and (m) revised
44192
37.19 Introductory text revised
44192
2024
6 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
Chapter I Notification
28569, 28570
3.3 (b)(2) amended
23500
3.5 (b)(2) amended
23500
5.3 (a)(2) revised
14370
5.4 (c) revised
14371
5.21 (a)(2) and (6) revised
14371
5.22 (c) revised
14371
5 Appendix A revised
14371
5 Appendix C amended
91247
19 Authority citation revised
15705
19.1 Revised
15705
19.2 Amended
15705
19.3 Revised
15705
19.4 (c) revised; (f) added
15706
19.5 Revised
15706
19.6 (e) revised
15706
19.9 (b) revised
15706
19.12 Added
15706
19 Appendix A revised
15707
19 Appendix B revised
15707
19 Appendix C added
15707
37.3 Amended
85375
37.4 Revised
85376
37.7 Added
85377
37.8 Added
85377
37.9 Added
85377
37.10 Added
85377
37.1—37.10(Subpart A) Appendix A added
85380
126 Added
17702
126 Correction: Amended
31601
○
