The preliminary request does not require an Attorney General's statement in draft form, but does require draft State statutory or regulatory changes and a side-by-side comparison of State authorities with EPA requirements to demonstrate that the State program revision meets EPA requirements under § 142.10 of this part. The preliminary request should be submitted to the Administrator as soon as practicable after the promulgation of the EPA regulations.
(ii) The Administrator will review the preliminary request submitted in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section and make a tentative determination on the request. The Administrator will send the tentative determination and other comments or suggestions to the State for its use in developing the State's final request under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2)
Final request.
The State must submit a complete and final request for approval of a program revision to the Administrator for his or her review and approval. The request must contain the information listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section
in complete and final form,
in accordance with any tentative determination EPA may have issued. Complete and final State requests for program revisions shall be submitted within two years of the promulgation of the new or revised EPA regulations, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(3)
EPA's determination on a complete and final request.
(i) The Administrator shall act on a State's request for approval of a program revision within 90 days after determining that the State request is complete and final and shall promptly notify the State of his/her determination.
(ii) If the Administrator disapproves a final request for approval of a program revision, the Administrator will notify the State in writing. Such notification will include a statement of the reasons for disapproval.
(iii) A final determination by the Administrator on a State's request for approval of a program revision shall take effect in accordance with the public notice requirements and related procedures under § 142.13.
(e)
Interim primary enforcement authority.
A State with an approved primacy program for each existing national primary drinking water regulation shall be considered to have interim primary enforcement authority with respect to each new or revised national drinking water regulation that it adopts beginning when the new or revised State regulation becomes effective or when the complete primacy revision application is submitted to the Administrator, whichever is later, and shall end when the Administrator approves or disapproves the State's revised primacy program.
[54 FR 52138, Dec. 20, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 23367, Apr. 28, 1998; 66 FR 3780, Jan. 16, 2001]
§ 142.13
Public hearing.
(a) The Administrator shall provide an opportunity for a public hearing before a final determination pursuant to § 142.11 that the State meets or does not meet the requirements for obtaining primary enforcement responsibility, or a final determination pursuant to § 142.12(d)(3) to approve or disapprove a State request for approval of a program revision, or a final determination pursuant to § 142.17 that a State no longer meets the requirements for primary enforcement responsibility.
(b) The Administrator shall publish notice of any determination specified in paragraph (a) of this section in the
Federal Register
and in a newspaper or newspapers of general circulation in
the State involved within 15 days after making such determination, with a statement of his reasons for the determination. Such notice shall inform interested persons that they may request a public hearing on the Administrator's determination. Such notice shall also indicate one or more locations in the State where information submitted by the State pursuant to § 142.11 is available for inspection by the general public. A public hearing may be requested by any interested person other than a Federal agency. Frivolous or insubstantial requests for hearing may be denied by the Administrator.
(c) Requests for hearing submitted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be submitted to the Administrator within 30 days after publication of notice of opportunity for hearing in the
Federal Register.
Such requests shall include the following information:
(1) The name, address and telephone number of the individual, organization or other entity requesting a hearing.
(2) A brief statement of the requesting person's interest in the Administrator's determination and of information that the requesting person intends to submit at such hearing.
(3) The signature of the individual making the request; or, if the request is made on behalf of an organization or other entity, the signature of a responsible official of the organization or other entity.
(d) The Administrator shall give notice in the
Federal Register
and in a newspaper or newspapers of general circulation in the State involved of any hearing to be held pursuant to a request submitted by an interested person or on his own motion. Notice of the hearing shall also be sent to the person requesting a hearing, if any, and to the State involved. Notice of the hearing shall include a statement of the purpose of the hearing, information regarding the time and location or locations for the hearing and the address and telephone number of an office at which interested persons may obtain further information concerning the hearing. At least one hearing location specified in the public notice shall be within the involved State. Notice of hearing shall be given not less than 15 days prior to the time scheduled for the hearing.
(e) Hearings convened pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section shall be conducted before a hearing officer to be designated by the Administrator. The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer in an informal, orderly and expeditious manner. The hearing officer shall have authority to call witnesses, receive oral and written testimony and take such other action as may be necessary to assure the fair and efficient conduct of the hearing. Following the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall forward the record of the hearing to the Administrator.
(f) After reviewing the record of the hearing, the Administrator shall issue an order affirming the determination referred to in paragraph (a) of this section or rescinding such determination. If the determination is affirmed, it shall become effective as of the date of the Administrator's order.
(g) If no timely request for hearing is received and the Administrator does not determine to hold a hearing on his own motion, the Administrator's determination shall become effective 30 days after notice is issued pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(h) If a determination of the Administrator that a State no longer meets the requirements for primary enforcement responsibility becomes effective, the State may subsequently apply for a determination that it meets such requirements by submitting to the Administrator information demonstrating that it has remedied the deficiencies found by the Administrator without adversely sacrificing other aspects of its program required for primary enforcement responsibility.
[41 FR 2918, Jan. 20, 1976, as amended at 54 FR 52140, Dec. 20, 1989; 60 FR 33661, June 28, 1995]
§ 142.14
Records kept by States.
(a) Each State which has primary enforcement responsibility shall maintain records of tests, measurements, analyses, decisions, and determinations performed on each public water system to determine compliance with applicable provisions of State primary drinking water regulations.
(1) Records of microbiological analyses shall be retained for not less than 1 year. Actual laboratory reports may be kept or data may be transferred to tabular summaries, provided that the information retained includes:
(i) The analytical method used;
(ii) The number of samples analyzed each month;
(iii) The analytical results, set forth in a form that makes possible comparison with the limits specified in §§ 141.63, 141.71, and 141.72 of this chapter and with the limits specified in subpart Y of this chapter.
(2) Records of microbiological analyses of repeat or special samples shall be retained for not less than one year in the form of actual laboratory reports or in an appropriate summary form.
(3) Records of turbidity measurements must be kept for not less than one year. The information retained must be set forth in a form which makes possible comparison with the limits specified in §§ 141.71, 141.73, 141.173 and 141.175, 141.550-141.553 and 141.560-141.564 of this chapter. Until June 29, 1993, for any public water system which is providing filtration treatment and until December 30, 1991, for any public water system not providing filtration treatment and not required by the State to provide filtration treatment, records kept must be set forth in a form which makes possible comparison with the limits contained in § 141.13 of this chapter.
(4)(i) Records of disinfectant residual measurements and other parameters necessary to document disinfection effectiveness in accordance with §§ 141.72 and 141.74 of this chapter and the reporting requirements of §§ 141.75, 141.175, and 141.570, of this chapter must be kept for not less than one year.
(ii) Records of decisions made on a system-by-system and case-by-case basis under provisions of part 141, subpart H, subpart P, or subpart T of this chapter, must be made in writing and kept by the State.
(A) Records of decisions made under the following provisions shall be kept for 40 years (or until one year after the decision is reversed or revised) and a copy of the decision must be provided to the system:
(
1
) Section 141.73(a)(1)—Any decision to allow a public water system using conventional filtration treatment or direct filtration to substitute a turbidity limit greater than 0.5 NTU;
(
2
) Section 141.73(b)(1)—Any decision to allow a public water system using slow sand filtration to substitute a turbidity limit greater than 1 NTU;
(
3
) Section 141.74(b)(2)—Any decision to allow an unfiltered public water system to use continuous turbidity monitoring;
(
4
) Section 141.74(b)(6)(i)—Any decision to allow an unfiltered public water system to sample residual disinfectant concentration at alternate locations if it also has ground water source(s);
(
5
) Section 141.74(c)(1)—Any decision to allow a public water system using filtration treatment to use continuous turbidity monitoring; or a public water system using slow sand filtration or filtration treatment other than conventional treatment, direct filtration or diatomaceous earth filtration to reduce turbidity sampling to once per day; or for systems serving 500 people or fewer to reduce turbidity sampling to once per day;
(
6
) Section 141.74(c)(3)(i)—Any decision to allow a filtered public water system to sample disinfectant residual concentration at alternate locations if it also has ground water source(s);
(
7
) Section 141.75(a)(2)(ix)—Any decision to allow reduced reporting by an unfiltered public water system;
(
8
) Section 141.75(b)(2)(iv)—Any decision to allow reduced reporting by a filtered public water system; and
(
9
) Section 141.76—Any decisions made to approve alternate recycle locations, require modifications to recycle return locations, or require modifications to recycle practices.
(B) Records of decisions made under the following provisions shall be kept for one year after the decision is made:
(
1
) Section 141.71(b)(1)(i)—Any decision that a violation of monthly CT compliance requirements was caused by circumstances that were unusual and unpredictable.
(
2
) Section 141.71(b)(1)(iv)—Any decision that a violation of the disinfection effectiveness criteria was not caused by a deficiency in treatment of the source water;
(
3
) Section 141.71(b)(5)—Any decision that a violation of the total coliform MCL was not caused by a deficiency in treatment of the source water;
(
4
) Section 141.74(b)(1)—Any decision that total coliform monitoring otherwise required because the turbidity of the source water exceeds 1 NTU is not feasible, except that if such decision allows a system to avoid monitoring without receiving State approval in each instance, records of the decision shall be kept until one year after the decision is rescinded or revised.
(C) Records of decisions made under the following provisions shall be kept for the specified period or 40 years, whichever is less.
(
1
) Section 141.71(a)(2)(i)—Any decision that an event in which the source water turbidity which exceeded 5 NTU for an unfiltered public water system was unusual and unpredictable shall be kept for 10 years.
(
2
) Section 141.71(b)(1)(iii)—Any decision by the State that failure to meet the disinfectant residual concentration requirements of § 141.72(a)(3)(i) was caused by circumstances that were unusual and unpredictable, shall be kept unless filtration is installed. A copy of the decision must be provided to the system.
(
3
) Section 141.71(b)(2)—Any decision that a public water system's watershed control program meets the requirements of this section shall be kept until the next decision is available and filed.
(
4
) Section 141.70(c)—Any decision that an individual is a qualified operator for a public water system using a surface water source or a ground water source under the direct influence of surface water shall be maintained until the qualification is withdrawn. The State may keep this information in the form of a list which is updated periodically. If such qualified operators are classified by category, the decision shall include that classification.
(
5
) Section 141.71(b)(3)—Any decision that a party other than the State is approved by the State to conduct on-site inspections shall be maintained until withdrawn. The State may keep this information in the form of a list which is updated periodically.
(
6
) Section 141.71(b)(4)—Any decision that an unfiltered public water system has been identified as the source of a waterborne disease outbreak, and, if applicable, that it has been modified sufficiently to prevent another such occurrence shall be kept until filtration treatment is installed. A copy of the decision must be provided to the system.
(
7
) Section 141.72—Any decision that certain interim disinfection requirements are necessary for an unfiltered public water system for which the State has determined that filtration is necessary, and a list of those requirements, shall be kept until filtration treatment is installed. A copy of the requirements must be provided to the system.
(
8
) Section 141.72(a)(2)(ii)—Any decision that automatic shut-off of delivery of water to the distribution system of an unfiltered public water system would cause an unreasonable risk to health or interfere with fire protection shall be kept until rescinded.
(
9
) Section 141.72(a)(4)(ii)—Any decision by the State, based on site-specific considerations, that an unfiltered system has no means for having a sample transported and analyzed for HPC by a certified laboratory under the requisite time and temperature conditions specified by § 141.74(a)(3) and that the system is providing adequate disinfection in the distribution system, so that the disinfection requirements contained in § 141.72(a)(4)(i) do not apply, and the basis for the decision, shall be kept until the decision is reversed or revised. A copy of the decision must be provided to the system.
(
10
) Section 141.72(b)(3)(ii)—Any decision by the State, based on site-specific conditions, that a filtered system has no means for having a sample transported and analyzed for HPC by a certified laboratory under the requisite time and temperature conditions specified by § 141.74(a)(3) and that the system is providing adequate disinfection in the distribution system, so that the disinfection requirements contained in § 141.72(b)(3)(i) do not apply, and the basis for the decision, shall be kept until the decision is reversed or revised. A copy of the decision must be provided to the system.
(
11
) Section 141.73(d)—Any decision that a public water system, having demonstrated to the State that an alternative filtration technology, in combination with disinfection treatment, consistently achieves 99.9 percent removal and/or inactivation of
Giardia lamblia
cysts and 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses, may use such alternative filtration technology, shall be kept until the decision is reversed or revised. A copy of the decision must be provided to the system.
(
12
) Section 141.74(b), table 3.1—Any decision that a system using either preformed chloramines or chloramines formed by the addition of ammonia prior to the addition of chlorine has demonstrated that 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses has been achieved at particular CT values, and a list of those values, shall be kept until the decision is reversed or revised. A copy of the list of required values must be provided to the system.
(
13
) Section 141.74(b)(3)(v)—Any decision that a system using a disinfectant other than chlorine may use CT
99.9
values other than those in tables 2.1 or 3.1 and/or other operational parameters to determine if the minimum total inactivation rates required by § 141.72(a)(1) are being met, and what those values or parameters are, shall be kept until the decision is reversed or revised. A copy of the list of required values or parameters must be provided to the system.
(
14
) Section 142.16(b)(2)(i)(B)—Any decision that a system using a ground water source is under the direct influence of surface water.
(iii) Records of any determination that a public water system supplied by a surface water source or a ground water source under the direct influence of surface water is not required to provide filtration treatment shall be kept for 40 years or until withdrawn, whichever is earlier. A copy of the determination must be provided to the system.
(5) Records of each of the following decisions made pursuant to the total coliform provisions of part 141 shall be made in writing and retained by the State.
(i) Records of the following decisions must be retained for 5 years.
(A) Section 141.21(b)(1)—Any decision to waive the 24-hour time limit for collecting repeat samples after a total coliform-positive routine sample if the public water system has a logistical problem in collecting the repeat sample that is beyond the system's control, and what alternative time limit the system must meet.
(B) Section 141.21(b)(5)—Any decision to allow a system to waive the requirement for five routine samples the month following a total coliform-positive sample. If the waiver decision is made as provided in § 141.21(b)(5), the record of the decision must contain all the items listed in that paragraph.
(C) Section 141.21(c)—Any decision to invalidate a total coliform-positive sample. If the decision to invalidate a total coliform-positive sample as provided in § 141.21(c)(1)(iii) is made, the record of the decision must contain all the items listed in that paragraph.
(ii) Records of each of the following decisions must be retained in such a manner so that each system's current status may be determined.
(A) Section 141.21(a)(2)—Any decision to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for a community water system serving 1,000 persons or fewer, that has no history of total coliform contamination in its current configuration and had a sanitary survey conducted within the past five years showing that the system is supplied solely by a protected groundwater source and is free of sanitary defects, to less than once per month, as provided in § 141.21(a)(2); and what the reduced monitoring frequency is. A copy of the reduced monitoring frequency must be provided to the system.
(B) Section 141.21(a)(3)(i)—Any decision to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for a non-community water system using only ground water and serving 1,000 persons or fewer to less than once per quarter, as provided in § 141.21(a)(3)(i), and what the reduced monitoring frequency is. A copy of the reduced monitoring frequency must be provided to the system.
(C) Section 141.21(a)(3)(ii)—Any decision to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for a non-community
water system using only ground water and serving more than 1,000 persons during any month the system serves 1,000 persons or fewer, as provided in § 141.21(a)(3)(ii). A copy of the reduced monitoring frequency must be provided to the system.
(D) Section 141.21(a)(5)—Any decision to waive the 24-hour limit for taking a total coliform sample for a public water system which uses surface water, or ground water under the direct influence of surface water, and which does not practice filtration in accordance with part 141, subpart H, and which measures a source water turbidity level exceeding 1 NTU near the first service connection as provided in § 141.21(a)(5).
(E) Section 141.21(d)(1)—Any decision that a non-community water system is using only protected and disinfected ground water and therefore may reduce the frequency of its sanitary survey to less than once every five years, as provided in § 141.21(d), and what that frequency is. A copy of the reduced frequency must be provided to the system.
(F) Section 141.21(d)(2)—A list of agents other than the State, if any, approved by the State to conduct sanitary surveys.
(G) Section 141.21(e)(2)—Any decision to allow a public water system to forgo fecal coliform or
E. coli
testing on a total coliform-positive sample if that system assumes that the total coliform-positive sample is fecal coliform-positive or
E. coli-
positive, as provided in § 141.21(e)(2).
(6) Records of analysis for other than microbiological contaminants (including total coliform, fecal coliform, and heterotrophic plate count), residual disinfectant concentration, other parameters necessary to determine disinfection effectiveness (including temperature and pH measurements), and turbidity shall be retained for not less than 12 years and shall include at least the following information:
(i) Date and place of sampling.
(ii) Date and results of analyses.
(7) Any decisions made pursuant to the provisions of part 141, subpart P or subpart T of this chapter.
(i) Records of systems consulting with the State concerning a modification to disinfection practice under §§ 141.170(d), 141.172(c), and 141.542 of this chapter, including the status of the consultation.
(ii) Records of decisions that a system using alternative filtration technologies, as allowed under §§ 141.173(b) and 141.552 of this chapter, can consistently achieve a 99.9 percent removal and/or inactivation of
Giardia lamblia
cysts, 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses, and 99 percent removal of
Cryptosporidium
oocysts. The decisions must include State-set enforceable turbidity limits for each system. A copy of the decision must be kept until the decision is reversed or revised. The State must provide a copy of the decision to the system.
(iii) Records of systems required to do filter self-assessment, CPE, or CCP under the requirements of §§ 141.175 and 141.563 of this chapter.
(8) Any decisions made pursuant to the provisions of 40 CFR part 141, subparts U and V of this part.
(i) IDSE monitoring plans, plus any modifications required by the State, must be kept until replaced by approved IDSE reports.
(ii) IDSE reports and 40/30 certifications, plus any modifications required by the State, must be kept until replaced or revised in their entirety.
(iii) Operational evaluations submitted by a system must be kept for 10 years following submission.
(9) Any decisions made pursuant to the provisions of part 141, subpart W of this chapter.
(i) Results of source water
E. coli
and
Cryptosporidium
monitoring.
(ii) The bin classification after the initial and after the second round of source water monitoring for each filtered system, as described in § 141.710 of this chapter.
(iii) Any change in treatment requirements for filtered systems due to watershed assessment during sanitary surveys, as described in § 141.711(d) of this chapter.
(iv) The determination of whether the mean
Cryptosporidium
level is greater than 0.01 oocysts/L after the initial and after the second round of source water monitoring for each unfiltered system, as described in § 141.712(a) of this chapter.
(v) The treatment processes or control measures that systems use to meet their
Cryptosporidium
treatment requirements under § 141.711 or § 141.712 of this chapter.
(vi) A list of systems required to cover or treat the effluent of an uncovered finished water storage facility, as specified in § 141.714 of this chapter.
(10) Records of each of the following decisions made pursuant to the provisions of subpart Y of part 141 must be made in writing and retained by the State.
(i) Records of the following decisions or activities must be retained for five years.
(A) Sections 141.858(a), 141.853(c)(2), 141.856(c), and 141.857(c) of this chapter—Any case-by-case decision to waive the 24-hour time limit for collecting repeat samples after a total coliform-positive routine sample, or to extend the 24-hour limit for collection of samples following invalidation, or for an unfiltered subpart H system of this part to collect a total coliform sample following a turbidity measurement exceeding 1 NTU.
(B) Sections 141.854(j) and 141.855(f) of this chapter—Any decision to allow a system to waive the requirement for three routine samples the month following a total coliform-positive sample. The record of the waiver decision must contain all the items listed in those sections.
(C) Section 141.853(c) of this chapter—Any decision to invalidate a total coliform-positive sample. If the decision to invalidate a total coliform-positive sample as provided in § 141.853(c)(1) of this chapter is made, the record of the decision must contain all the items listed in that section.
(D) Section 141.859 of this chapter—Completed and approved subpart Y assessments, including reports from the system that corrective action has been completed as required by § 141.861(a)(2) of this chapter.
(ii) Records of each of the following decisions must be retained in such a manner so that each system's current status may be determined:
(A) Section 141.854(e) of this chapter—Any decision to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for a non-community water system using only ground water and serving 1,000 or fewer people to less than once per quarter, as provided in § 141.854(e) of this chapter, including what the reduced monitoring frequency is. A copy of the reduced monitoring frequency must be provided to the system.
(B) Section 141.855(d) of this chapter—Any decision to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for a community water system serving 1,000 or fewer people to less than once per month, as provided in § 141.855(d) of this chapter, including what the reduced monitoring frequency is. A copy of the reduced monitoring frequency must be provided to the system.
(C) Section 141.857(d) of this chapter—Any decision to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for a non-community water system using only ground water and serving more than 1,000 persons during any month the system serves 1,000 or fewer people, as provided in § 141.857(d) of this chapter. A copy of the reduced monitoring frequency must be provided to the system.
(D) Section 141.858(b)(2) of this chapter—Any decision to allow a system to forgo
E. coli
testing of a total coliform-positive sample if that system assumes that the total coliform-positive sample is
E. coli-
positive.
(b) Records required to be kept pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must be in a form admissible as evidence in State enforcement proceedings.
(c) Each State which has primary enforcement responsibility shall maintain current inventory information for every public water system in the State and shall retain inventory records of public water systems for not less than 12 years.
(d) Each State which has primary enforcement responsibility shall retain, for not less than 12 years, files which shall include for each such public water system in the State:
(1) Reports of sanitary surveys;
(2) Records of any State approvals;
(3) Records of any enforcement actions.
(4) A record of the most recent vulnerability determination, including the monitoring results and other data supporting the determination, the State's
findings based on the supporting data and any additional bases for such determination; except that it shall be kept in perpetuity or until a more current vulnerability determination has been issued.
(5) A record of all current monitoring requirements and the most recent monitoring frequency decision pertaining to each contaminant, including the monitoring results and other data supporting the decision, the State's findings based on the supporting data and any additional bases for such decision; except that the record shall be kept in perpetuity or until a more recent monitoring frequency decision has been issued.
(6) A record of the most recent asbestos repeat monitoring determination, including the monitoring results and other data supporting the determination, the State's findings based on the supporting data and any additional bases for the determination and the repeat monitoring frequency; except that these records shall be maintained in perpetuity or until a more current repeat monitoring determination has been issued.
(7) Records of annual certifications received from systems pursuant to part 141, subpart K demonstrating the system's compliance with the treatment techniques for acrylamide and/or epichlorohydrin in § 14.111.
(8) Records of the currently applicable or most recent State determinations, including all supporting information and an explanation of the technical basis for each decision, made under the provisions of 40 CFR part 141, subpart I, listed in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) through (xix) of this section for the control of lead and copper. For the records identified in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) through (xix), if no change is made to State determinations during a 12-year retention period, the State must retain the record until a new decision, determination, or designation has been issued.
(i) Section 141.81(b)—for any water system deemed to be optimized under § 141.81(b) of this chapter, any conditions imposed by the State on specific water systems to ensure the continued operation and maintenance of corrosion control treatment in place;
(ii) Sections 141.81(b)(4) and (h) and 141.86(c)(2)(iii)(G) and (g)(4)(iii)—determinations of additional monitoring requirements and/or other actions required to maintain optimal corrosion control by systems that change treatment or add a new source of water;
(iii) Section 141.82(b)—decisions to require a water system to conduct corrosion control treatment studies;
(iv) Section 141.82(d)—designations of optimal corrosion control treatment and any simultaneous compliance considerations that factored into the designation;
(v) Section 141.82(f)—designations of optimal water quality parameters;
(vi) Section 141.83(b)(2)—determinations of source water treatment;
(vii) Section 141.83(b)(4)—designations of maximum permissible concentrations of lead and copper in source water;
(viii) Section 141.84(d)(5)(v)—determinations as to whether a shortened replacement deadline and associated replacement rate is feasible for mandatory full lead and galvanized requiring replacement service line replacement;
(ix) Section 141.84(d)(5)(vi)—for every system using a deferred deadline and associated replacement rate for their mandatory service line replacement program as defined in § 141.84(d)(5)(vi) of this chapter, every written determination as to whether a shorter deadline is feasible, either by approving continued use of the identified deferred deadline and rate or by setting a shorter deadline and faster replacement rate, including those made by the end of the second program year, and subsequent determinations every three years thereafter;
(x) Section 141.85—system-specific decisions regarding the content of written public education materials and/or the distribution of these materials;
(xi) Section 141.86(b)(3)—system-specific determinations regarding use of samples that do not meet the six hour minimum stagnation time at non-transient non-community water systems, and community water systems meeting the criteria of § 141.85(b)(8) of this chapter, that operate 24 hours a day;
(xii) Section 141.86(d)—system-specific designations of sampling locations
for systems subject to reduced monitoring;
(xiii) Section 141.86(d)(3)—system-specific determinations pertaining to alternative sample collection periods for systems subject to reduced monitoring;
(xiv) Section 141.86(g)—determinations of small system monitoring waivers, waiver recertifications, and waiver revocations;
(xv) Section 141.87(b)(3)(ii)—determinations regarding representative entry point locations at ground water systems;
(xvi) Sections 141.81(h) and 141.90(a)(4)—evaluation and approval of water system source water or long-term treatment changes;
(xvii) Sections 141.90(e)(6) and (12)—system-specific determinations regarding the submission of information to demonstrate compliance with partial lead and galvanized requiring replacement service line replacement requirements;
(xviii) Section 141.90(f)—system-specific decisions regarding the resubmission of detailed documentation demonstrating completion of public education requirements, including resubmission of filter plans under § 141.90(f)(9) of this chapter; and
(xix) Section 141.93—identification of community water systems and non-transient non-community water systems utilizing the compliance alternatives, and the compliance alternative selected by the water system and the compliance option approved by the State.
(9) Records of reports and any other information submitted by PWSs under § 141.90 of this chapter, including:
(i) Records of any 90th percentile values calculated by the State under § 141.90(h) of this chapter;
(ii) Completed initial service line inventories, baseline inventories, and required updates to inventories and information under § 141.90(e) of this chapter;
(iii) Service line replacement plans under § 141.90(e)(3) of this chapter and any updates to the plan under § 141.90(e)(4) of this chapter; and
(iv) Compliance sampling pools in site sample plan and any changes to sampling pools under § 141.90(a)(1) of this chapter.
(10) Records of State activities, and the results thereof, to:
(i) Verify compliance with State determinations issued under §§ 141.82(f) of this chapter, 141.82(h) of this chapter, 141.83(b)(2) of this chapter, and 141.83(b)(4) of this chapter;
(ii) Verify compliance with the requirements related to partial or customer-initiated lead and galvanized requiring replacement service line replacement under § 141.84(f), (g), and (h)(1) and (2), compliance with full service line replacement under § 141.84(h)(3) of this chapter, and compliance with lead connector replacement when encountered under § 141.84(e) of this chapter; and
(iii) Invalidate tap water lead and copper samples under § 141.86(f) of this chapter.
(11) Records of each system's currently applicable or most recently designated monitoring requirements. If, for the records identified in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) through (xx) of this section, no change is made to State determinations during a 12-year retention period, the State shall retain the record until a new decision, determination, or designation has been issued.
(12) Records of the currently applicable or most recent State determinations, including all supporting information and an explanation of the technical basis for each decision, made under the following provisions of 40 CFR part 141, subpart L for the control of disinfectants and disinfection byproducts. These records must also include interim measures toward installation.
(i) States must keep records of systems that are installing GAC or membrane technology in accordance with § 141.64(b)(2) of this chapter. These records must include the date by which the system is required to have completed installation.
(ii) States must keep records of systems that are required, by the State, to meet alternative minimum TOC removal requirements or for whom the State has determined that the source water is not amenable to enhanced coagulation in accordance with
§ 141.135(b)(3) and (4) of this chapter, respectively. These records must include the alternative limits and rationale for establishing the alternative limits.
(iii) States must keep records of subpart H systems using conventional treatment meeting any of the alternative compliance criteria in § 141.135(a)(2) or (3) of this chapter.
(iv) States must keep a register of qualified operators that have met the State requirements developed under § 142.16(h)(2).
(13) Records of systems with multiple wells considered to be one treatment plant in accordance with § 141.132(a)(2) of this chapter and § 142.16(h)(5).
(14) Monitoring plans for subpart H systems serving more than 3,300 persons in accordance with § 141.132(f) of this chapter.
(15) List of laboratories approved for analyses in accordance with § 141.131(b) of this chapter.
(16) List of systems required to monitor for disinfectants and disinfection byproducts in accordance with part 141, subpart L of this chapter. The list must indicate what disinfectants and DBPs, other than chlorine, TTHM, and HAA5, if any, are measured.
(17) Records of the currently applicable or most recent State determination, including all supporting information and an explanation of the technical basis of each decision, made under the following provisions of 40 CFR part 141, subpart S and 40 CFR part 142.
(i) Section 142.16(o)(2)(v). Records of written notices of significant deficiencies.
(ii) Section 141.403(a)(5)(ii) of this chapter. Records of corrective action plans, schedule approvals, and State-specified interim measures.
(iii) Section 142.16(o)(4). Records of confirmations under § 141.403(a) of this chapter that a significant deficiency has been corrected or the fecal contamination in the ground water source has been addressed.
(iv) Section 141.402(a)(5) of this chapter. Records of State determinations and records of ground water system's documentation for not conducting triggered source water monitoring.
(v) Section 141.402(d) of this chapter. Records of invalidations of fecal indicator-positive ground water source samples.
(vi) Section 141.402(a)(2)(ii) of this chapter. Records of State approvals of source water monitoring plans.
(vii) Section 142.16(o)(4)(ii). Records of notices of the minimum residual disinfection concentration (when using chemical disinfection) needed to achieve at least 4-log virus inactivation before or at the first customer.
(viii) Sections 142.16(o)(4)(iv) and 142.16(o)(4)(v) Records of notices of the State-specified monitoring and compliance requirements (when using membrane filtration or alternative treatment) needed to achieve at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer.
(ix) Sections 141.403(b)(1) and 141.403(b)(2) of this chapter. Records of written notices from the ground water system that it provides at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log virus inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer for a ground water source.
(x) Section 142.16(o)(4)(vi). Records of written determinations that the ground water system may discontinue 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log inactivation and removal).
(e) Each State which has primary enforcement responsibility shall retain records pertaining to each variance and exemption granted by it for a period of not less than 5 years following the expiration of such variance or exemption.
(f) Public notification records under subpart Q of part 141 of this chapter received from public water systems (including certifications of compliance and copies of public notices) and any state determinations establishing alternative public notification requirements for the water systems must be retained for three years.
(g) Records required to be kept under this section shall be available to the Regional Administrator upon request. The records required to be kept under this section shall be maintained and made available for public inspection by
the State, or, the State at its option may require suppliers of water to make available for public inspection those records maintained in accordance with § 141.33.
(h) Each State that has primary enforcement responsibility must maintain the following records under subpart O of this part:
(1) A copy of the consumer confidence reports for a period of one year and the certifications obtained pursuant to 40 CFR 141.155(c) for a period of 5 years.
(2) A copy of the plans submitted pursuant to 40 CFR 141.155(i) for a period of 5 years.
[41 FR 2918, Jan. 20, 1976]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 142.14, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 142.15
Reports by States.
Each State which has primary enforcement responsibility shall submit to the Administrator the following information:
(a) Each State which has primary enforcement responsibility shall submit quarterly reports to the Administrator on a schedule and in a format prescribed by the Administrator, consisting of the following information:
(1) New violations by public water systems in the State during the previous quarter of State regulations adopted to incorporate the requirements of national primary drinking water regulations, including violations of the public notification requirements under subpart Q of part 141 of this chapter;
(2) New enforcement actions taken by the State during the previous quarter against public water systems with respect to State regulations adopted to incorporate the requirements of national primary drinking water regulations;
(3) Notification of any new variance or exemption granted during the previous quarter. The notice shall include a statement of reasons for the granting of the variance or exemption, including documentation of the need for the variance or exemption and the finding that the granting of the variance or exemption will not result in an unreasonable risk to health. The State may use a single notification statement to report two or more similar variances or exemptions.
(b) Each State which has primary enforcement responsibility must submit annual reports to the Administrator on a schedule and in a format prescribed by the Administrator, consisting of the following information:
(1) All additions or corrections to the State's inventory of public water systems;
(2) A summary of the status of each variance and exemption currently in effect; and
(3) No earlier than May 24, 2027, compliance monitoring data and related monitoring data necessary for determining compliance for all National Primary Drinking Water Regulations (NPDWRs) in 40 CFR part 141.
(c)
Special reports
—(1)
Surface Water Treatment Rule.
(i)(A) A list identifying the name, PWS identification number and date of the determination for each public water system supplied by a surface water source or a ground water source under the direct influence of surface water, which the State has determined is not required to provide filtration treatment.
(B) A list identifying the name and PWS identification number of each public water system supplied by a surface water source or ground water source under the direct influence of surface water, which the State has determined, based on an evaluation of site-specific considerations, has no means of having a sample transported and analyzed for HPC by a certified laboratory under the requisite time and temperature conditions specified in § 141.74(a)(3) and is providing adequate disinfection in the distribution system, regardless of whether the system is in compliance with the criteria of § 141.72 (a)(4)(i) or (b)(3)(i) of this chapter, as allowed by § 141.72 (a)(4)(ii) and (b)(3)(ii). The list must include the effective date of each determination.
(ii) Notification within 60 days of the end of the calendar quarter of any determination that a public water system using a surface water source or a ground water source under the direct influence of surface water is not required to provide filtration treatment.
The notification must include a statement describing the system's compliance with each requirement of the State's regulations that implement § 141.71 and a summary of comments, if any, received from the public on the determination. A single notification may be used to report two or more such determinations.
(2)
Total coliforms.
A list of public water systems which the State is allowing to monitor less frequently than once per month for community water systems or less frequently than once per quarter for non-community water systems as provided in § 141.21(a), including the effective date of the reduced monitoring requirement for each system.
(3)
Total coliforms under subpart Y.
A list of systems that the State is allowing to monitor less frequently than once per month for community water systems or less frequently than once per quarter for non-community water systems as provided in §§ 141.855 and 141.854 of this chapter, including the applicable date of the reduced monitoring requirement for each system.
(4)
Timing.
States must report quarterly, with the exception of the requirements in paragraphs (c)(4)(iii)(G) and (H) of this section, in a format and on a schedule prescribed by the Administrator, the following information related to each system's compliance with the treatment techniques for lead and copper under 40 CFR part 141, subpart I, during the preceding calendar quarter. Specifically, States must report as follows:
(i)-(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) States must report the PWS identification number of each water system identified in paragraphs (c)(4)(iii)(A) through (H) of this section.
(A) For each public water system, regardless of size, all 90th percentile lead levels calculated during each tap sampling period specified in § 141.86 of this chapter, and the first and last days of the tap sampling period for which the 90th percentile lead level was calculated.
(B) For each water system, regardless of size, the 90th percentile copper level calculated during each tap sampling period specified in § 141.86 of this chapter, in which the system exceeds the copper action level, and the first and last days of each tap sampling period in which an exceedance occurred.
(C) For each water system for which the State has designated optimal water quality parameters under § 141.82(f) of this chapter, the specific corrosion control treatment designated, the date of the determination, and the paragraph(s) under § 141.82(f) which the State made its determination, the water system's optimal water quality parameters.
(D) For each water system the total number of lead service lines, galvanized requiring replacement service lines, lead status unknown service lines, non-lead service lines, lead connectors, and connectors of unknown material in its inventory, reported separately.
(E) For each water system required to conduct mandatory replacement of lead and galvanized requiring replacement service lines as specified in § 141.84(d) of this chapter, the total number and type of service lines replaced, the applicable deadline for the system to complete replacement of all lead and galvanized requiring replacement service lines, and the expected date of completion of mandatory service line replacement.
(F) For each water system that has implemented optimal corrosion control pursuant to § 141.82 of this chapter, completed applicable source water treatment requirements pursuant to § 141.83 of this chapter, and/or completed mandatory service line replacement requirements pursuant to § 141.84(d) of this chapter, and the date of the State's determination that these requirements have been met. The date reported must be the latest of the following events:
(
1
) The date the State received the results of corrosion control evaluations under § 141.82(d) or (e) of this chapter or optimal corrosion control treatment recommendation by the system;
(
2
) For systems for which the State has designated optimal corrosion control treatment or re-optimized optimal corrosion control treatment under § 141.82(d) of this chapter, the date of the determination and the date the
system completed installation of treatment as certified under § 141.90(c)(4) of this chapter;
(
3
) The date the State designates optimal water quality parameters under § 141.82(f) of this chapter or deems the system to have optimized corrosion control pursuant to § 141.81(b)(1) or (3) of this chapter;
(
4
) For systems which the State has required to install source water treatment under § 141.83(b)(2) of this chapter, the date of the determination, the date the State designates maximum permissible source water levels under § 141.83(b)(4) of this chapter or determines pursuant to § 141.83(b)(2) that source water treatment is not required; or
(
5
) For systems required to conduct mandatory service line replacement, the date the system completes mandatory service line replacement pursuant to § 141.84(d) of this chapter.
(
6
) For systems not required to complete the corrosion control treatment steps under § 141.81(f) of this chapter, the date the system is required to complete mandatory service line replacement pursuant to § 141.84(d) of this chapter.
(G) Each State which has primary enforcement responsibility must submit to the Administrator the 90th percentile lead concentration calculated during each tap sampling period in which the system exceeds the lead action level in § 141.80(c)(1) of this chapter within the first 15 days following the end of each tap sampling period specified in § 141.86 of this chapter or 24 hours of receiving notification of an action level exceedance, whichever is earlier.
(H) For each water system that is eligible for and plans to use a deferred deadline and associated replacement rate for their mandatory service line replacement program as described in § 141.84(d)(5)(vi) of this chapter, as soon as practicable, but no later than the end of second program year of mandatory service line replacement as defined in § 141.84(d)(5)(iii) of this chapter, and every three program years thereafter, the result of the State's written determination as to whether the deferred deadline and associated replacement rate are the fastest feasible, the number of years and months needed to complete mandatory service line replacement, the date of completion of mandatory service line replacement at the fastest feasible rate, and the reasons for the State's determination.
(5)
Sanitary surveys.
A list of subpart H systems that have had a sanitary survey completed during the previous year and an annual evaluation of the State's program for conducting sanitary surveys under § 142.16(b)(3) of this chapter.
(6)
Subpart W.
(i) The bin classification after the initial and after the second round of source water monitoring for each filtered system, as described in § 141.710 of this chapter.
(ii) Any change in treatment requirements for these systems due to watershed assessment during sanitary surveys, as described in § 141.711(d) of this chapter.
(iii) The determination of whether the mean
Cryptosporidium
level is greater than 0.01 oocysts/L both after the initial and after the second round of source water monitoring for each unfiltered system, as described in § 141.712(a) of this chapter.
(7)
Ground water rule
—(i)
Sanitary surveys.
The month and year in which the most recent sanitary survey was completed or, for a State that uses a phased review process, the date the last element of the applicable eight elements was evaluated under § 142.16(o)(2) for each ground water system.
(ii)
Corrective action requirements.
For any corrective action under § 141.403(a) of this chapter, the date the ground water system completed corrective action.
(iii)
Compliance monitoring.
All ground water systems providing at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log virus inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer for any ground water source(s).
(d) The reports submitted pursuant to this section shall be made available by the State to the public for inspection at one or more locations within the State.
[41 FR 2918, Jan. 20, 1976]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 142.15, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the
Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 142.16
Special primacy requirements.
(a)
State public notification requirements.
(1) Each State that has primary enforcement authority under this part must submit complete and final requests for approval of program revisions to adopt the requirements of subpart Q of part 141 of this chapter, using the procedures in § 142.12(b) through (d). At its option, a State may, by rule, and after notice and comment, establish alternative public notification requirements with respect to the form and content of the public notice required under subpart Q of part 141 of this chapter. The alternative requirements must provide the same type and amount of information required under subpart Q and must meet the primacy requirements under § 142.10.
(2) As part of the revised primacy program, a State must also establish enforceable requirements and procedures when the State adds to or changes the requirements under:
(i)
Table 1 to 40 CFR 141.201(a)(Item (3)(v))
—To require public water systems to give a public notice for violations or situations other than those listed in appendix A of subpart Q of part 141 of this chapter;
(ii)
40 CFR 141.201(c)(2)
—To allow public water systems, under the specific circumstances listed in § 141.201(c)(2), to limit the distribution of the public notice to persons served by the portion of the distribution system that is out of compliance;
(iii)
Table 1 of 40 CFR 141.202(a) (Items (5), (6), and (9))
—To require public water systems to give a Tier 1 public notice (rather than a Tier 2 or Tier 3 notice) for violations or situations listed in appendix A of subpart Q of part 141 of this chapter;
(iv)
40 CFR 141.202(b)(3)
—To require public water systems to comply with additional Tier 1 public notification requirements set by the State subsequent to the initial 24-hour Tier 1 notice, as a result of their consultation with the State required under §§ 141.202(b)(2);
(v)
40 CFR 141.202(c), 141.203(c) and 141.204(c)
—To require a different form and manner of delivery for Tier 1, 2 and 3 public notices.
(vi)
Table 1 to 40 CFR 141.203(a) (Item (2))
—To require the public water systems to provide a Tier 2 public notice (rather than Tier (3)) for monitoring or testing procedure violations specified by the State;
(vii)
40 CFR 141.203(b)(1)
—To grant public water systems an extension up to three months for distributing the Tier 2 public notice in appropriate circumstances (other than those specifically excluded in the rule);
(viii)
40 CFR 141.203(b)(2)
—To grant a different repeat notice frequency for the Tier 2 public notice in appropriate circumstances (other than those specifically excluded in the rule), but no less frequently than once per year;
(ix)
40 CFR 141.203(b)(3)
—To respond within 24 hours to a request for consultation by the public water system to determine whether a Tier 1 (rather than a Tier 2) notice is required for a turbidity MCL violation under § 141.13(b) or a SWTR/IESWTR TT violation due to a single exceedance of the maximum allowable turbidity limit;
(x)
40 CFR 141.205(c)
—To determine the specific multilingual requirement for a public water system, including defining “large proportion of non-English-speaking consumers.”
(b)
Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141, subpart H Filtration and Disinfection.
In addition to the general primacy requirements enumerated elsewhere in this part, including the requirement that State provisions are no less stringent than the federal requirements, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts 40 CFR part 141, subpart H Filtration and Disinfection, must contain the information specified in this paragraph (b), except that States which require without exception all public water systems using a surface water source or a ground water source under the direct influence of surface water to provide filtration need not demonstrate that the State program has provisions that apply to systems which do not provide filtration treatment. However, such States must provide the text of the State statutes or regulations which specifies that all public water systems using a surface water source or a ground water source under the direct
influence of surface water must provide filtration.
(1)
Enforceable requirements.
(i) In addition to adopting criteria no less stringent than those specified in part 141, subpart H of this chapter, the State's application must include enforceable design and operating criteria for each filtration treatment technology allowed or a procedure for establishing design and operating conditions on a system-by-system basis (e.g., a permit system).
(ii) States must have the appropriate rules or other authority to assure that PWSs respond in writing to significant deficiencies outlined in sanitary survey reports required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section no later than 45 days after receipt of the report, indicating how and on what schedule the system will address significant deficiencies noted in the survey.
(iii) States must have the appropriate rules or other authority to assure that PWSs take necessary steps to address significant deficiencies identified in sanitary survey reports required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, if such deficiencies are within the control of the PWS and its governing body.
(2)
State practices or procedures.
(i) A State application for program revision approval must include a description of how the State will accomplish the following:
(A) Section 141.70(c) (qualification of operators)—Qualify operators of systems using a surface water source or a ground water source under the direct influence of surface water.
(B) Determine which systems using a ground water source are under the direct influence of surface water by June 29, 1994 for community water systems and by June 29, 1999 for non-community water systems.
(C) Section 141.72(b)(1) (achieving required
Giardia lamblia
and virus removal in filtered systems)—Determine that the combined treatment process incorporating disinfection treatment and filtration treatment will achieve the required removal and/or inactivation of
Giardia lamblia
and viruses.
(D) Section 141.74(a) (State approval of parties to conduct analyses)—approve parties to conduct pH, temperature, turbidity, and residual disinfectant concentration measurements.
(E) Determine appropriate filtration treatment technology for source waters of various qualities.
(ii) For a State which does not require all public water systems using a surface water source or ground water source under the direct influence of surface water to provide filtration treatment, a State application for program revision approval must include a description of how the State will accomplish the following:
(A) Section 141.71(b)(2) (watershed control program)—Judge the adequacy of watershed control programs.
(B) Section 141.71(b)(3) (approval of on-site inspectors)—Approve on-site inspectors other than State personnel and evaluate the results of on-site inspections.
(iii) For a State which adopts any of the following discretionary elements of part 141 of this chapter, the application must describe how the State will:
(A) Section 141.72 (interim disinfection requirements)—Determine interim disinfection requirements for unfiltered systems which the State has determined must filter which will be in effect until filtration is installed.
(B) Section 141.72 (a)(4)(ii) and (b)(3)(ii) (determination of adequate disinfection in system without disinfectant residual)—Determine that a system is unable to measure HPC but is still providing adequate disinfection in the distribution system, as allowed by § 141.72(a)(4)(ii) for systems which do not provide filtration treatment and § 141.72(b)(3)(ii) for systems which do provide filtration treatment.
(C) Section 141.73 (a)(1) and (b)(1) (alternative turbidity limit)—Determine whether an alternative turbidity limit is appropriate and what the level should be as allowed by § 141.73(a)(1) for a system using conventiona1 filtration treatment or direct filtration and by § 141.73(b)(1) for a system using slow sand filtration.
(D) Section 141.73(d) (alternative filtration technologies)—Determine that a public water system has demonstrated that an alternate filtration technology, in combination with disinfection treatment, achieves adequate
removal and/or disinfection of
Giardia lamblia
and viruses.
(E) Section 141.74(a)(5) (alternate analytical method for chlorine)—Approve DPD colorimetric test kits for free and combined chlorine measurement or approve calibration of automated methods by the Indigo Method for ozone determination.
(F) Section 141.74 (b)(2) and (c)(1) (approval of continuous turbidity monitoring)—Approve continuous turbidity monitoring, as allowed by § 141.74(b)(2) for a public water system which does not provide filtration treatment and § 141.74(c)(1) for a system which does provide filtration treatment.
(G) Section 141.74 (b)(6)(i) and (c)(3)(i) (approval of alternate disinfectant residual concentration sampling plans)—Approve alternate disinfectant residual concentration sampling plans for systems which have a combined ground water and surface water or ground water and ground water under the direct influence of a surface water distribution system, as allowed by § 141.74(b)(6)(i) for a public water system which does not provide filtration treatment and § 141.74(c)(3)(i) for a public water system which does provide filtration treatment.
(H) Section 141.74(c)(1) (reduction of turbidity monitoring)—Decide whether to allow reduction of turbidity monitoring for systems using slow sand filtration, an approved alternate filtration technology or serving 500 people or fewer.
(I) Section 141.75 (a)(2)(ix) and (b)(2)(iv) (reduced reporting)—Determine whether reduced reporting is appropriate, as allowed by § 141.75(a)(2)(ix) for a public water system which does not provide filtration treatment and § 141.75(b)(2)(iv) for a public water system which does provide filtration treatment.
(iv) For a State which does not require all public water systems using a surface water source or ground water source under the direct influence of surface water to provide filtration treatment and which uses any of the following discretionary provisions, the application must describe how the State will:
(A) Section 141.71(a)(2)(i) (source water turbidity requirements)—Determine that an exceedance of turbidity limits in source water was caused by circumstances that were unusual and unpredictable.
(B) Section 141.71(b)(1)(i) (monthly CT compliance requirements)—Determine whether failure to meet the requirements for monthly CT compliance in § 141.72(a)(1) was caused by circumstances that were unusual and unpredictable.
(C) Section 141.71(b)(1)(iii) (residual disinfectant concentration requirements)—Determine whether failure to meet the requirements for residual disinfectant concentration entering the distribution system in § 141.72(a)(3)(i) was caused by circumstances that were unusual and unpredictable.
(D) Section 141.71(b)(1)(iv) (distribution system disinfectant residual concentration requirements)—Determine whether failure to meet the requirements for distribution system residual disinfectant concentration in § 141.72(a)(4) was related to a deficiency in treatment.
(E) Section 141.71(b)(4) (system modification to prevent waterborne disease outbreak)—Determine that a system, after having been identified as the source of a waterborne disease outbreak, has been modified sufficiently to prevent another such occurrence.
(F) Section 141.71(b)(5) (total coliform MCL)—Determine whether a total coliform MCL violation was caused by a deficiency in treatment.
(G) Section 141.72(a)(1) (disinfection requirements)—Determine that different ozone, chloramine, or chlorine dioxide CT
99.9
values or conditions are adequate to achieve required disinfection.
(H) Section 141.72(a)(2)(ii) (shut-off of water to distribution system)—Determine whether a shut-off of water to the distribution system when the disinfectant residual concentration entering the distribution system is less than 0.2 mg/1 will cause an unreasonable risk to health or interfere with fire protection.
(I) Section 141.74(b)(1) (coliform monitoring)—Determine that coliform monitoring which otherwise might be required is not feasible for a system.
(J) Section 141.74(b), table 3.1 (disinfection with chloramines)—Determine the conditions to be met to insure
99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses in systems which use either preformed chloramines or chloramines for which ammonia is added to the water before chlorine, as allowed by table 3.1.
(3)
Sanitary survey.
In addition to the general requirements for sanitary surveys contained in § 142.10(b)(2), an application must describe how the State will implement a sanitary survey program that meets the requirements in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (v) of this section. For the purposes of this paragraph, “sanitary survey” means an onsite review of the water source (identifying sources of contamination using results of source water assessments where available), facilities, equipment, operation, maintenance, and monitoring compliance of a public water system to evaluate the adequacy of the system, its sources and operations and the distribution of safe drinking water.
(i) The State must conduct sanitary surveys for all surface water systems (including groundwater under the influence) that address the eight sanitary survey components listed in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) through (H) of this section no less frequently than every three years for community systems and no less frequently than every five years for noncommunity systems. The State may allow sanitary surveys conducted after December 1995 to serve as the first set of required sanitary surveys if the surveys address the eight sanitary survey components listed in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) through (H) of this section.
(A) Source.
(B) Treatment, including corrosion control treatment and water quality parameters as applicable.
(C) Distribution system.
(D) Finished water storage.
(E) Pumps, pump facilities, and controls.
(F) Monitoring and reporting and data verification.
(G) System management and operation.
(H) Operator compliance with State requirements.
(ii) For community systems determined by the State to have outstanding performance based on prior sanitary surveys, subsequent sanitary surveys may be conducted no less than every five years. In its primacy application, the State must describe how it will decide whether a system has outstanding performance and is thus eligible for sanitary surveys at a reduced frequency.
(iii) Components of a sanitary survey may be completed as part of a staged or phased state review process within the established frequency.
(iv) When conducting sanitary surveys for systems required to comply with the disinfection profiling requirements in § 141.172 of this chapter, the State must also review the disinfection profile as part of the sanitary survey.
(v) In its primacy application, the State must describe how it will decide whether a deficiency identified during a sanitary survey is significant for the purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(c)
Total coliform requirements.
In addition to meeting the general primacy requirements of this part, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts the requirements of the national primary drinking water regulation for total coliforms must contain the following information:
(1) The application must describe the State's plan for determining whether sample siting plans are acceptable (including periodic reviews), as required by § 141.21(a)(1).
(2) The national primary drinking water regulation for total coliforms in part 141 gives States the option to impose lesser requirements in certain circumstances, which are listed below. If a State chooses to exercise any of these options, its application for approval of a program revision must include the information listed below (the State need only provide the information listed for those options it has chosen to use).
(i) Section 141.21(a)(2) (Reduced monitoring requirements for community water systems serving 1,000 or fewer persons)—A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for such systems using the criteria in § 141.21(a)(2) and how it will determine the revised frequency.
(ii) Section 141.21(a)(3)(i) (Reduced monitoring requirements for non-community water systems using ground water and serving 1,000 persons or fewer)—A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for such systems using the criteria in § 141.21(a)(3)(i) and how it will determine the revised frequency.
(iii) Section 141.21(a)(3)(ii) (Reduced monitoring for non-community water systems using ground water and serving more than 1,000 persons)—A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for non-community water systems using only ground water and serving more than 1,000 persons during any month the system serves 1,000 persons or fewer and how it will determine the revised frequency.
(iv) Section 141.21(a)(5) (Waiver of time limit for sampling after a turbidity sampling result exceeds 1 NTU)—A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to waive the 24-hour time limit.
(v) Section 141.21(b)(1) (Waiver of time limit for repeat samples)—A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to waive the 24-hour time limit and how it will determine what the revised time limit will be.
(vi) Section 141.21(b)(3) (Alternative repeat monitoring requirements for systems with a single service connection)—A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to allow a system with a single service connection to use an alternative repeat monitoring scheme, as provided in § 141.21(b)(3), and what the alternative requirements will be.
(vii) Section 141.21(b)(5) (Waiver of requirement to take five routine samples the month after a system has a total coliform-positive sample)—A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to waive the requirement for certain systems to collect five routine samples during the next month it serves water to the public, using the criteria in § 141.21(b)(5).
(viii) Section 141.21(c) (Invalidation of total coliform-positive samples)—A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to invalidate a total coliform-positive sample, using the criteria in § 141.21(c).
(ix) Section 141.21(d) (Sanitary surveys)—A description of the State's criteria and procedures for approving agents other than State personnel to conduct sanitary surveys.
(x) Section 141.21(e)(2) (Waiver of fecal coliform or
E. coli
testing on a total coliform-positive sample)—A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to waive fecal coliform or
E. coli
testing on a total coliform-positive sample.
(d)
Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141, subpart I—Control of Lead and Copper.
An application for approval of a State program revision which adopts the requirements specified in 40 CFR part 141, subpart I, must contain (in addition to the general primacy requirements enumerated elsewhere in this part, including the requirement that State regulations be at least as stringent as the federal requirements) a description of how the State will accomplish the following program requirements:
(1) Section 141.82—State designation of optimal corrosion control.
(i) Sections 141.82(d), 141.82(f), and 141.82(h)—Designating optimal corrosion control treatment methods, optimal water quality parameters, and modifications thereto.
(ii) Section 141.82(g)—designating an alternative approach for aggregating multiple measurements collected during the same day for a water quality parameter at a sampling location, if the State elects to adopt a formula other than the one specified in § 141.82(g)(2)(i) of this chapter.
(2) Sections 141.83(b)(2) and 141.83(b)(4)—Designating source water treatment methods, maximum permissible source water levels for lead and copper and modifications thereto.
(3) Section 141.90(e)—verifying compliance with service line replacement schedules and completion of all partial lead and galvanized requiring replacement service line replacement activities.
(4) Section 141.86(d)(3)(i)—designating an alternative period for sample collection for community water systems subject to reduced monitoring.
(5) Section 141.84(b) as follows—
(i) Providing or requiring the review of any evidence-based resource, information, or identification method for the development of the baseline inventory or inventory updates. Requiring water systems whose inventories contain no lead, galvanized requiring replacement, or lead status unknown service lines, no known lead connectors, and no connectors of unknown material to prepare an updated inventory on a schedule determined by the State if the system subsequently finds a lead service line, galvanized requiring replacement service line, or lead connector within its system.
(ii) Providing or requiring the review of inventory validations described in § 141.84(b) of this chapter, including making determinations on whether previous inventory validations are at least as stringent as the requirements specified in § 141.84(b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this chapter and providing written approval to the system, and requiring additional actions for systems based on the results of the inventory validations.
(6) Section 141.84(d)(5)(v)—determining whether a shortened service line replacement deadline is feasible for mandatory lead and galvanized requiring replacement service line replacement and notifying the system of the determination in writing at any time throughout a system's replacement program. For systems required to replace service lines in accordance with a shortened deadline, or for systems eligible for a deferred deadline, determining the deadline to complete inventory validation in accordance with § 141.84(b)(5) of this chapter.
(7) Section 141.82—verifying compliance with Distribution System and Site Assessment requirements in accordance with § 141.82(j) of this chapter.
(8) Section 141.84(d)—identifying State laws, including statutes and constitutional provisions, that pertain to a water system's access to conduct full service line replacement and notifying water systems in writing whether such laws exist or not by the compliance date specified in § 141.80(a) of this chapter and within six months of the enactment of new or revised State law that pertains to a water system's access to conduct full service line replacement.
(9) Section 141.84(d)(5)(vi)—making determinations in writing about systems using deferred deadlines, including reviewing the systems' eligibility calculation and information on deferred deadlines provided in the service line replacement plans as described in § 141.84(c)(1)(x) of this chapter, determining whether the deferred deadline and associated cumulative average replacement rate are the fastest feasible or setting a new deferred deadline and replacement rate at the fastest feasible for the system, and reporting the results of these determinations to EPA as described in § 142.15(c)(4)(H).
(10) Section 141.85(b)(1)—making determinations about which water systems serve a large proportion of consumers with limited English proficiency and providing technical assistance to those systems in meeting the requirement of § 141.85(b)(1) of this chapter to either translate a copy of the public education materials or provide translation assistance to consumers with limited English proficiency. Examples of technical assistance include providing water systems with contact information for inclusion in the system's public education materials where consumers can contact the State for translation assistance upon request, or providing resources for water systems to translate their public education materials, including EPA-provided translations of required content for public education materials (
e.g.,
health effects language, definitions) and translated templates through a website.
(11) Section 141.88 and 141.81(h)—reviewing any change in source water or treatment and making related determinations, including approval; establishment of additional requirements to ensure the system will operate and maintain optimal corrosion control treatment; and an evaluation of how this change may impact compliance with other National Primary Drinking Water Regulations in part 141 of this chapter.
(12) Section 141.92—reviewing lists of schools and child care facilities to ensure entries conform to the definitions of school and child care facility as defined in § 141.2 of this chapter and is complete.
(13) Section 141.92—determining whether any existing State or local testing program for schools and child care facilities is at least as stringent as the Federal requirements, including how the State will use the definitions of elementary school, secondary school, and child care facility as defined in § 141.2 of this chapter to issue waivers.
(e) An application for approval of a State program revision which adopts the requirements specified in §§ 141.11, 141.23, 141.24, 141.32, 141.61, and 141.62 for a newly regulated contaminant must contain the following (in addition to the general primacy requirements enumerated elsewhere in this part, including the requirement that State regulations be at least as stringent as the Federal requirements):
(1) If a State chooses to issue waivers from the monitoring requirements in §§ 141.23 and 141.24, the State shall describe the procedures and criteria which it will use to review waiver applications and issue waiver determinations.
(i) The procedures for each contaminant or class of contaminants shall include a description of:
(A) The waiver application requirements;
(B) The State review process for “use” waivers and for “susceptibility” waivers; and
(C) The State decision criteria, including the factors that will be considered in deciding to grant or deny waivers. The decision criteria must include the factors specified in §§ 141.24(f)(8) and 141.24(h)(6).
(ii) The State must specify the monitoring data and other documentation required to demonstrate that the contaminant is eligible for a “use” and/or “susceptibility” waiver.
(2) A monitoring plan for the initial monitoring period by which the State will assure all systems complete the required initial monitoring within the regulatory deadlines.

# Note:
States may update their monitoring plan submitted under the Phase II Rule or simply note in their application that they will use the same monitoring plan for the Phase V Rule.
(i) The initial monitoring plan must describe how systems will be scheduled during the initial monitoring period and demonstrate that the analytical workload on certified laboratories for each of the three years has been taken into account, to assure that the State's plan will result in a high degree of monitoring compliance and that as a result there is a high probability of compliance and will be updated as necessary.
(ii) The State must demonstrate that the initial monitoring plan is enforceable under State law.
(f)
Consumer Confidence Report requirements.
(1) Each State that has primary enforcement responsibility must adopt the revised requirements of 40 CFR part 141, subpart O no later than May 25, 2026. States must submit revised programs to EPA for approval using the procedures in § 142.12(b) through (d).
(2) Each State that has primary enforcement responsibility must make reports submitted to the States in compliance with 40 CFR 141.155(c) available to the public upon request.
(3) Each State must, as a condition of primacy, provide water systems with technical assistance in meeting the requirements in 40 CFR 141.153(h)(3) to provide translation assistance to consumers with limited English proficiency. Examples of technical assistance include providing water systems with contact information for inclusion in the system's report where consumers can contact the state for translation assistance upon request, or providing resources for water systems to translate their reports, including EPA-provided translations of required content for CCRs (e.g., health effects language, definitions) and translated templates of reports through a website.
(4) Each State that has primary enforcement responsibility must report violations of this subpart in accordance with the requirements of § 142.15(a)(1).
(5) Each application for approval of a revised program must include:
(i) A description of how the State intends to provide water systems with
technical assistance in meeting the requirements in 40 CFR 141.153(h)(3) to provide translation assistance in communities with a large proportion of consumers with limited English proficiency; and
(ii) A description of the state's procedures for waiving the mailing requirement for small systems consistent with 40 CFR 141.155(g).
(g)
Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141, Subpart P—Enhanced Filtration and Disinfection—Systems Serving 10,000 or More People.
In addition to the general primacy requirements enumerated elsewhere in this part, including the requirement that State provisions are no less stringent than the Federal requirements, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts 40 CFR part 141, Subpart P Enhanced Filtration and Disinfection—Systems Serving 10,000 or More People, must contain the information specified in this paragraph:
(1)
Enforceable requirements.
States must have the appropriate rules or other authority to require PWSs to conduct a Composite Correction Program (CCP) and to assure that PWSs implement any followup recommendations that result as part of the CCP. The CCP consists of two elements—a Comprehensive Performance Evaluation (CPE) and Comprehensive Technical Assistance (CTA). A CPE is a thorough review and analysis of a plant's performance-based capabilities and associated administrative, operation and maintenance practices. It is conducted to identify factors that may be adversely impacting a plant's capability to achieve compliance and emphasizes approaches that can be implemented without significant capital improvements. A CTA is the performance improvement phase that is implemented if the CPE results indicate improved performance potential. During the CTA phase, the system must identify and systematically address plant-specific factors. The CTA is a combination of utilizing CPE results as a basis for followup, implementing process control priority-setting techniques and maintaining long-term involvement to systematically train staff and administrators.
(2)
State practices or procedures.
(i) Section 141.172(a)(3) of this chapter—How the State will approve a more representative annual data set than the data set determined under § 141.172 (a)(1) or (2) of this chapter for the purpose of determining applicability of the requirements of § 141.172 of this chapter.
(ii) Section 141.172(b)(5) of this chapter—How the State will approve a method to calculate the logs of inactivation for viruses for a system that uses either chloramines or ozone for primary disinfection.
(iii) Section 141.172(c) of this chapter—How the State will consult with PWSs to evaluate modifications to disinfection practice.
(iv) Section 141.173(b) of this chapter—For filtration technologies other than conventional filtration treatment, direct filtration, slow sand filtration, or diatomaceous earth filtration, how the State will determine that a public water system may use a filtration technology if the PWS demonstrates to the State, using pilot plant studies or other means, that the alternative filtration technology, in combination with disinfection treatment that meets the requirements of § 141.172(b) of this chapter, consistently achieves 99.9 percent removal and/or inactivation of
Giardia lamblia
cysts and 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses, and 99 percent removal of
Cryptosporidium
oocysts. For a system that makes this demonstration, how the State will set turbidity performance requirements that the system must meet 95 percent of the time and that the system may not exceed at any time at a level that consistently achieves 99.9 percent removal and/or inactivation of
Giardia lamblia
cysts, 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses, and 99 percent removal of
Cryptosporidium
oocysts.
(h)
Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141, subpart L.
In addition to the general primacy requirements elsewhere in this part, including the requirement that State regulations be at least as stringent as federal requirements, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts 40 CFR part 141, subpart L, must contain
a description of how the State will accomplish the following program requirements:
(1) Section 141.64(b)(2) of this chapter (interim treatment requirements). Determine any interim treatment requirements for those systems electing to install GAC or membrane filtration and granted additional time to comply with § 141.64 of this chapter.
(2) Section 141.130(c) of this chapter (qualification of operators). Qualify operators of public water systems subject to 40 CFR part 141, subpart L. Qualification requirements established for operators of systems subject to 40 CFR part 141, subpart H—Filtration and Disinfection may be used in whole or in part to establish operator qualification requirements for meeting 40 CFR part 141, subpart L requirements if the State determines that the 40 CFR part 141, subpart H requirements are appropriate and applicable for meeting subpart L requirements.
(3) Section 141.131(c)(2) of this chapter (DPD colorimetric test kits). Approve DPD colorimetric test kits for free and total chlorine measurements. State approval granted under § 141.74(a)(2) of this chapter for the use of DPD colorimetric test kits for free chlorine testing is acceptable for the use of DPD test kits in measuring free chlorine residuals as required in 40 CFR part 141, subpart L.
(4) Sections 141.131(c)(3) and (d) of this chapter (State approval of parties to conduct analyses). Approve parties to conduct pH, bromide, alkalinity, and residual disinfectant concentration measurements. The State's process for approving parties performing water quality measurements for systems subject to 40 CFR part 141, subpart H requirements in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D) of this section may be used for approving parties measuring water quality parameters for systems subject to subpart L requirements, if the State determines the process is appropriate and applicable.
(5) Section 141.132(a)(2) of this chapter (multiple wells as a single source). Define the criteria to use to determine if multiple wells are being drawn from a single aquifer and therefore be considered a single source for compliance with monitoring requirements.
(6) Approve alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements, as allowed under the provisions of § 141.135(b) of this chapter.
(i)
Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141, § 141.76 Recycle provisions.
In addition to the general primacy requirements enumerated elsewhere in this part, including the requirement that the State provisions are no less stringent than the federal requirements, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts 40 CFR part 141, § 141.76 Recycle Provisions must contain the information specified in this paragraph:
(1)
State practices or procedures.
(i) Section 141.76(d) of this chapter—States must have the proper rules and authority to use Sanitary Surveys, comprehensive performance evaluations (CPEs), other inspections, or other activities to evaluate recycle data maintained by systems under § 141.76(d) of this chapter and require modifications to recycle practices.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) [Reserved]
(j) An application for approval of a State program revision which adopts the requirements specified in §§ 141.11, 141.23, 141.24, 141.32, 141.61 and 141.62 for an existing regulated contaminant must contain the following (in addition to the general primacy requirements enumerated elsewhere in this part, including the requirement that State regulations be at least as stringent as the federal requirements):
(1) If a State chooses to issue waivers from the monitoring requirements in §§ 141.23 and 141.24, the State shall describe the procedures and criteria, that it will use to review waiver applications and issue waiver determinations. The State shall provide the same information required in paragraph (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. States may update their existing waiver criteria or use the requirements submitted under the National Primary Drinking Water Regulations for the inorganic and organic contaminants (
i.e.
, Phase II/V rule) in 16(e) of this section. States may simply note in their application any revisions to existing waiver criteria or note that the same procedures to issue waivers will be used.
(2) A monitoring plan by which the State will ensure all systems complete the required monitoring by the regulatory deadlines. States may update their existing monitoring plan or use the same monitoring plan submitted under the National Primary Drinking Water Regulations for the inorganic and organic contaminants (
i.e.
, Phase II/V rule) in 16(e) of this section. States may simply note in their application any revisions to an existing monitoring plan or note that the same monitoring plan will be used. The State must demonstrate that the monitoring plan is enforceable under State law.
(k) States establish the initial monitoring requirements for new systems and new sources. States must explain their initial monitoring schedules and how these monitoring schedules ensure that public water systems and sources comply with MCL's and monitoring requirements. States must also specify the time frame in which new systems will demonstrate compliance with the MCLs.
(l) An application for approval of a State program revision for radionuclides which adopts the requirements specified in § 141.26(a)(2)(ii)(C) of this chapter must contain the following (in addition to the general primacy requirements enumerated in this part, including that State regulations be at least as stringent as the Federal requirements):
(1) If a State chooses to use grandfathered data in the manner described in § 141.26(a)(2)(ii)(C) of this chapter, then the State must describe the procedures and criteria which it will use to make these determinations (whether distribution system or entry point sampling points are used).
(i) The decision criteria that the State will use to determine that data collected in the distribution system are representative of the drinking water supplied from each entry point to the distribution system. These determinations must consider:
(A) All previous monitoring data.
(B) The variation in reported activity levels.
(C) Other factors affecting the representativeness of the data (e.g. geology).
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) A monitoring plan by which the State will assure all systems complete the required monitoring within the regulatory deadlines. States may update their existing monitoring plan or use the same monitoring plan submitted for the requirements in § 142.16(e)(2) under the national primary drinking water regulations for the inorganic and organic contaminants (
i.e.
the phase II/V rules). States may note in their application any revision to an existing monitoring plan or note that the same monitoring plan will be used. The State must demonstrate that the monitoring plan is enforceable under State law.
(m)
Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141, subparts U and V.
In addition to the general primacy requirements elsewhere in this part, including the requirements that State regulations be at least as stringent as federal requirements, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts 40 CFR part 141, subparts U and V, must contain a description of how the State will implement a procedure for addressing modification of wholesale system and consecutive system monitoring on a case-by-case basis for part 141 subpart V outside the provisions of § 141.29 of this chapter, if the State elects to use such an authority. The procedure must ensure that all systems have at least one compliance monitoring location.
(n)
Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141, subpart W.
In addition to the general primacy requirements elsewhere in this part, including the requirements that State regulations be at least as stringent as Federal requirements, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts 40 CFR part 141, subpart W, must contain a description of how the State will accomplish the following program requirements where allowed in State programs.
(1) Approve an alternative to the
E. coli
levels that trigger
Cryptosporidium
monitoring by filtered systems serving fewer than 10,000 people, as described in § 141.701(a)(5).
(2) Assess significant changes in the watershed and source water as part of the sanitary survey process and determine appropriate follow-up action for
systems, as described in § 141.711(d) of this chapter.
(3) Approve watershed control programs for the 0.5-log treatment credit in the microbial toolbox, as described in § 141.716(a) of this chapter.
(4) Approve protocols for demonstration of performance treatment credits in the microbial toolbox, as allowed under § 141.718(c) of this chapter.
(5) Approve protocols for alternative ozone and chlorine dioxide CT values in the microbial toolbox, as allowed under § 141.720(c) of this chapter.
(6) Approve an alternative approach to UV reactor validation testing in the microbial toolbox, as allowed under § 141.720(d)(2)(iii) of this chapter.
(o)
Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141, subpart S.
In addition to the general primacy requirements specified elsewhere in this part, including the requirement that State regulations are no less stringent than the Federal requirements, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts 40 CFR part 141, subpart S, must contain the information specified in this paragraph (o).
(1)
Legal authority.
The application for primacy must demonstrate the State has:
(i) The authority contained in statute or regulation to ensure that ground water systems conduct source water monitoring under §§ 141.402(a)(2), 141.402(a)(3) and 141.402(a)(4)(ii)(A) of this chapter.
(ii) The authority contained in statute or regulation to ensure that ground water systems take the appropriate corrective actions including interim measures, if necessary, needed to address significant deficiencies.
(iii) The authority contained in statute or regulation to ensure that ground water systems take the appropriate corrective actions, including interim measures if necessary, to address any source water fecal contamination identified during source water monitoring under § 141.402 of this chapter.
(iv) The authority contained in statute or regulation to ensure that ground water systems consult with the State regarding corrective action(s).
(2)
State practices or procedures for sanitary surveys.
In addition to the general requirements for sanitary surveys contained in § 142.10(b)(2), a primacy application must describe how the State will implement a sanitary survey program that meets the requirements of paragraph (o)(2)(i) of this section. A “sanitary survey,” as conducted by the State, includes but is not limited to, an onsite review of the water source(s) (identifying sources of contamination by using results of source water assessments or other relevant information where available), facilities, equipment, operation, maintenance, and monitoring compliance of a public water system to evaluate the adequacy of the system, its sources and operations and the distribution of safe drinking water.
(i) The State must conduct sanitary surveys that address the eight sanitary survey components listed in this section no less frequently than every three years for community water systems, except as provided in paragraph (o)(2)(iii) of this section, and every five years for non-community water systems. The State may conduct more frequent sanitary surveys for any system. The initial sanitary survey for each community water system must be conducted by December 31, 2012, unless the system meets the requirements of paragraph (o)(2)(iii) of this section. The initial sanitary survey for each community water system that meets the requirements of paragraph (o)(2)(iii) of this section and for each non-community water system must be conducted by December 31, 2014. The sanitary survey must include an evaluation of each of the following elements as applicable:
(A) Source,
(B) Treatment, including corrosion control treatment and water quality parameters as applicable;
(C) Distribution system,
(D) Finished water storage,
(E) Pumps, pump facilities, and controls,
(F) Monitoring, reporting, and data verification,
(G) System management and operation, and
(H) Operator compliance with State requirements.
(ii) The State may use a phased review process to meet the requirements of (o)(2)(i) of this section if all the applicable elements of paragraphs (o)(2)(i)(A) through (o)(2)(i)(H) of this
section are evaluated within the required interval.
(iii) The State may conduct sanitary surveys once every five years for community water systems if the system either provides at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer for all its ground water sources, or if it has an outstanding performance record, as determined by the State and documented in previous sanitary surveys and has no history of total coliform MCL or monitoring violations under § 141.21 of this chapter since the last sanitary survey. In its primacy application, the State must describe how it will determine whether a community water system has an outstanding performance record.
(iv) The State must define and describe in its primacy application at least one specific significant deficiency in each of the eight sanitary survey elements in paragraphs (o)(2)(i)(A) through (o)(2)(i)(H) of this section. Significant deficiencies include, but are not limited to, defects in design, operation, or maintenance, or a failure or malfunction of the sources, treatment, storage, or distribution system that the State determines to be causing, or have potential for causing, the introduction of contamination into the water delivered to consumers.
(v) As a condition of primacy, the State must provide ground water systems with written notice describing any significant deficiencies no later than 30 days after the State identifies the significant deficiency. The notice may specify corrective actions and deadlines for completion of corrective actions. The State may provide the written notice at the time of the sanitary survey.
(3)
State practices or procedures for source water microbial monitoring.
The State's primacy application must include a description of the following:
(i) The criteria the State will use under §§ 141.402(a)(2)(i) and 141.402(d)(2) of this chapter for extending the 24-hour time limit for a system to collect a ground water source sample to comply with the source water monitoring requirements.
(ii) The criteria the State will use under §§ 141.402(a)(5)(i) and 141.402(a)(5)(ii) of this chapter to determine whether the cause of the total coliform-positive sample taken under § 141.21(a) of this chapter is directly related to the distribution system.
(iii) The criteria the State will use for determining whether to invalidate a fecal indicator-positive ground water source sample under § 141.402(d)(1)(ii) of this chapter.
(iv) The criteria the State will use to allow source water microbial monitoring at a location after treatment under § 141.402(e)(1) of this chapter.
(4)
State practices or procedures for treatment technique requirements.
As a condition of primacy, the State must verify that significant deficiencies or source water fecal contamination have been addressed. The State must verify within 30 days after the ground water system has reported to the State that it has completed corrective action. The State must verify either through written confirmation from the ground water system or a site visit by the State. Written notice from the ground water system under § 141.405(a)(2) of this chapter may serve as this verification. The State's primacy application must include the following:
(i) The process the State will use to determine that a ground water system achieves at least a 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a combination of inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer for a ground water source for systems that are not subject to the source water monitoring requirements of § 141.402(a) of this chapter because the ground water system has informed the State that it provides at least 4-log treatment of viruses.
(ii) The process the State will use to determine the minimum residual disinfectant concentration the system must provide prior to the first customer for systems using chemical disinfection.
(iii) The State-approved alternative technologies that ground water systems may use alone or in combination with other approved technologies to achieve at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log
inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer for a ground water source.
(iv) The monitoring and compliance requirements the State will require for ground water systems treating to at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer for State-approved alternative treatment technologies.
(v) The monitoring, compliance and membrane integrity testing requirements the State will require to demonstrate virus removal for ground water systems using membrane filtration technologies.
(vi) The criteria, including public health-based considerations and incorporating on-site investigations and source water monitoring results the State will use to determine if a ground water system may discontinue 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer.
(p)
Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141, Subpart T—Enhanced Filtration and Disinfection—Systems Serving Fewer Than 10,000 People.
In addition to the general primacy requirements enumerated elsewhere in this part, including the requirement that State provisions are no less stringent than the Federal requirements, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts 40 CFR part 141, Subpart T—Enhanced Filtration and Disinfection—Systems Serving Fewer than 10,000 People, must contain the information specified in this paragraph:
(1)
Enforceable requirements.
States must have rules or other authority to require systems to participate in a Comprehensive Technical Assistance (CTA) activity, the performance improvement phase of the Composite Correction Program (CCP). The State must determine whether a CTA must be conducted based on results of a CPE which indicate the potential for improved performance, and a finding by the State that the system is able to receive and implement technical assistance provided through the CTA. A CPE is a thorough review and analysis of a system's performance-based capabilities and associated administrative, operation and maintenance practices. It is conducted to identify factors that may be adversely impacting a plant's capability to achieve compliance. During the CTA phase, the system must identify and systematically address factors limiting performance. The CTA is a combination of utilizing CPE results as a basis for follow-up, implementing process control priority-setting techniques and maintaining long-term involvement to systematically train staff and administrators.
(2)
State practices or procedures.
(i) Section 141.530-141.536—How the State will approve a more representative data set for optional TTHM and HAA5 monitoring and profiling.
(ii) Section 141.535 of this chapter—How the State will approve a method to calculate the logs of inactivation for viruses for a system that uses either chloramines, ozone, or chlorine dioxide for primary disinfection.
(iii) Section 141.542 of this chapter—How the State will consult with the system and approve significant changes to disinfection practices.
(iv) Section 141.552 of this chapter—For filtration technologies other than conventional filtration treatment, direct filtration, slow sand filtration, or diatomaceous earth filtration, how the State will determine that a public water system may use a filtration technology if the PWS demonstrates to the State, using pilot plant studies or other means, that the alternative filtration technology, in combination with disinfection treatment that meets the requirements of § 141.72(b) of this chapter, consistently achieves 99.9 percent removal and/or inactivation of
Giardia lamblia
cysts and 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses, and 99 percent removal of
Cryptosporidium
oocysts. For a system that makes this demonstration, how the State will set turbidity performance requirements that the system must meet 95 percent of the time and that the system may not exceed at any time at a level that consistently achieves 99.9 percent removal and/or inactivation of
Giardia lamblia
cysts, 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses, and 99 percent removal of
Cryptosporidium
oocysts.
(q)
Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141 subpart Y—Revised Total Coliform Rule.
In addition to the general primacy requirements elsewhere in this part, including the requirements that State regulations be at least as stringent as federal requirements, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts 40 CFR part 141, subpart Y, must contain the information specified in this paragraph (q).
(1) In their application to EPA for approval to implement the federal requirements, the primacy application must indicate what baseline and reduced monitoring provisions of 40 CFR part 141, subpart Y the State will adopt and must describe how they will implement 40 CFR part 141, subpart Y in these areas so that EPA can be assured that implementation plans meet the minimum requirements of the rule.
(2) The State's application for primacy for subpart Y must include a written description for each provision included in paragraphs (q)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section.
(i) Sample Siting Plans—The frequency and process used to review and revise sample siting plans in accordance with 40 CFR part 141, subpart Y to determine adequacy.
(ii) Reduced Monitoring Criteria—An indication of whether the State will adopt the reduced monitoring provisions of 40 CFR part 141, subpart Y. If the State adopts the reduced monitoring provisions, it must describe the specific types or categories of water systems that will be covered by reduced monitoring and whether the State will use all or a reduced set of the criteria specified in §§ 141.854(h)(2) and 141.855(d)(1)(iii) of this chapter. For each of the reduced monitoring criteria, the State must describe how the criterion will be evaluated to determine when systems qualify.
(iii) Assessments and Corrective Actions—The process for implementing the new assessment and corrective action phase of the rule, including the elements in paragraphs (q)(2)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) Elements of Level 1 and Level 2 assessments. This must include an explanation of how the State will ensure that Level 2 assessments provide a more detailed examination of the system (including the system's monitoring and operational practices) than do Level 1 assessments through the use of more comprehensive investigation and review of available information, additional internal and external resources, and other relevant practices.
(B) Examples of sanitary defects.
(C) Examples of assessment forms or formats.
(D) Methods that systems may use to consult with the State on appropriate corrective actions.
(iv) Invalidation of routine and repeat samples collected under 40 CFR part 141, subpart Y—The criteria and process for invalidating total coliform and
E. coli-
positive samples under 40 CFR part 141, subpart Y. This description must include criteria to determine if a sample was improperly processed by the laboratory, reflects a domestic or other non-distribution system plumbing problem or reflects circumstances or conditions that do not reflect water quality in the distribution system.
(v) Approval of individuals allowed to conduct Level 2 assessments under 40 CFR part 141, subpart Y—The criteria and process for approval of individuals allowed to conduct Level 2 assessments under 40 CFR part 141, subpart Y.
(vi) Special monitoring evaluation—The procedure for performing special monitoring evaluations during sanitary surveys for ground water systems serving 1,000 or fewer people to determine whether systems are on an appropriate monitoring schedule.
(vii) Seasonal systems—How the State will identify seasonal systems, how the State will determine when systems on less than monthly monitoring must monitor, and what start-up provisions seasonal system must meet under 40 CFR part 141, subpart Y.
(viii) Additional criteria for reduced monitoring—How the State will require systems on reduced monitoring to demonstrate:
(A) Continuous disinfection entering the distribution system and a residual in the distribution system.
(B) Cross connection control.
(C) Other enhancements to water system barriers.
(ix) Criteria for extending the 24-hour period for collecting repeat samples.—Under §§ 141.858(a) and 141.853(c)(2) of this chapter, criteria for systems to use in lieu of case-by-case decisions to waive the 24-hour time limit for collecting repeat samples after a total coliform-positive routine sample, or to extend the 24-hour limit for collection of samples following invalidation. If the State elects to use only case-by-case waivers, the State does not need to develop and submit criteria.
(r)
Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141, subpart Z, PFAS.
In addition to the general primacy requirements elsewhere in this part, including the requirements that State regulations be at least as stringent as Federal requirements, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts 40 CFR part 141, subpart Z, must contain the following, in lieu of meeting the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section:
(1) The State's procedures for reviewing the water system's use of pre-existing data to meet the initial monitoring requirements specified in § 141.902, including the criteria that will be used to determine if the data are acceptable. This paragraph (r)(1) is no longer applicable after the initial monitoring period ends on April 26, 2027.
(2) The State's procedures for ensuring all systems complete the initial monitoring period requirements that will result in a high degree of monitoring compliance by the regulatory deadlines. This paragraph (r)(2) is no longer applicable after the initial monitoring period ends on April 26, 2027.
(3) After the initial monitoring period, States establish the initial monitoring requirements for new public water systems and existing public water systems that plan to use a new source. States must explain their initial monitoring schedules and how these monitoring schedules ensure that new public water systems and existing public water systems that plan to use new sources comply with MCLs and monitoring requirements. States must also specify the time frame in which a new system or existing system that plans to use a new source must demonstrate compliance with the MCLs.
[54 FR 15188, Apr. 17, 1989]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 142.16, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 142.17
Review of State programs and procedures for withdrawal of approved primacy programs.
(a)(1) At least annually the Administrator shall review, with respect to each State determined to have primary enforcement responsibility, the compliance of the State with the requirements set forth in 40 CFR part 142, subpart B, and the approved State primacy program. At the time of this review, the State shall notify the Administrator of any State-initiated program changes (
i.e.
, changes other than those to adopt new or revised EPA regulations), and of any transfer of all or part of its program from the approved State agency to any other State agency.
(2) When, on the basis of the Administrator's review or other available information, the Administrator determines that a State no longer meets the requirements set forth in 40 CFR part 142, subpart B, the Administrator shall initiate proceedings to withdraw primacy approval. Among the factors the Administrator intends to consider as relevant to this determination are the following, where appropriate: whether the State has requested and has been granted, or is awaiting EPA's decision on, an extension under § 142.12(b)(2) of the deadlines for meeting those requirements; and whether the State is taking corrective actions that may have been required by the Administrator. The Administrator shall notify the State in writing that EPA is initiating primacy withdrawal proceedings and shall summarize in the notice the information available that indicates that the State no longer meets such requirements.
(3) The State notified pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section may, within 30 days of receiving the Administrator's notice, submit to the Administrator evidence demonstrating that the State continues to meet the requirements for primary enforcement responsibility.
(4) After reviewing the submission of the State, if any, made pursuant to
paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Administrator shall make a final determination either that the State no longer meets the requirements of 40 CFR part 142, subpart B, or that the State continues to meet those requirements, and shall notify the State of his or her determination. Any final determination that the State no longer meets the requirements of 40 CFR part 142, subpart B, shall not become effective except as provided in § 142.13.
(b) If a State which has primary enforcement responsibility decides to relinquish that authority, it may do so by notifying the Administrator in writing of the State's decision at least 90 days before the effective date of the decision.
[54 FR 52140, Dec. 20, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 33661, June 28, 1995]
§ 142.18
EPA review of State monitoring determinations.
(a) A Regional Administrator may annul a State monitoring determination for the types of determinations identified in §§ 141.23(b), 141.23(c), 141.24(f), 141.24(h), and 141.40(n) in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) When information available to a Regional Administrator, such as the results of an annual review, indicate a State determination fails to apply the standards of the approved State program, he may propose to annul the State monitoring determination by sending the State and the affected PWS a draft Rescission Order. The draft order shall:
(1) Identify the PWS, the State determination, and the provisions at issue;
(2) Explain why the State determination is not in compliance with the State program and must be changed; and
(3) Describe the actions and terms of operation the PWS will be required to implement.
(c) The State and PWS shall have 60 days to comment on the draft Rescission Order.
(d) The Regional Administrator may not issue a Rescission Order to impose conditions less stringent than those imposed by the State.
(e) The Regional Administrator shall also provide an opportunity for comment upon the draft Rescission Order, by
(1) Publishing a notice in a newspaper in general circulation in communities served by the affected system; and
(2) Providing 30 days for public comment on the draft order.
(f) The State shall demonstrate that the determination is reasonable, based on its approved State program.
(g) The Regional Administrator shall decide within 120 days after issuance of the draft Rescission Order to:
(1) Issue the Rescission Order as drafted;
(2) Issue a modified Rescission Order; or
(3) Cancel the Rescission Order.
(h) The Regional Administrator shall set forth the reasons for his decision, including a responsiveness summary addressing significant comments from the State, the PWS and the public.
(i) The Regional Administrator shall send a notice of his final decision to the State, the PWS and all parties who commented upon the draft Rescission Order.
(j) The Rescission Order shall remain in effect until cancelled by the Regional Administrator. The Regional Administrator may cancel a Rescission Order at any time, so long as he notifies those who commented on the draft order.
(k) The Regional Administrator may not delegate the signature authority for a final Rescission Order or the cancellation of an order.
(l) Violation of the actions, or terms of operation, required by a Rescission Order is a violation of the Safe Drinking Water Act.
[56 FR 3595, Jan. 30, 1991]
§ 142.19
EPA review of State implementation of national primary drinking water regulations for lead and copper.
(a) Pursuant to the procedures in this section, the Regional Administrator may review State determinations establishing corrosion control or source water treatment requirements for lead or copper and may issue an order establishing Federal treatment requirements for a public water system pursuant to §§ 141.82(d), (f) and (h) and
141.83(b)(2) and (4) of this chapter where the Regional Administrator finds that:
(1) A State has failed to issue a treatment determination by the applicable deadline;
(2) A State has abused its discretion; or
(3) The technical aspects of State's determination would be indefensible in an expected federal enforcement action taken against a system.
(b) If the Regional Administrator determines that review of state determination(s) under this section may be appropriate, he shall request the State to forward to EPA the state determination and all information that was considered by the State in making its determination, including public comments, if any, within 60 days of the Regional Adminstrator's request.
(c) Proposed review of state determinations:
(1) Where the Regional Administrator finds that review of a state determination under paragraph (a) of this section is appropriate, he shall issue a proposed review order which shall:
(i) Identify the public water system(s) affected, the State determination being reviewed and the provisions of state and/or federal law at issue;
(ii) Identify the determination that the State failed to carry out by the applicable deadline, or identify the particular provisions of the State determination which, in the Regional Administrator's judgment, fail to carry out properly applicable treatment requirements, and explain the basis for the Regional Administrator's conclusion;
(iii) Identify the treatment requirements which the Regional Administrator proposes to apply to the affected system(s), and explain the basis for the proposed requirements;
(iv) Request public comment on the proposed order and the supporting record.
(2) The Regional Administrator shall provide notice of the proposed review order by:
(i) Mailing the proposed order to the affected public water system(s), the state agency whose order is being reviewed, and any other parties of interest known to the Regional Administrator; and
(ii) Publishing a copy of the proposed order in a newspaper of general circulation in the affected communities.
(3) The Regional Administrator shall make available for public inspection during the comment period the record supporting the proposed order, which shall include all of the information submitted by the State to EPA under paragraph (b) of this section, all other studies, monitoring data and other information considered by the Agency in developing the proposed order.
(d) Final review order:
(1) Based upon review of all information obtained regarding the proposed review order, including public comments, the Regional Administrator shall issue a final review order within 120 days after issuance of the proposed order which affirms, modifies, or withdraws the proposed order. The Regional Administrator may extend the time period for issuing the final order for good cause. If the final order modifies or withdraws the proposed order, the final order shall explain the reasons supporting the change.
(2) The record of the final order shall consist of the record supporting the proposed order, all public comments, all other information considered by the Regional Administrator in issuing the final order and a document responding to all significant public comments submitted on the proposed order. If new points are raised or new material supplied during the public comment period, the Regional Administrator may support the responses on those matters by adding new materials to the record. The record shall be complete when the final order is issued.
(3) Notice of the final order shall be provided by mailing the final order to the affected system(s), the State, and all parties who commented on the proposed order.
(4) Upon issuance of the final order, its terms constitute requirements of the national primary drinking water regulation for lead and/or copper until such time as the Regional Administrator issues a new order (which may include recision of the previous order) pursuant to the procedures in this section. Such requirements shall supersede any inconsistent treatment requirements established by the State
pursuant to the national primary drinking water regulations for lead and copper.
(5) The Regional Administrator may not issue a final order to impose conditions less stringent than those imposed by the State.
(e) The Regional Administrator may not delegate authority to sign the final order under this section.
(f) Final action of the Regional Administrator under paragraph (d) of this section shall constitute action of the Administrator for purposes of 42 U.S.C. § 300j-7(a)(2).
[56 FR 26563, June 7, 1991, as amended at 89 FR 86667, Oct. 30, 2024]

# Subpart C—Review of State-Issued Variances and Exemptions
§ 142.20
State-issued variances and exemptions under Section 1415(a) and Section 1416 of the Act.
(a) States with primary enforcement responsibility may issue variances to public water systems (other than small system variances) from the requirements of primary drinking water regulations under conditions and in a manner which are not less stringent than the requirements under Section 1415(a) of the Act. In States that do not have primary enforcement responsibility, variances may be granted by the Administrator pursuant to Subpart E of this part.
(1) A State must document all findings that are required under Section 1415(a) of the Act.
(2) If a State prescribes a schedule pursuant to section 1415(a) of the Act requiring compliance with a contaminant level for which the variance is granted later than five years from the date of issuance of the variance the State must—
(i) Document its rationale for the extended compliance schedule;
(ii) Discuss the rationale for the extended compliance schedule in the required public notice and opportunity for public hearing; and
(iii) Provide the shortest practicable time schedule feasible under the circumstances.
(b) States with primary enforcement responsibility may issue exemptions from the requirements of primary drinking water regulations under conditions and in a manner which are not less stringent than the requirements under Section 1416 of the Act. In States that do not have primary enforcement responsibility, exemptions may be granted by the Administrator pursuant to subpart F of this part.
(1) A State must document all findings that are required under Section 1416 of the Act:
(i) Before finding that management and restructuring changes cannot be made, a State must consider the following measures, and the availability of State Revolving Loan Fund assistance, or any other Federal or State program, that is reasonably likely to be available within the period of the exemption to implement these measures:
(A) Consideration of rate increases, accounting changes, the appointment of a State-certified operator under the State's Operator Certification program, contractual agreements for joint operation with one or more public water systems;
(B) Activities consistent with the State's Capacity Development Strategy to help the public water system acquire and maintain technical, financial, and managerial capacity to come into compliance with the Act; and
(C) Ownership changes, physical consolidation with another public water system, or other feasible and appropriate means of consolidation which would result in compliance with the Act;
(ii) The State must consider the availability of an alternative source of water, including the feasibility of partnerships with neighboring public water systems, as identified by the public water system or by the State consistent with the Capacity Development Strategy.
(2) In the case of a public water system serving a population of not more than 3,300 persons and which needs financial assistance for the necessary improvements under the initial compliance schedule, an exemption granted by the State under section 1416(b)(2)(B)(i) or (ii) of the Act may be renewed for one or more additional 2-year periods, but not to exceed a total of 6 additional years, only if the State
establishes that the public water system is taking all practicable steps to meet the requirements of Section 1416(b)(2)(B) of the Act and the established compliance schedule to achieve full compliance with the contaminant level or treatment technique for which the exemption was granted. A State must document its findings in granting an extension under this paragraph.
[63 FR 43847, Aug. 14, 1998]
§ 142.21
State consideration of a variance or exemption request.
A State with primary enforcement responsibility shall act on any variance or exemption request submitted to it, within 90 days of receipt of the request.
§ 142.22
Review of State variances, exemptions and schedules.
(a) Not later than 18 months after the effective date of the interim national primary drinking water regulations the Administrator shall complete a comprehensive review of the variances and exemptions granted (and schedules prescribed pursuant thereto) by the States with primary enforcement responsibility during the one-year period beginning on such effective date. The Administrator shall conduct such subsequent reviews of exemptions and schedules as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this title, but at least one review shall be completed within each 3-year period following the completion of the first review under this paragraph.
(b) Notice of a proposed review shall be published in the
Federal Register.
Such notice shall (1) provide information respecting the location of data and other information respecting the variances and exemptions to be reviewed (including data and other information concerning new scientific matters bearing on such variances and exemptions), and (2) advise of the opportunity to submit comments on the variances and exemptions reviewed and on the need for continuing them. Upon completion of any such review, the Administrator shall publish in the
Federal Register
the results of his review, together with findings responsive to any comments submitted in connection with such review.
§ 142.23
Notice to State.
(a) If the Administrator finds that a State has, in a substantial number of instances, abused its discretion in granting variances or exemptions under section 1415(a) or section 1416(a) of the Act or failed to prescribe schedules in accordance with section 1415(a) or section 1416(b) of the Act, he shall notify the State of his findings. Such notice shall:
(1) Identify each public water system for which the finding was made;
(2) Specify the reasons for the finding; and
(3) As appropriate, propose revocation of specific variances or exemptions, or propose revised schedules for specific public water systems.
(b) The Administrator shall also notify the State of a public hearing to be held on the provisions of the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section. Such notice shall specify the time and location for the hearing. If, upon notification of a finding by the Administrator, the State takes adequate corrective action, the Administrator shall rescind his notice to the State of a public hearing, provided that the Administrator is notified of the corrective action prior to the hearing.
(c) The Administrator shall publish notice of the public hearing in the
Federal Register
and in a newspaper or newspapers of general circulation in the involved State including a summary of the findings made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a statement of the time and location for the hearing, and the address and telephone number of an office at which interested persons may obtain further information concerning the hearing.
(d) Hearings convened pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be conducted before a hearing officer to be designated by the Administrator. The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer in an informal, orderly and expeditious manner. The hearing officer shall have authority to call witnesses, receive oral and written testimony and take such other action as may be necessary to assure the fair and efficient conduct of the hearing. Following the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall forward
the record of the hearing to the Administrator.
(e) Within 180 days after the date notice is given pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator shall:
(1) Rescind the finding for which the notice was given and promptly notify the State of such rescission, or
(2) Promulgate with any modifications as appropriate such revocation and revised schedules proposed in such notice and promptly notify the State of such action.
(f) A revocation or revised schedule shall take effect 90 days after the State is notified under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
§ 142.24
Administrator's rescission.
If, upon notification of a finding by the Administrator under § 142.23, the State takes adequate corrective action before the effective date of the revocation or revised schedule, the Administrator shall rescind the application of his finding to that variance, exemption or schedule.

# Subpart D—Federal Enforcement
§ 142.30
Failure by State to assure enforcement.
(a) The Administrator shall notify a State and the appropriate supplier of water whenever he finds during a period in which the State has primary enforcement responsibility for public water systems that a public water system within such State is not in compliance with any primary drinking water regulation contained in part 141 of this chapter or with any schedule or other requirements imposed pursuant to a variance or exemption granted under section 1415 or 1416 of the Act:
Provided,
That the State will be deemed to have been notified of a violation referred to in a report submitted by the State.
(b) The Administrator shall provide advice and technical assistance to such State and public water system as may be appropriate to bring the system into compliance by the earliest feasible time.
[41 FR 2918, Jan. 20, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 20675, June 2, 1987]
§ 142.31
[Reserved]
§ 142.32
Petition for public hearing.
(a) If the Administrator makes a finding of noncompliance pursuant to § 142.30 with respect to a public water system in a State which has primary enforcement responsibility, the Administrator may, for the purpose of assisting that State in carrying out such responsibility and upon the petition of such State or public water system or persons served by such system, hold, after appropriate notice, public hearings for the purpose of gathering information as described in § 142.33.
(b) A petition for a public hearing pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be filed with the Administrator and shall include the following information:
(1) The name, address and telephone number of the individual or other entity requesting a hearing.
(2) If the petition is filed by a person other than the State or public water system, a statement that the person is served by the system.
(3) A brief statement of information that the requesting person intends to submit at the requested hearing.
(4) The signature of the individual submitting the petition; or, if the petition is filed on behalf of a State, public water system or other entity, the signature of a responsible official of the State or other entity.
§ 142.33
Public hearing.
(a) If the Administrator grants the petition for public hearing, he shall give appropriate public notice of such hearing. Such notice shall be by publication in the
Federal Register
and in a newspaper of general circulation or by other appropriate communications media covering the area served by such public water system.
(b) A hearing officer designated by the Administrator shall gather during the public hearing information from technical or other experts, Federal, State, or other public officials, representatives of the public water system, persons served by the system, and other interested persons on:
(1) The ways in which the system can within the earliest feasible time be brought into compliance, and
(2) The means for the maximum feasible protection of the public health during any period in which such system is not in compliance.
(c) On the basis of the hearing and other available information the Administrator shall issue recommendations which shall be sent to the State and public water system and shall be made available to the public and communications media.
§ 142.34
Entry and inspection of public water systems.
(a) Any supplier of water or other person subject to a national primary drinking water regulation shall, at any time, allow the Administrator, or a designated representative of the Administrator, upon presenting appropriate credentials and a written notice of inspection, to enter any establishment, facility or other property of such supplier or other person to determine whether such supplier or other person has acted or is acting in compliance with the requirements of the Act or subchapter D of this chapter. Such inspection may include inspection, at reasonable times, of records, files, papers, processes, controls and facilities, or testing of any feature of a public water system, including its raw water source.
(b) Prior to entry into any establishment, facility or other property within a State which has primary enforcement responsibility, the Administrator shall notify, in writing, the State agency charged with responsibility for safe drinking water of his intention to make such entry and shall include in his notification a statement of reasons for such entry. The Administrator shall, upon a showing by the State agency that such an entry will be detrimental to the administration of the State's program of primary enforcement responsibility, take such showing into consideration in determining whether to make such entry. The Administrator shall in any event offer the State agency the opportunity of having a representative accompany the Administrator or his representative on such entry.
(c) No State agency which receives notice under paragraph (b) of this section may use the information contained in the notice to inform the person whose property is proposed to be entered of the proposed entry; if a State so uses such information, notice to the agency under paragraph (b) of this section is not required for subsequent inspections of public water systems until such time as the Administrator determines that the agency has provided him satisfactory assurances that it will no longer so use information contained in a notice received under paragraph (b) of this section.

# Subpart E—Variances Issued by the Administrator Under Section 1415(a) of the Act
§ 142.40
Requirements for a variance.
(a) The Administrator may grant one or more variances to any public water system within a State that does not have primary enforcement responsibility from any requirement respecting a maximum contaminant level of an applicable national primary drinking water regulation upon a finding that:
(1) Because of characteristics of the raw water sources which are reasonably available to the system, the system cannot meet the requirements respecting the maximum contaminant levels of such drinking water regulations despite application of the best technology, treatment techniques, or other means, which the Administrator finds are generally available (taking costs into consideration); and
(2) The granting of a variance will not result in an unreasonable risk to the health of persons served by the system.
(b) The Administrator may grant one or more variances to any public water system within a State that does not have primary enforcement responsibility from any requirement of a specified treatment technique of an applicable national primary drinking water regulation upon a finding that the public water system applying for the variance has demonstrated that such treatment technique is not necessary to protect the health of persons because of the nature of the raw water source of such system.
§ 142.41
Variance request.
A supplier of water may request the granting of a variance pursuant to this subpart for a public water system within a State that does not have primary enforcement responsibility by submitting a request for a variance in writing to the Administrator. Suppliers of water may submit a joint request for variances when they seek similar variances under similar circumstances. Any written request for a variance or variances shall include the following information:
(a) The nature and duration of variance requested.
(b) Relevant analytical results of water quality sampling of the system, including results of relevant tests conducted pursuant to the requirements of the national primary drinking water regulations.
(c) For any request made under § 142.40(a):
(1) Explanation in full and evidence of the best available treatment technology and techniques.
(2) Economic and legal factors relevant to ability to comply.
(3) Analytical results of raw water quality relevant to the variance request.
(4) A proposed compliance schedule, including the date each step toward compliance will be achieved. Such schedule shall include as a minimum the following dates:
(i) Date by which arrangement for alternative raw water source or improvement of existing raw water source will be completed.
(ii) Date of initiation of the connection of the alternative raw water source or improvement of existing raw water source.
(iii) Date by which final compliance is to be achieved.
(5) A plan for the provision of safe drinking water in the case of an excessive rise in the contaminant level for which the variance is requested.
(6) A plan for additional interim control measures during the effective period of variance.
(d) For any request made under § 142.40(b), a statement that the system will perform monitoring and other reasonable requirements prescribed by the Administrator as a condition to the variance.
(e) Other information, if any, believed to be pertinent by the applicant.
(f) Such other information as the Administrator may require.
[41 FR 2918, Jan. 20, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 20675, June 2, 1987]
§ 142.42
Consideration of a variance request.
(a) The Administrator shall act on any variance request submitted pursuant to § 142.41 within 90 days of receipt of the request.
(b) In his consideration of whether the public water system is unable to comply with a contaminant level required by the national primary drinking water regulations because of the nature of the raw water source, the Administrator shall consider such factors as the following:
(1) The availability and effectiveness of treatment methods for the contaminant for which the variance is requested.
(2) Cost and other economic considerations such as implementing treatment, improving the quality of the source water or using an alternate source.
(c) A variance may be issued to a public water system on the condition that the public water system install the best technology, treatment techniques, or other means, which the Administrator finds are available (taking costs into consideration) and based upon an evaluation satisfactory to the Administrator that indicates that alternative sources of water are not reasonably available to the public water system.
(d) In his consideration of whether a public water system should be granted a variance to a required treatment technique because such treatment is unnecessary to protect the public health, the Administrator shall consider such factors as the following:
(1) Quality of the water source including water quality data and pertinent sources of pollution.
(2) Source protection measures employed by the public water system.
[41 FR 2918, Jan. 20, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 20675, June 2, 1987; 63 FR 43847, Aug. 14, 1998]
§ 142.43
Disposition of a variance request.
(a) If the Administrator decides to deny the application for a variance, he shall notify the applicant of his intention to issue a denial. Such notice shall include a statement of reasons for the proposed denial, and shall offer the applicant an opportunity to present, within 30 days of receipt of the notice, additional information or argument to the Administrator. The Administrator shall make a final determination on the request within 30 days after receiving any such additional information or argument. If no additional information or argument is submitted by the applicant the application shall be denied.
(b) If the Administrator proposes to grant a variance request submitted pursuant to § 142.41, he shall notify the applicant of his decision in writing. Such notice shall identify the variance, the facility covered, and shall specify the period of time for which the variance will be effective.
(1) For the type of variance specified in § 142.40(a) such notice shall provide that the variance will be terminated when the system comes into compliance with the applicable regulation, and may be terminated upon a finding by the Administrator that the system has failed to comply with any requirements of a final schedule issued pursuant to § 142.44.
(2) For the type of variance specified in § 142.40(b) such notice shall provide that the variance may be terminated at any time upon a finding that the nature of the raw water source is such that the specified treatment technique for which the variance was granted is necessary to protect the health of persons or upon a finding that the public water system has failed to comply with monitoring and other requirements prescribed by the Administrator as a condition to the granting of the variance.
(c) For a variance specified in § 142.40(a)(1) the Administrator shall propose a schedule for:
(1) Compliance (including increments of progress) by the public water system with each contaminant level requirement covered by the variance; and,
(2) Implementation by the public water system of such additional control measures as the Administrator may require for each contaminant covered by the variance.
(d) The proposed schedule for compliance shall specify dates by which steps towards compliance are to be taken, including at the minimum, where applicable:
(1) Date by which arrangement for an alternative raw water source or improvement of existing raw water source will be completed.
(2) Date of initiation of the connection for the alternative raw water source or improvement of the existing raw water source.
(3) Date by which final compliance is to be achieved.
(e) The proposed schedule may, if the public water system has no access to an alternative raw water source, and can effect or anticipate no adequate improvement of the existing raw water source, specify an indefinite time period for compliance until a new and effective treatment technology is developed at which time a new compliance schedule shall be prescribed by the Administrator.
(f) The proposed schedule for implementation of additional interim control measures during the period of variance shall specify interim treatment techniques, methods and equipment, and dates by which steps toward meeting the additional interim control measures are to be met.
(g) The schedule shall be prescribed by the Administrator at the time of granting of the variance, subsequent to provision of opportunity for hearing pursuant to § 142.44.
[41 FR 2918, Jan. 20, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 20675, June 2, 1987]
§ 142.44
Public hearings on variances and schedules.
(a) Before a variance and schedule proposed by the Administrator pursuant to § 142.43 may take effect, the Administrator shall provide notice and opportunity for public hearing on the variance and schedule. A notice given pursuant to the preceding sentence may cover the granting of more than one variance and a hearing held pursuant to such notice shall include each of the variances covered by the notice.
(b) Public notice of an opportunity for hearing on a variance and schedule shall be circulated in a manner designed to inform interested and potentially interested persons of the proposed variance and schedule, and shall include at least the following:
(1) Posting of a notice in the principal post office of each municipality or area served by the public water system, and publishing of a notice in a newspaper or newspapers of general circulation in the area served by the public water system; and
(2) Mailing of a notice to the agency of the State in which the system is located which is responsible for the State's water supply program, and to other appropriate State or local agencies at the Administrator's discretion.
(3) Such notice shall include a summary of the proposed variance and schedule and shall inform interested persons that they may request a public hearing on the proposed variance and schedule.
(c) Requests for hearing may be submitted by any interested person other than a Federal agency. Frivolous or insubstantial requests for hearing may be denied by the Administrator. Requests must be submitted to the Administrator within 30 days after issuance of the public notices provided for in paragraph (b) of this section. Such requests shall include the following information:
(1) The name, address and telephone number of the individual, organization or other entity requesting a hearing;
(2) A brief statement of the interest of the person making the request in the proposed variance and schedule, and of information that the requester intends to submit at such hearing;
(3) The signature of the individual making the request, or, if the request is made on behalf of an organization or other entity, the signature of a responsible official of the organization or other entity.
(d) The Administrator shall give notice in the manner set forth in paragraph (b) of this section of any hearing to be held pursuant to a request submitted by an interested person or on his own motion. Notice of the hearing shall also be sent to the persons requesting the hearing, if any. Notice of the hearing shall include a statement of the purpose of the hearing, information regarding the time and location for the hearing, and the address and telephone number of an office at which interested persons may obtain further information concerning the hearing. At least one hearing location specified in the public notice shall be within the involved State. Notice of hearing shall be given not less than 15 days prior to the time scheduled for the hearing.
(e) A hearing convened pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section shall be conducted before a hearing officer to be designated by the Administrator. The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer in an informal, orderly and expeditious manner. The hearing officer shall have authority to call witnesses, receive oral and written testimony and take such other action as may be necessary to assure the fair and efficient conduct of the hearing. Following the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall forward the record of the hearing to the Administrator.
(f) The variance and schedule shall become effective 30 days after notice of opportunity for hearing is given pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section if no timely request for hearing is submitted and the Administrator does not determine to hold a public hearing on his own motion.
[41 FR 2918, Jan. 20, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 20675, June 2, 1987]
§ 142.45
Action after hearing.
Within 30 days after the termination of the public hearing held pursuant to § 142.44, the Administrator shall, taking into consideration information obtained during such hearing and relevant information, confirm, revise or rescind the proposed variance and schedule.
[52 FR 20675, June 2, 1987]
§ 142.46
Alternative treatment techniques.
The Administrator may grant a variance from any treatment technique requirement of a national primary drinking water regulation to a supplier of water, whether or not the public water
system for which the variance is requested is located in a State which has primary enforcement responsibility, upon a showing from any person that an alternative treatment technique not included in such requirement is at least as efficient in lowering the level of the contaminant with respect to which such requirements was prescribed. A variance under this paragraph shall be conditioned on the use of the alternative treatment technique which is the basis of the variance.

# Subpart F—Exemptions Issued by the Administrator
§ 142.50
Requirements for an exemption.
(a) The Administrator may exempt any public water system within a State that does not have primary enforcement responsibility from any requirement regarding a maximum contaminant level or any treatment technique requirement, or from both, of an applicable national primary drinking water regulation upon a finding that—
(1) Due to compelling factors (which may include economic factors, including qualification of the public water system as a system serving a disadvantaged community pursuant to section 1452(d) of the Act), the public water system is unable to comply with such contaminant level or treatment technique requirement or to implement measures to develop an alternative source of water supply;
(2) The public water system was in operation on the effective date of such contaminant level or treatment technique requirement, or for a public water system that was not in operation by that date, no reasonable alternative source of drinking water is available to such new public water system;
(3) The granting of the exemption will not result in an unreasonable risk to health; and
(4) Management or restructuring changes (or both), as provided in § 142.20(b)(1)(i), cannot reasonably be made that will result in compliance with the applicable national primary drinking water regulation or, if compliance cannot be achieved, improve the quality of the drinking water.
(b) No exemption shall be granted unless the public water system establishes that the public water system is taking all practicable steps to meet the standard; and
(1) The public water system cannot meet the standard without capital improvements which cannot be completed prior to the date established pursuant to Section 1412(b)(10) of the Act;
(2) In the case of a public water system which needs financial assistance for the necessary improvements, the public water system has entered into an agreement to obtain such financial assistance or assistance pursuant to Section 1452 of the Act, or any other Federal or State program that is reasonably likely to be available within the period of the exemption; or
(3) The public water system has entered into an enforceable agreement to become a part of a regional public water system.
(c) A public water system may not receive an exemption under this subpart if the public water system was granted a variance under Section 1415(e) of the Act.
[63 FR 43847, Aug. 14, 1998]
§ 142.51
Exemption request.
A supplier of water may request the granting of an exemption pursuant to this subpart for a public water system within a State that does not have primary enforcement responsibility by submitting a request for exemption in writing to the Administrator. Suppliers of water may submit a joint request for exemptions when they seek similar exemptions under similar circumstances. Any written request for an exemption or exemptions shall include the following information:
(a) The nature and duration of exemption requested.
(b) Relevant analytical results of water quality sampling of the system, including results of relevant tests conducted pursuant to the requirements of the national primary drinking water regulations.
(c) Explanation of the compelling factors such as time or economic factors which prevent such system from achieving compliance.
(d) Other information, if any, believed by the applicant to be pertinent to the application.
(e) A proposed compliance schedule, including the date when each step toward compliance will be achieved.
(f) Such other information as the Administrator may require.
§ 142.52
Consideration of an exemption request.
(a) The Administrator shall act on any exemption request submitted pursuant to § 142.51 within 90 days of receipt of the request.
(b) In his consideration of whether the public water system is unable to comply due to compelling factors, the Administrator shall consider such factors as the following:
(1) Construction, installation, or modification of the treatment equipment or systems.
(2) The time needed to put into operation a new treatment facility to replace an existing system which is not in compliance.
(3) Economic feasibility of compliance.
§ 142.53
Disposition of an exemption request.
(a) If the Administrator decides to deny the application for an exemption, he shall notify the applicant of his intention to issue a denial. Such notice shall include a statement of reasons for the proposed denial, and shall offer the applicant an opportunity to present, within 30 days of receipt of the notice, additional information or argument to the Administrator. The Administrator shall make a final determination on the request within 30 days after receiving any such additional information or argument. If no additional information or argument is submitted by the applicant, the application shall be denied.
(b) If the Administrator grants an exemption request submitted pursuant to § 142.51, he shall notify the applicant of his decision in writing. Such notice shall identify the facility covered, and shall specify the termination date of the exemption. Such notice shall provide that the exemption will be terminated when the system comes into compliance with the applicable regulation, and may be terminated upon a finding by the Administrator that the system has failed to comply with any requirements of a final schedule issued pursuant to § 142.55.
(c) The Administrator shall propose a schedule for:
(1) Compliance (including increments of progress or measures to develop an alternative source of water supply) by the public water system with each contaminant level requirement or treatment technique requirement with respect to which the exemption was granted; and
(2) Implementation by the public water system of such control measures as the Administrator may require for each contaminant covered by the exemption.
(d) The schedule shall be prescribed by the Administrator at the time the exemption is granted, subsequent to provision of opportunity for hearing pursuant to § 142.54.
[41 FR 2918, Jan. 20, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 20675, June 2, 1987; 63 FR 43848, Aug. 14, 1998]
§ 142.54
Public hearings on exemption schedules.
(a) Before a schedule proposed by the Administrator pursuant to § 142.53 may take effect, the Administrator shall provide notice and opportunity for public hearing on the schedule. A notice given pursuant to the preceding sentence may cover the proposal of more than one such schedule and a hearing held pursuant to such notice shall include each of the schedules covered by the notice.
(b) Public notice of an opportunity for hearing on an exemption schedule shall be circulated in a manner designed to inform interested and potentially interested persons of the proposed schedule, and shall include at least the following:
(1) Posting of a notice in the principal post office of each municipality or area served by the public water system, and publishing of a notice in a newspaper or newspapers of general circulation in the area served by the public water system.
(2) Mailing of a notice to the agency of the State in which the system is located which is responsible for the State's water supply program and to
other appropriate State or local agencies at the Administrator's discretion.
(3) Such notices shall include a summary of the proposed schedule and shall inform interested persons that they may request a public hearing on the proposed schedule.
(c) Requests for hearing may be submitted by any interested person other than a Federal agency. Frivolous or insubstantial requests for hearing may be denied by the Administrator. Requests must be submitted to the Administrator within 30 days after issuance of the public notices provided for in paragraph (b) of this section. Such requests shall include the following information:
(1) The name, address and telephone number of the individual, organization or other entity requesting a hearing;
(2) A brief statement of the interest of the person making the request in the proposed schedule and of information that the requesting person intends to submit at such hearing; and
(3) The signature of the individual making the request, or, if the request is made on behalf of an organization or other entity, the signature of a responsible official of the organization or other entity.
(d) The Administrator shall give notice in the manner set forth in paragraph (b) of this section of any hearing to be held pursuant to a request submitted by an interested person or on his own motion. Notice of the hearing shall also be sent to the person requesting the hearing, if any. Notice of the hearing shall include a statement of the purpose of the hearing, information regarding the time and location of the hearing, and the address and telephone number of an office at which interested persons may obtain further information concerning the hearing. At least one hearing location specified in the public notice shall be within the involved State. Notice of the hearing shall be given not less than 15 days prior to the time scheduled for the hearing.
(e) A hearing convened pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section shall be conducted before a hearing officer to be designated by the Administrator. The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer in an informal, orderly and expeditious manner. The hearing officer shall have authority to call witnesses, receive oral and written testimony and take such action as may be necessary to assure the fair and efficient conduct of the hearing. Following the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall forward the record of the hearing to the Administrator.
[41 FR 2918, Jan. 20, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 20675, June 2, 1987]
§ 142.55
Final schedule.
(a) Within 30 days after the termination of the public hearing pursuant to § 142.54, the Administrator shall, taking into consideration information obtained during such hearing, revise the proposed schedule as necessary and prescribe the final schedule for compliance and interim measures for the public water system granted an exemption under § 142.52.
(b) Such schedule must require compliance with each contaminant level and treatment technique requirement with respect to which the exemption was granted as expeditiously as practicable but not later than 3 years after the otherwise applicable compliance date established in section 1412(b)(10) of the Act.
(c) [Reserved]
[41 FR 2918, Jan. 20, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 20675, June 2, 1987; 63 FR 43848, Aug. 14, 1998]
§ 142.56
Extension of date for compliance.
In the case of a public water system which serves a population of not more than 3,300 persons and which needs financial assistance for the necessary improvements, an exemption granted under § 142.50(b) (1) or (2) may be renewed for one or more additional 2-year periods, but not to exceed a total of 6 additional years, if the public water system establishes that the public water system is taking all practicable steps to meet the requirements of section 1416(b)(2)(B) of the Act and the established compliance schedule.
[63 FR 43848, Aug. 14, 1998]
§ 142.57
Bottled water, point-of-use, and point-of-entry devices.
(a) A State may require a public water system to use bottled water, point-of-use devices, or point-of-entry devices as a condition of granting an exemption from the requirements of §§ 141.61 (a) and (c), and 141.62 of this chapter.
(b) Public water systems using bottled water as a condition of obtaining an exemption from the requirements of §§ 141.61 (a) and (c) and 141.62(b) must meet the requirements in § 142.62(g).
(c) Public water systems that use point-of-use or point-of-entry devices as a condition for receiving an exemption must meet the requirements in § 141.62(h).
[56 FR 3596, Jan. 30, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 30280, July 1, 1991]

# Subpart G—Identification of Best Technology, Treatment Techniques or Other Means Generally Available
§ 142.60
Variances from the maximum contaminant level for total trihalomethanes.
(a) The Administrator, pursuant to section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act, hereby identifies the following as the best technology, treatment techiques or other means generally available for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant level for total trihalomethanes (§ 141.12(c)):
(1) Use of chloramines as an alternate or supplemental disinfectant or oxidant.
(2) Use of chlorine dioxide as an alternate or supplemental disinfectant or oxidant.
(3) Improved existing clarification for THM precursor reduction.
(4) Moving the point of chlorination to reduce TTHM formation and, where necessary, substituting for the use of chlorine as a pre-oxidant chloramines, chlorine dioxide or potassium permanganate.
(5) Use of powdered activated carbon for THM precursor or TTHM reduction seasonally or intermittently at dosages not to exceed 10 mg/L on an annual average basis.
(b) The Administrator in a state that does not have primary enforcement responsibility or a state with primary enforcement responsibility (primacy state) that issues variances shall require a community water system to install and/or use any treatment method identified in § 142.60(a) as a condition for granting a variance unless the Administrator or primacy state determines that such treatment method identified in § 142.60(a) is not available and effective for TTHM control for the system. A treatment method shall not be considered to be “available and effective” for an individual system if the treatment method would not be technically appropriate and technically feasible for that system or would only result in a marginal reduction in TTHM for the system. If, upon application by a system for a variance, the Administrator or primacy state that issues variances determines that none of the treatment methods identified in § 142.60(a) is available and effective for the system, that system shall be entitled to a variance under the provisions of section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act. The Administrator's or primacy state's determination as to the availability and effectiveness of such treatment methods shall be based upon studies by the system and other relevant information. If a system submits information intending to demonstrate that a treatment method is not available and effective for TTHM control for that system, the Administrator or primacy state shall make a finding whether this information supports a decision that such treatment method is not available and effective for that system before requiring installation and/or use of such treatment method.
(c) Pursuant to § 142.43 (c) through (g) or corresponding state regulations, the Administrator or primacy state that issues variances shall issue a schedule of compliance that may require the system being granted the variance to examine the following treatment methods (1) to determine the probability that any of these methods will significantly reduce the level of TTHM for that system, and (2) if such probability exists, to determine whether any of these methods are technically feasible and economically reasonable, and that
the TTHM reductions obtained will be commensurate with the costs incurred with the installation and use of such treatment methods for that system:
Introduction of off-line water storage for THM precursor reduction.
Aeration for TTHM reduction, where geographically and environmentally appropriate.
Introduction of clarification where not currently practiced.
Consideration of alternative sources of raw water.
Use of ozone as an alternate or supplemental disinfectant or oxidant.
(d) If the Administrator or primacy state that issues variances determines that a treatment method identified in § 142.60(c) is technically feasible, economically reasonable and will achieve TTHM reductions commensurate with the costs incurred with the installation and/or use of such treatment method for the system, the Administrator or primacy state shall require the system to install and/or use that treatment method in connection with a compliance schedule issued under the provisions of section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act. The Administrator's or primacy state's determination shall be based upon studies by the system and other relevant information. In no event shall the Administrator require a system to install and/or use a treatment method not described in § 142.60 (a) or (c) to obtain or maintain a variance from the TTHM Rule or in connection with any variance compliance schedule.
[48 FR 8414, Feb. 28, 1983]
§ 142.61
Variances from the maximum contaminant level for fluoride.
(a) The Administrator, pursuant to section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act, hereby identifies the following as the best technology, treatment techniques or other means generally available for achieving compliance with the Maximum Contaminant Level for fluoride.
(1) Activated alumina absorption, centrally applied
(2) Reverse osmosis, centrally applied
(b) The Administrator in a state that does not have primary enforcement responsibility or a state with primary enforcement responsibility (primacy state) that issues variances shall require a community water system to install and/or use any treatment method identified in § 142.61(a) as a condition for granting a variance unless the Administrator or the primacy state determines that such treatment method identified in § 142.61(a) as a condition for granting a variance is not available and effective for fluoride control for the system. A treatment method shall not be considered to be “available and effective” for an individual system if the treatment method would not be technically appropriate and technically feasible for that system. If, upon application by a system for a variance, the Administrator or primacy state that issues variances determines that none of the treatment methods identified in § 142.61(a) are available and effective for the system, that system shall be entitled to a variance under the provisions of section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act. The Administrator's or primacy state's determination as to the availability and effectiveness of such treatment methods shall be based upon studies by the system and other relevant information. If a system submits information to demonstrate that a treatment method is not available and effective for fluoride control for that system, the Administrator or primacy state shall make a finding whether this information supports a decision that such treatment method is not available and effective for that system before requiring installation and/or use of such treatment method.
(c) Pursuant to § 142.43 (c)-(g) or corresponding state regulations, the Administrator or primacy state that issues variances shall issue a schedule of compliance that may require the system being granted the variance to examine the following treatment methods (1) to determine the probability that any of these methods will significantly reduce the level of fluoride for that system, and (2) if such probability exists, to determine whether any of these methods are technically feasible and economically reasonable, and that the fluoride reductions obtained will be commensurate with the costs incurred with the installation and use of such treatment methods for that system:
(1) Modification of lime softening;
(2) Alum coagulation;
(3) Electrodialysis;
(4) Anion exchange resins;
(5) Well field management;
(6) Alternate source;
(7) Regionalization.
(d) If the Administrator or primary state that issues variances determines that a treatment method identified in § 142.61(c) or other treatment method is technically feasible, economically reasonable, and will achieve fluoride reductions commensurate with the costs incurred with the installation and/or use of such treatment method for the system, the Administrator or primacy state shall require the system to install and/or use that treatment method in connection with a compliance schedule issued under the provisions of section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act. The Administrator's or primacy state's determination shall be based upon studies by the system and other relevant information.
[51 FR 11411, Apr. 2, 1986]
§ 142.62
Variances and exemptions from the maximum contaminant levels for organic and inorganic chemicals.
(a) The Administrator, pursuant to section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act, hereby identifies the technologies listed in tables 1 and 2 to this paragraph (a) as the best available technology, treatment techniques, or other means available for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for the organic chemicals, including per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), listed in § 141.61(a) and (c) of this chapter, for the purposes of issuing variances and exemptions. A list of small system compliance technologies for the regulated PFAS for the purposes of providing variances and exemptions is provided in table 3 to this paragraph (a); for the purpose of this paragraph (a), small system is defined as a system serving 10,000 persons or fewer.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)—BATs for PFAS Listed in § 141.61(
c
)
Contaminant
BAT
Hazard Index PFAS (HFPO-DA, PFBS, PFHxS, and PFNA)
Anion exchange, GAC, reverse osmosis, nanofiltration.
HFPO-DA
Anion exchange, GAC, reverse osmosis, nanofiltration.
PFHxS
Anion exchange, GAC, reverse osmosis, nanofiltration.
PFNA
Anion exchange, GAC, reverse osmosis, nanofiltration.
PFOA
Anion exchange, GAC, reverse osmosis, nanofiltration.
PFOS
Anion exchange, GAC, reverse osmosis, nanofiltration.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
a
)—BATs for Other Synthetic Organic Contaminants Listed in § 141.61(
c
) and Volatile Organic Chemicals Listed in § 141.61(
a
)
Contaminant
Best available technologies
PTA
1
GAC
2
OX
3
(1) Benzene
X
X
(2) Carbon tetrachloride
X
X
(3) 1,2-Dichloroethane
X
X
(4) Trichloroethylene
X
X
(5) para-Dichlorobenzene
X
X
(6) 1,1-Dichloroethylene
X
X
(7) 1,1,1-Trichloroethane
X
X
(8) Vinyl chloride
X
(9) cis-1,2-Dichloroethylene
X
X
(10) 1,2-Dichloropropane
X
X
(11) Ethylbenzene
X
X
(12) Monochlorobenzene
X
X
(13) o-Dichlorobenzene
X
X
(14) Styrene
X
X
(15) Tetrachloroethylene
X
X
(16) Toluene
X
X
(17) trans-1,2-Dichloroethylene
X
X
(18) Xylense (total)
X
X
(19) Alachlor
X
(20) Aldicarb
X
(21) Aldicarb sulfoxide
X
(22) Aldicarb sulfone
X
(23) Atrazine
X
(24) Carbofuran
X
(25) Chlordane
X
(26) Dibromochloropropane
X
X
(27) 2,4-D
X
(28) Ethylene dibromide
X
X
(29) Heptachlor
X
(30) Heptachlor epoxide
X
(31) Lindane
X
(32) Methoxychlor
X
(33) PCBs
X
(34) Pentachlorophenol
X
(35) Toxaphene
X
(36) 2,4,5-TP
X
(37) Benzo[a]pyrene
X
(38) Dalapon
X
(39) Dichloromethane
X
(40) Di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate
X
X
(41) Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate
X
(42) Dinoseb
X
(43) Diquat
X
(44) Endothall
X
(45) Endrin
X
(46) Glyphosate
X
(47) Hexachlorobenzene
X
(48) Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
X
X
(49) Oxamyl (Vydate)
X
(50) Picloram
X
(51) Simazine
X
(52) 1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene
X
X
(53) 1,1,2-Trichloroethane
X
X
(54) 2,3,7,8-TCDD (Dioxin)
X
1
Packed Tower Aeration.
2
Granular Activated Carbon.
3
Oxidation (Chlorination or Ozonation).
Table 3 to Paragraph (
a
)—List of Small System Compliance Technologies (SSCTs)
1
for PFAS Listed in § 141.61(
c
)
Small system
compliance technologies
Affordable for listed small system categories
2
Anion Exchange
All size categories.
GAC
All size categories.
Reverse Osmosis,
3
Nanofiltration
3
3,301-10,000.
1
Section 1412(b)(4)(E)(ii) of SDWA specifies that SSCTs must be affordable and technically feasible for small systems.
2
The Act (ibid.) specifies three categories of small systems: (i) those serving 25 or more, but fewer than 501, (ii) those serving more than 500, but fewer than 3,301, and (iii) those serving more than 3,300, but fewer than 10,001.
3
Technologies reject a large volume of water and may not be appropriate for areas where water quantity may be an issue.
(b) The Administrator, pursuant to section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act, hereby identifies the following as the best technology, treatment techniques, or other means available for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for the inorganic chemicals listed in § 141.62:
BAT for Inorganic Compounds Listed in § 141.62(
b
)
Chemical name
BAT(s)
Antimony
2,7
Arsenic
4
5
1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 9, 12
Asbestos
2,3,8
Barium
5,6,7,9
Beryllium
1,2,5,6,7
Cadmium
2,5,6,7
Chromium
2,5,6
2
,7
Cyanide
5,7,10
Mercury
2
1
,4,6
1
,7
1
Nickel
5,6,7
Nitrite
5,7,9
Nitrate
5,7
Selenium
1,2
3
,6,7,9
Thallium
1,5
1
BAT only if influent Hg concentrations ≤10µg/1.
2
BAT for Chromium III only.
3
BAT for Selenium IV only.
4
BATs for Arsenic V. Pre-oxidation may be required to convert Arsenic III to Arsenic V.
5
To obtain high removals, iron to arsenic ratio must be at least 20:1.

# Key to BATS in Table
1 = Activated Alumina
2 = Coagulation/Filtration (not BAT for systems
500 service connections)
3 = Direct and Diatomite Filtration
4 = Granular Activated Carbon
5 = Ion Exchange
6 = Lime Softening (not BAT for systems
500 service connections)
7 = Reverse Osmosis
8 = Corrosion Control
9 = Electrodialysis
10 = Chlorine
11 = Ultraviolet
12 = Oxidation/Filtration
(c) A State shall require community water systems and non-transient, non-community water systems to install and/or use any treatment method identified in § 142.62 (a) and (b) as a condition for granting a variance except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. If, after the system's installation of the treatment method, the system cannot meet the MCL, that system shall be eligible for a variance under the provisions of section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act.
(d) If a system can demonstrate through comprehensive engineering assessments, which may include pilot plant studies, that the treament methods identified in § 142.62 (a) and (b) would only achieve a
de minimis
reduction in contaminants, the State may issue a schedule of compliance that requires the system being granted the variance to examine other treatment methods as a condition of obtaining the variance.
(e) If the State determines that a treatment method identified in paragraph (d) of this section is technically feasible, the Administrator or primacy State may require the system to install and/or use that treatment method in connection with a compliance schedule issued under the provisions of section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act. The State's determination shall be based upon studies by the system and other relevant information.
(f) The State may require a public water system to use bottled water, point-of-use devices, point-of-entry devices or other means as a condition of granting a variance or an exemption from the requirements of §§ 141.61 (a) and (c) and 141.62, to avoid an unreasonable risk to health. The State may require a public water system to use bottled water and point-of-use devices or other means,
but not point-of-entry devices,
as a condition for granting an exemption from corrosion control treatment requirements for lead and copper in §§ 141.81 and 141.82 to avoid an unreasonable risk to health. The State may require a public water system to use point-of-entry devices as a condition for granting an exemption from the source water and lead service line replacement requirements for lead and copper under § 141.83 or § 141.84 to avoid an unreasonable risk to health.
(g) Public water systems that use bottled water as a condition for receiving a variance or an exemption from the requirements of §§ 141.61 (a) and (c) and 141.62, or an exemption from the requirements of §§ 141.81-141.84 must meet the requirements specified in either paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) and paragraph (g)(3) of this section:
(1) The Administrator or primacy State must require and approve a monitoring program for bottled water. The public water system must develop and put in place a monitoring program that provides reasonable assurances that the bottled water meets all MCLs. The public water system must monitor a representative sample of the bottled water for all contaminants regulated under §§ 141.61 (a) and (c) and 141.62 during the first three-month period that it supplies the bottled water to the public, and annually thereafter. Results of the monitoring program shall be provided to the State annually.
(2) The public water system must receive a certification from the bottled water company that the bottled water supplied has been taken from an “approved source” as defined in 21 CFR 129.3(a); the bottled water company has conducted monitoring in accordance with 21 CFR 129.80(g) (1) through (3); and the bottled water does not exceed any MCLs or quality limits as set out in 21 CFR 165.110, part 110, and part 129. The public water system shall provide the certification to the State the first quarter after it supplies bottled water and annually thereafter. At the State's option a public water system may satisfy the requirements of this subsection if an approved monitoring program is already in place in another State.
(3) The public water system is fully responsible for the provision of sufficient quantities of bottled water to every person supplied by the public
water system via door-to-door bottled water delivery.
(h) Public water systems that use point-of-use or point-of-entry devices as a condition for obtaining a variance or an exemption from NPDWRs must meet the following requirements:
(1) It is the responsibility of the public water system to operate and maintain the point-of-use and/or point-of-entry treatment system.
(2) Before point-of-use or point-of-entry devices are installed, the public water system must obtain the approval of a monitoring plan which ensures that the devices provide health protection equivalent to that provided by central water treatment.
(3) The public water system must apply effective technology under a State-approved plan. The microbiological safety of the water must be maintained at all times.
(4) The State must require adequate certification of performance, field testing, and, if not included in the certification process, a rigorous engineering design review of the point-of-use and/or point-of-entry devices.
(5) The design and application of the point-of-use and/or point-of-entry devices must consider the potential for increasing concentrations of heterotrophic bacteria in water treated with activated carbon. It may be necessary to use frequent backwashing, post-contactor disinfection, and Heterotrophic Plate Count monitoring to ensure that the microbiological safety of the water is not compromised.
(6) The State must be assured that buildings connected to the system have sufficient point-of-use or point-of-entry devices that are properly installed, maintained, and monitored such that all consumers will be protected.
(7) In requiring the use of a point-of-entry device as a condition for granting an exemption from the treatment requirements for lead and copper under § 141.83 or § 141.84, the State must be assured that use of the device will not cause increased corrosion of lead and copper bearing materials located between the device and the tap that could increase contaminant levels at the tap.
[56 FR 3596, Jan. 30, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 26563, June 7, 1991; 57 FR 31848, July 17, 1992; 59 FR 33864, June 30, 1994; 59 FR 34325, July 1, 1994; 66FR 7066, Jan. 22, 2001; 69 FR 38857, June 29, 2004; 89 FR 32756, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 142.63
Variances and exemptions from the maximum contaminant level for total coliforms.
(a) No variances or exemptions from the maximum contaminant level in § 141.63 of this chapter are permitted.
(b) EPA has stayed this section as it relates to the total coliform MCL of § 141.63(a) of this chapter for systems that demonstrate to the State that the violation of the total coliform MCL is due to a persistent growth of total coliforms in the distribution system rather than fecal or pathogenic contamination, a treatment lapse or deficiency, or a problem in the operation or maintenance of the distribution system. This stay is applicable until March 31, 2016, at which time the total coliform MCL is no longer applicable.
[54 FR 27568, June 29, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 1557, Jan. 15, 1991; 78 FR 10365, Feb. 13, 2013]
§ 142.64
Variances and exemptions from the requirements of part 141, subpart H—Filtration and Disinfection.
(a) No variances from the requirements in part 141, subpart H are permitted.
(b) No exemptions from the requirements in § 141.72 (a)(3) and (b)(2) to provide disinfection are permitted.
[54 FR 27540, June 29, 1989]
§ 142.65
Variances and exemptions from the maximum contaminant levels for radionuclides.
(a)(1) Variances and exemptions from the maximum contaminant levels for combined radium-226 and radium-228, uranium, gross alpha particle activity (excluding Radon and Uranium), and beta particle and photon radioactivity.
(i) The Administrator, pursuant to section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act, hereby identifies the following as the best available technology, treatment techniques, or other means available for
achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for the radionuclides listed in § 141.66(b), (c), (d), and (e) of this chapter, for the purposes of issuing variances and exemptions, as shown in Table A to this paragraph.
Table A—BAT for Radionuclides Listed in § 141.66
Contaminant
BAT
Combined radium-226 and radium-228
Ion exchange, reverse osmosis, lime softening.
Uranium
Ion exchange, reverse osmosis, lime softening, coagulation/filtration.
Gross alpha particle activity (excluding radon and uranium)
Reverse osmosis.
Beta particle and photon radioactivity
Ion exchange, reverse osmosis.
(ii) In addition, the Administrator hereby identifies the following as the best available technology, treatment techniques, or other means available for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for the radionuclides listed in § 141.66(b), (c), (d), and (e) of this chapter, for the purposes of issuing variances and exemptions to small drinking water systems, defined here as those serving 10,000 persons or fewer, as shown in Table C to this paragraph.
Table B—List of Small Systems Compliance Technologies for Radionuclides and Limitations to Use
Unit technologies
Limitations (see footnotes)
Operator skill level required
1
Raw water quality range
considerations
1
1. Ion exchange (IE)
(
a
)
Intermediate
All ground waters.
2. Point of use (POU
2
) IE
(
b
)
Basic
All ground waters.
3. Reverse osmosis (RO)
(
c
)
Advanced
Surface waters usually require pre-filtration.
4. POU
2
RO
(
b
)
Basic
Surface waters usually require pre-filtration.
5. Lime softening
(
d
)
Advanced
All waters.
6. Green sand filtration
(
e
)
Basic.
7. Co-precipitation with barium sulfate
(
f
)
Intermediate to Advanced
Ground waters with suitable water quality.
8. Electrodialysis/electrodialysis reversal
Basic to Intermediate
All ground waters.
9. Pre-formed hydrous manganese oxide filtration
(
g
)
Intermediate
All ground waters.
10. Activated alumina
(
a
), (
h
)
Advanced
All ground waters; competing anion concentrations may affect regeneration frequency.
11. Enhanced coagulation/filtration
(
i
)
Advanced
Can treat a wide range of water qualities.
1
National Research Council (NRC). Safe Water from Every Tap: Improving Water Service to Small Communities. National Academy Press. Washington, D.C. 1997.
2
A POU, or “point-of-use” technology is a treatment device installed at a single tap used for the purpose of reducing contaminants in drinking water at that one tap. POU devices are typically installed at the kitchen tap. See the April 21, 2000 NODA for more details.
Limitations Footnotes: Technologies for Radionuclides:
a
The regeneration solution contains high concentrations of the contaminant ions. Disposal options should be carefully considered before choosing this technology.
b
When POU devices are used for compliance, programs for long-term operation, maintenance, and monitoring must be provided by water utility to ensure proper performance.
c
Reject water disposal options should be carefully considered before choosing this technology. See other RO limitations described in the SWTR compliance technologies table.
d
The combination of variable source water quality and the complexity of the water chemistry involved may make this technology too complex for small surface water systems.
e
Removal efficiencies can vary depending on water quality.
f
This technology may be very limited in application to small systems. Since the process requires static mixing, detention basins, and filtration, it is most applicable to systems with sufficiently high sulfate levels that already have a suitable filtration treatment train in place.
g
This technology is most applicable to small systems that already have filtration in place.
h
Handling of chemicals required during regeneration and pH adjustment may be too difficult for small systems without an adequately trained operator.
i
Assumes modification to a coagulation/filtration process already in place.
Table C—BAT for Small Community Water Systems for the Radionuclides Listed in § 141.66
Contaminant
Compliance technologies
1
for system size categories (population served)
25-500
501-3,300
3,300-10,000
Combined radium-226 and radium-228
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
Gross alpha particle activity
3, 4
3, 4
3, 4.
Beta particle activity and photon activity
1, 2, 3, 4
1, 2, 3, 4
1, 2, 3, 4.
Uranium
1, 2, 4, 10, 11
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 11
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 11.
1
Note:
Numbers correspond to those technologies found listed in the table B to this paragraph.
(2) A State shall require community water systems to install and/or use any treatment technology identified in Table A to this section, or in the case of small water systems (those serving 10,000 persons or fewer), Table B and Table C of this section, as a condition for granting a variance except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If, after the system's installation of the treatment technology, the system cannot meet the MCL, that system shall be eligible for a variance under the provisions of section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act.
(3) If a community water system can demonstrate through comprehensive engineering assessments, which may include pilot plant studies, that the treatment technologies identified in this section would only achieve a
de minimus
reduction in the contaminant level, the State may issue a schedule of compliance that requires the system being granted the variance to examine other treatment technologies as a condition of obtaining the variance.
(4) If the State determines that a treatment technology identified under paragraph (a)(3) of this section is technically feasible, the Administrator or primacy State may require the system to install and/or use that treatment technology in connection with a compliance schedule issued under the provisions of section 1415(a)(1)(A) of the Act. The State's determination shall be based upon studies by the system and other relevant information.
(5) The State may require a community water system to use bottled water, point-of-use devices, point-of-entry devices or other means as a condition of granting a variance or an exemption from the requirements of § 141.66 of this chapter, to avoid an unreasonable risk to health.
(6) Community water systems that use bottled water as a condition for receiving a variance or an exemption from the requirements of § 141.66 of this chapter must meet the requirements specified in either § 142.62(g)(1) or § 142.62(g)(2) and (g)(3).
(7) Community water systems that use point-of-use or point-of-entry devices as a condition for obtaining a variance or an exemption from the radionuclides NPDWRs must meet the conditions in § 142.62(h)(1) through (h)(6).
(b) [Reserved]
[65 FR 76751, Dec. 7, 2000]

# Subpart H—Indian Tribes

# Source:
53 FR 37411, Sept. 26, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 142.72
Requirements for Tribal eligibility.
The Administrator is authorized to treat an Indian tribe as eligible to apply for primary enforcement for the Public Water System Program and the authority to waive the mailing requirements of § 141.155(a) if it meets the following criteria:
(a) The Indian Tribe is recognized by the Secretary of the Interior.
(b) The Indian Tribe has a tribal governing body which is currently “carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers” over a defined area, (
i.e.,
is currently performing governmental functions to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the affected population within a defined geographic area).
(c) The Indian Tribe demonstrates that the functions to be performed in regulating the public water systems that the applicant intends to regulate
are within the area of the Indian Tribal government's jurisdiction.
(d) The Indian Tribe is reasonably expected to be capable, in the Administrator's judgment, of administering (in a manner consistent with the terms and purposes of the Act and all applicable regulations) an effective Public Water System program.
[53 FR 37411, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 64344, Dec. 14, 1994; 63 FR 44535, Aug. 19, 1998]
§ 142.76
Request by an Indian Tribe for a determination of eligibility.
An Indian Tribe may apply to the Administrator for a determination that it meets the criteria of section 1451 of the Act. The application shall be concise and describe how the Indian Tribe will meet each of the requirements of § 142.72. The application shall consist of the following information:
(a) A statement that the Tribe is recognized by the Secretary of the Interior.
(b) A descriptive statement demonstrating that the Tribal governing body is currently carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers over a defined area. The statement should:
(1) Describe the form of the Tribal government;
(2) Describe the types of governmental functions currently performed by the Tribal governing body such as, but not limited to, the exercise of police powers affecting (or relating to) the health, safety, and welfare of the affected population; taxation; and the exercise of the power of eminent domain; and
(3) Identify the sources of the Tribal government's authority to carry out the governmental functions currently being performed.
(c) A map or legal description of the area over which the Indian Tribe asserts jurisdiction; a statement by the Tribal Attorney General (or equivalent official) which describes the basis for the Tribe's jurisdictional assertion (including the nature or subject matter of the asserted jurisdiction); a copy of those documents such as Tribal constitutions, by-laws, charters, executive orders, codes, ordinances, and/or resolutions which the Tribe believes are relevant to its assertions regarding jurisdiction; and a description of the locations of the public water systems the Tribe proposes to regulate.
(d) A narrative statement describing the capability of the Indian Tribe to administer an effective Public Water System program. The narrative statement should include:
(1) A description of the Indian Tribe's previous management experience which may include, the administration of programs and services authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.
), the Indian Mineral Development Act (25 U.S.C. 2101
et seq.
), or the Indian Sanitation Facilities Construction Activity Act (42 U.S.C. 2004a).
(2) A list of existing environmental or public health programs administered by the Tribal governing body and a copy of related Tribal laws, regulations and policies.
(3) A description of the Indian Tribe's accounting and procurement systems.
(4) A description of the entity (or entities) which exercise the executive, legislative, and judicial functions of the Tribal government.
(5) A description of the existing, or proposed, agency of the Indian Tribe which will assume primary enforcement responsibility, including a description of the relationship between owners/operators of the public water systems and the agency.
(6) A description of the technical and administrative capabilities of the staff to administer and manage an effective Public Water System Program or a plan which proposes how the Tribe will acquire additional administrative and/or technical expertise. The plan must address how the Tribe will obtain the funds to acquire the additional administrative and technical expertise.
(e) The Administrator may, in his discretion, request further documentation necessary to support a Tribe's eligibility.
(f) If the Administrator has previously determined that a Tribe has met the prerequisites that make it eligible to assume a role similar to that of a state as provided by statute under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act, or the Clean Air Act, then
that Tribe need provide only that information unique to the Public Water System program (paragraphs (c), (d)(5) and (6) of this section).
[53 FR 37411, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 64344, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 142.78
Procedure for processing an Indian Tribe's application.
(a) The Administrator shall process a completed application of an Indian Tribe in a timely manner. He shall promptly notify the Indian Tribe of receipt of the application.
(b) A tribe that meets the requirements of § 141.72 of this chapter is eligible to apply for development grants and primacy enforcement responsibility for a Public Water System Program and associated funding under section 1443(a) of the Act and for primary enforcement responsibility for public water systems under section 1413 of the Act and for the authority to waive the mailing requirement of § 141.155(a) of this chapter.
[53 FR 37411 Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 64345, Dec. 14, 1994; 63 FR 71376, Dec. 28, 1998]

# Subpart I—Administrator's Review of State Decisions that Implement Criteria Under Which Filtration Is Required

# Source:
54 FR 27540, June 29, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 142.80
Review procedures.
(a) The Administrator may initiate a comprehensive review of the decisions made by States with primary enforcement responsibility to determine, in accordance with § 141.71 of this chapter, if public water systems using surface water sources must provide filtration treatment. The Administrator shall complete this review within one year of its initiation and shall schedule subsequent reviews as (s)he deems necessary.
(b) EPA shall publish notice of a proposed review in the
Federal Register.
Such notice must:
(1) Provide information regarding the location of data and other information pertaining to the review to be conducted and other information including new scientific matter bearing on the application of the criteria for avoiding filtration; and
(2) Advise the public of the opportunity to submit comments.
(c) Upon completion of any such review, the Administrator shall notify each State affected by the results of the review and shall make the results available to the public.
§ 142.81
Notice to the State.
(a) If the Administrator finds through periodic review or other available information that a State (1) has abused its discretion in applying the criteria for avoiding filtration under § 141.71 of this chapter in determining that a system does not have to provide filtration treatment, or (2) has failed to prescribe compliance schedules for those systems which must provide filtration in accordance with section 1412(b)(7)(C)(ii) of the Act, (s)he shall notify the State of these findings. Such notice shall:
(1) Identify each public water system for which the Administrator finds the State has abused its discretion;
(2) Specify the reasons for the finding;
(3) As appropriate, propose that the criteria of § 141.71 of this chapter be applied properly to determine the need for a public water system to provide filtration treatment or propose a revised schedule for compliance by the public water system with the filtration treatment requirements;
(b) The Administrator shall also notify the State that a public hearing is to be held on the provisions of the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section. Such notice shall specify the time and location of the hearing. If, upon notification of a finding by the Administrator that the State has abused its discretion under § 141.71 of this chapter, the State takes corrective action satisfactory to the Administrator, the Administrator may rescind the notice to the State of a public hearing.
(c) The Administrator shall publish notice of the public hearing in the
Federal Register
and in a newspaper of general circulation in the involved State, including a summary of the findings made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a statement of the time
and location for the hearing, and the address and telephone number of an office at which interested persons may obtain further information concerning the hearing.
(d) Hearings convened pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be conducted before a hearing officer to be designated by the Administrator. The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer in an informal, orderly, and expeditious manner. The hearing officer shall have the authority to call witnesses, receive oral and written testimony, and take such other action as may be necessary to ensure the fair and efficient conduct of the hearing. Following the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer may make a recommendation to the Administrator based on the testimony presented at the hearing and shall forward any such recommendation and the record of the hearing to the Administrator.
(e) Within 180 days after the date notice is given pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator shall:
(1) Rescind the notice to the State of a public hearing if the State takes corrective action satisfactory to the Administrator; or
(2) Rescind the finding for which the notice was given and promptly notify the State of such rescission; or
(3) Uphold the finding for which the notice was given. In this event, the Administrator shall revoke the State's decision that filtration was not required or revoke the compliance schedule approved by the State, and promulgate, as appropriate, with any appropriate modifications, a revised filtration decision or compliance schedule and promptly notify the State of such action.
(f) Revocation of a State's filtration decision or compliance schedule and/or promulgation of a revised filtration decision or compliance schedule shall take effect 90 days after the State is notified under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Variances for Small System

# Source:
63 FR 43848, Aug. 14, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 142.301
What is a small system variance?
Section 1415(e) of the Act authorizes the issuance of variances from the requirement to comply with a maximum contaminant level or treatment technique to systems serving fewer than 10,000 persons. The purpose of this subpart is to provide the procedures and criteria for obtaining these variances. The regulations in this subpart shall take effect on September 14, 1998.
§ 142.302
Who can issue a small system variance?
A small system variance under this subpart may only be issued by either:
(a) A State that is exercising primary enforcement responsibility under Subpart B for public water systems under the State's jurisdiction; or
(b) The Administrator, for a public water system in a State which does not have primary enforcement responsibility.
§ 142.303
Which size public water systems can receive a small system variance?
(a) A State exercising primary enforcement responsibility for public water systems (or the Administrator for other systems) may grant a small system variance to public water systems serving 3,300 or fewer persons.
(b) With the approval of the Administrator pursuant to § 142.312, a State exercising primary enforcement responsibility for public water systems may grant a small system variance to public water systems serving more than 3,300 persons but fewer than 10,000 persons.
(c) In determining the number of persons served by the public water system, the State or Administrator must include persons served by consecutive systems. A small system variance granted to a public water system would also apply to any consecutive system served by it.
§ 142.304
For which of the regulatory requirements is a small system variance available?
(a) A small system variance is not available under this subpart for a national primary drinking water regulation for a microbial contaminant (including a bacterium, virus, or other organism) or an indicator or treatment technique for a microbial contaminant.
(b) A small system variance under this subpart is otherwise only available for compliance with a requirement specifying a maximum contaminant level or treatment technique for a contaminant with respect to which;
(1) a national primary drinking water regulation was promulgated on or after January 1, 1986; and
(2) the Administrator has published a small system variance technology pursuant to Section 1412(b)(15) of the Act.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(1):
Small system variances are not available for public water systems above the pre-1986 maximum contaminant level even if subsequently revised. If the Agency revises a pre-1986 maximum contaminant level and makes it more stringent, then a variance would be available for that contaminant, but only up to the pre-1986 maximum contaminant level.
§ 142.305
When can a small system variance be granted by a State?
No small system variance can be granted by a State until the later of the following:
(a) 90 days after the State proposes to grant the small system variance;
(b) If a State is proposing to grant a small system variance to a public water system serving 3,300 or fewer persons and the Administrator objects to the small system variance, the date on which the State makes the recommended modifications or responds in writing to each objection; or
(c) If a State is proposing to grant a small system variance to a public water system serving a population more than 3,300 and fewer than 10,000 persons, the date the Administrator approves the small system variance. The Administrator must approve or disapprove the variance within 90 days after it is submitted to the Administrator for review.

# Review of Small System Variance Application
§ 142.306
What are the responsibilities of the public water system, State and the Administrator in ensuring that sufficient information is available and for evaluation of a small system variance application?
(a) A public water system requesting a small system variance must provide accurate and correct information to the State or the Administrator to issue a small system variance in accordance with this subpart. A State may assist a public water system in compiling information required for the State or the Administrator to issue a small system variance in accordance with this subpart.
(b) Based upon an application for a small system variance and other information, and before a small system variance may be proposed under this subpart, the State or the Administrator must find and document the following:
(1) The public water system is eligible for a small system variance pursuant to §§ 142.303 (
i.e.
, the system serves a population of fewer than 10,000 persons) and 142.304 (
i.e.
, the contaminant for which the small system variance is sought is not excluded from variance eligibility);
(2) The public water system cannot afford to comply, in accordance with the affordability criteria established by the State (or by the Administrator in States which do not have primary enforcement responsibility), with the national primary drinking water regulation for which a small system variance is sought, including by:
(i) Treatment;
(ii) Alternative sources of water supply;
(iii) Restructuring or consolidation changes, including ownership change and/or physical consolidation with another public water system; or
(iv) Obtaining financial assistance pursuant to Section 1452 of the Act or any other Federal or State program;
(3) The public water system meets the source water quality requirements for installing the small system variance technology developed pursuant to guidance published under section 1412(b)(15) of the Act;
(4) The public water system is financially and technically capable of installing, operating and maintaining the applicable small system variance technology; and
(5) The terms and conditions of the small system variance, as developed through compliance with § 142.307, ensure adequate protection of human health, considering the following:
(i) The quality of the source water for the public water system; and
(ii) Removal efficiencies and expected useful life of the small system variance technology.
§ 142.307
What terms and conditions must be included in a small system variance?
(a) A State or the Administrator must clearly specify enforceable terms and conditions of a small system variance.
(b) The terms and conditions of a small system variance issued under this subpart must include, at a minimum, the following requirements:
(1) Proper and effective installation, operation and maintenance of the applicable small system variance technology in accordance with guidance published by the Administrator pursuant to section 1412(b)(15) of the Act, taking into consideration any relevant source water characteristics and any other site-specific conditions that may affect proper and effective operation and maintenance of the technology;
(2) Monitoring requirements, for the contaminant for which a small system variance is sought, as specified in 40 CFR part 141; and
(3) Any other terms or conditions that are necessary to ensure adequate protection of public health, which may include:
(i) Public education requirements; and
(ii) Source water protection requirements.
(c) The State or the Administrator must establish a schedule for the public water system to comply with the terms and conditions of the small system variance which must include, at a minimum, the following requirements:
(1) Increments of progress, such as milestone dates for the public water system to apply for financial assistance and begin capital improvements;
(2) Quarterly reporting to the State or Administrator of the public water system's compliance with the terms and conditions of the small system variance;
(3) Schedule for the State or the Administrator to review the small system variance under paragraph (d) of this section; and
(4) Compliance with the terms and conditions of the small system variance as soon as practicable but not later than 3 years after the date on which the small system variance is granted. The Administrator or State may allow up to 2 additional years if the Administrator or State determines that additional time is necessary for the public water system to:
(i) Complete necessary capital improvements to comply with the small system variance technology, secure an alternative source of water, or restructure or consolidate; or
(ii) Obtain financial assistance provided pursuant to section 1452 of the Act or any other Federal or State program.
(d) The State or the Administrator must review each small system variance granted not less often than every 5 years after the compliance date established in the small system variance to determine whether the public water system continues to meet the eligibility criteria and remains eligible for the small system variance and is complying with the terms and conditions of the small system variance. If the public water system would no longer be eligible for a small system variance, the State or the Administrator must determine whether continuing the variance is in the public interest. If the State or the Administrator finds that continuing the variance is not in the public interest, the variance must be withdrawn.

# Public Participation
§ 142.308
What public notice is required before a State or the Administrator proposes to issue a small system variance?
(a) At least fifteen (15) days before the date of proposal, and at least thirty (30) days prior to a public meeting to
discuss the proposed small system variance, the State, Administrator, or public water system as directed by the State or Administrator, must provide notice to all persons served by the public water system. For billed customers, identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, this notice must include the information listed in paragraph (c) of this section. For other persons regularly served by the system, identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the notice shall include the information identified in paragraph (d) of this section. Notice must be provided to all persons served by:
(1) Direct mail or other home delivery to billed customers or other service connections, and
(2) Any other method reasonably calculated to notify, in a brief and concise manner, other persons regularly served by the system. Such methods may include publication in a local newspaper, posting in public places or delivery to community organizations.
(b) At the time of proposal, the State must publish a notice in the State equivalent to the
Federal Register
or a newspaper or newspapers of wide circulation in the State, or, in the case of the Administrator, in the
Federal Register.
This notice shall include the information listed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) The notice in paragraphs (a)(1) and (b) of this section must include, at a minimum, the following:
(1) Identification of the contaminant[s] for which a small system variance is sought;
(2) A brief statement of the health effects associated with the contaminant[s] for which a small system variance is sought using language in appendix C of part 141 subpart O of this chapter;
(3) The address and telephone number at which interested persons may obtain further information concerning the contaminant and the small system variance;
(4) A brief summary, in easily understandable terms, of the terms and conditions of the small system variance;
(5) A description of the consumer petition process under § 142.310 and information on contacting the EPA Regional Office;
(6) a brief statement announcing the public meeting required under § 142.309(a), including a statement of the purpose of the meeting, information regarding the time and location for the meeting, and the address and telephone number at which interested persons may obtain further information concerning the meeting; and
(7) In communities with a large proportion of non-English-speaking residents, as determined by the primacy agency, information in the appropriate language regarding the content and importance of the notice.
(d) The notice in paragraph (a)(2) of this section must provide sufficient information to alert readers to the proposed variance and direct them where to receive additional information.
(e) At its option, the State or the Administrator may choose to issue separate notices or additional notices related to the proposed small system variance, provided that the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section are satisfied.
(f) Prior to promulgating the final variance, the State or the Administrator must respond in writing to all significant public comments received relating to the small system variance. Response to public comment and any other documentation supporting the issuance of a variance must be made available to the public after final promulgation.
§ 142.309
What are the public meeting requirements associated with the proposal of a small system variance?
(a) A State or the Administrator must provide for at least one (1) public meeting on the small system variance no later than 15 days after the small system variance is proposed.
(b) At the time of the public meeting, the State or Administrator must prepare and make publicly available, in addition to the information listed in § 142.308(c), either:
(1) The proposed small system variance, if the public meeting occurs after proposal of the small system variance; or
(2) A draft of the proposed small system variance, if the public meeting occurs prior to proposal of the proposed small system variance.
(c) Notice of the public meeting must be provided in the manner required under § 142.308 at least 30 days in advance of the public meeting. This notice must be provided by the State, the Administrator, or the public water system as directed by the State or Administrator.
§ 142.310
How can a person served by the public water system obtain EPA review of a State proposed small system variance?
(a) Any person served by the public water system may petition the Administrator to object to the granting of a small system variance within 30 days after a State proposes to grant a small system variance for a public water system.
(b) The Administrator must respond to a petition filed by any person served by the public water system and determine whether to object to the small system variance under § 142.311, no later than 60 days after the receipt of the petition.

# EPA Review And Approval of Small System Variances
§ 142.311
What procedures allow the Administrator to object to a proposed small system variance or overturn a granted small system variance for a public water system serving 3,300 or fewer persons?
(a) At the time a State proposes to grant a small system variance under this subpart, the State must submit to the Administrator the proposed small system variance and all supporting information, including any written public comments received prior to proposal.
(b) The Administrator may review and object to any proposed small system variance within 90 days of receipt of the proposed small system variance. The Administrator must notify the State in writing of each basis for the objection and propose a modification to the small system variance to resolve the concerns of the Administrator. The State must make the recommended modification, respond in writing to each objection, or withdraw the proposal to grant the small system variance.
(c) If the State issues the small system variance without resolving the concerns of the Administrator, the Administrator may overturn the State decision to grant the variance if the Administrator determines that the State decision does not comply with the Act or this rule.
§ 142.312
What EPA action is necessary when a State proposes to grant a small system variance to a public water system serving a population of more than 3,300 and fewer than 10,000 persons?
(a) At the time a State proposes to grant a small system variance to a public water system serving a population of more than 3,300 and fewer than 10,000 persons, the State must submit the proposed small system variance and all supporting information, including public comments received prior to proposal, to the Administrator.
(b) The Administrator must approve or disapprove the small system variance within 90 days of receipt of the proposed small system variance and supporting information. The Administrator must approve the small system variance if it meets each requirement within the Act and this rule.
(c) If the Administrator disapproves the small system variance, the Administrator must notify the State in writing of the reasons for disapproval and the small system variance does not become effective. The State may resubmit the small system variance for review and approval with modifications to address the objections stated by the Administrator.
§ 142.313
How will the Administrator review a State's program under this subpart?
(a) The Administrator must periodically review each State program under this subpart to determine whether small system variances granted by the State comply with the requirements of the Act, this rule and the affordability criteria developed by the State.
(b) If the Administrator determines that small system variances granted by a State are not in compliance with the
requirements of the Act, this rule or the affordability criteria developed by the State, the Administrator shall notify the State in writing of the deficiencies and make public the determinations.
(c) The Administrator's review will be based in part on quarterly reports prepared by the States pursuant to § 142.15(a)(1) relating to violations of increments of progress or other violated terms or conditions of small system variances.
Pt. 143

# PART 143—OTHER SAFE DRINKING WATER ACT REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—National Secondary Drinking Water Regulations
Sec.
143.1
Purpose.
143.2
Definitions.
143.3
Secondary maximum contaminant levels.
143.4
Monitoring.
143.5-143.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Use of Lead Free Pipes, Fittings, Fixtures, Solder, and Flux for Drinking Water
143.10
Applicability and scope.
143.11
Definitions.
143.12
Definition of lead free and calculation methodology.
143.13
Use prohibitions.
143.14
State enforcement of use prohibitions.
143.15
Introduction into commerce prohibitions.
143.16
Exemptions.
143.17
[Reserved]
143.18
Required labeling of solder and flux that is not lead free.
143.19
Required certification of products.
143.20
Compliance provisions.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.

# Source:
44 FR 42198, July 19, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—National Secondary Drinking Water Regulations
§ 143.1
Purpose.
This subpart establishes National Secondary Drinking Water Regulations pursuant to section 1412 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 300g-1). The regulations in this subpart control contaminants in drinking water that primarily affect the aesthetic qualities relating to the public acceptance of drinking water. At considerably higher concentrations of these contaminants, health implications may also exist as well as aesthetic degradation. The regulations in this subpart are not Federally enforceable but are intended as guidelines for the States.
[44 FR 42198, July 19, 1979, as amended at 85 FR 54256, Sept. 1, 2020]
§ 143.2
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Safe Drinking Water Act as amended (42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.).
(b)
Contaminant
means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or matter in water.
(c)
Public water system
means a system for the provision to the public of piped water for human consumption, if such a system has at least fifteen service connections or regularly serves an average of at least twenty-five individuals daily at least 60 days out of the year. Such term includes (1) any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under control of the operator of such system and used primarily in connection with such system, and (2) any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such control which are used primarily in connection with such system. A public water system is either a “community water system” or a “non-community water system.”
(d)
State
means the agency of the State or Tribal government which has jurisdiction over public water systems. During any period when a State does not have responsibility pursuant to section 1443 of the Act, the term “State” means the Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
(e)
Supplier of water
means any person who owns or operates a public water system.
(f)
Secondary maximum contaminant levels
means SMCLs which apply to public water systems and which, in the judgement of the Administrator, are requisite to protect the public welfare. The SMCL means the maximum permissible level of a contaminant in water which is delivered to the free flowing outlet of the ultimate user of
public water system. Contamimants added to the water under circumstances controlled by the user, except those resulting from corrosion of piping and plumbing caused by water quality, are excluded from this definition.
[44 FR 42198, July 19, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 37412, Sept. 26, 1988]
§ 143.3
Secondary maximum contaminant levels.
The secondary maximum contaminant levels for public water systems are as follows:
Contaminant
Level
Aluminum
0.05 to 0.2 mg/l.
Chloride
250 mg/l.
Color
15 color units.
Copper
1.0 mg/l.
Corrosivity
Non-corrosive.
Fluoride
2.0 mg/l.
Foaming agents
0.5 mg/l.
Iron
0.3 mg/l.
Manganese
0.05 mg/l.
Odor
3 threshold odor number.
pH
6.5-8.5.
Silver
0.1 mg/l.
Sulfate
250 mg/l.
Total dissolved solids (TDS)
500 mg/l.
Zinc
5 mg/l.
These levels represent reasonable goals for drinking water quality. The States may establish higher or lower levels which may be appropriate dependent upon local conditions such as unavailability of alternate source waters or other compelling factors, provided that public health and welfare are not adversely affected.
[44 FR 42198, July 19, 1979, as amended at 51 FR 11412, Apr. 2, 1986; 56 FR 3597, Jan. 30, 1991]
§ 143.4
Monitoring.
(a) It is recommended that the parameters in these regulations should be monitored at intervals no less frequent than the monitoring performed for inorganic chemical contaminants listed in the National Interim Primary Drinking Water Regulations as applicable to community water systems. More frequent monitoring would be appropriate for specific parameters such as pH, color, odor or others under certain circumstances as directed by the State.
(b) Measurement of pH, copper and fluoride to determine compliance under § 143.3 may be conducted with one of the methods in § 141.23(k)(1). Analyses of aluminum, chloride, foaming agents, iron, manganese, odor, silver, sulfate, total dissolved solids (TDS) and zinc to determine compliance under § 143.3 may be conducted with the methods in the following table or alternative methods listed in appendix A to subpart C of part 141. Criteria for analyzing aluminum, copper, iron, manganese, silver and zinc samples with digestion or directly without digestion, and other analytical test procedures are contained in
Technical Notes on Drinking Water Methods,
EPA-600/R-94-173, October 1994. This document is available from the National Service Center for Environmental Publications (NSCEP), P.O. Box 42419, Cincinnati, OH 45242-0419 or
http://www.epa.gov/nscep/.
Contaminant
EPA
ASTM
3
SM
4
18th and 19th ed.
SM
4
20th ed.
SM
7
Online
Other
1. Aluminum
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99
200.8
2
3113 B
3113 B-99
200.9
2
3111 D
3111 D-99
2. Chloride
300.0
1
, 300.1
6
D4327-97, 03
4110 B
4110 B
4110 B-00
4500-Cl
−
D
4500-Cl
−
D
4500-Cl
−
D-97
D512-89 (Reapproved 1999) B
4500-Cl
−
B
4500-Cl
−
B
4500-Cl
−
B-97
D6508, Rev. 2
8
3. Color
2120 B
2120 B
2120 B-01
4. Foaming Agents
5540 C
5540 C
5540 C-00
5. Iron
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99
200.9
2
3111 B
3111 B-99
3113 B
3113 B-99
6. Manganese
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99
200.8
2
3111 B
3111 B-99
200.9
2
3113 B
3113 B-99
7. Odor
2150 B
2150 B
2150 B-97
8. Silver
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99.
I-3720-85
5
200.8
2
3111 B
3111 B-99
200.9
2
3113 B
3113 B-99
9. Sulfate
300.0
1
, 300.1
6
D4327-97, 03
4110 B
4110 B
4110 B-00
375.2
1
4500-SO
4
2
−
F
4500-SO
4
2
−
F
4500-SO
4
2
−
C, D
4500-SO
4
2
−
C, D
D516-90, 02
4500-SO
4
2
−
E
4500-SO
4
2
−
E
D6508, Rev. 2
8
10. Total Dissolved Solids
2540 C
2540 C
2540 C-97
11. Zinc
200.7
2
3120 B
3120 B
3120 B-99
200.8
2
3111 B
3111 B-99
The procedures shall be done in accordance with the documents listed below. The incorporation by reference of the following documents was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the documents may be obtained from the sources listed below. Information regarding obtaining these documents can be obtained from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline at 800-426-4791. Documents may be inspected at EPA's Drinking Water Docket, EPA West, 1301 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room 3334, Washington, DC (Telephone: 202-566-2426); or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
1
“Methods for the Determination of Inorganic Substances in Environmental Samples,” EPA/600/R-93-100, August 1993. Available at NTIS, PB94-120821.
2
“Methods for the Determination of Metals in Environmental Samples—Supplement I,” EPA/600/R-94-111, May 1994. Available at NTIS, PB 95-125472.
3
Annual Book of ASTM Standards,
1994, 1996, 1999, or 2004, Vols. 11.01 and 11.02, ASTM International; any year containing the cited version of the method may be used. Copies may be obtained from the ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428.
4
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
18th edition (1992), 19th edition (1995), or 20th edition (1998). American Public Health Association, 1015 Fifteenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005. The cited methods published in any of these three editions may be used, except that the versions of 3111 B, 3111 D, and 3113 B in the 20th edition may not be used.
5
Method I-3720-85,
Techniques of Water Resources Investigation of the U.S. Geological Survey,
Book 5, Chapter A-1, 3rd ed., 1989. Available from Information Services, U.S. Geological Survey, Federal Center, Box 25286, Denver, CO 80225-0425.
6
“Methods for the Determination of Organic and Inorganic Compounds in Drinking Water,” Vol. 1, EPA 815R-00-014, August 2000. Available at NTIS, PB2000-106981.
7
Standard Methods Online are available at
http://www.standardmethods.org.
The year in which each method was approved by the Standard Methods Committee is designated by the last two digits in the method number. The methods listed are the only online versions that may be used.
8
Method D6508, Rev. 2, “Test Method for Determination of Dissolved Inorganic Anions in Aqueous Matrices Using Capillary Ion Electrophoresis and Chromate Electrolyte,” available from Waters Corp, 34 Maple St., Milford, MA, 01757, Telephone: 508/482-2131, Fax: 508/482-3625.
[44 FR 42198, July 19, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 5147, Feb. 19, 1988; 56 FR 30281, July 1, 1991; 59 FR 62470, Dec. 5, 1994; 64 FR 67466, Dec. 1, 1999; 67 FR 65252, Oct. 23, 2002; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; 72 FR 11248, Mar. 12, 2007; 74 FR 30959, June 29, 2009]
§§ 143.5-143.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Use of Lead Free Pipes, Fittings, Fixtures, Solder, and Flux for Drinking Water

# Source:
85 FR 54256, Sept. 1, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 143.10
Applicability and scope.
(a) This subpart establishes regulations pertaining to pipes, pipe or plumbing fittings, or fixtures, solder and flux, pursuant to,
inter alia,
sections 1417 and 1461 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300g-6 and 300j-21). It applies to any person who introduces these products into commerce, such as manufacturers, importers, wholesalers, distributors, re-sellers, and retailers. It also applies to any person who uses these products in the installation or repair of:
(1) A public water system; or
(2) A residential or nonresidential facility providing water for human consumption.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 143.11
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart:
Accredited third party certification body
means those bodies that are accredited by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) to provide product certification to meet the lead free requirements of not more than a weighted average of 0.25 percent lead content when used with respect to the wetted surfaces, consistent with section 1417 of the Safe Drinking Water Act and § 143.12, such as certification to the NSF/ANSI 372 standard.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or his or her authorized representative.
Affiliated
means a person or entity that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person or entity specified. Affiliated persons or entities include but are not limited to: A parent company and all wholly or partially owned subsidiaries of a parent company, or two or more corporations or family partnerships that have overlap in ownership or control.
Alloy
means a substance composed of two or more metals or of a metal and a nonmetal.
Coating
means a thin layer of material such as paint, epoxy, zinc galvanization, or other material usually applied by spraying or in liquid form to coat internal surfaces of pipes, fittings, or fixtures.
Custom fabricated product
means a product that:
(1) Is manufactured on a case-by-case basis to accommodate the unique needs of a single customer;
(2) Does not have a Universal Product Code (UPC) assigned to the product;
(3) Is not stocked by and is not available through inventory from a manufacturer, importer, wholesaler, distributor, retailer, or other source for distribution; and
(4) Is not cataloged in print or on the internet with a specific item number or code.
Drinking water cooler
means any mechanical device, affixed to drinking water supply plumbing, which actively cools water for human consumption.
Fitting
means a pipe fitting or plumbing fitting.
Fixture
means a receptacle or device that is connected to a water supply system or discharges to a drainage system or both. Fixtures used for potable uses shall include but are not limited to:
(1) Drinking water coolers, drinking water fountains, drinking water bottle fillers, dishwashers;
(2) Plumbed in devices, such as point-of-use treatment devices, coffee makers, and refrigerator ice and water dispensers; and
(3) Water heaters, water meters, water pumps, and water tanks, unless such fixtures are not used for potable uses.
Flux
means a substance used for helping to melt or join metals such as by removal of oxides and other coatings or residues from the metals before joining by using solder or other means.
Importer
means any person who introduces into commerce any pipe, any pipe or plumbing fitting or fixture, or any solder or flux entering the United
States; or any “importer” as defined in 19 CFR 101.1; or both.
Introduce into commerce or introduction into commerce
means the sale or distribution of products or offering products for sale or distribution in the United States.
Liner
means a rigid lining such as a plastic or copper sleeve that is:
(1) Sealed with a permanent barrier to exclude lead-bearing surfaces from water contact; and
(2) Of sufficient thickness and otherwise having physical properties necessary to prevent erosion and cracking for the expected useful life of the product.
Manufacturer
means a person or entity who:
(1) Processes or makes a product; or
(2) Has products processed or made under a contractual arrangement for distribution, using the person's or entity's brand name or trademark.
Nonpotable services
means all product uses and applications that are not potable uses.
Person
means an individual; corporation; company; association; partnership; municipality; or State, federal, or Tribal agency (including officers, employees, and agents of any corporation, company, association, municipality, State, Tribal, or federal agency).
Pipe
means a conduit, conductor, tubing, or hose and may also include permanently attached end fittings.
Pipe fitting
means any piece (such as a coupling, elbow, or gasket) used for connecting pipe lengths together or to connect other plumbing pieces together or to change direction.
Plumbing fitting
means a plumbing component that controls the volume and/or directional flow of water, such as kitchen faucets, bathroom lavatory faucets, manifolds, and valves.
Point-of-use treatment device
means point-of-use treatment device as defined in § 141.2 of this chapter.
Potable uses,
for purposes only of this subpart, means services or applications that provide water for human ingestion, such as for drinking, cooking, food preparation, dishwashing, teeth brushing, or maintaining oral hygiene.
Product
means a pipe, fitting, or fixture.
Public water system
means a public water system as defined in § 141.2 of this chapter.
Solder
means a type of metal that is used to join metal parts such as sections of pipe, without melting the existing metal in the parts to be joined. Solder is usually sold or distributed in the form of wire rolls or bars.
State
means state as defined in § 142.2 of this chapter.
United States
includes its commonwealths, districts, States, Tribes, and Territories.
Water distribution main
means a pipe, typically found under or adjacent to a roadway, that supplies water to buildings via service lines.
§ 143.12
Definition of lead free and calculation methodology.
(a) “Lead free” for the purposes of this subpart means:
(1) Not containing more than 0.2 percent lead when used with respect to solder and flux; and
(2) Not more than a weighted average of 0.25 percent lead when used with respect to the wetted surfaces of pipes, pipe fittings, plumbing fittings, and fixtures.
(b) The weighted average lead content of a pipe, pipe fitting, plumbing fitting, or fixture is calculated by using the following formula: For each wetted component, the percentage of lead in the component is multiplied by the ratio of the wetted surface area of that component to the total wetted surface area of the entire product to arrive at the weighted percentage of lead of the component. The weighted percentage of lead of each wetted component is added together, and the sum of these weighted percentages constitutes the weighted average lead content of the product. The lead content of the material used to produce wetted components is used to determine compliance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section. For lead content of materials that are provided as a range, the maximum content of the range must be used.
(c) If a coating, as defined in § 143.11, is applied to the internal surfaces of a pipe, fitting or fixture component, the maximum lead content of both the coating and the alloy must be used to
calculate the lead content of the component.
(d) If a liner, as defined in § 143.11, is manufactured into a pipe, fitting or fixture, the maximum lead content of the liner must be used to calculate the lead content of the component.
(e) If a fixture contains any media (e.g., activated carbon, ion exchange resin) contained in filters, the media are not to be used in determining the “total wetted surface area of the entire product” in paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) In addition to the definitions of “lead free” in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, no drinking water cooler, which contains any solder, flux, or storage tank interior surface, which may come into contact with drinking water, is lead free if the solder, flux, or storage tank interior surface contains more than 0.2 percent lead. Drinking water coolers must be manufactured such that each individual part or component that may come in contact with drinking water shall not contain more than 8 percent lead while still meeting the maximum 0.25 percent weighted average lead content of the wetted surfaces of the entire product.
§ 143.13
Use prohibitions.
(a) No person may use any pipe, any pipe or plumbing fitting or fixture, any solder or any flux that is not lead free as defined in § 143.12 in the installation or repair of:
(1) Any public water system; or
(2) Any plumbing in a residential or nonresidential facility providing water for human consumption.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to leaded joints necessary for the repair of cast iron pipes.
§ 143.14
State enforcement of use prohibitions.
As a condition of receiving a full allotment of Public Water System Supervision grants under section 1443(a) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, States must enforce the requirements of section 1417(a)(1) of the Safe Drinking Water Act and § 143.13 through State or local plumbing codes, or such other means of enforcement as the State may determine to be appropriate.
§ 143.15
Introduction into commerce prohibitions.
(a) No person may introduce into commerce any pipe, or any pipe or plumbing fitting or fixture, that is not lead free, except for a pipe that is used in manufacturing or industrial processing;
(b) No person engaged in the business of selling plumbing supplies in the United States, except manufacturers, may sell solder or flux that is not lead free; and
(c) No person may introduce into commerce any solder or flux that is not lead free, unless the solder or flux bears a prominent label stating that it is illegal to use the solder or flux in the installation or repair of any plumbing providing water for human consumption.
§ 143.16
Exemptions.
The prohibitions in §§ 143.13 and 143.15 and the product certification requirements in § 143.19 shall not apply to the products listed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section:
(a) Pipes, pipe fittings, plumbing fittings, or fixtures, including backflow preventers, that are used exclusively for nonpotable services such as manufacturing, industrial processing, irrigation, outdoor watering, or any other uses where the water is not anticipated to be used for human consumption. Additional products that could be “used exclusively for nonpotable services” include:
(1) Products that are clearly labeled, on the product, package, or tag with a phrase such as: “Not for use with water for human consumption” or another phrase that conveys the same meaning in plain language;
(2) Products that are incapable of use in potable services (e.g., physically incompatible) with other products that would be needed to convey water for potable uses; or
(3) Products that are plainly identifiable and marketed as being solely for a use other than the conveyance of water (these other uses include conveyance of air, chemicals other than water, hydraulic fluids, refrigerants, gasses, or other non-water fluids).
(b) Toilets, bidets, urinals, fill valves, flushometer valves, tub fillers, shower
valves, fire hydrants, service saddles, and water distribution main gate valves (provided that such valves are 2 inches in diameter or larger).
(c) Clothes washing machines, emergency drench showers, emergency face wash equipment, eyewash devices, fire suppression sprinklers, steam capable clothes dryers, and sump pumps.
§ 143.17
[Reserved]
§ 143.18
Required labeling of solder and flux that is not lead free.
Solder and flux that is not “lead free” as defined in § 143.12(a)(1) must bear a prominent label stating that it is illegal to use the solder or flux in the installation or repair of any plumbing providing water for human consumption.
§ 143.19
Required certification of products.
(a) Manufacturers or importers that introduce into commerce products that must meet the lead free requirements of section 1417 of the Safe Drinking Water Act and § 143.12 must ensure, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, that the products are certified to be in compliance as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section by September 1, 2023, or prior to product introduction into commerce, whichever occurs later. Such manufacturers or importers must maintain documentation to substantiate the certification for at least 5 years from the date of the last sale of the product by the manufacturer or importer.
(1) Product components of assembled pipes, fittings, or fixtures do not need to be individually certified if the entire product in its final assembled form is lead free certified.
(2) Direct replacement parts for previously installed lead free certified products do not need to be individually certified if the weighted average lead content of wetted surface area for the part does not exceed such lead content of the original part.
(3) Dishwashers do not need to be certified.
(b) Certification of products must be obtained by manufacturers or importers from an accredited third party certification body, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The manufacturer or importer must keep records for all products certified by an accredited third party certification body that include, at a minimum, documentation of certification, of dates of certification, and of expiration. This documentation must be provided upon request to the Administrator as specified in § 143.20(b).
(c) Products may be self-certified by manufacturers or importers as provided in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section. Such manufacturers or importers electing to self-certify products must comply with paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section.
(1) Manufacturers having fewer than 10 employees, or importers entering products purchased from or manufactured by manufacturers having fewer than 10 employees, may elect to self-certify products in lieu of obtaining certification from an accredited third party certification body. The number of employees includes any persons employed by the manufacturer and any of its affiliated entities. The number of employees must be calculated by averaging the number of persons employed, regardless of part-time, full-time, or temporary status, by an entity and all of its affiliated entities for each pay period over the entity's latest 12 calendar months or averaged over the number of months in existence if less than 12 months. Any such firms that subsequently expand employment to 10 or more employees, based on the most recent 12-month average number of persons employed, are no longer eligible to self-certify products and must obtain third party certification within 12 months of having 10 or more employees.
(2) Manufacturers or importers may elect to self-certify any custom fabricated product in lieu of obtaining certification from an ANSI accredited third party certification body, regardless of the number of persons employed by the manufacturer.
(d) In order for eligible manufacturers or importers to self-certify products, such manufacturers or importers must attest that products are in compliance with the definition of “lead free” in § 143.12 by developing and
maintaining a “certificate of conformity.” The certificate of conformity must be:
(1) Signed by a responsible corporate officer; a general partner or proprietor; or an authorized representative of a responsible corporate officer, general partner, or proprietor; and
(2) Posted to a website with continuing public access in the United States, unless it is distributed by other means (e.g., electronically or in hard copy) with the product through the distribution channel for final delivery to the end use installer of the product.
(e) The certificate of conformity must be in English and include:
(1) Contact information for the manufacturer or importer to include:
(i) The entity or proprietor name;
(ii) Street and mailing addresses;
(iii) Phone number; and
(iv) Email address;
(2) For products imported into the United States, the contact information must also be included for the manufacturer;
(3) A brief listing of the products to include, when applicable, unique identifying information such as model names and numbers;
(4) A statement attesting that the products meet the lead free requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act and 40 CFR part 143, subpart B, and also that the manufacturer or importer is eligible to self-certify the product consistent with this regulation;
(5) A statement indicating how the manufacturer or importer verified conformance with the Safe Drinking Water Act and 40 CFR part 143, subpart B; and
(6) The signature, date, name, and position of the signatory; and, if the signatory is an authorized representative of a responsible corporate officer, a general partner, or a proprietor, the name and position of the officer, partner, or proprietor.
(f) Manufacturers or importers that self-certify products must maintain, at a primary place of business within the United States, certificates of conformity and sufficient documentation to confirm that products meet the lead free requirements of this subpart. Sufficient documentation may include detailed schematic drawings of the products indicating dimensions, records of calculations of the weighted average lead content of the product, documentation of the lead content of materials used in manufacture, and other documentation used in verifying the lead content of a plumbing device. This documentation and certificates of conformity must be provided upon request to the Administrator as specified in § 143.20(b) and must be maintained for at least five (5) years after the last sale of the product by the manufacturer or importer.
(g) The certificate of conformity and documentation must be completed prior to a product's introduction into commerce.
§ 143.20
Compliance provisions.
(a) Noncompliance with the Safe Drinking Water Act or this subpart may be subject to enforcement. Enforcement actions may include seeking injunctive or declaratory relief, civil penalties, or criminal penalties.
(b) The Administrator may, on a case-by-case basis, request any information, such as records deemed necessary to determine whether a person has acted or is acting in compliance with section 1417 of the Safe Drinking Water Act and this subpart. Information, such as records requested, must be provided to the Administrator at a time and in a format as may be reasonably determined by the Administrator.
Pt. 144

# PART 144—UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
144.1
Purpose and scope of part 144.
144.2
Promulgation of Class II programs for Indian lands.
144.3
Definitions.
144.4
Considerations under Federal law.
144.5
Confidentiality of information.
144.6
Classification of wells.
144.7
Identification of underground sources of drinking water and exempted aquifers.
144.8
Noncompliance and program reporting by the Director.

# Subpart B—General Program Requirements
144.11
Prohibition of unauthorized injection.
144.12
Prohibition of movement of fluid into underground sources of drinking water.
144.13
Prohibition of Class IV wells.
144.14
Requirements for wells injecting hazardous waste.
144.15
Prohibition of non-experimental Class V wells for geologic sequestration.
144.16
Waiver of requirement by Director.
144.17
Records.
144.18
Requirements for Class VI wells.
144.19
Transitioning from Class II to Class VI.

# Subpart C—Authorization of Underground Injection by Rule
144.21
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells.
144.22
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells.
144.23
Class IV wells.
144.24
Class V wells.
144.25
Requiring a permit.
144.26
Inventory requirements.
144.27
Requiring other information.
144.28
Requirements for Class I, II, and III wells authorized by rule.

# Subpart D—Authorization by Permit
144.31
Application for a permit; authorization by permit.
144.32
Signatories to permit applications and reports.
144.33
Area permits.
144.34
Emergency permits.
144.35
Effect of a permit.
144.36
Duration of permits.
144.37
Continuation of expiring permits.
144.38
Transfer of permits.
144.39
Modification or revocation and reissuance of permits.
144.40
Termination of permits.
144.41
Minor modifications of permits.

# Subpart E—Permit Conditions
144.51
Conditions applicable to all permits.
144.52
Establishing permit conditions.
144.53
Schedule of compliance.
144.54
Requirements for recording and reporting of monitoring results.
144.55
Corrective action.

# Subpart F—Financial Responsibility: Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells
144.60
Applicability.
144.61
Definitions of terms as used in this subpart.
144.62
Cost estimate for plugging and abandonment.
144.63
Financial assurance for plugging and abandonment.
144.64
Incapacity of owners or operators, guarantors, or financial institutions.
144.65
Use of State-required mechanisms.
144.66
State assumption of responsibility.
144.70
Wording of the instruments.

# Subpart G—Requirements for Owners and Operators of Class V Injection Wells
144.79
General.

# Definition of Class V Injection Wells
144.80
What is a Class V injection well?
144.81
Does this subpart apply to me?

# Requirements for All Class V Injection Wells
144.82
What must I do to protect underground sources of drinking water?
144.83
Do I need to notify anyone about my Class V injection well?
144.84
Do I need to get a permit?

# Additional Requirements for Class V Large-Capacity Cesspools and Motor Vehicle Waste Disposal Wells
144.85
Do these additional requirements apply to me?
144.86
What are the definitions I need to know?
144.87
How does the identification of ground water protection areas and other sensitive areas affect me?
144.88
What are the additional requirements?
144.89
How do I close my Class V injection well?

# Authority:
Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.;
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.

# Source:
48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 144.1
Purpose and scope of part 144.
(a)
Contents of part 144.
The regulations in this part set forth requirements for the Underground Injection Control (UIC) program promulgated under Part C of the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) (Pub. L. 93-523, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.
) and, to the extent that they deal with hazardous waste, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) (Pub. L. 94-580 as amended; 42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.
).
(b)
Applicability.
(1) The regulations in this part establish minimum requirements for UIC programs. To the extent set forth in part 145, each State must meet these requirements in order to obtain primary enforcement authority for the UIC program in that State.
(2) In addition to serving as minimum requirements for UIC programs,
the regulations in this part constitute a part of the UIC program for States listed in part 147 to be administered directly by EPA.
(c) The information requirements located in the following sections have been cleared by the Office of Management and Budget: Sections 144.11, 144.28(c)(d)(i), 144.31, 14.33, 144.51(j)(m) (n), 144.52(a), 144.54, 144.55, 144.15, 144.23, 144.26, 144.27, 144.28(i)(k), 144.51(o), 146.52. The OMB clearance number is 2040-0042.
(d)
Authority.
(1) Section 1421 of SDWA requires the Administrator to promulgate regulations establishing minimum requirements for effective UIC programs.
(2) Section 1422 of SDWA requires the Administrator to list in the
Federal Register
“each State for which in his judgment a State underground injection control program may be necessary to assure that underground injection will not endanger drinking water sources” and to establish by regulation a program for EPA administration of UIC programs in the absence of an approved State program in a listed State.
(3) Section 1423 of SDWA provides procedures for EPA enforcement of UIC requirements.
(4) Section 1431 authorizes the Administrator to take action to protect the health of persons when a contaminant which is present in or may enter a public water system or underground source of drinking water may present an imminent and substantial endangerment to the health of persons.
(5) Section 1445 of SDWA authorizes the promulgation of regulations for such recordkeeping, reporting, and monitoring requirements “as the Administrator may reasonably require * * * to assist him in establishing regulations under this title,” and a “right of entry and inspection to determine compliance with this title, including for this purpose, inspection, at reasonable time, or records, files, papers, processes, controls, and facilities * * *.”
(6) Section 1450 of SDWA authorizes the Administrator “to prescribe such regulations as are necessary or appropriate to carry out his functions” under SDWA.
(e)
Overview of the UIC program.
An UIC program is necessary in any State listed by EPA under section 1422 of the SDWA. Because all States have been listed, the SDWA requires all States to submit an UIC program within 270 days after July 24, 1980, the effective date of 40 CFR part 146, which was the final element of the UIC minimum requirements to be originally promulgated, unless the Administrator grants an extension, which can be for a period not to exceed an additional 270 days. If a State fails to submit an approvable program, EPA will establish a program for that State. Once a program is established, SDWA provides that all underground injections in listed States are unlawful and subject to penalties unless authorized by a permit or a rule. This part sets forth the requirements governing all UIC programs, authorizations by permit or rule and prohibits certain types of injection. The technical regulations governing these authorizations appear in 40 CFR part 146.
(f)
Structure of the UIC program
—(1)
Part 144.
This part sets forth the permitting and other program requirements that must be met by UIC Programs, whether run by a State or by EPA. It is divided into the following subparts:
(i) Subpart A describes general elements of the program, including definitions and classifications.
(ii) Subpart B sets forth the general program requirements, including the performance standards applicable to all injection activities, basic elements that all UIC programs must contain, and provisions for waiving permit of rule requirements under certain circumstances.
(iii) Subpart C sets forth requirements for wells authorized by rule.
(iv) Subpart D sets forth permitting procedures.
(v) Subpart E sets forth specific conditions, or types of conditions, that must at a minimum be included in all permits.
(vi) Subpart F sets forth the financial responsibility requirements for owners and operators of all existing and new Class I hazardous waste injection wells.
(vii) Subpart G of this part sets forth requirements for owners and operators of Class V injection wells.
(viii) Subpart H of part 146 sets forth requirements for owners or operators of Class VI injection wells.
(2)
Part 145.
While part 144 sets forth minimum requirements for all UIC Programs, these requirements are specifically identified as elements of a State application for primacy to administer an UIC Program in part 145. Part 145 also sets forth the necessary elements of a State submission and the procedural requirements for approval of State programs.
(3)
Part 124.
The public participation requirements that must be met by UIC Programs, whether administered by the State or by EPA, are set forth in part 124. EPA must comply with all part 124 requirements; State administered programs must comply with part 124 as required by part 145. These requirements carry out the purposes of the public participation requirement of 40 CFR part 25 (Public Participation), and supersede the requirements of that part as they apply to the UIC Program.
(4)
Part 146.
This part sets forth the technical criteria and standards that must be met in permits and authorizations by rule as required by part 144.
(g)
Scope of the permit or rule requirement.
The UIC permit program regulates underground injection by six classes of wells (see definition of “well injection,” § 144.3). The six classes of wells are set forth in § 144.6. All owners or operators of these injection wells must be authorized either by permit or rule by the Director. In carrying out the mandate of the SDWA, this subpart provides that no injection shall be authorized by permit or rule if it results in the movement of fluid containing any contaminant into underground sources of drinking water (USDWs—see § 144.3 for definition), if the presence of that contaminant may cause a violation of any primary drinking water regulation under 40 CFR part 141 or may adversely affect the health of persons (§ 144.12). Existing Class IV wells which inject hazardous waste directly into an underground source of drinking water are to be eliminated over a period of six months and new such Class IV wells are to be prohibited (§ 144.13). For Class V wells, if remedial action appears necessary, a permit may be required (§ 144.25) or the Director must require remedial action or closure by order (§ 144.6(c)). During UIC program development, the Director may identify aquifers and portions of aquifers which are actual or potential sources of drinking water. This will provide an aid to the Director in carrying out his or her duty to protect all USDWs. An aquifer is a USDW if it fits the definition under § 144.3, even if it has not been “identified.” The Director may also designate “exempted aquifers” using the criteria in 40 CFR 146.4 of this chapter. Such aquifers are those which would otherwise qualify as “underground sources of drinking water” to be protected, but which have no real potential to be used as drinking water sources. Therefore, they are not USDWs. No aquifer is an exempted aquifer until it has been affirmatively designated under the procedures at § 144.7. Aquifers which do not fit the definition of “underground source of drinking water” are not “exempted aquifers.” They are simply not subject to the special protection afforded USDWs. During initial Class VI program development, the Director shall not expand the areal extent of an existing Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery aquifer exemption for Class VI injection wells and EPA shall not approve a program that applies for aquifer exemption expansions of Class II-Class VI exemptions as part of the program description. All Class II to Class VI aquifer exemption expansions previously issued by EPA must be incorporated into the Class VI program descriptions pursuant to requirements at § 145.23(f)(9).
(1)
Specific inclusions.
The following wells are included among those types of injection activities which are covered by the UIC regulations. (This list is not intended to be exclusive but is for clarification only.)
(i) Any injection well located on a drilling platform inside the State's territorial waters.
(ii) Any dug hole or well that is deeper than its largest surface dimension, where the principal function of the hole is emplacement of fluids.
(iii) Any well used by generators of hazardous waste, or by owners or operators of hazardous waste management
facilities, to dispose of fluids containing hazardous waste. This includes the disposal of hazardous waste into what would otherwise be septic systems and cesspools, regardless of their capacity.
(iv) Any septic tank, cesspool, or other well used by a multiple dwelling, community, or Regional system for the injection of wastes.
(2)
Specific exclusions.
The following are not covered by these regulations:
(i) Injection wells located on a drilling platform or other site that is beyond the State's territorial waters.
(ii) Individual or single family residential waste disposal systems such as domestic cesspools or septic systems.
(iii) Non-residential cesspools, septic systems or similar waste disposal systems if such systems (A) Are used solely for the disposal of sanitary waste, and (B) have the capacity to serve fewer than 20 persons a day.
(iv) Injection wells used for injection of hydrocarbons which are of pipeline quality and are gases at standard temperature and pressure for the purpose of storage.
(v) Any dug hole, drilled hole, or bored shaft which is not used for the subsurface emplacement of fluids.
(3) The prohibition applicable to Class IV wells under § 144.13 does not apply to injections of hazardous wastes into aquifers or portions thereof which have been exempted pursuant to § 146.04.
(h)
Interim Status under RCRA for Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells.
The minimum national standards which define acceptable injection of hazardous waste during the period of interim status under RCRA are set out in the applicable provisions of this part, parts 146 and 147, and § 265.430 of this chapter. The issuance of a UIC permit does not automatically terminate RCRA interim status. A Class I well's interim status does, however, automatically terminate upon issuance to that well of a RCRA permit, or upon the well's receiving a RCRA permit-by-rule under § 270.60(b) of this chapter. Thus, until a Class I well injecting hazardous waste receives a RCRA permit or RCRA permit-by-rule, the well's interim status requirements are the applicable requirements imposed pursuant to this part and parts 146, 147, and 265 of this chapter, including any requirements imposed in the UIC permit.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 20181, May 11, 1984; 52 FR 20676, June 2, 1987; 52 FR 45797, Dec. 1, 1987; 53 FR 28147, July 26, 1988; 64 FR 68565, Dec. 7, 1999; 67 FR 39592, June 7, 2002; 75 FR 77286, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.2
Promulgation of Class II programs for Indian lands.
Notwithstanding the requirements of this part or parts 124 and 146 of this chapter, the Administrator may promulgate an alternate UIC Program for Class II wells on any Indian reservation or Indian lands. In promulgating such a program the Administrator shall consider the following factors:
(a) The interest and preferences of the tribal government having responsibility for the given reservation or Indian lands;
(b) The consistency between the alternate program and any program in effect in an adjoining jurisdiction; and
(c) Such other factors as are necessary and appropriate to carry out the Safe Drinking Water Act.
§ 144.3
Definitions.
Terms not defined in this section have the meaning given by the appropriate Act. When a defined term appears in a definition, the defined term is sometimes placed within quotation marks as an aid to readers.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or an authorized representative.
Application
means the EPA standard national forms for applying for a permit, including any additions, revisions or modifications to the forms; or forms approved by EPA for use in approved States, including any approved modifications or revisions.
Appropriate Act and regulations
means the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); or Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), whichever is applicable; and applicable regulations promulgated under those statutes.
Approved State Program
means a UIC program administered by the State or Indian Tribe that has been approved by
EPA according to SDWA sections 1422 and/or 1425.
Aquifer
means a geological “formation,” group of formations, or part of a formation that is capable of yielding a significant amount of water to a well or spring.
Area of review
means the area surrounding an injection well described according to the criteria set forth in § 146.06 or in the case of an area permit, the project area plus a circumscribing area the width of which is either
1/4
of a mile or a number calculated according to the criteria set forth in § 146.06.
Cesspool
means a “drywell” that receives untreated sanitary waste containing human excreta, and which sometimes has an open bottom and/or perforated sides.
Contaminant
means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or matter in water.
Director
means the Regional Administrator, the State director or the Tribal director as the context requires, or an authorized representative. When there is no approved State or Tribal program, and there is an EPA administered program, “Director” means the Regional Administrator. When there is an approved State or Tribal program, “Director” normally means the State or Tribal director. In some circumstances, however, EPA retains the authority to take certain actions even when there is an approved State or Tribal program. In such cases, the term “Director” means the Regional Administrator and not the State or Tribal director.
Draft permit
means a document prepared under § 124.6 indicating the Director's tentative decision to issue or deny, modify, revoke and reissue, terminate, or reissue a “permit.” A notice of intent to terminate a permit, and a notice of intent to deny a permit, as discussed in § 124.5 are types of “draft permits.” A denial of a request for modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination, as discussed in § 124.5 is not a “draft permit.”
Drilling mud
means a heavy suspension used in drilling an “injection well,” introduced down the drill pipe and through the drill bit.
Drywell
means a well, other than an improved sinkhole or subsurface fluid distribution system, completed above the water table so that its bottom and sides are typically dry except when receiving fluids.
Eligible Indian Tribe
is a Tribe that meets the statutory requirements established at 42 U.S.C. 300j-11(b)(1).
Emergency permit
means a UIC “permit” issued in accordance with § 144.34.
Environmental Protection Agency
(“EPA”) means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
EPA
means the United States “Environmental Protection Agency.”
Exempted aquifer
means an “aquifer” or its portion that meets the criteria in the definition of “underground source of drinking water” but which has been exempted according to the procedures in § 144.7.
Existing injection well
means an “injection well” other than a “new injection well.”
Facility or activity
means any UIC “injection well,” or an other facility or activity that is subject to regulation under the UIC program.
Fluid
means any material or substance which flows or moves whether in a semisolid, liquid, sludge, gas, or any other form or state.
Formation
means a body of consolidated or unconsolidated rock characterized by a degree of lithologic homogeneity which is prevailingly, but not necessarily, tabular and is mappable on the earth's surface or traceable in the subsurface.
Formation fluid
means “fluid” present in a “formation” under natural conditions as opposed to introduced fluids, such as “drilling mud.”
Generator
means any person, by site location, whose act or process produces hazardous waste identified or listed in 40 CFR part 261.
Geologic sequestration
means the long-term containment of a gaseous, liquid, or supercritical carbon dioxide stream in subsurface geologic formations. This term does not apply to carbon dioxide capture or transport.
Ground water
means water below the land surface in a zone of saturation.
Hazardous waste
means a hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR 261.3.
Hazardous waste management facility
(“HWM facility”) means all contiguous
land, and structures, other appurtenances, and improvements on the land used for treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous waste. A facility may consist of several treatment, storage, or disposal operational units (for example, one or more landfills, surface impoundments, or combination of them).
HWM facility
means “Hazardous Waste Management facility”
Improved sinkhole
means a naturally occurring karst depression or other natural crevice found in volcanic terrain and other geologic settings which have been modified by man for the purpose of directing and emplacing fluids into the subsurface.
Indian lands
means “Indian country” as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1151. That section defines Indian country as:
(a) All land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and, including rights-of-way running through the reservation;
(b) All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof, and whether within or without the limits of a State; and
(c) All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of-way running through the same.
Indian Tribe
means any Indian Tribe having a Federally recognized governing body carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers over a defined area.
Injection well
means a “well” into which “fluids” are being injected.
Injection zone
means a geological “formation” group of formations, or part of a formation receiving fluids through a “well.”
Interstate Agency
means an agency of two or more States established by or under an agreement or compact approved by the Congress, or any other agency of two or more States or Indian Tribes having substantial powers or duties pertaining to the control of pollution as determined and approved by the Administrator under the “appropriate Act and regulations.”
Major facility
means any UIC “facility or activity” classified as such by the Regional Administrator, or, in the case of approved State programs, the Regional Administrator in conjunction with the State Director.
Manifest
means the shipping document originated and signed by the “generator” which contains the information required by subpart B of 40 CFR part 262.
New injection wells
means an “injection well” which began injection after a UIC program for the State applicable to the well is approved or prescribed.
Owner or operator
means the owner or operator of any “facility or activity” subject to regulation under the UIC program.
Permit
means an authorization, license, or equivalent control document issued by EPA or an approved State to implement the requirements of this part, parts 145, 146 and 124. “Permit” includes an area permit (§ 144.33) and an emergency permit (§ 144.34). Permit does not include UIC authorization by rule (§ 144.21), or any permit which has not yet been the subject of final agency action, such as a “draft permit.”
Person
means an individual, association, partnership, corporation, municipality, State, Federal, or Tribal agency, or an agency or employee thereof.
Plugging
means the act or process of stopping the flow of water, oil or gas into or out of a formation through a borehole or well penetrating that formation.
Point of injection
means the last accessible sampling point prior to waste fluids being released into the subsurface environment through a Class V injection well. For example, the point of injection of a Class V septic system might be the distribution box—the last accessible sampling point before the waste fluids drain into the underlying soils. For a dry well, it is likely to be the well bore itself.
Project
means a group of wells in a single operation.
Radioactive Waste
means any waste which contains radioactive material in concentrations which exceed those listed in 10 CFR part 20, appendix B, table II, column 2.
RCRA
means the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (Pub. L. 94-580, as amended by Pub. L. 95-609, Pub. L. 96-510, 42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.
).
Regional Administrator
means the Regional Administrator of the appropriate Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency or the authorized representative of the Regional Administrator.
Sanitary waste
means liquid or solid wastes originating solely from humans and human activities, such as wastes collected from toilets, showers, wash basins, sinks used for cleaning domestic areas, sinks used for food preparation, clothes washing operations, and sinks or washing machines where food and beverage serving dishes, glasses, and utensils are cleaned. Sources of these wastes may include single or multiple residences, hotels and motels, restaurants, bunkhouses, schools, ranger stations, crew quarters, guard stations, campgrounds, picnic grounds, day-use recreation areas, other commercial facilities, and industrial facilities provided the waste is not mixed with industrial waste.
Schedule of compliance
means a schedule of remedial measures included in a “permit,” including an enforceable sequence of interim requirements (for example, actions, operations, or milestone events) leading to compliance with the “appropriate Act and regulations.”
SDWA
means the Safe Drinking Water Act (Pub. L. 93-523, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.
).
Septic system
means a “well” that is used to emplace sanitary waste below the surface and is typically comprised of a septic tank and subsurface fluid distribution system or disposal system.
Site
means the land or water area where any “facility or activity” is physically located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection with the facility or activity.
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or an Indian Tribe treated as a State.
State Director
means the chief administrative officer of any State, interstate, or Tribal agency operating an “approved program,” or the delegated representative of the State director. If the responsibility is divided among two or more States, interstate, or Tribal agencies, “State Director” means the chief administrative officer of the State, interstate, or Tribal agency authorized to perform the particular procedure or function to which reference is made.
State/EPA agreement
means an agreement between the Regional Administrator and the State which coordinates EPA and State activities, responsibilities and programs.
Stratum
(plural strata) means a single sedimentary bed or layer, regardless of thickness, that consists of generally the same kind of rock material.
Subsurface fluid distribution system
means an assemblage of perforated pipes, drain tiles, or other similar mechanisms intended to distribute fluids below the surface of the ground.
Total dissolved solids
means the total dissolved (filterable) solids as determined by use of the method specified in 40 CFR part 136.
Transferee
means the owner or operator receiving ownership and/or operational control of the well.
Transferor
means the owner or operator transferring ownership and/or operational control of the well.
UIC
means the Underground Injection Control program under Part C of the Safe Drinking Water Act, including an “approved State program.”
Underground injection
means a “well injection.”
Underground source of drinking water (USDW)
means an aquifer or its portion:
(a)(1) Which supplies any public water system; or
(2) Which contains a sufficient quantity of ground water to supply a public water system; and
(i) Currently supplies drinking water for human consumption; or
(ii) Contains fewer than 10,000 mg/l total dissolved solids; and
(b) Which is not an exempted aquifer.
USDW
means “underground source of drinking water.”
Well
means: A bored, drilled, or driven shaft whose depth is greater than the largest surface dimension; or, a dug hole whose depth is greater than the largest surface dimension; or, an improved sinkhole; or, a subsurface fluid distribution system.
Well injection
means the subsurface emplacement of fluids through a well.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 45305, Nov. 15, 1984; 52 FR 20676, June 2, 1987; 53 FR 37412, Sept. 26, 1988; 58 FR 63895, Dec. 3, 1993; 59 FR 64345, Dec. 14, 1994; 64 FR 68565, Dec. 7, 1999; 75 FR 77287, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.4
Considerations under Federal law.
The following is a list of Federal laws that may apply to the issuance of permits under these rules. When any of these laws is applicable, its procedures must be followed. When the applicable law requires consideration or adoption of particular permit conditions or requires the denial of a permit, those requirements also must be followed.
(a) The
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act,
16 U.S.C. 1273
et seq.
Section 7 of the Act prohibits the Regional Administrator from assisting by license or otherwise the construction of any water resources project that would have a direct, adverse effect on the values for which a national wild and scenic river was established.
(b)
The National Historic Preservation Act of 1966,
16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.
Section 106 of the Act and implementing regulations (36 CFR part 800) require the Regional Administrator, before issuing a license, to adopt measures when feasible to mitigate potential adverse effects of the licensed activity and properties listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places. The Act's requirements are to be implemented in cooperation with State Historic Preservation Officers and upon notice to, and when appropriate, in consultation with the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
(c) The
Endangered Species Act,
16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
Section 7 of the Act and implementing regulations (50 CFR part 402) require the Regional Administrator to ensure, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior or Commerce, that any action authorized by EPA is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of any endangered or threatened species or adversely affect its critical habitat.
(d)
The Coastal Zone Management Act,
16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
Section 307(c) of the Act and implementing regulations (15 CFR part 930) prohibit EPA from issuing a permit for an activity affecting land or water use in the coastal zone until the applicant certifies that the proposed activity complies with the State Coastal Zone Management program, and the State or its designated agency concurs with the certification (or the Secretary of Commerce overrides the States nonconcurrence).
(e) The
Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act,
16 U.S.C. 661
et seq.,
requires the Regional Administrator, before issuing a permit proposing or authorizing the impoundment (with certain exemptions), diversion, or other control or modification of any body of water, consult with the appropriate State agency exercising jurisdiction over wildlife resources to conserve these resources.
(f)
Executive orders.
[Reserved]
(Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
), Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.
), Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.
), Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.
))
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 39621, Sept. 1, 1983]
§ 144.5
Confidentiality of information.
(a) In accordance with 40 CFR part 2, any information submitted to EPA pursuant to these regulations may be claimed as confidential by the submitter. Any such claim must be asserted at the time of submission in the manner prescribed on the application form or instructions or, in the case of other submissions, by stamping the words “confidential business information” on each page containing such information. If no claim is made at the time of submission, EPA may make the information available to the public without further notice. If a claim is asserted, the information will be treated in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR part 2 (Public Information).
(b) Claims of confidentiality for the following information will be denied:
(1) The name and address of any permit applicant or permittee;
(2) Information which deals with the existence, absence, or level of contaminants in drinking water.
§ 144.6
Classification of wells.
Injection wells are classified as follows:
(a)
Class I.
(1) Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or owners or operators of hazardous waste management facilities to inject hazardous waste beneath the lowermost formation containing, within one-quarter mile of the well bore, an underground source of drinking water.
(2) Other industrial and municipal disposal wells which inject fluids beneath the lowermost formation containing, within one quarter mile of the well bore, an underground source of drinking water.
(3) Radioactive waste disposal wells which inject fluids below the lowermost formation containing an underground source of drinking water within one quarter mile of the well bore.
(b)
Class II.
Wells which inject fluids:
(1) Which are brought to the surface in connection with natural gas storage operations, or conventional oil or natural gas production and may be commingled with waste waters from gas plants which are an intergral part of production operations, unless those waters are classified as a hazardous waste at the time of injection.
(2) For enhanced recovery of oil or natural gas; and
(3) For storage of hydrocarbons which are liquid at standard temperature and pressure.
(c)
Class III.
Wells which inject for extraction of minerals including:
(1) Mining of sulfur by the Frasch process;
(2) In situ production of uranium or other metals; this category includes only in-situ production from ore bodies which have not been conventionally mined. Solution mining of conventional mines such as stopes leaching is included in Class V.
(3) Solution mining of salts or potash.
(d)
Class IV.
(1) Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or of radioactive waste, by owners or operators of hazardous waste management facilities, or by owners or operators of radioactive waste disposal sites to dispose of hazardous waste or radioactive waste into a formation which within one-quarter (
1/4
) mile of the well contains an underground source of drinking water.
(2) Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or of radioactive waste, by owners or operators of hazardous waste management facilities, or by owners or operators of radioactive waste disposal sites to dispose of hazardous waste or radioactive waste above a formation which within one-quarter (
1/4
) mile of the well contains an underground source of drinking water.
(3) Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or owners or operators of hazardous waste management facilities to dispose of hazardous waste, which cannot be classified under paragraph (a)(1) or (d) (1) and (2) of this section (e.g., wells used to dispose of hazardous waste into or above a formation which contains an aquifer which has been exempted pursuant to § 146.04).
(e)
Class V.
Injection wells not included in Class I, II, III, IV, or VI. Specific types of Class V injection wells are described in § 144.81.
(f)
Class VI.
Wells that are not experimental in nature that are used for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide beneath the lowermost formation containing a USDW; or, wells used for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide that have been granted a waiver of the injection depth requirements pursuant to requirements at § 146.95 of this chapter; or, wells used for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide that have received an expansion to the areal extent of an existing Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery aquifer exemption pursuant to §§ 146.4 of this chapter and 144.7(d).
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 20676, June 2, 1987; 64 FR 68565, Dec. 7, 1999; 75 FR 77287, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.7
Identification of underground sources of drinking water and exempted aquifers.
(a) The Director may identify (by narrative description, illustrations, maps, or other means) and shall protect as underground sources of drinking water, all aquifers and parts of
aquifers which meet the definition of “underground source of drinking water” in § 144.3, except to the extent there is an applicable aquifer exemption under paragraph (b) of this section or an expansion to the areal extent of an existing Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery aquifer exemption for the exclusive purpose of Class VI injection for geologic sequestration under paragraph (d) of this section. Other than EPA approved aquifer exemption expansions that meet the criteria set forth in § 146.4(d) of this chapter, new aquifer exemptions shall not be issued for Class VI injection wells. Even if an aquifer has not been specifically identified by the Director, it is an underground source of drinking water if it meets the definition in § 144.3.
(b)(1) The Director may identify (by narrative description, illustrations, maps, or other means) and describe in geographic and/or geometric terms (such as vertical and lateral limits and gradient) which are clear and definite, all aquifers or parts thereof which the Director proposes to designate as exempted aquifers using the criteria in § 146.4 of this chapter.
(2) No designation of an exempted aquifer submitted as part of a UIC program shall be final until approved by the Administrator as part of a UIC program. No designation of an expansion to the areal extent of a Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery aquifer exemption for the exclusive purpose of Class VI injection for geologic sequestration shall be final until approved by the Administrator as a revision to the applicable Federal UIC program under part 147 or as a substantial revision of an approved State UIC program in accordance with § 145.32 of this chapter.
(3) Subsequent to program approval or promulgation, the Director may, after notice and opportunity for a public hearing, identify additional exempted aquifers. For approved State programs exemption of aquifers identifed (i) under § 146.04(b) shall be treated as a program revision under § 145.32; (ii) under § 146.04(c) shall become final if the State Director submits the exemption in writing to the Administrator and the Administrator has not disapproved the designation within 45 days. Any disapproval by the Administrator shall state the reasons and shall constitute final Agency action for purposes of judicial review.
(c)(1) For Class III wells, the Director shall require an applicant for a permit which necessitates an aquifer exemption under § 146.04(b)(1) to furnish the data necessary to demonstrate that the aquifer is expected to be mineral or hydrocarbon producing. Information contained in the mining plan for the proposed project, such as a map and general description of the mining zone, general information on the mineralogy and geochemistry of the mining zone, analysis of the amenability of the mining zone to the proposed mining method, and a time-table of planned development of the mining zone shall be considered by the Director in addition to the information required by § 144.31(g).
(2) For Class II wells, a demonstration of commercial producibility shall be made as follows:
(i) For a Class II well to be used for enhanced oil recovery processes in a field or project containing aquifers from which hydrocarbons were previously produced, commercial producibility shall be presumed by the Director upon a demonstration by the applicant of historical production having occurred in the project area or field.
(ii) For Class II wells not located in a field or project containing aquifers from which hydrocarbons were previously produced, information such as logs, core data, formation description, formation depth, formation thickness and formation parameters such as permeability and porosity shall be considered by the Director, to the extent such information is available.
(d)
Expansion to the areal extent of existing Class II aquifer exemptions for Class VI wells.
Owners or operators of Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery wells may request that the Director approve an expansion to the areal extent of an aquifer exemption already in place for a Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery well for the exclusive purpose of Class VI injection for geologic sequestration. Such requests must be
treated as a revision to the applicable Federal UIC program under part 147 or as a substantial program revision to an approved State UIC program under § 145.32 of this chapter and will not be final until approved by EPA.
(1) The owner or operator of a Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery well that requests an expansion of the areal extent of an existing aquifer exemption for the exclusive purpose of Class VI injection for geologic sequestration must define (by narrative description, illustrations, maps, or other means) and describe in geographic and/or geometric terms (such as vertical and lateral limits and gradient) that are clear and definite, all aquifers or parts thereof that are requested to be designated as exempted using the criteria in § 146.4 of this chapter.
(2) In evaluating a request to expand the areal extent of an aquifer exemption of a Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery well for the purpose of Class VI injection, the Director must determine that the request meets the criteria for exemptions in § 146.4. In making the determination, the Director shall consider:
(i) Current and potential future use of the USDWs to be exempted as drinking water resources;
(ii) The predicted extent of the injected carbon dioxide plume, and any mobilized fluids that may result in degradation of water quality, over the lifetime of the GS project, as informed by computational modeling performed pursuant to § 146.84(c)(1), in order to ensure that the proposed injection operation will not at any time endanger USDWs including non-exempted portions of the injection formation;
(iii) Whether the areal extent of the expanded aquifer exemption is of sufficient size to account for any possible revisions to the computational model during reevaluation of the area of review, pursuant to § 146.84(e); and
(iv) Any information submitted to support a waiver request made by the owner or operator under § 146.95, if appropriate.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 75 FR 77287, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.8
Noncompliance and program reporting by the Director.
The Director shall prepare quarterly and annual reports as detailed below. When the State is the permit-issuing authority, the State Director shall submit any reports required under this section to the Regional Administrator. When EPA is the permit-issuing authority, the Regional Administrator shall submit any report required under this section to EPA Headquarters.
(a)
Quarterly reports.
The Director shall submit quarterly narrative reports for major facilities as follows:
(1)
Format.
The report shall use the following format:
(i) Provide an alphabetized list of permittees. When two or more permittees have the same name, the lowest permit number shall be entered first.
(ii) For each entry on the list, include the following information in the following order:
(A) Name, location, and permit number of the noncomplying permittees.
(B) A brief description and date of each instance of noncompliance for that permittee. Instances of noncompliance may include one or more the kinds set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. When a permittee has noncompliance of more than one kind, combine the information into a single entry for each such permittee.
(C) The date(s) and a brief description of the action(s) taken by the Director to ensure compliance.
(D) Status of the instance(s) of noncompliance with the date of the review of the status or the date of resolution.
(E) Any details which tend to explain or mitigate the instance(s) of noncompliance.
(2)
Instances of noncompliance to be reported.
Any instances of noncompliance within the following categories shall be reported in successive reports until the noncompliance is reported as resolved. Once noncompliance is reported as resolved it need not appear in subsequent reports.
(i)
Failure to complete construction elements.
When the permittee has failed to complete, by the date specified in the permit, an element of a compliance schedule involving either planning for construction or a construction step (for
example, begin construction, attain operation level); and the permittee has not returned to compliance by accomplishing the required elements of the schedule within 30 days from the date a compliance schedule report is due under the permit.
(ii)
Modifications to schedules of compliance.
When a schedule of compliance in the permit has been modified under § 144.39 or § 144.41 because of the permittee's noncompliance.
(iii)
Failure to complete or provide compliance schedule or monitoring reports.
When the permittee has failed to complete or provide a report required in a permit compliance schedule (for example, progress report or notice of noncompliance or compliance) or a monitoring report; and the permittee has not submitted the complete report within 30 days from the date it is due under the permit for compliance schedules, or from the date specified in the permit for monitoring reports.
(iv)
Deficient reports.
When the required reports provided by the permittee are so deficient as to cause misunderstanding by the Director and thus impede the review of the status of compliance.
(v)
Noncompliance with other permit requirements.
Noncompliance shall be reported in the following circumstances:
(A) Whenever the permittee has violated a permit requirement (other than reported under paragraph (a)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section), and has not returned to compliance within 45 days from the date reporting of noncompliance was due under the permit; or
(B) When the Director determines that a pattern of noncompliance exists for a major facility permittee over the most recent four consecutive reporting periods. This pattern includes any violation of the same requirement in two consecutive reporting periods, and any violation of one or more requirements in each of four consecutive reporting periods; or
(C) When the Director determines significant permit noncompliance or other significant event has occurred, such as a migration of fluids into a USDW.
(vi)
All other.
Statistical information shall be reported quarterly on all other instances of noncompliance by major facilities with permit requirements not otherwise reported under paragraph (a) of this section.
(b)
Annual reports
—(1)
Annual noncompliance report.
Statistical reports shall be submitted by the Director on nonmajor UIC permittees indicating the total number reviewed, the number of noncomplying nonmajor permittees, the number of enforcement actions, and number of permit modifications extending compliance deadlines. The statistical information shall be organized to follow the types of noncompliance listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
For State-administered UIC Programs only.
In addition to the annual noncompliance report, the State Director shall:
(i) Submit each year a program report to the Administrator (in a manner and form prescribed by the Administrator) consisting of:
(A) A detailed description of the State's implementation of its program;
(B) Suggested changes, if any to the program description (see § 145.23(f)) which are necessary to reflect more accurately the State's progress in issuing permits;
(C) An updated inventory of active underground injection operations in the State.
(ii) In addition to complying with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the Director shall provide the Administrator, on February 28th and August 31st of each of the first two years of program operation, the information required in 40 CFR 146.15, 146.25, and 146.35.
(iii) All Class VI program reports shall be consistent with reporting requirements set forth in § 146.91 of this chapter.
(c)
Schedule.
(1) For all quarterly reports. On the last working day of May, August, November, and February, the State Director shall submit to the Regional Administrator information concerning noncompliance with permit requirements by major facilities in the State in accordance with the following schedule. The Regional Administrator shall prepare and submit information for EPA-issued permits to EPA Headquarters in accordance with the same schedule.
Quarters Covered by Reports on Noncompliance by Major Facilities
[Date for completion of reports]
January, February, and March
1
May 31
April, May, and June
1
Aug. 31
July, August, and September
1
Nov. 30
October, November, and December
1
Feb. 28
1
Reports must be made available to the public for inspection and copying on this date.
(2)
For all annual reports.
The period for annual reports shall be for the calendar year ending December 31, with reports completed and available to the public no more than 60 days later.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 75 FR 77287, Dec. 10, 2010]

# Subpart B—General Program Requirements
§ 144.11
Prohibition of unauthorized injection.
Any underground injection, except into a well authorized by rule or except as authorized by permit issued under the UIC program, is prohibited. The construction of any well required to have a permit is prohibited until the permit has been issued.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 58 FR 63895, Dec. 3, 1993]
§ 144.12
Prohibition of movement of fluid into underground sources of drinking water.
(a) No owner or operator shall construct, operate, maintain, convert, plug, abandon, or conduct any other injection activity in a manner that allows the movement of fluid containing any contaminant into underground sources of drinking water, if the presence of that contaminant may cause a violation of any primary drinking water regulation under 40 CFR part 142 or may otherwise adversely affect the health of persons. The applicant for a permit shall have the burden of showing that the requirements of this paragraph are met.
(b) For Class I, II, III, and VI wells, if any water quality monitoring of an underground source of drinking water indicates the movement of any contaminant into the underground source of drinking water, except as authorized under part 146, the Director shall prescribe such additional requirements for construction, corrective action, operation, monitoring, or reporting (including closure of the injection well) as are necessary to prevent such movement. In the case of wells authorized by permit, these additional requirements shall be imposed by modifying the permit in accordance with § 144.39, or the permit may be terminated under § 144.40 if cause exists, or appropriate enforcement action may be taken if the permit has been violated. In the case of wells authorized by rule, see §§ 144.21 through 144.24. For EPA administered programs, such enforcement action shall be taken in accordance with appropriate sections of the SDWA.
(c) For Class V wells, if at any time the Director learns that a Class V well may cause a violation of primary drinking water regulations under 40 CFR part 142, he or she shall:
(1) Require the injector to obtain an individual permit;
(2) Order the injector to take such actions (including, where required, closure of the injection well) as may be necessary to prevent the violation. For EPA administered programs, such orders shall be issued in accordance with the appropriate provisions of the SDWA; or
(3) Take enforcement action.
(d) Whenever the Director learns that a Class V well may be otherwise adversely affecting the health of persons, he or she may prescribe such actions as may be necessary to prevent the adverse effect, including any action authorized under paragraph (c) of this section.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Director may take emergency action upon receipt of information that a contaminant which is present in or likely to enter a public water system or underground source of drinking water may present an imminent and substantial endangerment to the health of persons. If the Director is an EPA official, he must first determine that the appropriate State and local authorities have not taken appropriate action to protect the health of such persons, before taking emergency action.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 20676, June 2, 1987; 75 FR 77288, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.13
Prohibition of Class IV wells.
(a) The following are prohibited, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) The construction of any Class IV well.
(2) The operation or maintenance of any Class IV well not in operation prior to July 18, 1980.
(3) The operation or maintenance of any Class IV well that was in operation prior to July 18, 1980, after six months following the effective date of a UIC program approved or promulgated for the state.
(4) Any increase in the amount of hazardous waste or change in the type of hazardous waste injected into a Class IV well.
(b) The owner or operator of a Class IV well shall comply with the requirements of § 144.14, and with the requirements of § 144.23 regarding closure of Class IV wells.
(c) Wells used to inject contaminated ground water that has been treated and is being reinjected into the same formation from which it was drawn are not prohibited by this section if such injection is approved by EPA, or a State, pursuant to provisions for cleanup of releases under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), 42 U.S.C. 9601-9657, or pursuant to requirements and provisions under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), 42 U.S.C. 6901 through 6987.
(d)
Clarification.
The following wells are not prohibited by this action:
(1) Wells used to inject hazardous waste into aquifers or portions thereof that have been exempted pursuant to § 146.4, if the exempted aquifer into which waste is injected underlies the lowermost formation containing a USDW. Such wells are Class I wells as specified in § 144.6(a)(1), and the owner or operator must comply with the requirements applicable to Class I wells.
(2) Wells used to inject hazardous waste where no USDW exists within one quarter mile of the well bore in any underground formation, provided that the Director determines that such injection is into a formation sufficiently isolated to ensure that injected fluids do not migrate from the injection zone. Such wells are Class I wells as specified in § 144.6(a)(1), and the owner or operator must comply with the requirements applicable to Class I wells.
[49 FR 20181, May 11, 1984, as amended at 67 FR 39593, June 7, 2002]
§ 144.14
Requirements for wells injecting hazardous waste.
(a)
Applicability.
The regulations in this section apply to all generators of hazardous waste, and to the owners or operators of all hazardous waste management facilities, using any class of well to inject hazardous wastes accompanied by a manifest. (See also § 144.13.)
(b)
Authorization.
The owner or operator of any well that is used to inject hazardous waste required to be accompanied by a manifest or delivery document shall apply for authorization to inject as specified in § 144.31 within 6 months after the approval or promulgation of the State UIC program.
(c)
Requirements.
In addition to complying with the applicable requirements of this part and 40 CFR part 146, the owner or operator of each facility meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, shall comply with the following:
(1)
Notification.
The owner or operator shall comply with the notification requirements of section 3010 of Public Law 94-580.
(2)
Identification number.
The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 264.11.
(3)
Manifest system.
The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements for manifested wastes in 40 CFR 264.71.
(4)
Manifest discrepancies.
The owner or operator shall comply with 40 CFR 264.72.
(5)
Operating record.
The owner or operator shall comply with 40 CFR 264.73(a), (b)(1), and (b)(2).
(6)
Annual report.
The owner or operator shall comply with 40 CFR 264.75.
(7)
Unmanifested waste report.
The owner or operator shall comply with 40 CFR 264.75.
(8)
Personnel training.
The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable personnel training requirements of 40 CFR 264.16.
(9)
Certification of closure.
When abandonment is completed, the owner or operator must submit to the Director certification by the owner or operator and certification by an independent registered professional engineer that the facility has been closed in accordance with the specifications in § 144.52(a)(6).
(d)
Additional requirements for Class IV wells.
[Reserved]
§ 144.15
Prohibition of non-experimental Class V wells for geologic sequestration.
The construction, operation or maintenance of any non-experimental Class V geologic sequestration well is prohibited.
[75 FR 77288, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.16
Waiver of requirement by Director.
(a)
When injection does not occur into, through or above an underground source of drinking water,
the Director may authorize a well or project with less stringent requirements for area of review, construction, mechanical integrity, operation, monitoring, and reporting than required in 40 CFR part 146 or § 144.52 to the extent that the reduction in requirements will not result in an increased risk of movement of fluids into an underground source of drinking water.
(b) When injection occurs through or above an underground source of drinking water, but the radius of endangering influence when computed under § 146.06(a) is smaller or equal to the radius of the well, the Director may authorize a well or project with less stringent requirements for operation, monitoring, and reporting than required in 40 CFR part 146 or § 144.52 to the extent that the reduction in requirements will not result in an increased risk of movement of fluids into an underground source of drinking water.
(c) When reducing requirements under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the Director shall prepare a fact sheet under § 124.8 explaining the reasons for the action.
§ 144.17
Records.
The Director or the Administrator may require, by written notice on a selective well-by-well basis, an owner or operator of an injection well to establish and maintain records, make reports, conduct monitoring, and provide other information as is deemed necessary to determine whether the owner or operator has acted or is acting in compliance with Part C of the SDWA or its implementing regulations.
[58 FR 63895, Dec. 3, 1993]
§ 144.18
Requirements for Class VI wells.
Owners or operators of Class VI wells must obtain a permit. Class VI wells cannot be authorized by rule to inject carbon dioxide.
[75 FR 77288, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.19
Transitioning from Class II to Class VI.
(a) Owners or operators that are injecting carbon dioxide for the primary purpose of long-term storage into an oil and gas reservoir must apply for and obtain a Class VI geologic sequestration permit when there is an increased risk to USDWs compared to Class II operations. In determining if there is an increased risk to USDWs, the owner or operator must consider the factors specified in § 144.19(b).
(b) The Director shall determine when there is an increased risk to USDWs compared to Class II operations and a Class VI permit is required. In order to make this determination the Director must consider the following:
(1) Increase in reservoir pressure within the injection zone(s);
(2) Increase in carbon dioxide injection rates;
(3) Decrease in reservoir production rates;
(4) Distance between the injection zone(s) and USDWs;
(5) Suitability of the Class II area of review delineation;
(6) Quality of abandoned well plugs within the area of review;
(7) The owner's or operator's plan for recovery of carbon dioxide at the cessation of injection;
(8) The source and properties of injected carbon dioxide; and
(9) Any additional site-specific factors as determined by the Director.
[75 FR 77288, Dec. 10, 2010]

# Subpart C—Authorization of Underground Injection by Rule
§ 144.21
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells.
(a) An existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III injection well is authorized by rule if the owner or operator injects into the existing well within one year after the date at which a UIC program authorized under the SDWA becomes effective for the first time or inventories the well pursuant to the requirements of § 144.26. An owner or operator of a well which is authorized by rule pursuant to this section shall rework, operate, maintain, convert, plug, abandon or inject into the well in compliance with applicable regulations.
(b)
Duration of well authorization by rule.
Well authorization under this section expires upon the effective date of a permit issued pursuant to § 144.25, § 144.31, § 144.33 or § 144.34; after plugging and abandonment in accordance with an approved plugging and abandonment plan pursuant to §§ 144.28(c) and 146.10, and upon submission of a plugging and abandonment report pursuant to § 144.28(k); or upon conversion in compliance with § 144.28(j).
(c)
Prohibitions on injection.
An owner or operator of a well authorized by rule pursuant to this section is prohibited from injecting into the well:
(1) Upon the effective date of an applicable permit denial;
(2) Upon failure to submit a permit application in a timely manner pursuant to § 144.25 or § 144.31;
(3) Upon failure to submit inventory information in a timely manner pursuant to § 144.26;
(4) Upon failure to comply with a request for information in a timely manner pursuant to § 144.27;
(5) Upon failure to provide alternative financial assurance pursuant to § 144.28(d)(7);
(6) Forty-eight hours after receipt of a determination by the Director pursuant to § 144.28(f)(3) that the well lacks mechanical integrity, unless the Director requires immediate cessation;
(7) Upon receipt of notification from the Director pursuant to § 144.28(l) that the transferee has not demonstrated financial responsibility pursuant to § 144.28(d);
(8) For Class I and III wells:
(i) In States with approved programs, five years after the effective date of the UIC program unless a timely and complete permit application is pending the Director's decision; or
(ii) In States with programs administered by EPA, one year after the effective date of the UIC program unless a timely and complete permit application is pending the Director's decision; or
(9) For Class II wells (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage), five years after the effective date of the UIC program unless a timely and complete permit application is pending the Director's decision.
(d)
Class II and III wells in existing fields or projects.
Notwithstanding the prohibition in § 144.11, this section authorizes Class II and Class III wells or projects in existing fields or projects to continue normal operations until permitted, including construction, operation, and plugging and abandonment of wells as part of the operation, provided the owner or operator maintains compliance with all applicable requirements.
(e)
Requirements.
The owner or operator of a well authorized under this section shall comply with the applicable requirements of § 144.28 and part 147 of this chapter no later than one year after authorization.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 20181, May 11, 1984; 58 FR 63895, Dec. 3, 1993]
§ 144.22
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells.
(a) An existing Class II enhanced recovery or hydrocarbon storage injection well is authorized by rule for the life of the well or project, if the owner or operator injects into the existing well within one year after the date which a UIC program authorized under the SDWA becomes effective for the first time or inventories the well pursuant to the requirements of § 144.26. An owner or operator of a well which is authorized by rule pursuant to this section shall rework, operate, maintain, convert, plug, abandon or inject into
the well in compliance with applicable regulations.
(b)
Duration of well authorization by rule.
Well authorization under this section expires upon the effective date of a permit issued pursuant to § 144.19, § 144.25, § 144.31, § 144.33 or § 144.34; after plugging and abandonment in accordance with an approved plugging and abandonment plan pursuant to §§ 144.28(c) and 146.10 of this chapter; and upon submission of a plugging and abandonment report pursuant to § 144.28(k); or upon conversion in compliance with § 144.28(j).
(c)
Prohibitions on injection.
An owner or operator of a well authorized by rule pursuant to this section is prohibited from injecting into the well:
(1) Upon the effective date of an applicable permit denial;
(2) Upon failure to submit a permit application in a timely manner pursuant to § 144.25 or § 144.31;
(3) Upon failure to submit inventory information in a timely manner pursuant to § 144.26;
(4) Upon failure to comply with a request for information in a timely manner pursuant to § 144.27;
(5) Upon failure to provide alternative financial assurance pursuant to § 144.28(d)(7);
(6) Forty-eight hours after receipt of a determination by the Director pursuant to § 144.28(f)(3) that the well lacks mechanical integrity, unless the Director requires immediate cessation; or
(7) Upon receipt of notification from the Director pursuant to § 144.28(l) that the transferee has not demonstrated financial responsibility pursuant to § 144.28(d).
(d)
Requirements.
The owner or operator of a well authorized under this section shall comply with the applicable requirements of § 144.28 and part 147 of this chapter. Such owner or operator shall comply with the casing and cementing requirements no later than 3 years and other requirements no later than 1 year after authorization.
[49 FR 20181, May 11, 1984, as amended at 58 FR 63896, Dec. 3, 1993; 75 FR 77288, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.23
Class IV wells.
(a) Injection into existing Class IV wells is authorized for up to six months after approval or promulgation of the UIC Program. Such wells are subject to the requirements of §§ 144.13 and 144.14(c).
(b)
Closure.
For EPA administered programs only,
(1) Prior to abandoning any Class IV well, the owner or operator shall plug or otherwise close the well in a manner acceptable to the Regional Administrator.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) The owner or operator of a Class IV well must notify the Regional Administrator of intent to abandon the well at least thirty days prior to abandonment.
(c) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, injection wells used to inject contaminated ground water that has been treated and is being injected into the same formation from which it was drawn are authorized by rule for the life of the well if such subsurface emplacement of fluids is approved by EPA, or a State, pursuant to provisions for cleanup of releases under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), 42 U.S.C. 9601-9675, or pursuant to requirements and provisions under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), 42 U.S.C. 6901-6992k.
[49 FR 20181, May 11, 1984, as amended at 60 FR 33932, June 29, 1995; 64 FR 68566, Dec. 7, 1999]
§ 144.24
Class V wells.
(a) A Class V injection well is authorized by rule, subject to the conditions in § 144.84
(b)
Duration of well authorization by rule.
Well authorization under this section expires upon the effective date of a permit issued pursuant to § 144.25, § 144.31, § 144.33 or § 144.34, or upon proper closure of the well.
(c)
Prohibition of injection.
An owner or operator of a well which is authorized by rule pursuant to this section is prohibited from injecting into the well:
(1) Upon the effective date of an applicable permit denial;
(2) Upon failure to submit a permit application in a timely manner pursuant to § 144.25 or § 144.31;
(3) Upon failure to submit inventory information in a timely manner pursuant to § 144.26; or
(4) Upon failure to comply with a request for information in a timely manner pursuant to § 144.27.
[58 FR 63896, Dec. 3, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 68566, Dec. 7, 1999]
§ 144.25
Requiring a permit.
(a) The Director may require the owner or operator of any Class I, II, III or V injection well which is authorized by rule under this subpart to apply for and obtain an individual or area UIC permit. Cases where individual or area UIC permits may be required include:
(1) The injection well is not in compliance with any requirement of the rule;

# Note:
Any underground injection which violates any authorization by rule is subject to appropriate enforcement action.
(2) The injection well is not or no longer is within the category of wells and types of well operations authorized in the rule;
(3) The protection of USDWs requires that the injection operation be regulated by requirements, such as for corrective action, monitoring and reporting, or operation, which are not contained in the rule.
(4) When the injection well is a Class I, II (except existing enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) or III well, in accordance with a schedule established by the Director pursuant to § 144.31(c).
(b) For EPA-administered programs, the Regional Administrator may require an owner or operator of any well which is authorized by rule under this subpart to apply for an individual or area UIC permit under this paragraph only if the owner or operator has been notified in writing that a permit application is required. The owner or operator of a well which is authorized by rule under this subpart is prohibited from injecting into the well upon the effective date of permit denial, or upon failure by the owner or operator to submit an application in a timely manner as specified in the notice. The notice shall include: a brief statement of the reasons for requiring a permit; an application form; a statement setting a time for the owner or operator to file the application; and a statement of the consequences of denial or issuance of the permit, or failure to submit an application, as described in this paragraph.
(c) An owner or operator of a well authorized by rule may request to be excluded from the coverage of this subpart by applying for an individual or area UIC permit. The owner or operator shall submit an application under § 144.31 with reasons supporting the request, to the Director. The Director may grant any such requests.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 20182, May 11, 1984; 58 FR 63896, Dec. 3, 1993]
§ 144.26
Inventory requirements.
The owner or operator of an injection well which is authorized by rule under this subpart shall submit inventory information to the Director. Such an owner or operator is prohibited from injecting into the well upon failure to submit inventory information for the well within the time frame specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(a)
Contents.
As part of the inventory, the Director shall require and the owner/operator shall provide at least the following information:
(1) Facility name and location;
(2) Name and address of legal contact;
(3) Ownership of facility;
(4) Nature and type of injection wells; and
(5) Operating status of injection wells.

# Note:
This information is requested on national form “Inventory of Injection Wells,” OMB No. 158-R0170.
(b)
Additional contents.
For EPA administered programs only, the owner or operator of a well listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall provide the information listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(1) This section applies to the following wells:
(i) Class II enhanced recovery wells;
(ii) Class IV wells;
(iii) The following Class V wells:
(A) Sand or other backfill wells [§ 146.5(e)(8)];
(B) Radioactive waste disposal wells that are not Class I wells (40 CFR 146.5 (e)(11))
(C) Geothermal energy recovery wells [§ 146.5(e)(12)];
(D) Brine return flow wells [§ 146.5(e)(14)];
(E) Wells used in experimental technologies [§ 146.5(e)(15)];
(F) Municipal and industrial disposal wells other than Class I; and
(G) Any other Class V wells at the discretion of the Regional Administrator.
(2) The owner or operator of a well listed in paragraph (b)(1) shall provide a listing of all wells owned or operated setting forth the following information for each well. (A single description of wells at a single facility with substantially the same characteristics is acceptable).
(i) For Class II only, the field name(s);
(ii) Location of each well or project given by Township, Range, Section, and Quarter-Section, or by latitude and longitude to the nearest second, according to the conventional practice in the State;
(iii) Date of completion of each well;
(iv) Identification and depth of the formation(s) into which each well is injecting;
(v) Total depth of each well;
(vi) Casing and cementing record, tubing size, and depth of packer;
(vii) Nature of the injected fluids;
(viii) Average and maximum injection pressure at the wellhead;
(ix) Average and maximum injection rate; and
(x) Date of the last mechanical integrity test, if any.
(c)
Notice.
Upon approval of the UIC Program in a State, the Director shall notify owners or operators of injection wells of their duty to submit inventory information. The method of notification selected by the Director must assure that the owners or operators will be made aware of the inventory requirement.
(d)
Deadlines.
(1) The owner or operator of an injection well shall submit inventory information no later than one year after the date of approval or effective date of the UIC program for the State. The Director need not require inventory information from any facility with interim status under RCRA.
(2) For EPA administered programs the information need not be submitted if a complete permit application is submitted within one year of the effective data of the UIC program. The owner or operator of Class IV well shall submit inventory information no later than 60 days after the effective date of the program.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 20182, May 11, 1984; 58 FR 63896, Dec. 3, 1993; 64 FR 68566, Dec. 7, 1999; 67 FR 39593, June 7, 2002]
§ 144.27
Requiring other information.
(a) For EPA administered programs only, in addition to the inventory requirements of § 144.26, the Regional Administrator may require the owner or operator of any well authorized by rule under this subpart to submit information as deemed necessary by the Regional Administrator to determine whether a well may be endangering an underground source of drinking water in violation of § 144.12 of this part.
(b) Such information requirements may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Performance of ground-water monitoring and the periodic submission of reports of such monitoring;
(2) An analysis of injected fluids, including periodic submission of such analyses; and
(3) A description of the geologic strata through and into which injection is taking place.
(c) Any request for information under this section shall be made in writing, and include a brief statement of the reasons for requiring the information. An owner or operator shall submit the information within the time period(s) provided in the notice.
(d) An owner or operator of an injection well authorized by rule under this subpart is prohibited from injecting into the well upon failure of the owner or operator to comply with a request for information within the time period(s) specified by the Director pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. An owner or operator of a well prohibited from injection under this section shall not resume injection except under a permit issued pursuant to § 144.25, § 144.31, § 144.33 or § 144.34.
[49 FR 20182, May 11, 1984, as amended at 58 FR 63896, Dec. 3, 1993]
§ 144.28
Requirements for Class I, II, and III wells authorized by rule.
The following requirements apply to the owner or operator of a Class I, II or III well authorized by rule under this subpart, as provided by §§ 144.21(e) and 144.22(d).
(a) The owner or operator shall comply with all applicable requirements of this subpart and subpart B of this part. Any noncompliance with these requirements constitutes a violation of the Safe Drinking Water Act and is grounds for enforcement action, except that the owner or operator need not comply with these requirements to the extent and for the duration such noncompliance is authorized by an emergency permit under § 144.34.
(b)
Twenty-four hour reporting.
The owner or operator shall report any noncompliance which may endanger health or the environment, including:
(1) Any monitoring or other information which indicates that any contaminant may cause an endangerment to a USDW; or
(2) Any noncompliance or malfunction of the injection system which may cause fluid migration into or between USDWs.
Any information shall be provided orally within 24 hours from the time the owner or operator becomes aware of the circumstances. A written submission shall also be provided within five days of the time the owner or operator becomes aware of the circumstances. The written submission shall contain a description of the noncompliance and its cause, the period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times, and if the noncompliance has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
(c)
Plugging and abandonment plan.
(1) The owner or operator shall prepare, maintain, and comply with a plan for plugging and abandonment of the well or project that meets the requirements of § 146.10 of this chapter and is acceptable to the Director. For purposes of this paragraph, temporary intermittent cessation of injection operations is not abandonment.
(2) For EPA administered programs:
(i) The owner or operator shall submit the plan, on a form provided by the Regional Administrator, no later than one year after the effective date of the UIC program in the state.
(ii) The owner or operator shall submit any proposed significant revision to the method of plugging reflected in the plan no later than the notice of plugging required by § 144.28(j)(2) (
i.e.
, 45 days prior to plugging unless shorter notice is approved).
(iii) The plan shall include the following information:
(A) The nature and quantity and material to be used in plugging;
(B) The location and extent (by depth) of the plugs;
(C) Any proposed test or measurement to be made;
(D) The amount, size, and location (by depth) of casing to be left in the well;
(E) The method and location where casing is to be parted; and
(F) [Reserved]
(G) The estimated cost of plugging the well.
(iv) After a cessation of operations of two years the owner or operator shall plug and abandon the well in accordance with the plan unless he:
(A) Provides notice to the Regional Administrator;
(B) Describe actions or procedures, satisfactory to the Regional Administrator, that the owner or operator will take to ensure that the well will not endanger USDWs during the period of temporary abandonment. These actions and procedures shall include compliance with the technical requirements applicable to active injection wells unless waived by the Regional Administrator.
(v) The owner or operator of any well that has been temporarily abandoned [ceased operations for more than two years and has met the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) (A) and (B) of this section] shall notify the Regional Administrator prior to resuming operation of the well.
(d)
Financial responsibility.
(1) The owner, operator and/or, for EPA-administered programs, the transferor of a Class I, II or III well, is required to demonstrate and maintain financial responsibility and resources to close,
plug and abandon the underground injection operation in a manner prescribed by the Director until:
(i) The well has been plugged and abandoned in accordance with an approved plugging and abandonment plan pursuant to §§ 144.28(c) and 146.10 and submission of a plugging and abandonment report has been made pursuant to § 144.28(k);
(ii) The well has been converted in compliance with the requirements of § 144.28(j); or
(iii) For EPA-administered programs, the transferor has received notice from the Director that the transferee has demonstrated financial responsibility for the well. The owner or operator shall show evidence of such financial responsibility to the Director by the submission of a surety bond, or other adequate assurance, such as a financial statement.
(2) For EPA-administered programs, the owner or operator shall submit such evidence no later than one year after the effective date of the UIC program in the State. Where the ownership or operational control of the well is transferred more than one year after the effective date of the UIC program, the transferee shall submit such evidence no later than the date specified in the notice required pursuant to § 144.28(l)(2).
(3) For EPA administered programs the Regional Administrator may require the owner or operator to submit a revised demonstration of financial responsibility if the Regional Administrator has reason to believe that the original demonstration is no longer adequate to cover the cost of closing, plugging and abandoning the well.
(4) For EPA administered programs the owner or operator of a well injecting hazardous waste must comply with the financial responsibility requirements of subpart F of this part.
(5) For EPA-administered programs, an owner or operator must notify the Regional Administrator by certified mail of the commencement of any voluntary or involuntary proceeding under Title 11 (Bankruptcy) of the United States Code which names the owner or operator as debtor, within 10 business days after the commencement of the proceeding. Any party acting as guarantor for the owner or operator for the purpose of financial responsibility must so notify the Regional Administrator, if the guarantor is named as debtor in any such proceeding.
(6) In the event of commencement of a proceeding specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, an owner or operator who has furnished a financial statement for the purpose of demonstrating financial responsibility under this section shall be deemed to be in violation of this paragraph until an alternative financial assurance demonstration acceptable to the Regional Administrator is provided either by the owner or operator or by its trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, or other authorized party. All parties shall be prohibited from injecting into the well until such alternate financial assurance is provided.
(e)
Casing and cementing requirements.
For enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells:
(1) The owner or operator shall case and cement the well to prevent movement of fluids into or between underground sources of drinking water. In determining and specifying casing and cementing requirements, the following factors shall be considered:
(i) Depth to the injection zone;
(ii) Depth to the bottom of all USDWs; and
(iii) Estimated maximum and average injection pressures.
(2) In addition, in determining and specifying casing and cementing requirements the Director may consider information on:
(i) Nature of formation fluids;
(ii) Lithology of injection and confining zones;
(iii) External pressure, internal pressure, and axial loading;
(iv) Hole size;
(v) Size and grade of all casing strings; and
(vi) Class of cement.
(3) The requirements in paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section need not apply if:
(i) Regulatory controls for casing and cementing existed at the time of drilling of the well and the well is in compliance with those controls; and
(ii) Well injection will not result in the movement of fluids into an underground source of drinking water so as to create a significant risk to the health of persons.
(4) When a State did not have regulatory controls for casing and cementing prior to the time of the submission of the State program to the Administrator, the Director need not apply the casing and cementing requirements in paragraph (e)(1) of this section if he submits as a part of his application for primacy, an appropriate plan for casing and cementing of existing, newly converted, and newly drilled wells in existing fields, and the Administrator approves the plan.
(f)
Operating requirements.
(1) Injection between the outermost casing protecting underground sources of drinking water and the well bore is prohibited.
(2) The owner or operator of a Class I, II or III injection well authorized by rule shall establish and maintain mechanical integrity as defined in § 146.8 of this chapter until the well is properly plugged in accordance with an approved plugging and abandonment plan pursuant to §§ 144.28(c) and 146.10, and a plugging and abandonment report pursuant to § 144.28(k) is submitted, or until the well is converted in compliance with § 144.28(j). For EPA-administered programs, the Regional Administrator may require by written notice that the owner or operator comply with a schedule describing when mechanical integrity demonstrations shall be made.
(3) When the Director determines that a Class I (non-hazardous), II or III injection well lacks mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.8 of this chapter, the Director shall give written notice of his determination to the owner or operator. Unless the Director requires immediate cessation, the owner or operator shall cease injection into the well within 48 hours of receipt of the Director's determination. The Director may allow plugging of the well in accordance with the requirements of § 146.10 of this chapter, or require the owner or operator to perform such additional construction, operation, monitoring, reporting and corrective action as is necessary to prevent the movement of fluid into or between USDWs caused by the lack of mechanical integrity. The owner or operator may resume injection upon receipt of written notification from the Director that the owner or operator has demonstrated mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.8 of this chapter.
(4) The Director may allow the owner or operator of a well which lacks mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.8(a)(1) of this chapter to continue or resume injection if the owner or operator has made a satisfactory demonstration that there is no movement of fluid into or between USDWs.
(5) For Class I wells, unless an alternative to a packer has been approved under § 146.12(c) of this chapter, the owner or operator shall fill the annulus between the tubing and the long string of casings with a fluid approved by the Director and maintain a pressure, also approved by the Director, on the annulus. For EPA administered programs, the owner or operator of a Class I well completed with tubing and packer shall fill the annulus between tubing and casing with a noncorrosive fluid and maintain a positive pressure on the annulus. For other Class I wells, the owner or operator shall insure that the alternative completion method will reliably provide a comparable level of protection to underground sources of drinking water.
(6) Injection pressure.
(i) For Class I and III wells:
(A) Except during stimulation, the owner or operator shall not exceed an injection pressure at the wellhead which shall be calculated so as to assure that the pressure during injection does not initiate new fractures or propagate existing fractures in the injection zone; and
(B) The owner or operator shall not inject at a pressure which will initiate fractures in the confining zone or cause the movement of injection or formation fluids into an underground source of drinking water.
(ii) For Class II wells:
(A) The owner or operator shall not exceed a maximum injection pressure at the wellhead which shall be calculated so as to assure that the pressure during injection does not initiate new fractures of propagate existing
fractures in the confining zone adjacent to the USDWs; and
(B) The owner or operator shall not inject at a pressure which will cause the movement of injection or formation fluids into an underground source of drinking water.
(g)
Monitoring requirements.
The owner or operator shall perform the monitoring as described in this paragraph. For EPA administered programs, monitoring of the nature of the injected fluids shall comply with applicable analytical methods cited and described in table I of 40 CFR 136.3 or in appendix III of 40 CFR part 261 or by other methods that have been approved by the Regional Administrator.
(1) The owner or operator of a Class I well shall:
(i) Analyze the nature of the injected fluids with sufficient frequency to yield data representative of their characteristics;
(ii) Install and use continuous recording devices to monitor injection pressure, flow rate and volume, and the pressure on the annulus between the tubing and the long string of casing;
(iii) Install and use monitoring wells within the area of review if required by the Director, to monitor any migration of fluids into and pressure in the underground sources of drinking water. The type, number and location of the wells, the parameters to be measured, and the frequency of monitoring must be approved by the Director.
(2) For Class II wells:
(i) The owner or operator shall monitor the nature of the injected fluids with sufficient frequency to yield data representative of their characteristics. For EPA administered programs, this frequency shall be at least once within the first year of the authorization and thereafter when changes are made to the fluid.
(ii) The owner or operator shall observe the injection pressure, flow rate, and cumulative volume at least with the following frequencies:
(A) Weekly for produced fluid disposal operations;
(B) Monthly for enhanced recovery operations;
(C) Daily during the injection of liquid hydrocarbons and injection for withdrawal of stored hydrocarbons; and
(D) Daily during the injection phase of cyclic steam operations.
(iii) The owner or operator shall record one observation of injection pressure, flow rate and cumulative volume at reasonable intervals no greater than thirty days.
(iv) For enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells:
(A) The owner or operator shall demonstrate mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.8 of this chapter at least once every five years during the life of the injection well.
(B) For EPA administered programs, the Regional Administrator by written notice may require the owner or operator to comply with a schedule describing when such demonstrations shall be made.
(C) For EPA administered programs, the owner or operator of any well required to be tested for mechanical integrity shall notify the Regional Administrator at least 30 days prior to any required mechanical integrity test. The Regional Administrator may allow a shorter notification period if it would be sufficient to enable EPA to witness the mechanical integrity testing if it chose. Notification may be in the form of a yearly or quarterly schedule of planned mechanical integrity tests, or it may be on an individual basis.
(v) The owner or operator of a hydrocarbon storage or enhanced recovery wells may monitor them by manifold monitoring on a field or project basis rather than on an individual well basis if such facilities consist of more than one injection well, operate with a common manifold, and provided the owner or operator demonstrates to the Director that manifold monitoring is comparable to individual well monitoring.
(3)(i) For Class III wells the owner or operator shall provide to the Director a qualitative analysis and ranges in concentrations of all constituents of injected fluids at least once within the first year of authorization and thereafter whenever the injection fluid is modified to the extent that the initial data are incorrect or incomplete. The owner or operator may request Federal confidentiality as specified in 40 CFR part 2. If the information is proprietary the owner or operator may in lieu of the ranges in concentrations choose to
submit maximum concentrations which shall not be exceeded. In such a case the owner or operator shall retain records of the undisclosed concentrations and provide them upon request to the Regional Administrator as part of any enforcement investigation; and
(ii) Monitor injection pressure and either flow rate or volume semi-monthly, or meter and record daily injected and produced fluid volumes as appropriate;
(iii) Monitor the fluid level in the injection zone semi-monthly, where appropriate;
(iv) All Class III wells may be monitored on a field or project basis rather than an individual well basis by manifold monitoring. Manifold monitoring may be used in cases of facilities consisting of more than one injection well, operating with a common manifold. Separate monitoring systems for each well are not required provided the owner or operator demonstrates to the Director that manifold monitoring is comparable to individual well monitoring.
(h)
Reporting requirements.
The owner or operator shall submit reports to the Director as follows:
(1) For Class I wells, quarterly reports on:
(i) The physical, chemical, and other relevant characteristics of the injection fluids;
(ii) Monthly average, maximum, and minimum values for injection pressure, flow rate and volume, and annular pressure;
(iii) The results from ground-water monitoring wells prescribed in paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this section;
(iv) The results of any test of the injection well conducted by the owner or operator during the reported quarter if required by the Director; and
(v) Any well work over performed during the reported quarter.
(2) For Class II wells:
(i) An annual report to the Director summarizing the results of all monitoring, as required in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. Such summary shall include monthly records of injected fluids, and any major changes in characteristics or sources of injected fluids. Previously submitted information may be included by reference.
(ii) The owner or operator of hydrocarbon storage and enhanced recovery projects may report on a field or project basis rather than on an individual well basis where manifold monitoring is used.
(3) For Class III wells:
(i) Quarterly reporting on all monitoring, as required in paragraph (g)(3) of this section;
(ii) Quarterly reporting of the results of any periodic tests required by the Director that are performed during the reported quarter;
(iii) Monitoring may be reported on a project or field basis rather than an individual well basis where manifold monitoring is used.
(i)
Retention of records.
The owner or operator shall retain records of all monitoring information, including the following:
(1) Calibration and maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation, and copies of all reports required by this section, for a period of at least three years from the date of the sample, measurement, or report. This period may be extended by request of the Director at any time; and
(2) The nature and composition of all injected fluids until three years after the completion of any plugging and abandonment procedures specified under § 144.52(l)(6). The Director may require the owner or operator to deliver the records to the Director at the conclusion of the retention period. For EPA administered programs, the owner or operator shall continue to retain the records after the three year retention period unless he delivers the records to the Regional Administrator or obtains written approval from the Regional Administrator to discard the records.
(j)
Notice of abandonment.
(1) The owner or operator shall notify the Director, according to a time period required by the Director, before conversion or abandonment of the well.
(2) For EPA-administered programs, the owner or operator shall notify the Regional Administrator at least 45 days before plugging and abandonment. The Regional Administrator, at his discretion, may allow a shorter notice period.
(k)
Plugging and abandonment report.
For EPA-administered programs, within 60 days after plugging a well or at the time of the next quarterly report (whichever is less) the owner or operator shall submit a report to the Regional Administrator. If the quarterly report is due less than 15 days before completion of plugging, then the report shall be submitted within 60 days. The report shall be certified as accurate by the person who performed the plugging operation. Such report shall consist of either:
(1) A statement that the well was plugged in accordance with the plan previously submitted to the Regional Administrator; or
(2) Where actual plugging differed from the plan previously submitted, an updated version of the plan, on the form supplied by the Regional Administrator, specifying the different procedures used.
(l)
Change of ownership or operational control.
For EPA-administered programs:
(1) The transferor of a Class I, II or III well authorized by rule shall notify the Regional Administrator of a transfer of ownership or operational control of the well at least 30 days in advance of the proposed transfer.
(2) The notice shall include a written agreement between the transferor and the transferee containing a specific date for transfer of ownership or operational control of the well; and a specific date when the financial responsibility demonstration of § 144.28(d) will be met by the transferee.
(3) The transferee is authorized to inject unless he receives notification from the Director that the transferee has not demonstrated financial responsibility pursuant to § 144.28(d).
(m)
Requirements for Class I hazardous waste wells.
The owner or operator of any Class I well injecting hazardous waste shall comply with § 144.14(c). In addition, for EPA-administered programs the owner or operator shall properly dispose of, or decontaminate by removing all hazardous waste residues, all injection well equipment.
[49 FR 20182, May 11, 1984, as amended at 58 FR 63897, Dec. 3, 1993]

# Subpart D—Authorization by Permit
§ 144.31
Application for a permit; authorization by permit.
(a)
Permit application.
Unless an underground injection well is authorized by rule under subpart C of this part, all injection activities including construction of an injection well are prohibited until the owner or operator is authorized by permit. An owner or operator of a well currently authorized by rule must apply for a permit under this section unless well authorization by rule was for the life of the well or project. Authorization by rule for a well or project for which a permit application has been submitted terminates for the well or project upon the effective date of the permit. Procedures for applications, issuance and administration of emergency permits are found exclusively in § 144.34. A RCRA permit applying the standards of part 264, subpart C of this chapter will constitute a UIC permit for hazardous waste injection wells for which the technical standards in part 146 of this chapter are not generally appropriate.
(b)
Who applies?
When a facility or activity is owned by one person but is operated by another person, it is the operator's duty to obtain a permit.
(c)
Time to apply.
Any person who performs or proposes an underground injection for which a permit is or will be required shall submit an application to the Director in accordance with the UIC program as follows:
(1) For existing wells, as expeditiously as practicable and in accordance with the schedule in any program description under § 145.23(f) or (for EPA administered programs) on a schedule established by the Regional Administrator, but no later than 4 years from the approval or promulgation of the UIC program, or as required under § 144.14(b) for wells injecting hazardous waste. For EPA administered programs the owner or operator of Class I or III wells shall submit a complete permit application no later than 1 year after the effective date of the program.
(2) For new injection wells, except new wells in projects authorized under § 144.21(d) or authorized by an existing
area permit under § 144.33(c), a reasonable time before construction is expected to begin.
(d)
Completeness.
The Director shall not issue a permit before receiving a complete application for a permit except for emergency permits. An application for a permit is complete when the Director receives an application form and any supplemental information which are completed to his or her satisfaction. The completeness of any application for a permit shall be judged independently of the status of any other permit application or permit for the same facility or activity. For EPA-administered programs, an application which is reviewed under § 124.3 is complete when the Director receives either a complete application or the information listed in a notice of deficiency.
(e)
Information requirements.
All applicants for Class I, II, III, and V permits shall provide the following information to the Director, using the application form provided by the Director. Applicants for Class VI permits shall follow the criteria provided in § 146.82 of this chapter.
(1) The activities conducted by the applicant which require it to obtain permits under RCRA, UIC, the National Pollution Discharge Elimination system (NPDES) program under the Clean Water Act, or the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program under the Clean Air Act.
(2) Name, mailing address, and location of the facility for which the application is submitted.
(3) Up to four SIC codes which best reflect the principal products or services provided by the facility.
(4) The operator's name, address, telephone number, ownership status, and status as Federal, State, private, public, or other entity.
(5) Whether the facility is located on Indian lands.
(6) A listing of all permits or construction approvals received or applied for under any of the following programs:
(i) Hazardous Waste Management program under RCRA.
(ii) UIC program under SDWA.
(iii) NPDES program under CWA.
(iv) Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program under the Clean Air Act.
(v) Nonattainment program under the Clean Air Act.
(vi) National Emission Standards for Hazardous Pollutants (NESHAPS) preconstruction approval under the Clean Air Act.
(vii) Ocean dumping permits under the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuaries Act.
(viii) Dredge and fill permits under section 404 of CWA.
(ix) Other relevant environmental permits, including State permits.
(7) A topographic map (or other map if a topographic map is unavailable) extending one mile beyond the property boundaries of the source depicting the facility and each of its intake and discharge structures; each of its hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facilities; each well where fluids from the facility are injected underground; and those wells, springs, and other surface water bodies, and drinking water wells listed in public records or otherwise known to the applicant within a quarter mile of the facility property boundary.
(8) A brief description of the nature of the business.
(9) For EPA-administered programs, the applicant shall identify and submit on a list with the permit application the names and addresses of all owners of record of land within one-quarter mile of the facility boundary. This requirement may be waived by the Regional Administrator where the site is located in a populous area and the Regional Administrator determines that the requirement would be impracticable.
(10) A plugging and abandonment plan that meets the requirements of § 146.10 of this chapter and is acceptable to the Director.
(f)
Recordkeeping.
Applicants shall keep records of all data used to complete permit applications and any supplemental information submitted under § 144.31 for a period of at least 3 years from the date the application is signed.
(g)
Information Requirements for Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells Permits.
(1) The following information is
required for each active Class I hazardous waste injection well at a facility seeking a UIC permit:
(i) Dates well was operated.
(ii) Specification of all wastes which have been injected in the well, if available.
(2) The owner or operator of any facility containing one or more active hazardous waste injection wells must submit all available information pertaining to any release of hazardous waste or constituents from any active hazardous waste injection well at the facility.
(3) The owner or operator of any facility containing one or more active Class I hazardous waste injection wells must conduct such preliminary site investigations as are necessary to determine whether a release is occurring, has occurred, or is likely to have occurred.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 20185, May 11, 1984; 52 FR 45797, Dec. 1, 1987; 52 FR 46963, Dec. 10, 1987; 58 FR 63897, Dec. 3, 1993; 75 FR 77288, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.32
Signatories to permit applications and reports.
(a)
Applications.
All permit applications, except those submitted for Class II wells (see paragraph (b) of this section), shall be signed as follows:
(1)
For a corporation:
by a responsible corporate officer. For the purpose of this section, a responsible corporate officer means; (i) A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy- or decisionmaking functions for the corporation, or (ii) the manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second-quarter 1980 dollars), if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.

# Note:
EPA does not require specific assignments or delegations of authority to responsible corporate officers identified in § 144.32(a)(1)(i). The Agency will presume that these responsible corporate officers have the requisite authority to sign permit applications unless the corporation has notified the Director to the contrary. Corporate procedures governing authority to sign permit applications may provide for assignment or delegation to applicable corporate positions under § 144.32(a)(1)(ii) rather than to specific individuals.
(2)
For a partnership or sole proprietorship:
by a general partner or the proprietor, respectively; or
(3)
For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency:
by either a principal executive officer or ranking elected official. For purposes of this section, a principal executive officer of a Federal agency includes: (i) The chief executive officer of the agency, or (ii) a senior executive officer having responsibility for the overall operations of a principal geographic unit of the agency (e.g., Regional Administrators of EPA).
(b)
Reports.
All reports required by permits, other information requested by the Director, and all permit applications submitted for Class II wells under § 144.31 shall be signed by a person described in paragraph (a) of this section, or by a duly authorized representative of that person. A person is a duly authorized representative only if:
(1) The authorization is made in writing by a person described in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) The authorization specifies either an individual or a position having responsibility for the overall operation of the regulated facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager, operator of a well or a well field, superintendent, or position of equivalent responsibility. (A duly authorized representative may thus be either a named individual or any individual occupying a named position); and
(3) The written authorization is submitted to the Director.
(c)
Changes to authorization.
If an authorization under paragraph (b) of this section is no longer accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the overall operation of the facility, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section must be submitted to the Director prior to or together with any reports, information, or applications to be signed by an authorized representative.
(d)
Certification.
Any person signing a document under paragraph (a) or (b) of
this section shall make the following certification:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.
(Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
), Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.
), Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.
), Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.
)
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 39621, Sept. 1, 1983]
§ 144.33
Area permits.
(a) The Director may issue a permit on an area basis, rather than for each well individually, provided that the permit is for injection wells:
(1) Described and identified by location in permit application(s) if they are existing wells, except that the Director may accept a single description of wells with substantially the same characteristics;
(2) Within the same well field, facility site, reservoir, project, or similar unit in the same State;
(3) Operated by a single owner or operator; and
(4) Used to inject other than hazardous waste; and
(5) Other than Class VI wells.
(b) Area permits shall specify:
(1) The area within which underground injections are authorized, and
(2) The requirements for construction, monitoring, reporting, operation, and abandonment, for all wells authorized by the permit.
(c) The area permit may authorize the permittee to construct and operate, convert, or plug and abandon wells within the permit area provided:
(1) The permittee notifies the Director at such time as the permit requires;
(2) The additional well satisfies the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section and meets the requirements specified in the permit under paragraph (b) of this section; and
(3) The cumulative effects of drilling and operation of additional injection wells are considered by the Director during evaluation of the area permit application and are acceptable to the Director.
(d) If the Director determines that any well constructed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section does not satisfy any of the requirements of paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section the Director may modify the permit under § 144.39, terminate under § 144.40, or take enforcement action. If the Director determines that cumulative effects are unacceptable, the permit may be modified under § 144.39.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 75 FR 77288, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.34
Emergency permits.
(a)
Coverage.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part or part 124, the Director may temporarily permit a specific underground injection if:
(1) An imminent and substantial endangerment to the health of persons will result unless a temporary emergency permit is granted; or
(2) A substantial and irretrievable loss of oil or gas resources will occur unless a temporary emergency permit is granted to a Class II well; and
(i) Timely application for a permit could not practicably have been made; and
(ii) The injection will not result in the movement of fluids into underground sources of drinking water; or
(3) A substantial delay in production of oil or gas resources will occur unless a temporary emergency permit is granted to a new Class II well and the temporary authorization will not result in the movement of fluids into an underground source of drinking water.
(b)
Requirements for issuance.
(1) Any temporary permit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be for no longer term than required to prevent the hazard.
(2) Any temporary permit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be for no longer than 90 days, except that if a permit application has been submitted prior to the expiration of the 90-day period, the Director may extend
the temporary permit until final action on the application.
(3) Any temporary permit under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be issued only after a complete permit application has been submitted and shall be effective until final action on the application.
(4) Notice of any temporary permit under this paragraph shall be published in accordance with § 124.11 within 10 days of the issuance of the permit.
(5) The temporary permit under this section may be either oral or written. If oral, it must be followed within 5 calendar days by a written temporary emergency permit.
(6) The Director shall condition the temporary permit in any manner he or she determines is necessary to ensure that the injection will not result in the movement of fluids into an underground source of drinking water.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 20185, May 11, 1984]
§ 144.35
Effect of a permit.
(a) Except for Class II and III wells, compliance with a permit during its term constitutes compliance, for purposes of enforcement, with Part C of the SDWA. However, a permit may be modified, revoked and reissued, or terminated during its term for cause as set forth in §§ 144.39 and 144.40.
(b) The issuance of a permit does not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive privilege.
(c) The issuance of a permit does not authorize any injury to persons or property or invasion of other private rights, or any infringement of State or local law or regulations.
§ 144.36
Duration of permits.
(a) Permits for Class I and V wells shall be effective for a fixed term not to exceed 10 years. UIC permits for Class II and III wells shall be issued for a period up to the operating life of the facility. UIC permits for Class VI wells shall be issued for the operating life of the facility and the post-injection site care period. The Director shall review each issued Class II, III, and VI well UIC permit at least once every 5 years to determine whether it should be modified, revoked and reissued, terminated or a minor modification made as provided in § 144.39, § 144.40, or § 144.41.
(b) Except as provided in § 144.37, the term of a permit shall not be extended by modification beyond the maximum duration specified in this section.
(c) The Director may issue any permit for a duration that is less than the full allowable term under this section.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 75 FR 77288, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.37
Continuation of expiring permits.
(a)
EPA permits.
When EPA is the permit-issuing authority, the conditions of an expired permit continue in force under 5 U.S.C. 558(c) until the effective date of a new permit if:
(1) The permittee has submitted a timely application which is a complete application for a new permit; and
(2) The Regional Administrator, through no fault of the permittee does not issue a new permit with an effective date on or before the expiration date of the previous permit (for example, when issuance is impracticable due to time or resource constraints).
(b)
Effect.
Permits continued under this section remain fully effective and enforceable.
(c)
Enforcement.
When the permittee is not in compliance with the conditions of the expiring or expired permit the Regional Administrator may choose to do any or all of the following:
(1) Initiate enforcement action based upon the permit which has been continued;
(2) Issue a notice of intent to deny the new permit. If the permit is denied, the owner or operator would then be required to cease the activities authorized by the continued permit or be subject to enforcement action for operating without a permit;
(3) Issue a new permit under part 124 with appropriate conditions; or
(4) Take other actions authorized by these regulations.
(d)
State continuation.
An EPA issued permit does not continue in force beyond its time expiration date under Federal law if at that time a State is the permitting authority. A State authorized to administer the UIC program may continue either EPA or State-issued permits until the effective
date of the new permits, if State law allows. Otherwise, the facility or activity is operating without a permit from the time of expiration of the old permit to the effective date of the State-issued new permit.
§ 144.38
Transfer of permits.
(a)
Transfers by modification.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a permit may be transferred by the permittee to a new owner or operator only if the permit has been modified or revoked and reissued (under § 144.39(b)(2)), or a minor modification made (under § 144.41(d)), to identify the new permittee and incorporate such other requirements as may be necessary under the Safe Drinking Water Act.
(b)
Automatic transfers.
As an alternative to transfers under paragraph (a) of this section, any UIC permit for a well not injecting hazardous waste or injecting carbon dioxide for geologic sequestration may be automatically transferred to a new permittee if:
(1) The current permittee notifies the Director at least 30 days in advance of the proposed transfer date referred to in paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(2) The notice includes a written agreement between the existing and new permittees containing a specific date for transfer or permit responsibility, coverage, and liability between them, and the notice demonstrates that the financial responsibility requirements of § 144.52(a)(7) will be met by the new permittee; and
(3) The Director does not notify the existing permittee and the proposed new permittee of his or her intent to modify or revoke and reissue the permit. A modification under this paragraph may also be a minor modification under § 144.41. If this notice is not received, the transfer is effective on the date specified in the agreement mentioned in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 75 FR 77288, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.39
Modification or revocation and reissuance of permits.
When the Director receives any information (for example, inspects the facility, receives information submitted by the permittee as required in the permit (see § 144.51 of this chapter), receives a request for modification or revocation and reissuance under § 124.5, or conducts a review of the permit file) he or she may determine whether or not one or more of the causes listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for modification or revocation and reissuance or both exist. If cause exists, the Director may modify or revoke and reissue the permit accordingly, subject to the limitations of paragraph (c) of this section, and may request an updated application if necessary. When a permit is modified, only the conditions subject to modification are reopened. If a permit is revoked and reissued, the entire permit is reopened and subject to revision and the permit is reissued for a new term. See § 124.5(c)(2) of this chapter. If cause does not exist under this section or § 144.41 of this chapter, the Director shall not modify or revoke and reissue the permit. If a permit modification satisfies the criteria in § 144.41 for “minor modifications” the permit may be modified without a draft permit or public review. Otherwise, a draft permit must be prepared and other procedures in part 124 must be followed.
(a)
Causes for modification.
The following are causes for modification. For Class I hazardous waste injection wells, Class II, Class III or Class VI wells the following may be causes for revocation and reissuance as well as modification; and for all other wells the following may be cause for revocation or reissuance as well as modification when the permittee requests or agrees.
(1)
Alterations.
There are material and substantial alterations or additions to the permitted facility or activity which occurred after permit issuance which justify the application of permit conditions that are different or absent in the existing permit.
(2)
Information.
The Director has received information. Permits other than for Class II and III wells may be modified during their terms for this cause only if the information was not available at the time of permit issuance (other than revised regulations, guidance, or test methods) and would have justified the application of different permit conditions at the time of
issuance. For UIC area permits (§ 144.33), this cause shall include any information indicating that cumulative effects on the environment are unacceptable.
(3)
New regulations.
The standards or regulations on which the permit was based have been changed by promulgation of new or amended standards or regulations or by judicial decision after the permit was issued. Permits other than for Class I hazardous waste injection wells, Class II, Class III or Class VI wells may be modified during their permit terms for this cause only as follows:
(i) For promulgation of amended standards or regulations, when:
(A) The permit condition requested to be modified was based on a promulgated part 146 regulation; and
(B) EPA has revised, withdrawn, or modified that portion of the regulation on which the permit condition was based, and
(C) A permittee requests modification in accordance with § 124.5 within ninety (90) days after
Federal Register
notice of the action on which the request is based.
(ii) For judicial decisions, a court of competent jurisdiction has remanded and stayed EPA promulgated regulations if the remand and stay concern that portion of the regulations on which the permit condition was based and a request is filed by the permittee in accordance with § 124.5 within ninety (90) days of judicial remand.
(4)
Compliance schedules.
The Director determines good cause exists for modification of a compliance schedule, such as an act of God, strike, flood, or materials shortage or other events over which the permittee has little or no control and for which there is no reasonably available remedy. See also § 144.41(c) (minor modifications).
(5)
Basis for modification of Class VI permits.
Additionally, for Class VI wells, whenever the Director determines that permit changes are necessary based on:
(i) Area of review reevaluations under § 146.84(e)(1) of this chapter;
(ii) Any amendments to the testing and monitoring plan under § 146.90(j) of this chapter;
(iii) Any amendments to the injection well plugging plan under § 146.92(c) of this chapter;
(iv) Any amendments to the post-injection site care and site closure plan under § 146.93(a)(3) of this chapter;
(v) Any amendments to the emergency and remedial response plan under § 146.94(d) of this chapter; or
(vi) A review of monitoring and/or testing results conducted in accordance with permit requirements.
(b)
Causes for modification or revocation and reissuance.
The following are causes to modify or, alternatively, revoke and reissue a permit:
(1) Cause exists for termination under § 144.40, and the Director determines that modification or revocation and reissuance is appropriate.
(2) The Director has received notification (as required in the permit, see § 144.41(d)) of a proposed transfer of the permit. A permit also may be modified to reflect a transfer after the effective date of an automatic transfer (§ 144.38(b)) but will not be revoked and reissued after the effective date of the transfer except upon the request of the new permittee.
(3) A determination that the waste being injected is a hazardous waste as defined in § 261.3 either because the definition has been revised, or because a previous determination has been changed.
(c)
Facility siting.
Suitability of the facility location will not be considered at the time of permit modification or revocation and reissuance unless new information or standards indicate that a threat to human health or the environment exists which was unknown at the time of permit issuance.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 53 FR 28147, July 26, 1988; 75 FR 77288, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.40
Termination of permits.
(a) The Director may terminate a permit during its term, or deny a permit renewal application for the following causes:
(1) Noncompliance by the permittee with any condition of the permit;
(2) The permittee's failure in the application or during the permit issuance process to disclose fully all relevant
facts, or the permittee's misrepresentation of any relevant facts at any time; or
(3) A determination that the permitted activity endangers human health or the environment and can only be regulated to acceptable levels by permit modification or termination;
(b) The Director shall follow the applicable procedures in part 124 in terminating any permit under this section.
§ 144.41
Minor modifications of permits.
Upon the consent of the permittee, the Director may modify a permit to make the corrections or allowances for changes in the permitted activity listed in this section, without following the procedures of part 124. Any permit modification not processed as a minor modification under this section must be made for cause and with part 124 draft permit and public notice as required in § 144.39. Minor modifications may only:
(a) Correct typographical errors;
(b) Require more frequent monitoring or reporting by the permittee;
(c) Change an interim compliance date in a schedule of compliance, provided the new date is not more than 120 days after the date specified in the existing permit and does not interfere with attainment of the final compliance date requirement; or
(d) Allow for a change in ownership or operational control of a facility where the Director determines that no other change in the permit is necessary, provided that a written agreement containing a specific date for transfer of permit responsibility, coverage, and liability between the current and new permittees has been submitted to the Director.
(e) Change quantities or types of fluids injected which are within the capacity of the facility as permitted and, in the judgment of the Director, would not interfere with the operation of the facility or its ability to meet conditions described in the permit and would not change its classification.
(f) Change construction requirements approved by the Director pursuant to § 144.52(a)(1) (establishing UIC permit conditions), provided that any such alteration shall comply with the requirements of this part and part 146.
(g) Amend a plugging and abandonment plan which has been updated under § 144.52(a)(6).
(h) Amend a Class VI injection well testing and monitoring plan, plugging plan, post-injection site care and site closure plan, or emergency and remedial response plan where the modifications merely clarify or correct the plan, as determined by the Director.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 75 FR 77289, Dec. 10, 2010]

# Subpart E—Permit Conditions
§ 144.51
Conditions applicable to all permits.
The following conditions apply to all UIC permits. All conditions applicable to all permits shall be incorporated into the permits either expressly or by reference. If incorporated by reference, a specific citation to these regulations (or the corresponding approved State regulations) must be given in the permit.
(a)
Duty to comply.
The permittee must comply with all conditions of this permit. Any permit noncompliance constitutes a violation of the Safe Drinking Water Act and is grounds for enforcement action; for permit termination, revocation and reissuance, or modification; or for denial of a permit renewal application; except that the permittee need not comply with the provisions of this permit to the extent and for the duration such noncompliance is authorized in an emergency permit under § 144.34.
(b)
Duty to reapply.
If the permittee wishes to continue an activity regulated by this permit after the expiration date of this permit, the permittee must apply for and obtain a new permit.
(c)
Need to halt or reduce activity not a defense.
It shall not be a defense for a permittee in an enforcement action that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance with the conditions of this permit.
(d)
Duty to mitigate.
The permittee shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or correct any adverse impact on
the environment resulting from noncompliance with this permit.
(e)
Proper operation and maintenance.
The permittee shall at all times properly operate and maintain all facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) which are installed or used by the permittee to achieve compliance with the conditions of this permit. Proper operation and maintenance includes effective performance, adequate funding, adequate operator staffing and training, and adequate laboratory and process controls, including appropriate quality assurance procedures. This provision requires the operation of back-up or auxiliary facilities or similar systems only when necessary to achieve compliance with the conditions of the permit.
(f)
Permit actions.
This permit may be modified, revoked and reissued, or terminated for cause. The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination, or a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any permit condition.
(g)
Property rights.
This permit does not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive privilege.
(h)
Duty to provide information.
The permittee shall furnish to the Director, within a time specified, any information which the Director may request to determine whether cause exists for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or terminating this permit, or to determine compliance with this permit. The permittee shall also furnish to the Director, upon request, copies of records required to be kept by this permit.
(i)
Inspection and entry.
The permittee shall allow the Director, or an authorized representative, upon the presentation of credentials and other documents as may be required by law, to:
(1) Enter upon the permittee's premises where a regulated facility or activity is located or conducted, or where records must be kept under the conditions of this permit;
(2) Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that must be kept under the conditions of this permit;
(3) Inspect at reasonable times any facilities, equipment (including monitoring and control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or required under this permit; and
(4) Sample or monitor at reasonable times, for the purposes of assuring permit compliance or as otherwise authorized by the SDWA, any substances or parameters at any location.
(j)
Monitoring and records.
(1) Samples and measurements taken for the purpose of monitoring shall be representative of the monitored activity.
(2) The permittee shall retain records of all monitoring information, including the following:
(i) Calibration and maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation, copies of all reports required by this permit, and records of all data used to complete the application for this permit, for a period of at least 3 years from the date of the sample, measurement, report, or application. This period may be extended by request of the Director at any time; and
(ii) The nature and composition of all injected fluids until three years after the completion of any plugging and abandonment procedures specified under § 144.52(a)(6), or under part 146 subpart G as appropriate. The Director may require the owner or operator to deliver the records to the Director at the conclusion of the retention period. For EPA administered programs, the owner or operator shall continue to retain the records after the three year retention period unless he delivers the records to the Regional Administrator or obtains written approval from the Regional Administrator to discard the records.
(3) Records of monitoring information shall include:
(i) The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements;
(ii) The individual(s) who performed the sampling or measurements;
(iii) The date(s) analyses were performed;
(iv) The individual(s) who performed the analyses;
(v) The analytical techniques or methods used; and
(vi) The results of such analyses.
(4) Owners or operators of Class VI wells shall retain records as specified in subpart H of part 146, including §§ 146.84(g), 146.91(f), 146.92(d), 146.93(f), and 146.93(h) of this chapter.
(k)
Signatory requirement.
All applications, reports, or information submitted to the Administrator shall be signed and certified. (See § 144.32.)
(l)
Reporting requirements
—(1)
Planned changes.
The permittee shall give notice to the Director as soon as possible of any planned physical alterations or additions to the permitted facility.
(2)
Anticipated noncompliance.
The permittee shall give advance notice to the Director of any planned changes in the permitted facility or activity which may result in noncompliance with permit requirements.
(3)
Transfers.
This permit is not transferable to any person except after notice to the Director. The Director may require modification or revocation and reissuance of the permit to change the name of the permittee and incorporate such other requirements as may be necessary under the Safe Drinking Water Act. (See § 144.38; in some cases, modification or revocation and reissuance is mandatory.)
(4)
Monitoring reports.
Monitoring results shall be reported at the intervals specified elsewhere in this permit.
(5)
Compliance schedules.
Reports of compliance or noncompliance with, or any progress reports on, interim and final requirements contained in any compliance schedule of this permit shall be submitted no later than 30 days following each schedule date.
(6)
Twenty-four hour reporting.
The permittee shall report any noncompliance which may endanger health or the environment, including:
(i) Any monitoring or other information which indicates that any contaminant may cause an endangerment to a USDW; or
(ii) Any noncompliance with a permit condition or malfunction of the injection system which may cause fluid migration into or between USDWs.
Any information shall be provided orally within 24 hours from the time the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances. A written submission shall also be provided within 5 days of the time the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances. The written submission shall contain a description of the noncompliance and its cause, the period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times, and if the noncompliance has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the noncompliance.
(7)
Other noncompliance.
The permittee shall report all instances of noncompliance not reported under paragraphs (l) (4), (5), and (6) of this section, at the time monitoring reports are submitted. The reports shall contain the information listed in paragraph (l)(6) of this section.
(8)
Other information.
Where the permittee becomes aware that it failed to submit any relevant facts in a permit application, or submitted incorrect information in a permit application or in any report to the Director, it shall promptly submit such facts or information.
(m)
Requirements prior to commencing injection.
Except for all new wells authorized by an area permit under § 144.33(c), a new injection well may not commence injection until construction is complete, and
(1) The permittee has submitted notice of completion of construction to the Director; and
(2)(i) The Director has inspected or otherwise reviewed the new injection well and finds it is in compliance with the conditions of the permit; or
(ii) The permittee has not received notice form the Director of his or her intent to inspect or otherwise review the new injection well within 13 days of the date of the notice in paragraph (m)(1) of this section, in which case prior inspection or review is waived and the permittee may commence injection. The Director shall include in his notice a reasonable time period in which he shall inspect the well.
(n) The permittee shall notify the Director at such times as the permit requires before conversion or abandonment of the well or in the case of area permits before closure of the project.
(o) A Class I, II or III permit shall include and a Class V permit may include conditions which meet the applicable requirements of § 146.10 of this chapter
to ensure that plugging and abandonment of the well will not allow the movement of fluids into or between USDWs. Where the plan meets the requirements of § 146.10 of this chapter, the Director shall incorporate the plan into the permit as a permit condition. Where the Director's review of an application indicates that the permittee's plan is inadequate, the Director may require the applicant to revise the plan, prescribe conditions meeting the requirements of this paragraph, or deny the permit. A Class VI permit shall include conditions which meet the requirements set forth in § 146.92 of this chapter. Where the plan meets the requirements of § 146.92 of this chapter, the Director shall incorporate it into the permit as a permit condition. For purposes of this paragraph, temporary or intermittent cessation of injection operations is not abandonment.
(p)
Plugging and abandonment report.
For EPA-administered programs, within 60 days after plugging a well or at the time of the next quarterly report (whichever is less) the owner or operator shall submit a report to the Regional Administrator. If the quarterly report is due less than 15 days before completion of plugging, then the report shall be submitted within 60 days. The report shall be certified as accurate by the person who performed the plugging operation. Such report shall consist of either:
(1) A statement that the well was plugged in accordance with the plan previously submitted to the Regional Administrator; or
(2) Where actual plugging differed from the plan previously submitted, and updated version of the plan on the form supplied by the regional administrator, specifying the differences.
(q)
Duty to establish and maintain mechanical integrity.
(1) The owner or operator of a Class I, II, III or VI well permitted under this part shall establish mechanical integrity prior to commencing injection or on a schedule determined by the Director. Thereafter the owner or operator of Class I, II, and III wells must maintain mechanical integrity as defined in § 146.8 of this chapter and the owner or operator of Class VI wells must maintain mechanical integrity as defined in § 146.89 of this chapter. For EPA-administered programs, the Regional Administrator may require by written notice that the owner or operator comply with a schedule describing when mechanical integrity demonstrations shall be made.
(2) When the Director determines that a Class I, II, III or VI well lacks mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.8 or § 146.89 of this chapter for Class VI of this chapter, he/she shall give written notice of his/her determination to the owner or operator. Unless the Director requires immediate cessation, the owner or operator shall cease injection into the well within 48 hours of receipt of the Director's determination. The Director may allow plugging of the well pursuant to the requirements of § 146.10 of this chapter or require the permittee to perform such additional construction, operation, monitoring, reporting and corrective action as is necessary to prevent the movement of fluid into or between USDWs caused by the lack of mechanical integrity. The owner or operator may resume injection upon written notification from the Director that the owner or operator has demonstrated mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.8 of this chapter.
(3) The Director may allow the owner or operator of a well which lacks mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.8(a)(1) of this chapter to continue or resume injection, if the owner or operator has made a satisfactory demonstration that there is no movement of fluid into or between USDWs.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 20185, May 11, 1984; 53 FR 28147, July 26, 1988; 58 FR 63898, Dec. 3, 1993; 75 FR 77289, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.52
Establishing permit conditions.
(a) In addition to conditions required in § 144.51, the Director shall establish conditions, as required on a case-by-case basis under § 144.36 (duration of permits), § 144.53(a) (schedules of compliance), § 144.54 (monitoring), and for EPA permits only § 144.53(b) (alternate schedules of compliance), and § 144.4 (considerations under Federal law). Permits for owners or operators of hazardous waste injection wells shall include conditions meeting the requirements of § 144.14 (requirements for wells
injecting hazardous waste), paragraphs (a)(7) and (a)(9) of this section, and subpart G of part 146. Permits for owners or operators of Class VI injection wells shall include conditions meeting the requirements of subpart H of part 146. Permits for other wells shall contain the following requirements, when applicable.
(1)
Construction requirements
as set forth in part 146. Existing wells shall achieve compliance with such requirements according to a compliance schedule established as a permit condition. The owner or operator of a proposed new injection well shall submit plans for testing, drilling, and construction as part of the permit application. Except as authorized by an area permit, no constuction may commence until a permit has been issued containing construction requirements (see § 144.11). New wells shall be in compliance with these requirements prior to commencing injection operations. Changes in construction plans during construction may be approved by the Administrator as minor modifications (§ 144.41). No such changes may be physically incorporated into construction of the well prior to approval of the modification by the Director.
(2) Corrective action as set forth in §§ 144.55, 146.7, and 146.84 of this chapter.
(3)
Operation requirements
as set forth in 40 CFR part 146; the permit shall establish any maximum injection volumes and/or pressures necessary to assure that fractures are not initiated in the confining zone, that injected fluids do not migrate into any underground source of drinking water, that formation fluids are not displaced into any underground source of drinking water, and to assure compliance with the part 146 operating requirements.
(4)
Requirements for wells managing hazardous waste,
as set forth in § 144.14.
(5) Monitoring and reporting requirements as set forth in 40 CFR part 146. The permittee shall be required to identify types of tests and methods used to generate the monitoring data. For EPA administered programs, monitoring of the nature of injected fluids shall comply with applicable analytical methods cited and described in table I of 40 CFR 136.3 or in appendix III of 40 CFR part 261 or in certain circumstances by other methods that have been approved by the Regional Administrator.
(6) After a cessation of operations of two years the owner or operator shall plug and abandon the well in accordance with the plan unless he:
(i) Provides notice to the Regional Administrator;
(ii) Describes actions or procedures, satisfactory to the Regional Administrator, that the owner or operator will take to ensure that the well will not endanger USDWs during the period of temporary abandonment. These actions and procedures shall include compliance with the technical requirements applicable to active injection wells unless waived by the Regional Administrator.
(7)
Financial responsibility.
(i) The permittee, including the transferor of a permit, is required to demonstrate and maintain financial responsibility and resources to close, plug, and abandon the underground injection operation in a manner prescribed by the Director until:
(A) The well has been plugged and abandoned in accordance with an approved plugging and abandonment plan pursuant to §§ 144.51(o), 146.10, and 146.92 of this chapter, and submitted a plugging and abandonment report pursuant to § 144.51(p); or
(B) The well has been converted in compliance with the requirements of § 144.51(n); or
(C) The transferor of a permit has received notice from the Director that the owner or operator receiving transfer of the permit, the new permittee, has demonstrated financial responsibility for the well.
(ii) The permittee shall show evidence of such financial responsibility to the Director by the submission of a surety bond, or other adequate assurance, such as a financial statement or other materials acceptable to the Director. For EPA administered programs, the Regional Administrator may on a periodic basis require the holder of a lifetime permit to submit an estimate of the resources needed to plug and abandon the well revised to
reflect inflation of such costs, and a revised demonstration of financial responsibility, if necessary. The owner or operator of a well injecting hazardous waste must comply with the financial responsibility requirements of subpart F of this part. For Class VI wells, the permittee shall show evidence of such financial responsibility to the Director by the submission of a qualifying instrument (see § 146.85(a) of this chapter), such as a financial statement or other materials acceptable to the Director. The owner or operator of a Class VI well must comply with the financial responsibility requirements set forth in § 146.85 of this chapter.
(8)
Mechanical integrity.
A permit for any Class I, II, III or VI well or injection project which lacks mechanical integrity shall include, and for any Class V well may include, a condition prohibiting injection operations until the permittee shows to the satisfaction of the Director under § 146.8, or § 146.89 of this chapter for Class VI, that the well has mechanical integrity.
(9)
Additional conditions.
The Director shall impose on a case-by-case basis such additional conditions as are necessary to prevent the migration of fluids into underground sources of drinking water.
(b)(1) In addition to conditions required in all permits the Director shall establish conditions in permits as required on a case-by-case basis, to provide for and assure compliance with all applicable requirements of the SDWA and parts 144, 145, 146 and 124.
(2) For a State issued permit, an applicable requirement is a State statutory or regulatory requirement which takes effect prior to final administrative disposition of the permit. For a permit issued by EPA, an applicable requirement is a statutory or regulatory requirement (including any interim final regulation) which takes effect prior to the issuance of the permit. Section 124.14 (reopening of comment period) provides a means for reopening EPA permit proceedings at the discretion of the Director where new requirements become effective during the permitting process and are of sufficient magnitude to make additional proceedings desirable. For State and EPA administered programs, an applicable requirement is also any requirement which takes effect prior to the modification or revocation and reissuance of a permit, to the extent allowed in § 144.39.
(3) New or reissued permits, and to the extent allowed under § 144.39 modified or revoked and reissued permits, shall incorporate each of the applicable requirements referenced in § 144.52.
(c)
Incorporation.
All permit conditions shall be incorporated either expressly or by reference. If incorporated by reference, a specific citation to the applicable regulations or requirements must be given in the permit.
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 20185, May 11, 1984; 53 FR 28147, July 26, 1988; 58 FR 63898; Dec. 3, 1993; 65 FR 30913, May 15, 2000; 75 FR 77289, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.53
Schedule of compliance.
(a)
General.
The permit may, when appropriate, specify a schedule of compliance leading to compliance with the SDWA and parts 144, 145, 146, and 124.
(1)
Time for compliance.
Any schedules of compliance shall require compliance as soon as possible, and in no case later than 3 years after the effective date of the permit.
(2)
Interim dates.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, if a permit establishes a schedule of compliance which exceeds 1 year from the date of permit issuance, the schedule shall set forth interim requirements and the dates for their achievement.
(i) The time between interim dates shall not exceed 1 year.
(ii) If the time necessary for completion of any interim requirement is more than 1 year and is not readily divisible into stages for completion, the permit shall specify interim dates for the submission of reports of progress toward completion of the interim requirements and indicate a projected completion date.
(3)
Reporting.
The permit shall be written to require that if paragraph (a)(1) of this section is applicable, progress reports be submitted no later than 30 days following each interim date and the final date of compliance.
(b)
Alternative schedules of compliance.
A permit applicant or permittee may cease conducting regulated activities (by plugging and abandonment) rather
than continue to operate and meet permit requirements as follows:
(1) If the permittee decides to cease conducting regulated activities at a given time within the term of a permit which has already been issued:
(i) The permit may be modified to contain a new or additional schedule leading to timely cessation of activities; or
(ii) The permittee shall cease conducting permitted activities before noncompliance with any interim or final compliance schedule requirement already specified in the permit.
(2) If the decision to cease conducting regulated activities is made before issuance of a permit whose term will include the termination date, the permit shall contain a schedule leading to termination which will ensure timely compliance with applicable requirements.
(3) If the permittee is undecided whether to cease conducting regulated activities, the Director may issue or modify a permit to contain two schedules as follows:
(i) Both schedules shall contain an identical interim deadline requiring a final decision on whether to cease conducting regulated activities no later than a date which ensures sufficient time to comply with applicable requirements in a timely manner if the decision is to continue conducting regulated activities;
(ii) One schedule shall lead to timely compliance with applicable requirements;
(iii) The second schedule shall lead to cessation of regulated activities by a date which will ensure timely compliance with applicable requirements;
(iv) Each permit containing two schedules shall include a requirement that after the permittee has made a final decision under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section it shall follow the schedule leading to compliance if the decision is to continue conducting regulated activities, and follow the schedule leading to termination if the decision is to cease conducting regulated activities.
(4) The applicant's or permittee's decision to cease conducting regulated activities shall be evidenced by a firm public commitment satisfactory to the Director, such as a resolution of the board of directors of a corporation.
§ 144.54
Requirements for recording and reporting of monitoring results.
All permits shall specify:
(a) Requirements concerning the proper use, maintenance, and installation, when appropriate, of monitoring equipment or methods (including biological monitoring methods when appropriate);
(b) Required monitoring including type, intervals, and frequency sufficient to yield data which are representative of the monitored activity including when appropriate, continuous monitoring;
(c) Applicable reporting requirements based upon the impact of the regulated activity and as specified in part 146. Reporting shall be no less frequent than specified in the above regulations.
§ 144.55
Corrective action.
(a)
Coverage.
Applicants for Class I, II, (other than existing), or III injection well permits shall identify the location of all known wells within the injection well's area of review which penetrate the injection zone, or in the case of Class II wells operating over the fracture pressure of the injection formation, all known wells within the area of review penetrating formations affected by the increase in pressure. For such wells which are improperly sealed, completed, or abandoned, the applicant shall also submit a plan consisting of such steps or modifications as are necessary to prevent movement of fluid into underground sources of drinking water (“corrective action”). Where the plan is adequate, the Director shall incorporate it into the permit as a condition. Where the Director's review of an application indicates that the permittee's plan is inadequate (based on the factors in § 146.07), the Director shall require the applicant to revise the plan, prescribe a plan for corrective action as a condition of the permit under paragraph (b) of this section, or deny the application. The Director may disregard the provisions of § 146.06 (Area of Review) and § 146.07 (Corrective Action) when reviewing an application to permit an existing Class II well.
(b)
Requirements
—(1)
Existing injection wells.
Any permit issued for an existing injection well (other than Class II) requiring corrective action shall include a compliance schedule requiring any corrective action accepted or prescribed under paragraph (a) of this section to be completed as soon as possible.
(2)
New injection wells.
No owner or operator of a new injection well may begin injection until all required corrective action has been taken.
(3)
Injection pressure limitation.
The Director may require as a permit condition that injection pressure be so limited that pressure in the injection zone does not exceed hydrostatic pressure at the site of any improperly completed or abandoned well within the area of review. This pressure limitation shall satisfy the corrective action requirement. Alternatively, such injection pressure limitation can be part of a compliance schedule and last until all other required corrective action has been taken.
(4)
Class III wells only.
When setting corrective action requirements the Director shall consider the overall effect of the project on the hydraulic gradient in potentially affected USDWs, and the corresponding changes in potentiometric surface(s) and flow direction(s) rather than the discrete effect of each well. If a decision is made that corrective action is not necessary based on the determinations above, the monitoring program required in § 146.33(b) shall be designed to verify the validity of such determinations.

# Subpart F—Financial Responsibility: Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells

# Source:
49 FR 20186, May 11, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 144.60
Applicability.
(a) The requirements of §§ 144.62, 144.63, and 144.70 apply to owners and operators of all existing and new Class I Hazardous waste injection wells, except as provided otherwise in this section.
§ 144.61
Definitions of terms as used in this subpart.
(a)
Plugging and abandonment plan
means the plan for plugging and abandonment prepared in accordance with the requirements of §§ 144.28 and 144.51.
(b)
Current plugging cost estimate
means the most recent of the estimates prepared in accordance with § 144.62 (a), (b) and (c).
(c)
Parent corporation
means a corporation which directly owns at least 50 percent of the voting stock of the corporation which is the injection well owner or operator; the latter corporation is deemed a
subsidiary
of the parent corporation.
(d) The following terms are used in the specifications for the financial test for plugging and abandonment. The definitions are intended to represent the common meanings of the terms as they are generally used by the business community.
Assets
means all existing and all probable future economic benefits obtained or controlled by a particular entity.
Current assets
means cash or other assets or resources commonly identified as those which are reasonably expected to be realized in cash or sold or consumed during the normal operating cycle of the business.
Current liabilities
means obligations whose liquidation is reasonably expected to require the use of existing resources properly classifiable as current assets or the creation of other current liabilities.
Independently audited
refers to an audit performed by an independent certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
Liabilities
means probable future sacrifices of economic benefits arising from present obligations to transfer assets or provide services to other entities in the future as a result of past transactions or events.
Net working capital
means current assets minus current liabilities.
Net worth
means total assets minus total liabilities and is equivalent to owner's equity.
Tangible net worth
means the tangible assets that remain after deducting liabilities; such assets would not include
intangibles such as goodwill and rights to patents or royalties.
§ 144.62
Cost estimate for plugging and abandonment.
(a) The owner or operator must prepare a written estimate, in current dollars, of the cost of plugging the injection well in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan as specified in §§ 144.28 and 144.51. The plugging and abandonment cost estimate must equal the cost of plugging and abandonment at the point in the facility's operating life when the extent and manner of its operation would making plugging and abandonment the most expensive, as indicated by its plugging and abandonment plan.
(b) The owner or operator must adjust the plugging and abandonment cost estimate for inflation within 30 days after each anniversary of the date on which the first plugging and abandonment cost estimate was prepared. The adjustment must be made as specified in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section, using an inflation factor derived from the annual Oil and Gas Field Equipment Cost Index. The inflation factor is the result of dividing the latest published annual Index by the Index for the previous year.
(1) The first adjustment is made by multiplying the plugging and abandonment cost estimate by the inflation factor. The result is the adjusted plugging and abandonment cost estimate.
(2) Subsequent adjustments are made by multiplying the latest adjusted plugging and abandonment cost estimate by the latest inflation factor.
(c) The owner or operator must revise the plugging and abandonment cost estimate whenever a change in the plugging and abandonment plan increases the cost of plugging and abandonment. The revised plugging and abandonment cost estimate must be adjusted for inflation as specified in § 144.62(b).
(d) The owner or operator must keep the following at the facility during the operating life of the facility: the latest plugging and abandonment cost estimate prepared in accordance with § 144.62 (a) and (c) and, when this estimate has been adjusted in accordance with § 144.62(b), the latest adjusted plugging and abandonment cost estimate.
§ 144.63
Financial assurance for plugging and abandonment.
An owner or operator of each facility must establish financial assurance for the plugging and abandonment of each existing and new Class I hazardous waste injection well. He must choose from the options as specified in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.
(a)
Plugging and abandonment trust fund.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by establishing a plugging and abandonment trust fund which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and submitting an originally signed duplicate of the trust agreement to the Regional Administrator. An owner or operator of a Class I well injecting hazardous waste must submit the originally signed duplicate of the trust agreement to the Regional Administrator with the permit application or for approval to operate under rule. The trustee must be an entity which has the authority to act as a trustee and whose trust operations are regulated and examined by a Federal or State agency.
(2) The wording of the trust agreement must be identical to the wording specified in § 144.70(a)(1), and the trust agreement must be accompanied by a formal certification of acknowledgment (for example, see § 144.70(a)(2)). Schedule A of the trust agreement must be updated within 60 days after a change in the amount of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate covered by the agreement.
(3) Payments into the trust fund must be made annually by the owner or operator over the term of the initial permit or over the remaining operating life of the injection well as estimated in the plugging and abandonment plan, whichever period is shorter; this period is hereafter referred to as the “pay-in period.” The payments into the plugging and abandonment trust fund must be made as follows:
(i) For a new well, the first payment must be made before the initial injection of hazardous waste. A receipt from the trustee for this payment must be submitted by the owner or operator to
the Regional Administrator before this initial injection of hazardous waste. The first payment must be at least equal to the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate, except as provided in § 144.70(g), divided by the number of years in the pay-in period. Subsequent payments must be made no later than 30 days after each anniversary date of the first payment. The amount of each subsequent payment must be determined by this formula:
EC15NO91.138
where PE is the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate, CV is the current value of the trust fund, and Y is the number of years remaining in the pay-in period.
(ii) If an owner or operator establishes a trust fund as specified in § 144.63(a) of this chapter, and the value of that trust fund is less than the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate when a permit is awarded for the injection well, the amount of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate still to be paid into the trust fund must be paid in over the pay-in period as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Payments must continue to be made no later than 30 days after each anniversary date of the first payment made pursuant to part 144 of this chapter. The amount of each payment must be determined by this formula:
EC15NO91.139
where PE is the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate, CV is the current value of the trust fund, and Y is the number of years remaining in the pay-in period.
(4) The owner or operator may accelerate payments into the trust fund or he may deposit the full amount of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate at the time the fund is established. However, he must maintain the value of the fund at no less than the value that the fund would have if annual payments were made as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(5) If the owner or operator establishes a plugging and abandonment trust fund after having used one or more alternate mechanisms specified in this section or in § 144.63 of this chapter, his first payment must be in at least the amount that the fund would contain if the trust fund were established initially and annual payments made according to specifications of this paragraph.
(6) After the pay-in period is completed, whenever the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate changes, the owner or operator must compare the new estimate with the trustee's most recent annual valuation of the trust fund. If the value of the fund is less than the amount of the new estimate, the owner or operator, within 60 days after the change in the cost estimate, must either deposit an amount into the fund so that its value after this deposit at least equals the amount of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate, or obtain other financial assurance as specified in this section to cover the difference.
(7) If the value of the trust fund is greater than the total amount of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate, the owner or operator may submit a written request to the Regional Administrator for release of the amount in excess of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate.
(8) If an owner or operator substitutes other financial assurance as specified in this section for all or part of the trust fund, he may submit a written request to the Regional Administrator for release of the amount in excess of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate covered by the trust fund.
(9) Within 60 days after receiving a request from the owner or operator for release of funds as specified in paragraph (a) (7) or (8) of this section, the Regional Administrator will instruct the trustee to release to the owner or operator such funds as the Regional Administrator specifies in writing.
(10) After beginning final plugging and abandonment, an owner or operator or any other person authorized to perform plugging and abandonment
may request reimbursement for plugging and abandonment expenditures by submitting itemized bills to the Regional Administrator. Within 60 days after receiving bills for plugging and abandonment activities, the Regional Administrator will determine whether the plugging and abandonment expenditures are in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan or otherwise justified, and if so, he will instruct the trustee to make reimbursement in such amounts as the Regional Administrator specifies in writing. If the Regional Administrator has reason to believe that the cost of plugging and abandonment will be significantly greater than the value of the trust fund, he may withhold reimbursement of such amounts as he deems prudent until he determines, in accordance with § 144.63(i), that the owner or operator is no longer required to maintain financial assurance for plugging and abandonment.
(11) The Regional Administrator will agree to termination of the trust when:
(i) An owner or operator substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section; or
(ii) The Regional Administrator releases the owner or operator from the requirements of this section in accordance with § 144.63(i).
(b)
Surety bond guaranteeing payment into a plugging and abandonment trust fund.
(1) An owner or operator must satisfy the requirements of this section by obtaining a surety bond which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and submitting the bond to the Regional Administrator with the application for a permit or for approval to operate under rule. The bond must be effective before the initial injection of hazardous waste. The surety company issuing the trust must, at a minimum, be among those listed as acceptable sureties on Federal bonds in Circular 570 of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(2) The wording of the surety bond must be identical to the wording in § 144.70(b).
(3) The owner or operator who uses a surety bond to satisfy the requirements of this section must also establish a standby trust fund. Under the terms of the bond, all payments made thereunder will be deposited by the surety directly into the standby trust fund in accordance with instructions from the Regional Administrator. This standby trust fund must meet the requirements specified in § 144.63(a), except that:
(i) An originally signed duplicate of the trust agreement must be submitted to the Regional Administrator with the surety bond; and
(ii) Until the standby trust fund is funded pursuant to the requirements of this section, the following are not required by these requirements:
(A) Payments into the trust fund as specified in § 144.63(a);
(B) Updating of Schedule A of the trust agreement [see § 144.70(a)] to show current plugging and abandonment cost estimates;
(C) Annual valuations as required by the trust agreement; and
(D) Notices of nonpayment as required by the trust agreement.
(4) The bond must guarantee that the owner or operator will:
(i) Fund the standby trust fund in an amount equal to the penal sum of the bond before beginning of plugging and abandonment of the injection well; or
(ii) Fund the standby trust fund in an amount equal to the penal sum within 15 days after an order to begin plugging and abandonment is issued by the Regional Administrator or a U.S. district court or other court of competent jurisdiction; or
(iii) Provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section, and obtain the Regional Administrator's written approval of the assurance provided, within 90 days after receipt by both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator of a notice of cancellation of the bond from the surety.
(5) Under the terms of the bond, the surety will become liable on the bond obligation when the owner or operator fails to perform as guaranteed by the bond.
(6) The penal sum of the bond must be in amount at least equal to the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate, except as provided in § 144.63(g).
(7) Whenever the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate increases to an amount greater than the penal sum, the owner or operator, within 60 days after the increase, must either cause the penal sum to be increased to an amount at least equal to the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate and submit evidence of such increase to the Regional Administrator, or obtain other financial assurance as specified in this section to cover the increase. Whenever the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate decreases, the penal sum may be reduced to the amount of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate following written approval by the Regional Administrator.
(8) Under the terms of the bond, the surety may cancel the bond by sending notice of cancellation by certified mail to the owner or operator and to the Regional Administrator. Cancellation may not occur, however, during 120 days beginning on the date of the receipt of the notice of cancellation by both owner or operator and the Regional Administrator as evidenced by the returned receipts.
(9) The owner or operator may cancel the bond if the Regional Administrator has given prior written consent based on his receipt of evidence of alternate financial assurance as specified in this section.
(c)
Surety bond guaranteeing performance of plugging and abandonment.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by obtaining a surety bond which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and submitting the bond to the Regional Administrator. An owner or operator of a new facility must submit the bond to the Regional Administrator with the permit application or for approval to operate under rule. The bond must be effective before injection of hazardous waste is started. The surety company issuing the bond must, at a minimum, be among those listed as acceptable sureties on Federal bonds in Circular 570 of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(2) The wording of the surety bond must be identical to the wording specified in § 144.70(c).
(3) The owner or operator who uses a surety bond to satisfy the requirements of this section must also establish a standby trust fund. Under the terms of the bond, all payments made thereunder will be deposited by the surety directly into the standby trust fund in accordance with instructions from the Regional Administrator. The standby trust must meet the requirements specified in § 144.63(a), except that:
(i) An original signed duplicate of the trust agreement must be submitted to the Regional Administrator with the surety bond; and
(ii) Unless the standby trust fund is funded pursuant to the requirements of this section, the following are not required by these regulations:
(A) Payments into the trust fund as specified in § 144.63(a);
(B) Updating of Schedule A of the trust agreement [see § 144.70(a)] to show current plugging and abandonment cost estimates;
(C) Annual valuations as required by the trust agreement; and
(D) Notices of nonpayment as required by the trust agreement.
(4) The bond must guarantee that the owner or operator will:
(i) Perform plugging and abandonment in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan and other requirements of the permit for the injection well whenever required to do so; or
(ii) Provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section, and obtain the Regional Administrator's written approval of the assurance provided, within 90 days after receipt by both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator of a notice of cancellation of the bond from the surety.
(5) Under the terms of the bond, the surety will become liable on the bond obligation when the owner or operator fails to perform as guaranteed by the bond. Following a determination that the owner or operator has failed to perform plugging and abandonment in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan and other permit requirements when required to do so, under terms of the bond the surety will perform plugging and abandonment as guaranteed by the bond or will deposit
the amount of the penal sum into the standby trust fund.
(6) The penal sum of the bond must be in an amount at least equal to the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate.
(7) Whenever the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate increases to an amount greater than the penal sum, the owner or operator, within 60 days after the increase, must either cause the penal sum to be increased to an amount at least equal to the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate and submit evidence of such increase to the Regional Administrator, or obtain other financial assurance as specified in this section. Whenever the plugging and abandonment cost estimate decreases, the penal sum may be reduced to the amount of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate following written approval by the Regional Administrator.
(8) Under the terms of the bond, the surety may cancel the bond by sending notice of cancellation by certified mail to the owner or operator and to the Regional Administrator. Cancellation may not occur, however, during the 120 days beginning on the date of receipt of the notice of cancellation by both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator, as evidenced by the return receipts.
(9) The owner or operator may cancel the bond if the Regional Administrator has given prior written consent. The Regional Administrator will provide such written consent when:
(i) An owner or operator substitute alternate financial assurance as specified in this section; or
(ii) The Regional Administrator releases the owner or operator from the requirements of this section in accordance with § 144.63(i).
(10) The surety will not be liable for deficiencies in the performance of plugging and abandonment by the owner or operator after the Regional Administrator releases the owner or operator from the requirements of this section in accordance with § 144.63(i).
(d)
Plugging and abandonment letter of credit.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by obtaining an irrevocable standby letter of credit which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and submitting the letter to the Regional Administrator. An owner or operator of an injection well must submit the letter of credit to the Regional Administrator during submission of the permit application or for approval to operate under rule. The letter of credit must be effective before initial injection of hazardous waste. The issuing institution must be an entity which has the authority to issue letters of credit and whose letter-of-credit operations are regulated and examined by a Federal or State agency.
(2) The wording of the letter of credit must be identical to the wording specified in § 144.70(d).
(3) An owner or operator who uses a letter of credit to satisfy the requirements of this section must also establish a standby trust fund. Under the terms of the letter of credit, all amounts paid pursuant to a draft by the Regional Administrator will be deposited by the issuing institution directly into the standby trust fund in accordance with instructions from the Regional Administrator. This standby trust fund must meet the requirements of the trust fund specified in § 144.63(a), except that:
(i) An originally signed duplicate of the trust agreement must be submitted to the Regional Administrator with the letter of credit; and
(ii) Unless the standby trust fund is funded pursuant to the requirements of this section, the following are not required by these regulations:
(A) Payments into the trust fund as specified in § 144.63(a);
(B) Updating of Schedule A of the trust agreement (see § 144.70(a)) to show current plugging and abandonment cost estimates;
(C) Annual valuations as required by the trust agreement; and
(D) Notices of nonpayment as required by the trust agreement.
(4) The letter of credit must be accompanied by a letter from the owner or operator referring to the letter of credit by number, issuing institution, and date, and providing the following information: the EPA Identification Number, name, and address of the facility, and the amount of funds assured
for plugging and abandonment of the well by the letter of credit.
(5) The letter of credit must be irrevocable and issued for a period of at least 1 year. The letter of credit must provide that the expiration date will be automatically extended for a period of at least 1 year unless, at least 120 days before the current expiration date, the issuing institution notifies both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator by certified mail of a decision not to extend the expiration date. Under the terms of the letter of credit, the 120 days will begin on the date when both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator have received the notice, as evidenced by the return receipts.
(6) The letter of credit must be issued in an amount at least equal to the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate, except as provided in § 144.63(g).
(7) Whenever the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate increases to an amount greater than the amount of the credit, the owner or operator, within 60 days after the increase, must either cause the amount of the credit to be increased so that it at least equals the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate and submit evidence of such increase to the Regional Administrator, or obtain other financial assurance as specified in this section to cover the increase. Whenever the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate decreases, the amount of the credit may be reduced to the amount of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate following written approval by the Regional Administrator.
(8) Following a determination that the owner or operator has failed to perform final plugging and abandonment in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan and other permit requirements when required to do so, the Regional Administrator may draw on the letter of credit.
(9) If the owner or operator does not establish alternate financial assurance as specified in this section and obtain written approval of such alternate assurance from the Regional Administrator within 90 days after receipt by both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator of a notice from the issuing institution that it has decided not to extend the letter of credit beyond the current expiration date, the Regional Administrator will draw on the letter of credit. The Regional Administrator may delay the drawing if the issuing institution grants an extension of the term of the credit. During the last 30 days of any such extension the Regional Administrator will draw on the letter of credit if the owner or operator has failed to provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section and obtain written approval of such assurance from the Regional Administrator.
(10) The Regional Administrator will return the letter of credit to the issuing institution for termination when:
(i) An owner or operator substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section; or
(ii) The Regional Administrator releases the owner or operator from the requirements of this section in accordance with § 144.63(i).
(e)
Plugging and abandonment insurance.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by obtaining plugging and abandonment insurance which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and submitting a certificate of such insurance to the Regional Administrator. An owner or operator of a new injection well must submit the certificate of insurance to the Regional Administrator with the permit application or for approval operate under rule. The insurance must be effective before injection starts. At a minimum, the insurer must be licensed to transact the business of insurance, or eligible to provide insurance as an excess or surplus lines insurer, in one or more States.
(2) The wording of the certificate of insurance must be identical to the wording specified in § 144.70(e).
(3) The plugging and abandonment insurance policy must be issued for a face amount at least equal to the current plugging and abandonment estimate, except as provided in § 144.63(g). The term “face amount” means the total amount the insurer is obligated to pay under the policy. Actual payments by the insurer will not change
the face amount, although the insurers future liability will be lowered by the amount of the payments.
(4) The plugging and abandonment insurance policy must guarantee that funds will be available whenever final plugging and abandonment occurs. The policy must also guarantee that once plugging and abandonment begins, the issurer will be responsible for paying out funds, up to an amount equal to the face amount of the policy, upon the direction of the Regional Administrator, to such party or parties as the Regional Administrator specifies.
(5) After beginning plugging and abandonment, an owner or operator or any other person authorized to perform plugging and abandonment may request reimbursement for plugging and abandonment expenditures by submitting itemized bills to the Regional Administrator. Within 60 days after receiving bills for plugging and abandonment activities, the Regional Administrator will determine whether the plugging and abandonment expenditures are in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan or otherwise justified, and if so, he will instruct the insurer to make reimbursement in such amounts as the Regional Administrator specifies in writing. If the Regional Administrator has reason to believe that the cost of plugging and abandonment will be significantly greater than the face amount of the policy, he may withhold reimbursement of such amounts as he deems prudent until he determines, in accordance with § 144.63(i), that the owner or operator is no longer required to maintain financial assurance for plugging and abandonment of the injection well.
(6) The owner or operator must maintain the policy in full force and effect until the Regional Administrator consents to termination of the policy by the owner or operator as specified in paragraph (e)(10) of this section. Failure to pay the premium, without substitution of alternate financial assurance as specified in this section, will constitute a significant violation of these regulations, warranting such remedy as the Regional Administrator deems necessary. Such violation will be deemed to begin upon receipt by the Regional Administrator of a notice of future cancellation, termination, or failure to renew due to nonpayment of the premium, rather than upon the date of expiration.
(7) Each policy must contain provisions allowing assignment to a successor owner or operator. Such assignment may be conditional upon consent of the insurer, provided such consent is not unreasonably refused.
(8) The policy must provide that the insurer may not cancel, terminate, or fail to renew the policy except for failure to pay the premium. The automatic renewal of the policy must, at a minimum, provide the insured with the option of renewal at the face amount of the expiring policy. If there is a failure to pay the premium, the insurer may elect to cancel, terminate, or fail to renew the policy by sending notice by certified mail to the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator. Cancellation, termination, or failure to renew may not occur, however, during 120 days beginning with the date of receipt of the notice by both the Regional Administrator and the owner or operator, as evidenced by the return of receipts. Cancellation, termination, or failure to renew may not occur and the policy will remain in full force and effect in the event that on or before the date of expiration:
(i) The Regional Administrator deems the injection well abandoned; or
(ii) The permit is terminated or revoked or a new permit is denied; or
(iii) Plugging and abandonment is ordered by the Regional Administrator or a U.S. district court or other court of competent jurisdiction; or
(iv) The owner or operator is named as debtor in a voluntary or involuntary proceeding under title 11 (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code; or
(v) The premium due is paid.
(9) Whenever the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate increases to an amount greater than the face amount of the policy, the owner or operator, within 60 days after the increase, must either cause the face amount to be increased to an amount at least equal to the current plugging and abandonment estimate and submit evidence of such increase to the Regional Administrator, or obtain other financial assurance as specified in this
section to cover the increase. Whenever the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate decreases, the face amount may be reduced to the amount of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate following written approval by the Regional Administrator.
(10) The Regional Administrator will give written consent to the owner or operator that he may terminate the insurance policy when:
(i) An owner or operator substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section; or
(ii) The Regional Administrator releases the owner or operator from the requirements of this section in accordance with § 144.63(i).
(f)
Financial test and corporate guarantee for plugging and abandonment.
(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by demonstrating that he passes a financial test as specified in this paragraph. To pass this test the owner or operator must meet the criteria of either paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (f)(1)(ii) of this section:
(i) The owner or operator must have:
(A) Two of the following three ratios: A ratio of total liabilities to net worth less than 2.0; a ratio of the sum of net income plus depreciation, depletion, and amortization to total liabilities greater than 0.1; and a ratio of current assets to current liabilities greater than 1.5; and
(B) Net working capital and tangible net worth each at least six times the sum of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate; and
(C) Tangible net worth of at least $10 million; and
(D) Assets in the United States amounting to at least 90 percent of his total assets or at least six times the sum of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate.
(ii) The owner or operator must have:
(A) A current rating for his most recent bond issuance of AAA, AA, A or BBB as issued by Standard and Poor's or Aaa, Aa, A, or Baa as issued by Moody's; and
(B) Tangible net worth at least six times the sum of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate; and
(C) Tangible net worth of at least $10 million; and
(D) Assets located in the United States amounting to at least 90 percent of his total assets or at least six times the sum of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimates.
(2) The phrase “current plugging and abandonment cost estimate” as used in paragraph (f)(1) of this section refers to the cost estimate required to be shown in paragraphs 1 through 4 of the letter from the owner's or operator's chief financial officer § 144.70(f).
(3) To demonstrate that he meets this test, the owner or operator must submit the following items to the Regional Administrator:
(i) A letter signed by the owner's or operator's chief financial officer and worded as specified in § 144.70(f); and
(ii) A copy of the independent certified public accountant's report on examination of the owner's or operator's financial statements for the latest completed fiscal year; and
(iii) A special report from the owner's or operator's independent certified public accountant to the owner or operator stating that:
(A) He has compared the data which the letter from the chief financial officer specifies as having been derived from the independently audited, year-end financial statements for the latest fiscal year with the amounts in such financial statements; and
(B) In connection with that procedure, no matters came to his attention which caused him to believe that the specified data should be adjusted.
(4) An owner or operator of a new injection well must submit the items specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section to the Regional Administrator within 90 days after the close of each succeeding fiscal year. This information must consist of all three items specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(5) After the initial submission of items specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the owner or operator must send updated information to the Regional Administrator within 90 days after the close of each succeeding fiscal year. This information must consist of all three items specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(6) If the owner or operator no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, he must send notice to the Regional Administrator of intent to establish alternate financial assurance as specified in this section. The notice must be sent by certified mail within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year for which the year-end financial data show that the owner or operator no longer meets the requirements. The owner or operator must provide the alternate financial assurance within 120 days after the end of such fiscal year.
(7) The Regional Administrator may, based on a reasonable belief that the owner or operator may no longer meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, require reports of financial condition at any time from the owner or operator in addition to those specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section. If the Regional Administrator finds, on the basis of such reports or other information, that the owner or operator no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section within 30 days after notification of such a finding.
(8) The Regional Administrator may disallow use of this test on the basis of qualifications in the opinion expressed by the independent certified public accountant in his report on examination of the owner's or operator's financial statements [see paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section]. An adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion will be cause for disallowance. The Regional Administrator will evaluate other qualifications on an individual basis. The owner or operator must provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section within 30 days after notification of the disallowance.
(9) The owner or operator is no longer required to submit the items specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section when:
(i) An owner or operator substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section; or
(ii) The Regional Administrator releases the owner or operator from the requirements of this section in accordance with § 144.63(i).
(10) An owner or operator may meet the requirements of this section by obtaining a written guarantee, hereafter referred to as “corporate guarantee.” The guarantee must be the parent corporation of the owner or operator. The guarantee must meet the requirements for owners or operators in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(8) of this section and must comply with the terms of the corporate guarantee. The wording of the corporate guarantee must be identical to the wording specified in § 144.70(h). The corporate guarantee must accompany the items sent to the Regional Administrator as specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section. The terms of the corporate guarantee must provide that:
(i) If the owner or operator fails to perform plugging and abandonment of the injection well covered by the corporate guarantee in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan and other permit requirements whenever required to do so, the guarantee will do so or establish a trust fund as specified in § 144.63(a) in the name of the owner or operator.
(ii) The corporate guarantee will remain in force unless the guarantor sends notice of cancellation by certified mail to the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator, as evidenced by the return receipts. Cancellation may not occur, however, during the 120 days beginning on the date of receipt of the notice of cancellation by both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator, as evidenced by the return receipts.
(iii) If the owner or operator fails to provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section and obtain the written approval of such alternate assurance from the Regional Administrator within 90 days after receipt by both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator of a notice of cancellation of the corporate guarantee from the guarantor, the guarantor will provide such alternative financial assurance in the name of the owner or operator.
(g)
Use of multiple financial mechanisms.
An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by establishing more than one financial mechanism per injection well. These
mechanisms are limited to trust funds, surety bonds, guaranteeing payment into a trust fund, letters of credit, and insurance. The mechanisms must be as specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (d), and (e), respectively, of this section, except that it is the combination of mechanisms, rather than the single mechanism, which must provide financial assurance for an amount at least equal to the adjusted plugging and abandonment cost. If an owner or operator uses a trust fund in combination with a surety bond or letter of credit, he may use that trust fund as the standby trust fund for the other mechanisms. A single standby trust may be established for two or more mechanisms. The Regional Administrator may invoke any or all of the mechanisms to provide for plugging and abandonment of the injection well.
(h)
Use of a financial mechanism for multiple facilities.
An owner or operator may use a financial assurance mechanism specified in this section to meet the requirements of this section for more than one injection well. Evidence of financial assurance submitted to the Regional Administrator must include a list showing, for each injection well, the EPA Identification Number, name, address, and the amount of funds for plugging and abandonment assured by the mechanism. If the injection wells covered by the mechanism are in more than one Region, identical evidence of financial assurance must be submitted to and maintained with the Regional Administrators of all such Regions. The amount of funds available through the mechanism must be no less than the sum of funds that would be available if a separate mechanism had been established and maintained for each injection well. In directing funds available through the mechanism for plugging and abandonment of any of the injection wells covered by the mechanism, the Regional Administrator may direct only the amount of funds designated for that injection well, unless the owner or operator agrees to use additional funds available under the mechanism.
(i)
Release of the owner or operator from the requirements of this section.
Within 60 days after receiving certifications from the owner or operator and an independent registered professional engineer that plugging and abandonment has been accomplished in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan, the Regional Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing that he is no longer required by this section to maintain financial assurance for plugging and abandonment of the injection well, unless the Regional Administrator has reason to believe that plugging and abandonment has not been in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan.
§ 144.64
Incapacity of owners or operators, guarantors, or financial institutions.
(a) An owner or operator must notify the Regional Administrator by certified mail of the commencement of a voluntary or involuntary proceeding under title 11 (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code, naming the owner or operator as debtor, within 10 business days after the commencement of the proceeding. A guarantor of a corporate guarantee as specified in § 144.63(f) must make such a notification if he is named as debtor, as required under the terms of the guarantee (§ 144.70(f)).
(b) An owner or operator who fulfills the requirements of § 144.63 by obtaining a letter of credit, surety bond, or insurance policy will be deemed to be without the required financial assurance or liability coverage in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or a suspension or revocation of the license or charter of the issuing institution. The owner or operator must establish other financial assurance or liability coverage within 60 days after such an event.
§ 144.65
Use of State-required mechanisms.
(a) For a facility located in a State where EPA is administering the requirements of this subpart but where the State has plugging and abandonment regulations that include requirements for financial assurance of plugging and abandonment, an owner or operator may use State-required financial mechanisms to meet the requirements of this subpart if the Regional Administrator determines that the
State mechanisms are at least equivalent to the mechanisms specified in this subpart. The Regional Administrator will evaluate the equivalency of the mechanisms mainly in terms of (1) certainty of the availability of funds for the required plugging and abandonment activities and (2) the amount of funds that will be made available. The Regional Administrator may also consider other factors. The owner or operator must submit to the Regional Administrator evidence of the establishment of the mechanism together with a letter requesting that the State-required mechanism be considered acceptable for meeting the requirements of this subpart. The submittal must include the following information: The facility's EPA Identification Number, name and address, and the amounts of funds for plugging and abandonment coverage assured by the mechanism. The Regional Administrator will notify the owner or operator of his determination regarding the mechanism's acceptability. The Regional Administrator may require the owner or operator to submit additional information as is deemed necessary for making this determination.
(b) If a State-required mechanism is found acceptable as specified in paragraph (a) of this section except for the amount of funds available, the owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this subpart by increasing the funds available through the State-required mechanism or using additional mechanisms as specified in this subpart. The amounts of funds available through the State and Federal mechanisms must at least equal the amounts required by this subpart.
§ 144.66
State assumption of responsibility.
(a) If a State either assumes legal responsibility for an owner's or operator's compliance with the plugging and abandonment requirements of these regulations or assures that funds will be available from State sources to cover these requirements, the owner or operator will be in compliance with the requirements of this subpart if the Regional Administrator determines that the State's assumption of responsibility is at least equivalent to the mechanisms specified in this subpart. The Regional Administrator will evaluate the equivalency of State guarantees mainly in terms of (1) certainty of the availability of funds for the required plugging and abandonment coverage and (2) the amount of funds that will be made available. The Regional Administrator may also consider other factors. The owner or operator must submit to the Regional Administrator a letter from the State describing the nature of the State's assumption of responsibility together with a letter from the owner or operator requesting that the State's asumption of responsibility be considered acceptable for meeting the requirements of this subpart. The letter from the State must include, or have attached to it, the following information: the facility's EPA Identification Number, name and address, and the amounts of funds for plugging and abandonment coverage that are guaranteed by the State. The Regional Administrator will notify the owner or operator of his determination regarding the acceptability of the State's guarantee in lieu of mechanisms specified in this subpart. The Regional Administrator may require the owner or operator to submit additional information as is deemed necessary to make this determination. Pending this determination, the owner or operator will be deemed to be in compliance with § 144.63.
(b) If a State's assumption of responsibility is found acceptable as specified in paragraph (a) of this section except for the amount of funds available, the owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this subpart by use of both the State's assurance and additional financial mechanisms as specified in this subpart. The amount of funds available through the State and Federal mechanisms must at least equal the amount required by this subpart.
§ 144.70
Wording of the instruments.
(a)(1) A trust agreement for a trust fund, as specified in § 144.63(a) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Trust Agreement
TRUST AGREEMENT, the “Agreement,” entered into as of [date] by and between [name of the owner or operator], a [name of State] [insert “corporation,” “partnership,” “association,” or “proprietorship”], the “Grantor,” and [name of corporate trustee], [insert “incorporated in the State of ______” or “a national bank”], the “Trustee.”
Whereas, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, “EPA,” an agency of the United States Government, has established certain regulations applicable to the Grantor, requiring that an owner or operator of an injection well shall provide assurance that funds will be available when needed for plugging and abandonment of the injection well,
Whereas, the Grantor has elected to establish a trust to provide all or part of such financial assurance for the facility(ies) identified herein,
Whereas, the Grantor, acting through its duly authorized officers, has selected the Trustee to be the trustee under this agreement, and the Trustee is willing to act as trustee,
Now, therefore, the Grantor and the Trustee agree as follows:
Section 1. Definitions.
As used in this Agreement:
(a) The term “Grantor” means the owner or operator who enters into this Agreement and any successors or assigns of the Grantor.
(b) The term “Trustee” means the Trustee who enters into this Agreement and any successor Trustee.
(c) Facility or activity means any “underground injection well” or any other facility or activity that is subject to regulation under the Underground Injection Control Program.
Section 2. Identification of Facilities and Cost Estimates.
This Agreement pertains to the facilities and cost estimates identified on attached Schedule A [on Schedule A, for each facility list the EPA Identification Number, name, address, and the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate, or portions thereof, for which financial assurance is demonstrated by this Agreement].
Section 3. Establishment of Fund.
The Grantor and the Trustee hereby establish a trust fund, the “Fund,” for the benefit of EPA. The Grantor and the Trustee intend that no third party have access to the Fund except as herein provided. The Fund is established initially as consisting of the property, which is acceptable to the Trustee, described in Schedule B attached hereto. Such property and any other property subsequently transferred to the Trustee is referred to as the Fund, together with all earnings and profits thereon, less any payments or distributions made by the Trustee pursuant to this Agreement. The Fund shall be held by the Trustee, IN TRUST, as hereinafter provided. The Trustee shall not be responsible nor shall it undertake any responsibility for the amount or adequacy of, nor any duty to collect from the Grantor, any payments necessary to discharge any liabilities of the Grantor established by EPA.
Section 4. Payment for Plugging and Abandonment.
The Trustee shall make payments from the Fund as the EPA Regional Administrator shall direct, in writing, to provide for the payment of the costs of plugging and abandonment of the injection wells covered by this Agreement. The Trustee shall reimburse the Grantor or other persons as specified by the EPA Regional Administrator from the Fund for plugging and abandonment expenditures in such amounts as the EPA Regional Administrator shall direct in writing. In addition, the Trustee shall refund to the Grantor such amounts as the EPA Regional Administrator specifies in writing. Upon refund, such funds shall no longer constitute part of the Fund as defined herein.
Section 5. Payments Comprising the Fund.
Payments made to the Trustee for the Fund shall consist of cash or securities acceptable to the Trustee.
Section 6. Trustee Management.
The Trustee shall invest and reinvest the principal and income of the Fund and keep the Fund invested as a single fund, without distinction between principal and income, in accordance with general investment policies and guidelines which the Grantor may communicate in writing to the Trustee from time to time, subject, however, to the provisions of this Section. In investing, reinvesting, exchanging, selling, and managing the Fund, the Trustee shall discharge his duties with respect to the trust fund solely in the interest of the beneficiary and with the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing which persons of prudence, acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters, would use in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims;
except that:
(i) Securities or other obligations of the Grantor, or any other owner or operator of the facilities, or any of their affiliates as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 80a-2.(a), shall not be acquired or held, unless they are securities or other obligations of the Federal or a State government;
(ii) The Trustee is authorized to invest the Fund in time or demand deposits of the Trustee, to the extent insured by an agency of the Federal or State government; and
(iii) The Trustee is authorized to hold cash awaiting investment or distribution uninvested for a reasonable time and without liability for the payment of interest thereon.
Section 7. Commingling and Investment.
The Trustee is expressly authorized in its discretion:
(a) To transfer from time to time any or all of the assets of the Fund to any common, commingled, or collective trust fund created by the Trustee in which the Fund is eligible to participate, subject to all of the provisions thereof, to be commingled with the assets of other trusts participating therein; and
(b) To purchase shares in any investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.,
including one which may be created, managed, underwritten, or to which investment advice is rendered or the shares of which are sold by the Trustee. The Trustee may vote shares in its discretion.
Section 8. Express Powers of Trustee.
Without in any way limiting the powers and discretions conferred upon the Trustee by the other provisions of this Agreement or by law, the Trustee is expressly authorized and empowered:
(a) To sell, exchange, convey, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any property held by it, by public or private sale. No person dealing with the Trustee shall be bound to see to the application of the purchase money or to inquire into the validity or expediency of any such sale or other disposition;
(b) To make, execute, acknowledge, and deliver any and all documents of transfer and conveyance and any and all other instruments that may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the powers herein granted;
(c) To register any securities held in the Fund in its own name or in the name of a nominee and to hold any security in bearer form or in book entry, or to combine certificates representing such securities with certificates of the same issue held by the Trustee in other fiduciary capacities, or to deposit or arrange for the deposit of such securities in a qualified central depository even though, when so deposited, such securities may be merged and held in bulk in the name of the nominee of such depositary with other securities deposited therein by another person, or to deposit or arrange for the deposit of any securities issued by the United States Government, or any agency or instrumentality thereof, with a Federal Reserve bank, but the books and records of the Trustee shall at all times show that all such securities are part of the Fund;
(d) To deposit any cash in the Fund in interest-bearing accounts maintained or savings certificates issued by the Trustee, in its separate corporate capacity, or in any other banking institution affiliated with the Trustee, to the extent insured by an agency of the Federal or State government; and
(e) To compromise or otherwise adjust all claims in favor of or against the Fund.
Section 9. Taxes and Expenses.
All taxes of any kind that may be assessed or levied against or in respect of the Fund and all brokerage commissions incurred by the Fund shall be paid from the Fund. All other expenses incurred by the Trustee in connection with the administration of this Trust, including fees for legal services rendered to the Trustee, the compensation of the Trustee to the extent not paid directly by the Grantor, and all other proper charges and disbursements of the Trustee shall be paid from the Fund.
Section 10. Annual Valuation.
The Trustee shall annually, at least 30 days prior to the anniversary date of establishment of the Fund, furnish to the Grantor and to the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator a statement confirming the value of the Trust. Any securities in the Fund shall be valued at market value as of no more than 60 days prior to the anniversary date of establishment of the Fund. The failure of the Grantor to object in writing to the Trustee within 90 days after the statement has been furnished to the Grantor and the EPA Regional Administrator shall constitute a conclusively binding assent by the Grantor, barring the Grantor from asserting any claim or liability against the Trustee with respect to matters disclosed in the statement.
Section 11. Advice of Counsel.
The Trustee may from time to time consult with counsel, who may be counsel to the Grantor, with respect to any question arising as to the construction of this Agreement of any action to be taken hereunder. The Trustee shall be fully protected, to the extent permitted by law, in acting upon the advice of counsel.
Section 12. Trustee Compensation.
The Trustee shall be entitled to reasonable compensation for its services as agreed upon in writing from time to time with the Grantor.
Section 13. Successor Trustee.
The Trustee may resign or the Grantor may replace the Trustee, but such resignation or replacement shall not be effective until the Grantor has appointed a successor trustee and this successor accepts the appointment. The successor trustee shall have the same powers and duties as those conferred upon the Trustee hereunder. Upon the successor trustee's acceptance of the appointment, the Trustee shall assign, transfer, and pay over to the successor trustee the funds and properties then constituting the Fund. If for any reason the Grantor cannot or does not act in the event of the resignation of the Trustee, the Trustee may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee or for instructions. The successor trustee shall specify the date on which it assumes administration of the trust in a writing sent to the Grantor, the EPA Regional Administrator, and the present Trustee by certified mail 10 days before such change becomes effective. Any expenses incurred by the Trustee as a result of any of the acts contemplated by this Section shall be paid as provided in Section 9.
Section 14. Instructions to the Trustee.
All orders, requests, and instructions by the Grantor to the Trustee shall be in writing, signed by such persons as are designated in the attached Exhibit A or such other designees as the Grantor may designate by amendment to Exhibit A. The Trustee shall be fully protected in acting without inquiry in accordance with the Grantor's orders, requests, and instructions. All orders, requests, and instructions by the EPA Regional Administrator to the Trustee shall be in writing, signed by the EPA Regional Administrators of the Regions in which the facilities are located, or their designees, and the Trustee shall act and shall be fully protected in acting in accordance with such orders, requests, and instructions. The Trustee shall have the right to assume, in the absence of written notice to the contrary, that no event constituting a change or a termination of the authority of any person to act on behalf of the Grantor or EPA hereunder has occurred. The Trustee shall have no duty to act in the absence of such orders, requests, and instructions from the Grantor and/or EPA, except as provided for herein.
Section 15. Notice of Nonpayment.
The Trustee shall notify the Grantor and the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator, by certified mail within 10 days following the expiration of the 30-day period after the anniversary of the establishment of the Trust, if no payment is received from the Grantor during that period. After the pay-in period is completed, the Trustee shall not be required to send a notice of nonpayment.
Section 16. Amendment of Agreement.
This Agreement may be amended by an instrument in writing executed by the Grantor, the Trustee, and the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator, or by the Trustee and the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator if the Grantor ceases to exist.
Section 17. Irrevocability and Termination.
Subject to the right of the parties to amend this Agreement as provided in Section 16, this Trust shall be irrevocable and shall continue until terminated at the written agreement of the Grantor, the Trustee, and the EPA Regional Administrator, or by the Trustee and the EPA Regional Administrator if the Grantor ceases to exist. Upon termination of the Trust, all remaining trust property, less final trust administration expenses, shall be delivered to the Grantor.
Section 18. Immunity and Indemnification.
The Trustee shall not incur personal liability of any nature in connection with any act or omission, made in good faith, in the administration of this Trust, or in carrying out any directions by the Grantor or the EPA Regional Administrator issued in accordance with this Agreement. The Trustee shall be indemnified and saved harmless by the Grantor or from the Trust Fund, or both, from and against any personal liability to which the Trustee may be subjected by reason of any act or conduct in its official capacity, including all expenses reasonably incurred in its defense in the event the Grantor fails to provide such defense.
Section 19. Choice of Law.
This Agreement shall be administered, construed, and enforced according to the laws of the State of [insert name of State].
Section 20. Interpretation.
As used in this Agreement, words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular. The descriptive headings for each Section of this Agreement shall not affect the interpretation or the legal efficacy of this Agreement.
In Witness Whereof the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers duly authorized and their corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested as of the date first above written. The parties below certify that the wording of this Agreement is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 144.70(a)(1) as such regulations were constituted on the date first above written.
[Signature of Grantor]
By [Title]
Attest:

# [Title]

# [Seal]
[Signature of Trustee]
By
Attest:

# [Title]

# [Seal]
(2) The following is an example of the certification of acknowledgment which must accompany the trust agreement for a trust fund as specified in § 144.63(a). State requirements may differ on the proper content of this acknowledgment.
State of
County of
On this [date], before me personally came [owner or operator] to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that she/he resides at [address], that she/he is [title] of [corporation], the corporation described in and which executed the above instrument; that she/he knows the seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to such instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by order to the Board of Directors of said corporation, and that she/he signed her/his name thereto by like order.
[Signature of Notary Public]
(b) A surety bond guaranteeing payment into a trust fund, as specified in
§ 144.63 of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Financial Guarantee Bond
Dated bond executed:
Effective date:
Principal: [legal name and business address of owner or operator].
Type of organization: [insert “individual,” “joint venture,” “partnership,” or “corporation”].
State of incorporation:
Surety(ies): [name(s) and business address(es)].
EPA Identification Number, name, address, and plugging and abandonment amount(s) for each facility guaranteed by this bond [indicate plugging and abandonment amounts separately]: ______
Total penal sum of bond: $______
Surety's bond number: ______
Know All Persons By These Presents, That we, the Principal and Surity(ies) hereto are firmly bound to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (hereinafter called EPA), in the above penal sum for the payment of which we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns jointly and severally; provided that, where the Surety(ies) are corporations acting as co-surties, we, the Sureties, bind ourselves in such sum “jointly and severally” only for the purpose of allowing a joint action or actions against any or all of us, and for all other purposes each Surety binds itself, jointly and severally with the Principal, for the payment of such sum only as is set forth opposite the name of such Surety, but if no limit of liability is indicated, the limit of liability shall be the full amount of the penal sum.
Whereas said Principal is required, under the Underground Injection Control Regulations (UIC), to have a permit or comply with requirements to operate under rule in order to own or operate each injection well identified above, and
Whereas said Principal is required to provide financial assurance for plugging and abandonment as a condition of the permit or provisions to operate under rule, and
Whereas said Principal shall establish a standby trust fund as is required when a surety bond is used to provide such financial assurance;
Now, therefore, the conditions of the obligation are such that if the Principal shall faithfully, before the beginning of plugging and abandonment of each injection well identified above, fund the standby trust fund in the amount(s) identified above for the injection well,
Or if the Principal shall fund the standby trust fund in such amount(s) within 15 days after an order to begin plugging and abandonment is issued by an EPA Regional Administrator or a U.S. district court or other court of competent jurisdiction,
Or, if the Principal shall provide alternate financial assurance, as specified in subpart F of 40 CFR part 144, as applicable, and obtain the EPA Regional Administrator's written approval of such assurance, within 90 days after the date of notice of cancellation is received by both the Principal and the EPA Regional Administrator(s) from the Surety(ies), then this obligation shall be null and void, otherwise it is to remain in full force and effect.
The Surety(ies) shall become liable on this bond obligation only when the Principal has failed to fulfill the conditions described above. Upon notification by an EPA Regional Administrator that the Principal has failed to perform as guaranteed by this bond, the Surety(ies) shall place funds in the amount guaranteed for the injection well(s) into the standby trust funds as directed by the EPA Regional Administrator.
The liability of the Surety(ies) shall not be discharged by any payment or succession of payments hereunder, unless and until such payment or payments shall amount in the aggregate to the penal sum of the bond, but in no event shall the obligation of the Surety(ies) hereunder exceed the amount of said penal sum.
The Surety(ies) may cancel the bond by sending notice of cancellation by certified mail to the Principal and to the EPA Regional Administrator(s) for the Region(s) in which the injection well(s) is (are) located, provided, however, that that cancellation shall not occur during the 120 days beginning on the date of receipt of the notice of cancellation by both the Principal and the EPA Regional Administrator(s), as evidenced by the return receipts.
The Principal may terminate this bond by sending written notice to the Surety(ies), provided, however, that no such notice shall become effective until the Surety(ies) receive(s) written authorization for termination of the bond by the EPA Regional Administrator(s) of the Region(s) in which the bonded facility(ies) is (are) located.
[The following paragraph is an optional rider that may be included but is not required.]
Principal and Surety(ies) hereby agree to adjust the penal sum of the bond yearly so that it guarantees a new plugging and abandonment amount, provided that the penal sum does not increase by more than 20 percent in any one year, and no decrease in the penal sum takes place without the written permission of the EPA Regional Administrator(s).
In Witness Whereof, the Principal and Surety(ies) have executed this Financial Guarantee Bond and have affixed their seals on the date set forth above.
The persons whose signatures appear below hereby certify that they are authorized to execute this surety bond on behalf of the Principal and Surety(ies) and that the wording of this surety bond is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 144.70(b) as such regulations were constituted on the date this bond was executed.

# Principal
[Signature(s)]
[Name(s)]
[Title(s)]
[Corporate seal]

# Corporate Surety(ies)
[Name and address]
State of incorporation: ______.
Liability limit: $______.
[Signature(s)]
[Name(s) and title(s)]
[Corporate seal]
[For every co-surety, provide signature(s), corporate seal, and other information in the same manner as for Surety above.]
Bond premium: $______.
(c) A surety bond guaranteeing performance of plugging and abandonment, as specified in § 144.63(c), must be worded as follows, except that the instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Performance Bond
Date bond executed: ______.
Effective date: ______.
Principal: [legal name and business address of owner or operator].
Type of organization: [insert “individual,” “joint venture,” “partnership,” or “corporation”].
State of incorporation: ______.
Surety(ies): [name(s) and business address(es)]
EPA Identification Number, name, address, and plugging and abandonment amounts(s) for each injection well guaranteed by this bond [indicate plugging and abandonment amounts for each well]:
Total penal sum of bond: $______.
Surety's bond number: ______.
Know All Persons By These Presents, That We, the Principal and Surety(ies) hereto are firmly bound to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency [hereinafter called EPA], in the above penal sum for the payment of which we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns jointly and severally; provided that, where the Surety(ies) are corporations acting as co-sureties, we, the Sureties, bind ourselves in such sum “jointly and severally” only for the purpose of allowing a joint action or actions against any or all of us, and for all other purposes each Surety binds itself, jointly and severally with the Principal, for the payment of such sum only as is set forth opposite the name of such Surety, but if no limit of liability is indicated, the limit of liability shall be the full amount of the penal sum.
Whereas said Principal is required, under the Undergound Injection Control Regulations, as amended, to have a permit or comply with provisions to operate under rule for each injection well identified above, and
Whereas said Principal is required to provide financial assurance for plugging and abandonment as a condition of the permit or approval to operate under rule, and
Whereas said Principal shall establish a standby trust fund as is required when a surety bond is used to provide such financial assurance;
Now, Therefore, the conditions of this obligation are such that if the Principal shall faithfully perform plugging and abandonment, whenever required to do so, of each injection well for which this bond guarantees plugging and abandonment, in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan and other rquirements of the permit or provisions for operating under rule and other requirements of the permit or provisions for operating under rule as may be amended, pursuant to all applicable laws, statutes, rules and regulations, as such laws, statutes, rules, and regulations may be amended,
Or, if the Principal shall provide alternate financial assurance as specified in subpart F of 40 CFR part 144, and obtain the EPA Regional Administrator's written approval of such assurance, within 90 days after the date of notice of cancellation is received by both the Principal and the EPA Regional Administrator(s) from the Surety(ies), then this obligation shall be null and void, otherwise it is to remain in full force and effect.
The Surety(ies) shall become liable on this bond obligation only when the Principal has failed to fulfill the conditions described above.
Upon notification by an EPA Regional Administrator that the Principal has been found in violation of the plugging and abandonment requirements of 40 CFR part 144, for an injection well which this bond guarantees performances of plugging and abandonment, the Surety(ies) shall either perform plugging and abandonment in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan and other permit requirements or provisions for operating under rule and other requirements or
place the amount for plugging and abandonment into a standby trust fund as directed by the EPA Regional Administrator.
Upon notification by an EPA Regional Administrator that the Principal has failed to provide alternate financial assurance as specified in subpart F of 40 CFR part 144, and obtain written approval of such assurance from the EPA Regional Administrator(s) during the 90 days following receipt by both the Principal and the EPA Regional Administrator(s) of a notice of cancellation of the bond, the Surety(ies) shall place funds in the amount guaranteed for the injection well(s) into the standby trust fund as directed by the EPA Regional Administrator.
The surety(ies) hereby waive(s) notification of amendments to plugging and abandonment plans, permits, applicable laws, statutes, rules, and regulations and agrees that no such amendment shall in any way alleviate its (their) obligation on this bond.
The liability of the Surety(ies) shall not be discharged by any payment or succession of payments hereunder, unless and until such payment or payments shall amount in the aggregate to the penal sum of the bond, but in no event shall the obligation of the Surety(ies) hereunder exceed the amount of said penal sum.
The Surety(ies) may cancel the bond by sending notice by certified mail to the owner or operator and to the EPA Regional Administrator(s) for the Region(s) in which the injection well(s) is (are) located, provided, however, that cancellation shall not occur during the 120 days beginning on the date of receipt of the notice of cancellation by both the Principal and the EPA Regional Administrator(s), as evidenced by the return receipts.
The principal may terminate this bond by sending written notice to the Surety(ies), provided, however, that no such notice shall become effective until the Surety(ies) receive(s) written authorization for termination of the bond by the EPA Regional Administrator(s) of the EPA Region(s) in which the bonded injection well(s) is (are) located.
[The following paragraph is an optional rider that may be included but is not required.]
Principal and Surety(ies) hereby agree to adjust the penal sum of the bond yearly so that it guarantees a new plugging and abandonment amount, provided that the penal sum does not increase by more than 20 percent in any one year, and no decrease in the penal sum takes place without the written permission of the EPA Regional Administrator(s).
In Witness Whereof, The Principal and Surety(ies) have executed this Performance Bond and have affixed their seals on the date set forth above.
The persons whose signatures appear below hereby certify that they are authorized to execute this surety bond on behalf of the Principal and Surety(ies) and that the wording on this surety bond is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 144.70(c) as such regulation was constituted on the date this bond was executed.
Principal.
[Signature(s)]
[Name(s)]
[Title(s)]
[Corporate seal]
[Corporate Surety(ies)]
[Name and address]
State of incorporation:
Liability limit: $______.
[Signature(s)]
[Name(s) and title(s)]
Corporate seal:
[For every co-surety, provide signature(s), corporate seal, and other information in the same manner as for Surety above.]
Bond premium: $______.
(d) A letter of credit, as specified in § 144.63(d) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit
Regional Administrator(s)
Region(s)
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Dear Sir or Madam:
We hereby establish our Irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit No. ______ in your favor, at the request and for the account of [owner's or operator's name and address] up to the aggregate amount of [in words] U.S. dollars $______, available upon presentation [insert, if more than one Regional Administrator is a beneficiary, “by any one of you”] of
(1) Your sight draft, bearing reference to this letter of credit No. ______, and
(2) Your signed statement reading as follows: “I certify that the amount of the draft is payable pursuant to regulations issued under authority of the Safe Drinking Water Act.”
This letter of credit is effective as of [date] and shall expire on [date at least 1 year later], but such expiration date shall be automatically extended for a period of [at least 1 year] on [date] and on each successive expiration date, unless, at least 120 days before the current expiration date, we notify both you and [owner's or operator's name] by certified mail that we have decided not to extend this letter of credit beyond the current expiration date. In the event you are so notified, any unused portion of the credit shall be available upon presentation of your
sight draft for 120 days after the date of receipt by both you and [owner's or operator's name], as shown on the signed return receipts.
Whenever this letter of credit is drawn on under and in compliance with the terms of this credit, we shall duly honor such draft upon presentation to us, and we shall deposit the amount of the draft directly into the standby trust fund of [owner's or operator's name] in accordance with your instructions.
We certify that the wording of this letter of credit is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 144.70(d) as such regulations were constituted on the date shown immediately below.
[Signature(s) and title(s) of official(s) of issuing institution]
[Date]
This credit is subject to [insert “the most recent edition of the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, published and copyrighted by the International Chamber of Commerce,” or “the Uniform Commercial Code”].
(e) A certificate of insurance, as specified in § 144.63(e) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:
Certificate of Insurance for Plugging and Abandonment
Name and Address of Insurer (herein called the “insurer”):
Name and Address of Insurer (herein called the “insurer”):
Injection Wells covered: [list for each well: The EPA Identification Number, name, address, and the amount of insurance for plugging and abandonment (these amounts for all injection wells covered must total the face amount shown below).]
Face Amount:
Policy Number:
Effective Date:
The insurer hereby certifies that it has issued to the Insured the policy of insurance identified above to provide financial assurance for plugging and abandonment for the injection wells identified above. The Insurer further warrants that such policy conforms in all respects with the requirements of 40 CFR 144.63(e), as applicable and as such regulations were constituted on the date shown immediately below. It is agreed that any provision of the policy inconsistent with such regulations is hereby amended to eliminate such inconsistency.
Whenever requested by the EPA Regional Administrator(s) of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Insurer agrees to furnish to the EPA Regional Administrator(s) a duplicate original of the policy listed above, including all endorsements thereon.
I hereby certify that the wording of this certificate is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 144.70(e) as such regulations were constituted on the date shown immediately below.
[Authorized signature of Insurer]
[Name of person signing]
[Title of person signing]
[Signature of witness or notary:]
[Date]
(f) A letter from the chief financial officer, as specified in § 144.63(f) of this chapter, must be worded as follows, except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the brackets deleted:

# Letter From Chief Financial Officer
[Address to Regional Administrator of every Region in which injection wells for which financial responsibility is to be demonstrated through the financial test are located.]
I am the chief financial officer of [name and address of firm.] This letter is in support of this firm's use of the financial test to demonstrate financial assurance, as specified in subpart F of 40 CFR part 144.
[Fill out the following four paragraphs regarding injection wells and associated cost estimates. If your firm has no injection wells that belong in a particular paragraph, write “None” in the space indicated. For each injection well, include its EPA Identification Number, name, address, and current plugging and abandonment cost estimate.]
1. This firm is the owner or operator of the following injection wells for which financial assurance for plugging and abandonment is demonstrated through the financial test specified in subpart F of 40 CFR part 144. The current plugging and abandonment cost estimate covered by the test is shown for each injection well: ______.
2. This firm guarantees, through the corporate guarantee specified in subpart F of 40 CFR part 144, the plugging and abandonment of the following injection wells owned or operated by subsidaries of this firm. The current cost estimate for plugging and abandonment so guaranteed is shown for each injection well: ______.
3. In States where EPA is not administering the financial requirements of subpart F of 40 CFR part 144, this firm, as owner or operator or guarantor, is demonstrating financial assurance for the plugging and abandoment of the following injection wells through the use of a test equivalent or substantially equivalent to the financial test specified in subpart F of 40 CFR part 144. The
current plugging and abandonment cost estimate covered by such a test is shown for each injection well: ______.
4. This firm is the owner or operator of the following injection wells for which financial assurance for plugging and abandonment is not demonstrated either to EPA or a State through the financial test or any other financial assurance mechanism specified in subpart F of 40 CFR part 144 or equivalent or substantially equivalent State mechanisms. The current plugging and abandonment cost estimate not covered by such financial assurance is shown for each injection well: ______.
This firm [insert “is required” or “is not required”] to file a Form 10K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the latest fiscal year.
The fiscal year of this firm ends on [month, day]. The figures for the following items marked with an asterisk are derived from this firm's independently audited, year-end financial statements for the latest completed fiscal year, ended [date].
[Fill in Alternative I if the criteria of paragraph (f)(1)(i) of § 144.63 of this chapter are used. Fill in Alternative II if the criteria of paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of § 144.63 of this chapter are used.]
Alternative I
1. (a) Current plugging and abandonment cost
$________
(b) Sum of the company's financial responsibilities under 40 CFR Parts 264 and 265, Subpart H, currently met using the financial test or corporate guarantee
(c) Total of lines a and b
*2. Total liabilities [if any portion of the plugging and abandonment cost is included in total liabilities, you may deduct the amount of that portion from this line and add that amount to lines 3 and 4]
*3. Tangible net worth
*4. Net worth
*5. Current assets
*6. Current liabilities
*7. Net working capital [line 5 minus line 6]
*8. The sum of net income plus depreciation, depletion and amortization
*9. Total assets in U.S. (required only if less than 90% of firm's assets are located in U.S.)
Yes
No
10. Is line 3 at least $10 million?
11. Is line 3 at least 6 times line 1(c)?
12. Is line 7 at least 6 times line 1(c)?
*13. Are at least 90% of firm's assets located in the U.S.? If not, complete line 14.
14. Is line 9 at least 6 times line 1(c)?
15. Is line 2 divided by line 4 less than 2.0?
16. Is line 8 divided by line 2 greater than 0.1?
17. Is line 5 divided by line 6 greater than 1.5?
Alternative II
1. (a) Current plugging and abandonment cost
$________
(b) Sum of the company's financial responsibilities under 40 CFR Parts 264 and 265, Subpart H, currently met using the financial test or corporate guarantee
(c) Total of lines a and b
2. Current bond rating of most recent issuance of this firm and name of rating service
3. Date of issuance of bond
4. Date of maturity of bond
*5. Tangible net worth [if any portion of the plugging and abandonment cost estimate is included in “total liabilities” on your firm's financial statements, you may add the amount of that portion to this line]
*6. Total assets in U.S. (required only if less than 90% of firm's assets are located in U.S.)
Yes
No
7. Is line 5 at least $10 million?
8. Is line 5 at least 6 times line 1(c)?
*9. Are at least 90% of the firm's assets located in the U.S.? If not, complete line 10
10. Is line 6 at least 6 times line 1(c)?
I hereby certify that the wording of this letter is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 144.70(f) as such regulations were constituted on the date shown immediately below.
[Signature]
[Name]
[Title]
[Date]
(g) A corporate guarantee as specified in § 144.63(e) must be worded as follows except that instructions in brackets are to be replaced with the relevant information and the bracketed material deleted:

# Guarantee for Plugging and Abandonment
Guarantee made this ____ day of ______, 19____, by [name of guaranteeing entity], a business corporation organized under the laws of the State of ________, herein referred to as guarantor, to the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), obligee, on behalf of our subsidiary [owner or operator] of [business address].
Recitals
1. Guarantor meets or exceeds the financial test criteria and agrees to comply with the reporting requirements for guarantors as specified in 40 CFR 144.63(e).
2. [Owner or operator] owns or operates the following Class I hazardous waste injection well covered by this guarantee: [List for each facility: EPA Identification Number, name, and address. Indicate for each whether guarantee is for closure, post-closure care, or both.]
3. “Plugging and abandonment plan” as used below refers to the plans maintained as required by 40 CFR part 144 for the plugging and abandonment of injection wells as identified above.
4. For value received from [owner or operator], guarantor guarantees to EPA that in the event that [owner or operator] fails to perform [“plugging and abandonment”] of the above facility(ies) in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan and other requirements when required to do so, the guarantor will do so or fund a trust fund as specified in 40 CFR 144.63 in the name of [owner or operator] in the amount of the adjusted plugging and abandonment cost estimates prepared as specified in 40 CFR 144.62.
5. Guarantor agrees that, if at the end of any fiscal year before termination of this guarantee, the guarantor fails to meet the financial test criteria, guarantor will send within 90 days, by certified mail, notice to the EPA Regional Administrator(s) for the Region(s) in which the facility(ies) is (are) located and to [owner or operator] that he intends to provide alternate financial assurance as specified in 40 CFR 144.63 in the name of [owner or operator]. Within 30 days after sending such notice, the guarantor will establish such financial assurance if [owner or operator] has not done so.
6. The guarantor agrees to notify the Regional Administrator, by certified mail, of a voluntary or involuntary case under Title 11, U.S. Code, naming guarantor as debtor, within 10 days after its commencement.
7. Guarantor agrees that within 30 days after being notified by an EPA Regional Administrator of a determination that guarantor no longer meets the financial test criteria or that he is disallowed from continuing as a guarantor of plugging and adandonment, he will establish alternate financial assurance, as specified in 40 CFR 144.63, in the name of [owner or operator] if [owner or operator] has not done so.
8. Guarantor agrees to remain bound under this guarantee notwithstanding any or all of the following: amendment or modification of the plugging and abandonment plan, the extension or reduction of the time of performance of plugging and abandonment or any other modification or alteration of an obligation of [owner or operator] pursuant to 40 CFR part 144.
9. Guarantor agrees to remain bound under this guarantee for so long as [owner or operator] must comply with the applicable financial assurance requirements of 40 CFR part 144 for the above-listed facilities, except that guarantor may cancel this guarantee by sending notice by certified mail, to the EPA Regional Administrator(s) for the Region(s) in which the facility(ies) is (are) located and to [owner or operator], such cancellation to become effective no earlier than 120 days after actual receipt of such notice by both EPA and [owner or operator] as evidenced by the return receipts.
10. Guarantor agrees that if [owner or operator] fails to provide alternate financial assurance and obtain written approval of such assurance from the EPA Regional Administrator(s) within 90 days after a notice of cancellation by the guarantor is received by both the EPA Regional Administrator(s) and [owner or operator], guarantor will provide alternate financial assurance as specified in 40 CFR 144.63 in the name of [owner or operator].
11. Guarantor expressly waives notice of acceptance of this guarantee by the EPA or by [owner or operator]. Guarantor also expressly waives notice of amendments or modifications of the plugging and abandonment plan.
I hereby certify that the wording of this guarantee is identical to the wording specified in 40 CFR 144.70(f).
Effective date: ______.
[Name of guarantor]
[Authorized signature for guarantor]
[Type name of person signing]
[Title of person signing]
Signature of witness or notary: ______
[48 FR 14189, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 59 FR 29959, June 10, 1994]

# Subpart G—Requirements for Owners and Operators of Class V Injection Wells

# Source:
64 FR 68566, Dec. 7, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 144.79
General.
This subpart tells you what requirements apply if you own or operate a Class V injection well. You may also be required to follow additional requirements listed in the rest of this part. Where they may apply, these other requirements are referenced rather than repeated. The requirements described in this subpart and elsewhere in this part are to protect underground sources of drinking water and are part of the Underground Injection Control (UIC) Program established under the Safe Drinking Water Act. This subpart is written in a special format to make it easier to understand the regulatory requirements. Like other EPA regulations, it establishes enforceable legal requirements.

# Definition of Class V Injection Wells
§ 144.80
What is a Class V injection well?
As described in § 144.6, injection wells are classified as follows:
(a)
Class I.
(1) Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or owners or operators of hazardous waste management facilities to inject hazardous waste beneath the lowermost formation containing, within one-quarter mile of the well bore, an underground source of drinking water.
(2) Other industrial and municipal disposal wells which inject fluids beneath the lowermost formation containing, within one quarter mile of the well bore, an underground source of drinking water;
(3) Radioactive waste disposal wells which inject fluids below the lowermost formation containing an underground source of drinking water within one quarter mile of the well bore.
(b)
Class II.
Wells which inject fluids:
(1) Which are brought to the surface in connection with natural gas storage operations, or conventional oil or natural gas production and may be commingled with waste waters from gas plants which are an integral part of production operations, unless those waters are classified as a hazardous waste at the time of injection.
(2) For enhanced recovery of oil or natural gas; and
(3) For storage of hydrocarbons which are liquid at standard temperature and pressure.
(c)
Class III.
Wells which inject fluids for extraction of minerals including:
(1) Mining of sulfur by the Frasch process;
(2)
In situ
production of uranium or other metals; this category includes only in situ production from ore bodies which have not been conventionally mined. Solution mining of conventional mines such as stopes leaching is included in Class V.
(3) Solution mining of salts or potash.
(d)
Class IV.
(1) Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or of radioactive waste, by owners and operators of hazardous waste management facilities, or by owners or operators of radioactive waste disposal sites to dispose of hazardous waste or radioactive waste into a formation which within one quarter (
1/4
) mile of the well contains an underground source of drinking water.
(2) Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or of radioactive waste, by owners and operators of hazardous waste management facilities, or by owners or operators of radioactive waste disposal sites to dispose of hazardous waste or radioactive waste above a formation which within one quarter (
1/4
) mile of the well contains an underground source of drinking water.
(3) Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or owners or operators of hazardous waste management facilities to dispose of hazardous waste, which cannot be classified under paragraph (a)(1) or (d)(1) and (2) of this section (e.g., wells used to dispose of hazardous waste into or above a formation which contains an aquifer which has been exempted pursuant to 40 CFR 146.04).
(e)
Class V.
Injection wells not included in Class I, II, III, IV or VI. Typically, Class V wells are shallow wells used to place a variety of fluids directly below the land surface. However, if the fluids you place in the ground qualify as a hazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), your well is either a Class I or Class IV well, not a Class V well. Examples of Class V wells are described in § 144.81.
(f)
Class VI.
Wells used for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide beneath the lowermost formation containing a USDW, except those wells that are experimental in nature; or, wells used for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide that have been granted a waiver of the injection depth requirements pursuant to requirements at § 146.95 of this chapter; or, wells used for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide that have received an expansion to the areal extent of a existing Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery aquifer exemption pursuant to § 146.4 of this chapter and § 144.7(d).
[64 FR 68566, Dec. 7, 1999, as amended at 75 FR 77290, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 144.81
Does this subpart apply to me?
This subpart applies to you if you own or operate a Class V well, for example:
(1) Air conditioning return flow wells used to return to the supply aquifer the water used for heating or cooling in a heat pump;
(2) Large capacity cesspools including multiple dwelling, community or regional cesspools, or other devices that receive sanitary wastes, containing human excreta, which have an open bottom and sometimes perforated sides. The UIC requirements do not apply to single family residential cesspools nor to non-residential cesspools which receive solely sanitary waste and have the capacity to serve fewer than 20 persons a day.
(3) Cooling water return flow wells used to inject water previously used for cooling;
(4) Drainage wells used to drain surface fluids, primarily storm runoff, into a subsurface formation;
(5) Dry wells used for the injection of wastes into a subsurface formation;
(6) Recharge wells used to replenish the water in an aquifer;
(7) Salt water intrusion barrier wells used to inject water into a fresh aquifer to prevent the intrusion of salt water into the fresh water;
(8) Sand backfill and other backfill wells used to inject a mixture of water and sand, mill tailings or other solids into mined out portions of subsurface mines whether what is injected is a radioactive waste or not.
(9) Septic system wells used to inject the waste or effluent from a multiple dwelling, business establishment, community or regional business establishment septic tank. The UIC requirements do not apply to single family residential septic system wells, nor to non-residential septic system wells which are used solely for the disposal of sanitary waste and have the capacity to serve fewer than 20 persons a day.
(10) Subsidence control wells (not used for the purpose of oil or natural gas production) used to inject fluids into a non-oil or gas producing zone to reduce or eliminate subsidence associated with the overdraft of fresh water;
(11) Injection wells associated with the recovery of geothermal energy for heating, aquaculture and production of electric power;
(12) Wells used for solution mining of conventional mines such as stopes leaching;
(13) Wells used to inject spent brine into the same formation from which it was withdrawn after extraction of halogens or their salts;
(14) Injection wells used in experimental technologies.
(15) Injection wells used for in situ recovery of lignite, coal, tar sands, and oil shale.
(16) Motor vehicle waste disposal wells that receive or have received fluids from vehicular repair or maintenance activities, such as an auto body repair shop, automotive repair shop, new and used car dealership, specialty repair shop (e.g., transmission and muffler repair shop), or any facility that does any vehicular repair work. Fluids disposed in these wells may contain organic and inorganic chemicals in concentrations that exceed the maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) established by the primary drinking water regulations (see 40 CFR part 141). These fluids also may include waste petroleum products and may contain contaminants, such as heavy metals and volatile organic compounds, which pose risks to human health.
[64 FR 68566, Dec. 7, 1999, as amended at 67 FR 39593, June 7, 2002]

# Requirements for All Class V Injection Wells
§ 144.82
What must I do to protect underground sources of drinking water?
If you own or operate any type of Class V well, the regulations below require that you cannot allow movement of fluid into USDWs that might cause endangerment, you must comply with other Federal UIC requirements in 40 CFR parts 144 through 147, and you must comply with any other measures required by your State or EPA Regional Office UIC Program to protect USDWs, and you must properly close your well when you are through using
it. You also must submit basic information about your well, as described in § 144.83.
(a)
Prohibition of fluid movement.
(1) As described in § 144.12(a), your injection activity cannot allow the movement of fluid containing any contaminant into USDWs, if the presence of that contaminant may cause a violation of the primary drinking water standards under 40 CFR part 141, other health based standards, or may otherwise adversely affect the health of persons. This prohibition applies to your well construction, operation, maintenance, conversion, plugging, closure, or any other injection activity.
(2) If the Director of the UIC Program in your State or EPA Region learns that your injection activity may endanger USDWs, he or she may require you to close your well, require you to get a permit, or require other actions listed in § 144.12(c), (d), or (e).
(b)
Closure requirements.
You must close the well in a manner that complies with the above prohibition of fluid movement. Also, you must dispose or otherwise manage any soil, gravel, sludge, liquids, or other materials removed from or adjacent to your well in accordance with all applicable Federal, State, and local regulations and requirements.
(c)
Other requirements in Parts 144 through 147.
Beyond this subpart, you are subject to other UIC Program requirements in 40 CFR parts 144 through 147. While most of the relevant requirements are repeated or referenced in this subpart for convenience, you need to read these other parts to understand the entire UIC Program.
(d)
Other State or EPA requirements.
40 CFR parts 144 through 147 define minimum Federal UIC requirements. EPA Regional Offices administering the UIC Program have the flexibility to establish additional or more stringent requirements based on the authorities in parts 144 through 147, if believed to be necessary to protect USDWs. States can have their own authorities to establish additional or more stringent requirements if needed to protect USDWs. You must comply with these additional requirements, if any exist in your area. Contact the UIC Program Director in your State or EPA Region to learn more.
§ 144.83
Do I need to notify anyone about my Class V injection well?
Yes, you need to provide basic “inventory information” about your well to the UIC Director, if you haven't already. You also need to provide any additional information that your UIC Program Director requests in accordance with the provisions of the UIC regulations.
(a)
Inventory requirements.
Unless you know you have already satisfied the inventory requirements in § 144.26 that were in effect prior to the issuance of this Subpart G, you must give your UIC Program Director certain information about yourself and your injection operation.

# Note:
This information is requested on national form “Inventory of Injection Wells,” OMB No. 2040-0042.
(1) The requirements differ depending on your well status and location, as described in the following table:
If your well is . . .
And you're in one of these locations (“Primacy” States, where the State runs the Class V UIC Program): Alabama, Arkansas, Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Guam, Idaho, Illinois, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, or Wyoming
Or you're in one of these locations (“Direct Implementation” or DI Programs, where EPA runs the Class V UIC Program): Alaska, American Samoa, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, New York, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Virginia, Virgin Islands, Washington, DC, or any Indian Country
(i) New (prior to construction of your well)
. . . then you must contact your State UIC Program to determine what you must submit and by when.
. . . then you must submit the inventory information described in (a)(2) of this section prior to constructing your well.
(ii) Existing (construction underway or completed)
. . . then you must contact your State UIC Program to determine what you must submit and by when.
. . . then you must cease injection and submit the inventory information. You may resume injection 90 days after you submit the information unless the UIC Program Director notifies you that injection may not resume or may resume sooner.
(2) If your well is in a Primacy State or a DI Program State, here is the information you must submit:
(i) No matter what type of Class V well you own or operate, you must submit at least the following information for each Class V well: facility name and location; name and address of legal contact; ownership of facility; nature and type of injection well(s); and operating status of injection well(s).
(ii)
Additional information.
If you are in a Direct Implementation State and you own or operate a well listed below you must also provide the information listed in paragraph (a) (2) (iii) as follows:
(A) Sand or other backfill wells (40 CFR 144.81(8) and 146.5(e)(8) of this chapter);
(B) Geothermal energy recovery wells (40 CFR 144.81(11) and 146.5 (e)(12) of this chapter);
(C) Brine return flow wells (40 CFR 144.81(13) and 146.5 (e)(14) of this chapter);
(D) Wells used in experimental technology (40 CFR 144.81(14) and 146.5 (e)(15) of this chapter);
(E) Municipal and industrial disposal wells other than Class I; and
(F) Any other Class V wells at the discretion of the Regional Administrator.
(iii) You must provide a list of all wells owned or operated along with the following information for each well. (A single description of wells at a single facility with substantially the same characteristics is acceptable).
(A) Location of each well or project given by Township, Range, Section, and Quarter-Section, or by latitude and longitude to the nearest second, according to the conventional practice in your State;
(B) Date of completion of each well;
(C) Identification and depth of the underground formation(s) into which each well is injecting;
(D) Total depth of each well;
(E) Construction narrative and schematic (both plan view and cross-sectional drawings);
(F) Nature of the injected fluids;
(G) Average and maximum injection pressure at the wellhead;
(H) Average and maximum injection rate; and
(I) Date of the last inspection.
(3) Regardless of whether your well is in a Primacy State or DI Program you are responsible for knowing about, understanding, and complying with these inventory requirements.
(b)
Information in response to requests.
If you are in one of the DI Programs listed in the table above, the UIC Program Director may require you to submit other information believed necessary to protect underground sources of drinking water.
(1) Such information requirements may include, but are not limited to:
(i) Perform ground water monitoring and periodically submit your monitoring results;
(ii) Analyze the fluids you inject and periodically submit the results of your analyses;
(iii) Describe the geologic layers through which and into which you are injecting; and
(iv) Conduct other analyses and submit other information, if needed to protect underground sources of drinking water.
(2) If the Director requires this other information, he or she will request it from you in writing, along with a brief statement on why the information is required. This written notification also will tell you when to submit the information.
(3) You are prohibited from using your injection well if you fail to comply with the written request within the time frame specified. You can start injecting again only if you receive a permit.
§ 144.84
Do I need to get a permit?
No, unless you fall within an exception described below:
(a)
General authorization by rule.
With certain exceptions listed in paragraph (b) of this section, your Class V injection activity is “authorized by rule,” meaning you have to comply with all the requirements of this subpart and the rest of the UIC Program but you don't have to get an individual permit. Well authorization expires once you have properly closed your well, as described in § 144.82(b).
(b)
Circumstances in which permits or other actions are required.
If you fit into one of the categories listed below, your Class V well is no longer authorized by rule. This means that you have to either get a permit or close your injection well. You can find out by contacting the UIC Program Director in your State or EPA Region if this is the case. Subpart D of this part tells you how to apply for a permit and describes other aspects of the permitting process. Subpart E of this part outlines some of the requirements that apply to you if you get a permit.
(1) You fail to comply with the prohibition of fluid movement standard in § 144.12(a) and described in § 144.82(a) (in which case, you have to get a permit, close your well, and/or comply with other conditions determined by the UIC Program Director in your State or EPA Region);
(2) You own or operate a Class V large-capacity cesspool (in which case, you must close your well as specified in the additional requirements below) or a Class V motor vehicle waste disposal well in a ground water protection area or sensitive ground water area (in which case, you must either close your well or get a permit as specified in the additional requirements in this subsection). New motor vehicle waste disposal wells and new cesspools are prohibited as of April 5, 2000;
(3) You are specifically required by the UIC Program Director in your State or EPA Region to get a permit (in which case, rule authorization expires upon the effective date of the permit issued, or you are prohibited from injecting into your well upon:
(i) Failure to submit a permit application in a timely manner as specified in a notice from the Director; or
(ii) Upon the effective date of permit denial);
(4) You have failed to submit inventory information to your UIC Program Director, as described in § 144.83(a) (in which case, you are prohibited from injecting into your well until you comply with the inventory requirements); or
(5) If you are in a DI State and you received a request from your UIC Program Director for additional information under § 144.83(b), and have failed to comply with the request in a timely manner (in which case, you are prohibited from injecting into your well until you get a permit).

# Additional Requirements for Class V Large-Capacity Cesspools and Motor Vehicle Waste Disposal Wells
§ 144.85
Do these additional requirements apply to me?
(a)
Large-capacity cesspools.
The additional requirements apply to all new and existing large-capacity cesspools regardless of their location. If you are using a septic system for these type of wastes you are not subject to the additional requirements in this subpart.
(b)
Motor vehicle waste disposal wells existing on April 5, 2000.
If you have a Class V motor vehicle waste disposal well these requirements apply to you if your well is located in a ground water
protection area or other sensitive ground water area that is identified by your State or EPA Region. If your State or EPA Region fails to identify ground water protection areas and/or other sensitive ground water areas these requirements apply to all Class V motor vehicle wells in the State.
(c)
New motor vehicle waste disposal wells.
The additional requirements apply to all new motor vehicle waste disposal wells as of April 5, 2000.
§ 144.86
What are the definitions I need to know?
(a)
State Drinking Water Source Assessment and Protection Program.
This is a new approach to protecting drinking water sources, specified in the 1996 Amendments to the Safe Drinking Water Act at Section 1453. States must prepare and submit for EPA approval a program that sets out how States will conduct local assessments, including: delineating the boundaries of areas providing source waters for public water systems; identifying significant potential sources of contaminants in such areas; and determining the susceptibility of public water systems in the delineated areas to the inventoried sources of contamination.
(b)
Complete local source water assessment for ground water protection areas.
When EPA has approved a State's Drinking Water Source Assessment and Protection Program, States will begin to conduct local assessments for each public water system in their State. For the purposes of this rule, local assessments for community water systems and non-transient non-community systems are complete when four requirements are met: First, a State must delineate the boundaries of the assessment area for community and non-transient non-community water systems. Second, the State must identify significant potential sources of contamination in these delineated areas. Third, the State must “determine the susceptibility of community and non-transient non-community water systems in the delineated area to such contaminants.” Lastly, each State will develop its own plan for making the completed assessments available to the public.
(c)
Ground water protection area.
A ground water protection area is a geographic area near and/or surrounding community and non-transient non-community water systems that use ground water as a source of drinking water. These areas receive priority for the protection of drinking water supplies and States are required to delineate and assess these areas under section 1453 of the Safe Drinking Water Act. The additional requirements in § 144.88 apply to you if your Class V motor vehicle waste disposal well is in a ground water protection area for either a community water system or a non-transient non-community water system, in many States, these areas will be the same as Wellhead Protection Areas that have been or will be delineated as defined in section 1428 of the SDWA.
(d)
Community water system.
A community water system is a public water system that serves at least 15 service connections used by year-round residents or regularly serves at least 25 year-round residents.
(e)
Non-transient non-community water system.
A public water system that is not a community water system and that regularly serves at least 25 of the same people over six months a year. These may include systems that provide water to schools, day care centers, government/military installations, manufacturers, hospitals or nursing homes, office buildings, and other facilities.
(f)
Delineation.
Once a State's Drinking Water Source Assessment and Protection Program is approved, the States will begin delineating their local assessment areas. Delineation is the first step in the assessment process in which the boundaries of ground water protection areas are identified.
(g)
Other sensitive ground water areas.
States may also identify other areas in the State in addition to ground water protection areas that are critical to protecting underground sources of drinking water from contamination. These other sensitive ground water areas may include areas such as areas overlying sole-source aquifers; highly productive aquifers supplying private wells; continuous and highly productive aquifers at points distant from
public water supply wells; areas where water supply aquifers are recharged; karst aquifers that discharge to surface reservoirs serving as public water supplies; vulnerable or sensitive hydrogeologic settings, such as glacial outwash deposits, eolian sands, and fractured volcanic rock; and areas of special concern selected based on a combination of factors, such as hydrogeologic sensitivity, depth to ground water, significance as a drinking water source, and prevailing land-use practices.
§ 144.87
How does the identification of ground water protection areas and other sensitive ground water areas affect me?
(a) You are subject to these new requirements if you own or operate an existing motor vehicle well and you are located in a ground water protection area or an other sensitive ground water area. If your State or EPA Region fails to identify these areas within the specified time frames these requirements apply to all existing motor vehicle waste disposal wells within your State.
(b)
Ground water protection areas.
(1) For the purpose of this subpart, States are required to complete all local source water assessments for ground water protection areas by January 1, 2004. Once a local assessment for a ground water protection area is complete every existing motor vehicle waste disposal well owner in that ground water protection area has one year to close the well or receive a permit. If a State fails to complete all local assessments for ground water protection areas by January 1, 2004, the following may occur:
(i) The new requirements in this subpart will apply to all existing motor vehicle waste disposal wells in the State and owners and operators of motor vehicle waste disposal wells located outside of completed assessments for ground water protection areas must close their well or receive a permit by January 1, 2005.
(ii) EPA may grant a State an extension for up to one year from the January 1, 2004 deadline if the State is making reasonable progress in completing the source water assessments for ground water protection areas. States must apply for the extension by June 1, 2003. If a State fails to complete the assessments for the remaining ground water protection areas by the extended date the rule requirements will apply to all motor vehicle waste disposal wells in the State and owners and operators of motor vehicle waste disposal wells located outside of ground water protection areas with completed assessments must close their well or receive a permit by January 1, 2006.
(2) The UIC Program Director may extend the compliance deadline for specific motor vehicle waste disposal wells for up to one year if the most efficient compliance option for the well is connection to a sanitary sewer or installation of new treatment technology.
(c)
Other sensitive ground water areas.
States may also delineate other sensitive ground water areas by January 1, 2004. Existing motor vehicle waste disposal well owners and operators within other sensitive ground water areas have until January 1, 2007 to receive a permit or close the well. If a State or EPA Region fails to identify these additional sensitive ground water areas by January 1, 2004, the new requirements of this rule will apply to all motor vehicle waste disposal wells in the State effective January 1, 2007 unless they are subject to a different compliance date pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. Again, EPA may extend the January 1, 2004 deadline for up to one year for States to delineate other sensitive ground water areas if the State is making reasonable progress in identifying the sensitive areas. States must apply for this extension by June 1, 2003. If a State has been granted an extension, existing motor vehicle waste disposal well owners and operators within the sensitive ground water areas have until January 1, 2008 to close the well or receive a permit, unless they are subject to a different compliance date pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. If a State has been granted an extension and fails to delineate sensitive areas by the extended date, the rule requirements will apply to all motor vehicle waste disposal wells in the State and owners and operators have until January 1, 2008 to close the well or receive a permit, unless they are subject to a different
compliance date pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
How to find out if your well is in a ground water protection area or sensitive ground water area.
States are required to make their local source water assessments widely available to the public through a variety of methods after the assessments are complete. You can find out if your Class V well is in a ground water protection area by contacting the State agency responsible for the State Drinking Water Source Assessment and Protection Program in your area. You may call the Safe Drinking Water Hotline at 1-800-426-4791 to find out who to call in your State for this information. The State office responsible for implementing the Drinking Water Source Assessment and Protection Program makes the final and official determination of boundaries for ground water protection areas. Because States that choose to delineate other sensitive ground water areas are also required to make the information on these areas accessible to the public, they may do so in a manner similar to the process used by the States in publicizing the EPA approved Drinking Water Source Assessment and Protection Program. You can find out if your Class V well is in an other sensitive ground water area by contacting the State or Federal agency responsible for the Underground Injection Control Program. You may call the Safe Drinking Water Hotline at 1-800-426-4791 to find out who to call for information.
(e)
Changes in the status of the EPA approved state drinking water source assessment and protection program.
After January 1, 2004 your State may assess a ground water protection area for ground water supplying a new community water system or a new non-transient non-community water system that includes your Class V injection well. Also, your State may officially re-delineate the boundaries of a previously delineated ground water protection area to include additional areas that includes your motor vehicle waste disposal well. This would make the additional regulations apply to you if your motor vehicle waste disposal well is in such an area. The additional regulations start applying to you one year after the State completes the local assessment for the ground water protection area for the new drinking water system or the new re-delineated area. The UIC Program Director responsible for your area may extend this deadline for up to one year if the most efficient compliance option for the well is connection to a sanitary sewer or installation of new treatment technology.
(f)
What happens if my state doesn't designate other sensitive ground water areas?
If your State or EPA Region elects not to delineate the additional sensitive ground water areas, the additional regulations apply to you regardless of the location of your well by January 1, 2007, or January 2008 if an extension has been granted as explained in paragraph (c) of this section, except for wells in ground water protection areas which are subject to different compliance deadlines explained in paragraph (b) of this section.
(g) [Reserved]
(h)
Application of requirements outside of ground water protection areas and sensitive ground water areas.
EPA expects and strongly encourages States to use existing authorities in the UIC program to take whatever measures are needed to ensure Class V wells are not endangering USDWs in any other areas outside of delineated ground water protection areas and sensitive ground water areas. Such measures could include, if believed to be necessary by a UIC Program Director, applying the additional requirements below to other areas and/or other types of Class V wells. Therefore, the Director may apply the additional requirements to you, even if you are not located in the areas listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 144.88
What are the additional requirements?
The additional requirements are specified in the following tables:
(
a
) Table 1—Additional Requirements for Large-Capacity Cesspools Statewide
[See § 144.85 to determine if these additional requirements apply to you]
Well Status
Requirement
Deadline
If your cesspool is. . .
Then you. . .
By. . .
(1) Existing (operational or under construction by April 5, 2000)
(i) Must close the well
April 5, 2005.
(ii) Must notify the UIC Program Director (both Primacy States and Direct Implementation States) of your intent to close the well
Note: This information is requested on national form “Preclosure Notification for Closure of Injection Wells,”
At least 30 days prior to closure.
(2) New or converted (construction not started before April 5, 2000)
Are prohibited
April 5, 2000.
(
b
) Table 2—Additional Requirements for Motor Vehicle Waste Disposal Wells
[See § 144.85 to determine if these additional requirements apply to you]
Well status
Requirement
Deadline
If your motor vehicle waste disposal well is
Then. . .
By. . .
(1) Existing (operational or under construction by April 5, 2000)
(i) If your well is in a ground water protection area, you must close the well or obtain a permit
Within 1 year of the completion of your local source water assessment; your UIC Program Director may extend the closure deadline, but not the permit application deadline, for up to one year if the most efficient compliance option is connection to a sanitary sewer or installation of new treatment technology.
(ii) If your well is in an other sensitive ground water area, you must close the well or obtain a permit
By January 1, 2007; your UIC Program Director may extend the closure deadline, but not the permit application deadline, for up to one year if the most efficient compliance option is connection to a sanitary sewer or installation of new treatment technology.
(iii) If you plan to seek a waiver from the ban and apply for a permit, you must meet MCLs at the point of injection while your permit application is under review, if you choose to keep operating your well
The date you submit your permit application.
(iv) If you receive a permit, you must comply with all permit conditions, if you choose to keep operating your well, including requirements to meet MCLs and other health based standards at the point of injection, follow best management practices, and monitor your injectate and sludge quality
The date(s) specified in your permit.
(v) If your well is in a State which has not completed all their local assessments by January 1, 2004 or by the extended date if your State has obtained an extension as described in 144.87, and you are outside an area with a completed assessment you must close the well or obtain a permit
January 1, 2005 unless your State obtains an extension as described in 144.87 (b) in which case your deadline is January 1, 2006; your UIC Program Director may extend the closure deadline, but not the permit application deadline, for up to one year if the most efficient compliance option is connection to a sanitary sewer or installation of new treatment technology.
(vi) If your well is in a State that has not delineated other sensitive ground water areas by January 1, 2004 and you are outside of an area with a completed assessment you must close the well or obtain a permit regardless of your location
January 1, 2007 unless your State obtains an extension as described in 144.87(c) in which case your deadline is January 2008.
(vii) If you plan to close your well, you must notify the UIC Program Director of your intent to close the well (this includes closing your well prior to conversion)
Note: This information is requested on national form “Preclosure Notification for Closure of Injection Wells”
At least 30 days prior to closure.
(2) New or converted (construction not started before April 5, 2000)
Are prohibited
April 5, 2000.
[64 FR 68566, Dec. 7, 1999; 64 FR 70316, Dec. 16, 1999]
§ 144.89
How do I close my Class V injection well?
The following describes the requirements for closing your Class V injection well.
(a)
Closure.
(1) Prior to closing a Class V large-capacity cesspool or motor vehicle waste disposal well, you must plug or otherwise close the well in a manner that complies with the prohibition of fluid movement standard in § 144.12 and summarized in § 144.82(a). If the UIC Program Director in your State or EPA Region has any additional or more specific closure standards, you have to meet those standards too. You also must dispose or otherwise manage any soil, gravel, sludge, liquids, or other materials removed from or adjacent to your well in accordance with all applicable Federal, State, and local regulations and requirements, as in § 144.82(b).
(2) Closure does not mean that you need to cease operations at your facility, only that you need to close your well. A number of alternatives are available for disposing of waste fluids. Examples of alternatives that may be available to motor vehicle stations include: recycling and reusing wastewater as much as possible; collecting and recycling petroleum-based fluids, coolants, and battery acids drained from vehicles; washing parts in a self-contained, recirculating solvent sink, with spent solvents being recovered and replaced by the supplier; using absorbents to clean up minor leaks and spills, and placing the used materials in approved waste containers and disposing of them properly; using a wet vacuum or mop to pick up accumulated rain or snow melt, and if allowed, connecting floor drains to a municipal sewer system or holding tank, and if allowed, disposing of the holding tank contents through a publicly owned treatment works. You should check with the publicly owned treatment works you might use to see if they would accept your wastes. Alternatives that may be available to owners and operators of a large-capacity cesspool include: conversion to a septic system; connection to sewer; and installation of an on-site treatment unit.
(b)
Conversions.
In limited cases, the UIC Director may authorize the conversion (reclassification) of a motor vehicle waste disposal well to another type of Class V well. Motor vehicle wells may only be converted if: all motor vehicle fluids are segregated by
physical barriers and are not allowed to enter the well; and, injection of motor vehicle waste is unlikely based on a facility's compliance history and records showing proper waste disposal. The use of a semi-permanent plug as the means to segregate waste is not sufficient to convert a motor vehicle waste disposal well to another type of Class V well.
[64 FR 68566, Dec. 7, 1999; 65 FR 5024, Feb. 2, 2000]
Pt. 145

# PART 145—STATE UIC PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS

# Subpart A—General Program Requirements
Sec.
145.1
Purpose and scope.
145.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Requirements for State Programs
145.11
Requirements for permitting.
145.12
Requirements for compliance evaluation programs.
145.13
Requirements for enforcement authority.
145.14
Sharing of information.

# Subpart C—State Program Submissions
145.21
General requirements for program approvals.
145.22
Elements of a program submission.
145.23
Program description.
145.24
Attorney General's statement.
145.25
Memorandum of Agreement with the Regional Administrator.

# Subpart D—Program Approval, Revision and Withdrawal
145.31
Approval process.
145.32
Procedures for revision of State programs.
145.33
Criteria for withdrawal of State programs.
145.34
Procedures for withdrawal of State programs.

# Subpart E—Indian Tribes
145.52
Requirements for Tribal eligibility.
145.56
Request by an Indian Tribe for a determination of eligibility.
145.58
Procedure for processing an Indian Tribe's application.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.

# Source:
48 FR 14202, Apr. 1, 1983, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Program Requirements
§ 145.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part specifies the procedures EPA will follow in approving, revising, and withdrawing State programs under section 1422 (underground injection control—UIC) of SDWA, and includes the elements which must be part of submissions to EPA for program approval and the substantive provisions which must be present in State programs for them to be approved.
(b) State submissions for program approval must be made in accordance with the procedures set out in subpart C. This includes developing and submitting to EPA a program description (§ 145.23), an Attorney General's Statement (§ 145.24), and a Memorandum of Agreement with the Regional Administrator (§ 145.25).
(c) The substantive provisions which must be included in State programs to obtain approval include requirements for permitting, compliance evaluation, enforcement, public participation, and sharing of information. The requirements are found in subpart B. Many of the requirements for State programs are made applicable to States by cross-referencing other EPA regulations. In particular, many of the provisions of parts 144 and 124 are made applicable to States by the references contained in § 145.11.
(d) Upon submission of a complete program, EPA will conduct a public hearing, if interest is shown, and determine whether to approve or disapprove the program taking into consideration the requirements of this part, the Safe Drinking Water Act and any comments received.
(e) Upon approval of a State program, the Administrator shall suspend the issuance of Federal permits for those activities subject to the approved State program.
(f) Any State program approved by the Administrator shall at all times be conducted in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(g) Nothing in this part precludes a State from:
(1) Adopting or enforcing requirements which are more stringent or
more extensive than those required under this part;
(2) Operating a program with a greater scope of coverage than that required under this part. Where an approved State program has a greater scope of coverage than required by Federal law the additional coverage is not part of the federally approved program.
(h) Section 1451 of the SDWA authorizes the Administrator to delegate primary enforcement responsibility for the Underground Injection Control Program to eligible Indian Tribes. An Indian Tribe must establish its eligibility to be treated as a State before it is eligible to apply for Underground Injection Control grants and primary enforcement responsibility. All requirements of parts 124, 144, 145, and 146 that apply to States with UIC primary enforcement responsibility also apply to Indian Tribes except where specifically noted.
(i) States seeking primary enforcement responsibility for Class VI wells must submit a primacy application in accordance with subpart C of this part and meet all requirements of this part. States may apply for primary enforcement responsibility for Class VI wells independently of other injection well classes.
[48 FR 14202, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 53 FR 37412, Sept. 26, 1988; 59 FR 64345, Dec. 14, 1994; 75 FR 77290, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 145.2
Definitions.
The definitions of part 144 apply to all subparts of this part.

# Subpart B—Requirements for State Programs
§ 145.11
Requirements for permitting.
(a) All State programs under this part must have legal authority to implement each of the following provisions and must be administered in conformance with each; except that States are not precluded from omitting or modifying any provisions to impose more stringent requirements.
(1) Section 144.5(b)-(Confidential information);
(2) Section 144.6—(Classification of injection wells);
(3) Section 144.7—(Identification of underground sources of drinking water and exempted aquifers);
(4) Section 144.8—(Noncompliance reporting);
(5) Section 144.11—(Prohibition of unauthorized injection);
(6) Section 144.12—(Prohibition of movement of fluids into underground sources of drinking water);
(7) Section 144.13—(Elimination of Class IV wells);
(8) Section 144.14—(Requirements for wells managing hazardous waste);
(9) Sections 144.21-144.26—(Authorization by rule);
(10) Section 144.31—(Application for a permit);
(11) Section 144.32—(Signatories);
(12) Section 144.33—(Area Permits);
(13) Section 144.34—(Emergency permits);
(14) Section 144.35—(Effect of permit);
(15) Section 144.36—(Duration);
(16) Section 144.38—(Permit transfer);
(17) Section 144.39—(Permit modification);
(18) Section 144.40—(Permit termination);
(19) Section 144.51—(Applicable permit conditions);
(20) Section 144.52—(Establishing permit conditions);
(21) Section 144.53(a)—(Schedule of compliance);
(22) Section 144.54—(Monitoring requirements);
(23) Section 144.55—(Corrective Action);
(24) Section 124.3(a)—(Application for a permit);
(25) Section 124.5 (a), (c), (d), and (f)—(Modification of permits);
(26) Section 124.6 (a), (c), (d), and (e)—(Draft Permit);
(27) Section 124.8—(Fact sheets);
(28) Section 124.10 (a)(1)(ii), (a)(1)(iii), (a)(1)(v), (b), (c), (d), and (e)—(Public notice);
(29) Section 124.11—(Public comments and requests for hearings);
(30) Section 124.12(a)—(Public hearings);
(31) Section 124.17 (a) and (c)—(Response to comments);
(32) Section 144.88—(What are the additional requirements?); and
(33) For states that wish to receive electronic documents, 40 CFR part 3—(Electronic reporting).
(b)(1) States need not implement provisions identical to the provisions listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(32) of this section. Implemented provisions must, however, establish requirements at least as stringent as the corresponding listed provisions. While States may impose more stringent requirements, they may not make one requirement more lenient as a tradeoff for making another requirement more stringent; for example, by requiring that public hearings be held prior to issuing any permit while reducing the amount of advance notice of such a hearing.
(2) State programs may, if they have adequate legal authority, implement any of the provisions of parts 144 and 124. See, for example § 144.37(d) (continuation of permits) and § 124.4 (consolidation of permit processing).
[48 FR 14202, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 64 FR 78572, Dec. 7, 1999; 70 FR 59888, Oct. 13, 2005]
§ 145.12
Requirements for compliance evaluation programs.
(a) State programs shall have procedures for receipt, evaluation, retention and investigation for possible enforcement of all notices and reports required of permittees and other regulated persons (and for investigation for possible enforcement of failure to submit these notices and reports).
(b) State programs shall have inspection and surveillance procedures to determine, independent of information supplied by regulated persons, compliance or noncompliance with applicable program requirements. The State shall maintain:
(1) A program which is capable of making comprehensive surveys of all facilities and activities subject to the State Director's authority to identify persons subject to regulation who have failed to comply with permit application or other program requirements. Any compilation, index, or inventory of such facilities and activities shall be made available to the Regional Administrator upon request;
(2) A program for periodic inspections of the facilities and activities subject to regulation. These inspections shall be conducted in a manner designed to:
(i) Determine compliance or noncompliance with issued permit conditions and other program requirements;
(ii) Verify the accuracy of information submitted by permittees and other regulated persons in reporting forms and other forms supplying monitoring data; and
(iii) Verify the adequacy of sampling, monitoring, and other methods used by permittees and other regulated persons to develop that information;
(3) A program for investigating information obtained regarding violations of applicable program and permit requirements; and
(4) Procedures for receiving and ensuring proper consideration of information submitted by the public about violations. Public effort in reporting violations shall be encouraged and the State Director shall make available information on reporting procedures.
(c) The State Director and State officers engaged in compliance evaluation shall have authority to enter any site or premises subject to regulation or in which records relevant to program operation are kept in order to copy any records, inspect, monitor or otherwise investigate compliance with permit conditions and other program requirements. States whose law requires a search warrant before entry conform with this requirement.
(d) Investigatory inspections shall be conducted, samples shall be taken and other information shall be gathered in a manner [e.g., using proper “chain of custody” procedures] that will produce evidence admissible in an enforcement proceeding or in court.
§ 145.13
Requirements for enforcement authority.
(a) Any State agency administering a program shall have available the following remedies for violations of State program requirements:
(1) To restrain immediately and effectively any person by order or by suit in State court from engaging in any unauthorized activity which is endangering or causing damage to public health or environment;

# Note:
This paragraph requires that States have a mechanism (e.g., an administrative
cease and desist order or the ability to seek a temporary restraining order) to stop any unauthorized activity endangering public health or the environment.
(2) To sue in courts of competent jurisdiction to enjoin any threatened or continuing violation of any program requirement, including permit conditions, without the necessity of a prior revocation of the permit;
(3) To assess or sue to recover in court civil penalties and to seek criminal remedies, including fines, as follows:
(i) For all wells except Class II wells, civil penalties shall be recoverable for any program violation in at least the amount of $2,500 per day. For Class II wells, civil penalties shall be recoverable for any program violation in at least the amount of $1,000 per day.
(ii) Criminal fines shall be recoverable in at least the amount of $5,000 per day against any person who willfully violates any program requirement, or for Class II wells, pipeline (production) severance shall be imposable against any person who willfully violates any program requirement.

# Note:
In many States the State Director will be represented in State courts by the State Attorney General or other appropriate legal officer. Although the State Director need not appear in court actions he or she should have power to request that any of the above actions be brought.
(b)(1) The maximum civil penalty or criminal fine (as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section) shall be assessable for each instance of violation and, if the violation is continuous, shall be assessable up to the maximum amount for each day of violation.
(2) The burden of proof and degree of knowledge or intent required under State law for establishing violations under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, shall be no greater than the burden of proof or degree of knowledge or intent EPA must provide when it brings an action under the Safe Drinking Water Act.

# Note:
For example, this requirement is not met if State law includes mental state as an element of proof for civil violations.
(c) A civil penalty assessed, sought, or agreed upon by the State Director under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be appropriate to the violation.

# Note:
To the extent that State judgments or settlements provide penalties in amounts which EPA believes to be substantially inadequate in comparison to the amounts which EPA would require under similar facts, EPA, when authorized by the applicable statute, may commence separate actions for penalties.
In addition to the requirements of this paragraph, the State may have other enforcement remedies. The following enforcement options, while not mandatory, are highly recommended:
Procedures for assessment by the State of the costs of investigations, inspections, or monitoring surveys which lead to the establishment of violations;
Procedures which enable the State to assess or to sue any persons responsible for unauthorized activities for any expenses incurred by the State in removing, correcting, or terminating any adverse effects upon human health and the environment resulting from the unauthorized activity, or both; and
Procedures for the administrative assessment of penalties by the Director.
(d) Any State administering a program shall provide for public participation in the State enforcement process by providing either:
(1) Authority which allows intervention as of right in any civil or administrative action to obtain remedies specified in paragraph (a) (1), (2) or (3) of this section by any citizen having an interest which is or may be adversely affected; or
(2) Assurance that the State agency or enforcement authority will:
(i) Investigate and provide written responses to all citizen complaints submitted pursuant to the procedures specified in § 145.12(b)(4);
(ii) Not oppose intervention by any citizen when permissive intervention may be authorized by statute, rule, or regulation; and
(iii) Publish notice of and provide at least 30 days for public comment on any proposed settlement of a State enforcement action.
(e) To the extent that an Indian Tribe does not assert or is precluded from asserting criminal enforcement authority the Administrator will assume primary enforcement responsibility for criminal violations. The Memorandum of Agreement in § 145.25 shall reflect a system where the Tribal agency will refer such violations to the
Administrator in an appropriate and timely manner.
(Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
), Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.
), Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.
), Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.
))
[48 FR 14202, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 39621, Sept. 1, 1983; 53 FR 37412, Sept. 26, 1988]
§ 145.14
Sharing of information.
(a) Any information obtained or used in the administration of a State program shall be available to EPA upon request without restriction. If the information has been submitted to the State under a claim of confidentiality, the State must submit that claim to EPA when providing information under this section. Any information obtained from a State and subject to a claim of confidentiality will be treated in accordance with the regulations in 40 CFR part 2. If EPA obtains from a State information that is not claimed to be confidential, EPA may make that information available to the public without further notice.
(b) EPA shall furnish to States with approved programs the information in its files not submitted under a claim of confidentiality which the State needs to implement its approved program. EPA shall furnish to States with approved programs information submitted to EPA under a claim of confidentiality, which the State needs to implement its approved program, subject to the conditions in 40 CFR part 2.

# Subpart C—State Program Submissions
§ 145.21
General requirements for program approvals.
(a) States shall submit to the Administrator a proposed State UIC program complying with § 145.22 of this part within 270 days of the date of promulgation of the UIC regulations on June 24, 1980. The administrator may, for good cause, extend the date for submission of a proposed State UIC program for up to an additional 270 days.
(b) States shall submit to the Administrator 6 months after the date of promulgation of the UIC regulations a report describing the State's progress in developing a UIC program. If the Administrator extends the time for submission of a UIC program an additional 270 days, pursuant to § 145.21(a), the State shall submit a second report six months after the first report is due. The Administrator may prescribe the manner and form of the report.
(c) The requirements of § 145.21 (a) and (b) shall not apply to Indian Tribes.
(d) EPA will establish a UIC program in any State which does not comply with paragraph (a) of this section. EPA will continue to operate a UIC program in such a State until the State receives approval of a UIC program in accordance with the requirements of this part.

# Note:
States which are authorized to administer the NPDES permit program under section 402 of CWA are encouraged to rely on existing statutory authority, to the extent possible, in developing a State UIC program. Section 402(b)(1)(D) of CWA requires that NPDES States have the authority “to issue permits which control the disposal of pollutants into wells.” In many instances, therefore, NPDES States will have existing statutory authority to regulate well disposal which satisfies the requirements of the UIC program. Note, however, that CWA excludes certain types of well injections from the definition of “pollutant.” If the State's statutory authority contains a similar exclusion it may need to be modified to qualify for UIC program approval.
(e) If a State can demonstrate to EPA's satisfaction that there are no underground injections within the State for one or more classes of injection wells (other than Class IV wells) subject to SDWA and that such injections cannot legally occur in the State until the State has developed an approved program for those classes of injections, the State need not submit a program to regulate those injections and a partial program may be approved. The demonstration of legal prohibition shall be made by either explicitly banning new injections of the class not covered by the State program or providing a certification from the State Attorney General that such new injections cannot legally occur until the State has developed an approved program for that class. The State shall submit a program to regulate both those classes of injections for which a
demonstration is not made and class IV wells.
(f) When a State UIC program is fully approved by EPA to regulate all classes of injections, the State assumes primary enforcement authority under section 1422(b)(3) of SDWA. EPA retains primary enforcement responsibility whenever the State program is disapproved in whole or in part. States which have partially approved programs have authority to enforce any violation of the approved portion of their program. EPA retains authority to enforce violations of State underground injection control programs, except that, when a State has a fully approved program, EPA will not take enforcement actions without providing prior notice to the State and otherwise complying with section 1423 of SDWA.
(g) A State can assume primary enforcement responsibility for the UIC program, notwithstanding § 145.21(3), when the State program is unable to regulate activities on Indian lands within the State. EPA will administer the program on Indian lands if the State does not seek this authority.
(h) To establish a Federal UIC Class VI program in States not seeking full UIC primary enforcement responsibility approval, pursuant to the SDWA section 1422(c), States shall, by September 6, 2011, submit to the Administrator a new or revised State UIC program complying with §§ 145.22 or 145.32 of this part. Beginning on September 6, 2011 the requirements of subpart H of part 146 of this chapter will be applicable and enforceable by EPA in each State that has not received approval of a new Class VI program application under section 1422 of the Safe Drinking Water Act or a revision of its UIC program under section 1422 of the Safe Drinking Water Act to incorporate subpart H of part 146. Following September 6, 2011, EPA will publish a list of the States where subpart H of part 146 has become applicable.
[48 FR 14202, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 53 FR 37412, Sept. 26, 1988; 75 FR 77290, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 145.22
Elements of a program submission.
(a) Any State that seeks to administer a program under this part shall submit to the Administrator at least three copies of a program submission. For Class VI programs, the entire submission can be sent electronically. The submission shall contain the following:
(1) A letter from the Governor of the State requesting program approval;
(2) A complete program description, as required by § 145.23, describing how the State intends to carry out its responsibilities under this part;
(3) An Attorney General's statement as required by § 145.24;
(4) A Memorandum of Agreement with the Regional Administrator as required by § 145.25;
(5) Copies of all applicable State statutes and regulations, including those governing State administrative procedures;
(6) The showing required by § 145.31(b) of the State's public participation activities prior to program submission.
(b) Within 30 days of receipt by EPA of a State program submission, EPA will notify the State whether its submission is complete. If EPA finds that a State's submission is complete, the statutory review period (
i.e.
, the period of time allotted for formal EPA review of a proposed State program under the Safe Drinking Water Act) shall be deemed to have begun on the date of receipt of the State's submission. If EPA finds that a State's submission is incomplete, the statutory review period shall not begin until all the necessary information is received by EPA.
(c) If the State's submission is materially changed during the statutory review period, the statutory review period shall begin again upon receipt of the revised submission.
(d) The State and EPA may extend the statutory review period by agreement.
[48 FR 14202, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 75 FR 77290, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 145.23
Program description.
Any State that seeks to administer a program under this part shall submit a description of the program it proposes to administer in lieu of the Federal program under State law or under an interstate compact. For Class VI programs, the entire submission can be sent electronically. The program description shall include:
(a) A description in narrative form of the scope, structure, coverage and processes of the State program.
(b) A description (including organization charts) of the organization and structure of the State agency or agencies which will have responsibility for administering the program, including the information listed below. If more than one agency is responsible for administration of a program, each agency must have statewide jurisdiction over a class of activities. The responsibilities of each agency must be delineated, their procedures for coordination set forth, and an agency may be designated as a “lead agency” to facilitate communications between EPA and the State agencies having program responsibility. When the State proposes to administer a program of greater scope of coverage than is required by Federal law, the information provided under this paragraph shall indicate the resources dedicated to administering the Federally required portion of the program.
(1) A description of the State agency staff who will carry out the State program, including the number, occupations, and general duties of the employees. The State need not submit complete job descriptions for every employee carrying out the State program.
(2) An itemization of the estimated costs of establishing and administering the program for the first two years after approval, including cost of the personnel listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, cost of administrative support, and cost of technical support.
(3) An itemization of the sources and amounts of funding, including an estimate of Federal grant money, available to the State Director for the first two years after approval to meet the costs listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, identifying any restrictions or limitations upon this funding.
(c) A description of applicable State procedures, including permitting procedures and any State administrative or judicial review procedures.
(d) Copies of the permit form(s), application form(s), reporting form(s), and manifest format the State intends to employ in its program. Forms used by States need not be identical to the forms used by EPA but should require the same basic information. The State need not provide copies of uniform national forms it intends to use but should note its intention to use such forms. For Class VI programs, submit copies of the current forms in use by the State, if any.
(e) A complete description of the State's compliance tracking and enforcement program.
(f) A State UIC program description shall also include:
(1) A schedule for issuing permits within five years after program approval to all injection wells within the State which are required to have permits under this part and 40 CFR part 144. For Class VI programs, a schedule for issuing permits within two years after program approval;
(2) The priorities (according to criteria set forth in § 146.9 of this chapter) for issuing permits, including the number of permits in each class of injection well which will be issued each year during the first five years of program operation. For Class VI programs, include the priorities for issuing permits and the number of permits which will be issued during the first two years of program operation;
(3) A description of how the Director will implement the mechanical integrity testing requirements of § 146.8 of this chapter, or, for Class VI wells, the mechanical integrity testing requirements of § 146.89 of this chapter, including the frequency of testing that will be required and the number of tests that will be reviewed by the Director each year;
(4) A description of the procedure whereby the Director will notify owners or operators of injection wells of the requirement that they apply for and obtain a permit. The notification required by this paragraph shall require applications to be filed as soon as possible, but not later than four years after program approval for all injection wells requiring a permit. For Class VI programs approved before December 10, 2011, a description of the procedure whereby the Director will notify owners or operators of any Class I wells previously permitted for the purpose of geologic sequestration or Class V experimental technology wells no longer being used for experimental purposes
that will continue injection of carbon dioxide for the purpose of GS that they must apply for a Class VI permit pursuant to requirements at § 146.81(c) within one year of December 10, 2011. For Class VI programs approved following December 10, 2011, a description of the procedure whereby the Director will notify owners or operators of any Class I wells previously permitted for the purpose of geologic sequestration or Class V experimental technology wells no longer being used for experimental purposes that will continue injection of carbon dioxide for the purpose of GS or Class VI wells previously permitted by EPA that they must apply for a Class VI permit pursuant to requirements at § 146.81(c) within one year of Class VI program approval;
(5) A description of any rule under which the Director proposes to authorize injections, including the text of the rule;
(6) For any existing enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells which the Director proposes to authorize by rule, a description of the procedure for reviewing the wells for compliance with applicable monitoring, reporting, construction, and financial responsibility requirements of §§ 144.51 and 144.52, and 40 CFR part 146;
(7) A description of and schedule for the State's program to establish and maintain a current inventory of injection wells which must be permitted under State law;
(8) Where the Director had designated underground sources of drinking water in accordance with § 144.7(a), a description and identification of all such designated sources in the State;
(9) A description of aquifers, or parts thereof, which the Director has identified under § 144.7(b) as exempted aquifers, and a summary of supporting data. For Class VI programs only, States must incorporate information related to any EPA approved exemptions expanding the areal extent of existing aquifer exemptions for Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery wells transitioning to Class VI injection for geologic sequestration pursuant to requirements at §§ 146.4(d) and 144.7(d), including a summary of supporting data and the specific location of the aquifer exemption expansions. Other than expansions of the areal extent of Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery well aquifer exemptions for Class VI injection, new aquifer exemptions shall not be issued for Class VI wells or injection activities;
(10) A description of and schedule for the State's program to ban Class IV wells prohibited under § 144.13; and
(11) A description of and schedule for the State's program to establish an inventory of Class V wells and to assess the need for a program to regulate Class V wells.
(12)
For Class V programs only.
A description of and a schedule for the State's plan to identify and delineate other sensitive ground water areas. States should consider geologic and hydrogeologic settings, ground water flow and occurrence, topographic and geographic features, depth to ground water, significance as a drinking water source, prevailing land use practices and any other existing information relating to the susceptibility of ground water to contamination from Class V injection wells when developing their plan. Within the schedule for the plan, States must commit to: completing all delineations of other sensitive ground water areas by no later than Jan. 1, 2004; making these delineation available to the public; implementing the Class V regulations, effective April 5, 2000, in these delineated areas by no later than January 1, 2007. Alternately, if a State chooses not to identify other sensitive ground water areas, the requirements for motor vehicle waste disposal wells would apply statewide by January 1, 2007.
(13) For Class VI programs, a description of the procedure whereby the Director must notify, in writing, any States, Tribes, and Territories of any permit applications for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide wherein the area of review crosses State, Tribal, or Territory boundaries, resulting in the need for trans-boundary coordination related to an injection operation.
[48 FR 14202, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 64 FR 68572, Dec. 7, 1999; 75 FR 77290, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 145.24
Attorney General's statement.
(a) Any State that seeks to administer a program under this part shall submit a statement from the State Attorney General (or the attorney for those State or interstate agencies which have independent legal counsel) that the laws of the State, or an interstate compact, provide adequate authority to carry out the program described under § 145.23 and to meet the requirements of this part. This statement shall include citations to the specific statutes, administrative regulations, and, where appropriate, judicial decisions which demonstrate adequate authority. State statutes and regulations cited by the State Attorney General or independent legal counsel shall be in the form of lawfully adopted State statutes and regulations at the time the statement is signed and shall be fully effective by the time the program is approved. To qualify as “independent legal counsel” the attorney signing the statement required by this section must have full authority to independently represent the State agency in court on all matters pertaining to the State program.

# Note:
EPA will supply States with an Attorney General's statement format on request.
(b) When a State seeks authority over activities on Indian lands, the statement shall contain an appropriate analysis of the State's authority.
§ 145.25
Memorandum of Agreement with the Regional Administrator.
(a) Any State that seeks to administer a program under this part shall submit a Memorandum of Agreement. The Memorandum of Agreement shall be executed by the State Director and the Regional Administrator and shall become effective when approved by the Administrator. In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the Memorandum of Agreement may include other terms, conditions, or agreements consistent with this part and relevant to the administration and enforcement of the State's regulatory program. The Administrator shall not approve any Memorandum of Agreement which contains provisions which restrict EPA's statutory oversight responsibility.
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement shall include the following:
(1) Provisions for the prompt transfer from EPA to the State of pending permit applications and any other information relevant to program operation not already in the possession of the State Director (e.g., support files for permit issuance, compliance reports, etc.). When existing permits are transferred from EPA to State for administration, the Memorandum of Agreement shall contain provisions specifying a procedure for transferring the administration of these permits. If a State lacks the authority to directly administer permits issued by the Federal government, a procedure may be established to transfer responsibility for these permits.

# Note:
For example, EPA and the State and the permittee could agree that the State would issue a permit(s) identical to the outstanding Federal permit which would simultaneously be terminated.
(2) Provisions specifying classes and categories of permit applications, draft permits, and proposed permits that the State will send to the Regional Administrator for review, comment and, where applicable, objection.
(3) Provisions specifying the frequency and content of reports, documents and other information which the State is required to submit to EPA. The State shall allow EPA to routinely review State records, reports, and files relevant to the administration and enforcement of the approved program. State reports may be combined with grant reports where appropriate.
(4) Provisions on the State's compliance monitoring and enforcement program, including:
(i) Provisions for coordination of compliance monitoring activities by the State and by EPA. These may specify the basis on which the Regional Administrator will select facilities or activities within the State for EPA inspection. The Regional Administrator will normally notify the State at least 7 days before any such inspection; and
(ii) Procedures to assure coordination of enforcement activities.
(5) When appropriate, provisions for joint processing of permits by the State and EPA, for facilities or activities which require permits from both
EPA and the State under different programs. See § 124.4.
(6) Provisions for modification of the Memorandum of Agreement in accordance with this part.
(c) The Memorandum of Agreement, the annual program and grant and the State/EPA Agreement should be consistent. If the State/EPA Agreement indicates that a change is needed in the Memorandum of Agreement, the Memorandum of Agreement may be amended through the procedures set forth in this part. The State/EPA Agreement may not override the Memorandum of Agreement.

# Note:
Detailed program priorities and specific arrangements for EPA support of the State program will change and are therefore more appropriately negotiated in the context of annual agreements rather than in the MOA. However, it may still be appropriate to specify in the MOA the basis for such detailed agreements, e.g., a provision in the MOA specifying that EPA will select facilities in the State for inspection annually as part of the State/EPA agreement.

# Subpart D—Program Approval, Revision and Withdrawal
§ 145.31
Approval process.
(a) Prior to submitting an application to the Administrator for approval of a State UIC program, the State shall issue public notice of its intent to adopt a UIC program and to seek program approval from EPA. This public notice shall:
(1) Be circulated in a manner calculated to attract the attention of interested persons. Circulation of the public notice shall include publication in enough of the largest newspapers in the State to attract Statewide attention and mailing to persons on appropriate State mailing lists and to any other persons whom the agency has reason to believe are interested;
(2) Indicate when and where the State's proposed program submission may be reviewed by the public;
(3) Indicate the cost of obtaining a copy of the submission;
(4) Provide for a comment period of not less than 30 days during which interested persons may comment on the proposed UIC program;
(5) Schedule a public hearing on the State program for no less than 30 days after notice of the hearing is published;
(6) Briefly outline the fundamental aspects of the State UIC program; and
(7) Identify a person that an interested member of the public may contact for further information.
(b) After complying with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section any State may submit a proposed UIC program under section 1422 of SDWA and § 145.22 of this part to EPA for approval. Such a submission shall include a showing of compliance with paragraph (a) of this section; copies of all written comments received by the State; a transcript, recording or summary of any public hearing which was held by the State; and a responsiveness summary which identifies the public participation activities conducted, describes the matters presented to the public, summarizes significant comments received, and responds to these comments. A copy of the responsiveness summary shall be sent to those who testified at the hearing, and others upon request.
(c) After determining that a State's submission for UIC program approval is complete the Administrator shall issue public notice of the submission in the
Federal Register
and in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such notice shall:
(1) Indicate that a public hearing will be held by EPA no earlier than 30 days after notice of the hearing. The notice may require persons wishing to present testimony to file a request with the Regional Administrator, who may cancel the public hearing if sufficient public interest in a hearing is not expressed;
(2) Afford the public 30 days after the notice to comment on the State's submission; and
(3) Note the availability of the State submission for inspection and copying by the public.
(d) The Administrator shall approve State programs which conform to the applicable requirements of this part.
(e) Within 90 days of the receipt of a complete submission (as provided in
§ 145.22) or material amendment thereto, the Administrator shall by rule either fully approve, disapprove, or approve in part the State's UIC program taking into account any comments submitted. The Administrator shall give notice of this rule in the
Federal Register
and in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the Administrator determines not to approve the State program or to approve it only in part, the notice shall include a concise statement of the reasons for this determination. A responsiveness summary shall be prepared by the Regional Office which identifies the public participation activities conducted, describes the matters presented to the public, summarizes significant comments received, and explains the Agency's response to these comments. The responsiveness summary shall be sent to those who testified at the public hearing, and to others upon request.
§ 145.32
Procedures for revision of State programs.
(a) Either EPA or the approved State may initiate program revision. Program revision may be necessary when the controlling Federal or State statutory or regulatory authority is modified or supplemented. The state shall keep EPA fully informed of any proposed modifications to its basic statutory or regulatory authority, its forms, procedures, or priorities.
(b) Revision of a State program shall be accomplished as follows:
(1) The State shall submit a modified program description, Attorney General's statement, Memorandum of Agreement, or such other documents as EPA determines to be necessary under the circumstances.
(2) Whenever EPA determines that the proposed program revision is substantial, EPA shall issue public notice and provide an opportunity to comment for a period of at least 30 days. The public notice shall be mailed to interested persons and shall be published in the
Federal Register
and in enough of the largest newspapers in the State to provide Statewide coverage. The public notice shall summarize the proposed revisions and provide for the opportunity to request a public hearing. Such a hearing will be held is there if significant public interest based on requests received. All requests for expansions to the areal extent of Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery aquifer exemptions for Class VI wells must be treated as substantial program revisions.
(3) The Administrator shall approve or disapprove program revisions based on the requirements of this part and of the Safe Drinking Water Act.
(4) A program revision shall become effective upon the approval of the Administrator. Notice of approval of any substantial revision shall be published in the
Federal Register.
Notice of approval of non-substantial program revisions may be given by a letter from the Administrator to the State Governor or his designee.
(c) States with approved programs shall notify EPA whenever they propose to transfer all or part of any program from the approved State agency to any other State agency, and shall identify any new division of responsibilities among the agencies involved. The new agency is not authorized to administer the program until approval by the Administrator under paragraph (b) of this section. Organizational charts required under § 145.23(b) shall be revised and resubmitted.
(d) Whenever the Administrator has reason to believe that circumstances have changed with respect to a State program, he may request, and the State shall provide, a supplemental Attorney General's statement, program description, or such other documents or information as are necessary.
(e) The State shall submit the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section within 270 days of any amendment to this part or 40 CFR part 144, 146, or 124 which revises or adds any requirement respecting an approved UIC program.
[48 FR 14202, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 75 FR 77291, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 145.33
Criteria for withdrawal of State programs.
(a) The Administrator may withdraw program approval when a State program no longer complies with the requirements of this part, and the State fails to take corrective action. Such circumstances include the following:
(1) When the State's legal authority no longer meets their requirements of this part, including:
(i) Failure of the State to promulgate or enact new authorities when necessary; or
(ii) Action by a State legislature or court striking down or limiting State authorities.
(2) When the operation of the State program fails to comply with the requirements of this part, including:
(i) Failure to exercise control over activities required to be regulated under this part, including failure to issue permits;
(ii) Repeated issuance of permits which do not conform to the requirements of this part; or
(iii) Failure to comply with the public participation requirements of this part.
(3) When the State's enforcement program fails to comply with the requirements of this part, including:
(i) Failure to act on violations of permits or other program requirements;
(ii) Failure to seek adequate enforcement penalties or to collect administrative fines when imposed; or
(iii) Failure to inspect and monitor activities subject to regulation.
(4) When the State program fails to comply with the terms of the Memorandum of Agreement required under § 145.24.
§ 145.34
Procedures for withdrawal of State programs.
(a) A State with a program approved under this part may voluntarily transfer program responsibilities required by Federal law to EPA by taking the following actions, or in such other manner as may be agreed upon with the Administrator.
(1) The State shall give the Administrator 180 days notice of the proposed transfer and shall submit a plan for the orderly transfer of all relevant program information not in the possession of EPA (such as permits, permit files, compliance files, reports, permit applications) which are necessary for EPA to administer the program.
(2) Within 60 days of receiving the notice and transfer plan, the Administrator shall evaluate the State's transfer plan and shall identify any additional information needed by the Federal government for program administration and/or identify any other deficiencies in the plan.
(3) At least 30 days before the transfer is to occur the Administrator shall publish notice of the transfer in the
Federal Register
and in enough of the largest newspapers in the State to provide Statewide coverage, and shall mail notice to all permit holders, permit applicants, other regulated persons and other interested persons on appropriate EPA and State mailing lists.
(b) Approval of a State UIC program may be withdrawn and a Federal program established in its place when the Administrator determines, after holding a public hearing, that the State program is not in compliance with the requirements of SDWA and this part.
(1)
Notice to State of public hearing.
If the Administrator has cause to believe that a State is not administering or enforcing its authorized program in compliance with the requirements of SDWA and this part, he or she shall inform the State by registered mail of the specific areas of alleged noncompliance. If the State demonstrates to the Administrator within 30 days of such notification that the State program is in compliance, the Administrator shall take no further action toward withdrawal and shall so notify the State by registered mail.
(2)
Public hearing.
If the State has not demonstrated its compliance to the satisfaction of the Administrator within 30 days after notification, the Administrator shall inform the State Director and schedule a public hearing to discuss withdrawal of the State program. Notice of such public hearing shall be published in the
Federal Register
and in enough of the largest newspapers in the State to attract statewide attention, and mailed to persons on appropriate State and EPA mailing lists. This hearing shall be convened not less than 60 days nor more than 75 days following the publication of the notice of the hearing. Notice of the hearing shall identify the Administrator's concerns. All interested persons shall be given opportunity to make written or oral presentation on the State's program at the public hearing.
(3)
Notice to State of findings.
When the Administrator finds after the public hearing that the State is not in compliance, he or she shall notify the State by registered mail of the specific deficiencies in the State program and of necessary remedial actions. Within 90 days of receipt of the above letter, the State shall either carry out the required remedial action or the Administrator shall withdraw program approval. If the State carries out the remedial action or, as a result of the hearing is found to be in compliance, the Administrator shall so notify the State by registered mail and conclude the withdrawal proceedings.

# Subpart E—Indian Tribes

# Source:
53 FR 37412, Sept. 26, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 145.52
Requirements for Tribal eligibility.
The Administrator is authorized to treat an Indian Tribe as eligible to apply for primary enforcement responsibility for the Underground Injection Control Program if it meets the following criteria:
(a) The Indian Tribe is recognized by the Secretary of the Interior.
(b) The Indian Tribe has a Tribal governing body which is currently “carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers” over a defined area, (
i.e.,
is currently performing governmental functions to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the affected population within a defined geographic area).
(c) The Indian Tribe demonstrates that the functions to be performed in regulating the underground injection wells that the applicant intends to regulate are within the area of the Indian Tribal government's jurisdiction.
(d) The Indian Tribe is reasonably expected to be capable, in the Administrator's judgment, of administering (in a manner consistent with the terms and purposes of the Act and all applicable regulations) an effective Underground Injection Control Program.
[53 FR 37412, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 64345, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 145.56
Request by an Indian Tribe for a determination of eligibility.
An Indian Tribe may apply to the Administrator for a determination that it meets the criteria of section 1451 of the Act. The application shall be concise and describe how the Indian Tribe will meet each of the requirements of § 145.52. The application shall consist of the following:
(a) A statement that the Tribe is recognized by the Secretary of the Interior.
(b) A descriptive statement demonstrating that the Tribal governing body is currently carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers over a defined area. The statement should:
(1) Describe the form of the Tribal government;
(2) Describe the types of governmental functions currently performed by the Tribal governing body such as, but not limited to, the exercise of police powers affecting (or relating to) the health, safety, and welfare of the affected population; taxation; and the exercise of the power of eminent domain; and
(3) Identify the sources of the Tribal government's authority to carry out the governmental functions currently being performed.
(c) A map or legal description of the area over which the Indian Tribe asserts jurisdiction; a statement by the Tribal Attorney General (or equivalent official) which describes the basis for the Tribe's jurisdictional assertion (including the nature or subject matter of the asserted jurisdiction); a copy of those documents such as Tribal constitutions, by-laws, charters, executive orders, codes, ordinances, and/or resolutions which the Tribe believes are relevant to its assertions regarding jurisdiction; and a description of the locations of the underground injection wells the Tribe proposes to regulate.
(d) A narrative statement describing the capability of the Indian Tribe to administer an effective Underground Injection Control program which should include:
(1) A description of the Indian Tribe's previous management experience which may include, the administration of programs and services authorized
under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.
), the Indian Mineral Development Act (25 U.S.C. 2101
et seq.
), or the Indian Sanitation Facilities Construction Activity Act (42 U.S.C. 2004a).
(2) A list of existing environmental or public health programs administered by the Tribal governing body and a copy of related Tribal laws, regulations and policies.
(3) A description of the Indian Tribe's accounting and procurement systems.
(4) A description of the entity (or entities) which exercise the executive, legislative, and judicial functions of the Tribal government.
(5) A description of the existing, or proposed, agency of the Indian Tribe which will assume primary enforcement responsibility, including a description of the relationship between owners/operators of the underground injection wells and the agency.
(6) A description of the technical and administrative capabilities of the staff to administer and manage an effective Underground Injection Control Program or a plan which proposes how the Tribe will acquire additional administrative and/or technical expertise. The plan must address how the Tribe will obtain the funds to acquire the additional administrative and technical expertise.
(e) The Adminstrator may, in his discretion, request further documentation necessary to support a Tribe's eligibility.
(f) If the Administrator has previously determined that a Tribe has met the prerequisites that make it eligible to assume a role similar to that of a State as provided by statute under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act, or the Clean Air Act, then that Tribe need provide only that information unique to the Underground Injection Control program (§ 145.76(c) and (d)(6)).
[53 FR 37412, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 64345, Dec. 14, 1994]
§ 145.58
Procedure for processing an Indian Tribe's application.
(a) The Administrator shall process a completed application of an Indian Tribe in a timely manner. He shall promptly notify the Indian Tribe of receipt of the application.
(b) A tribe that meets the requirements of § 145.52 is eligible to apply for development grants and primary enforcement responsibility for an Underground Injection Control program and the associated funding under section 1443(b) of the Act and primary enforcement responsibility for the Underground Injection Control Program under sections 1422 and/or 1425 of the Act.
[53 FR 37412, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 64345, Dec. 14, 1994]
Pt. 146

# PART 146—UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
146.1
Applicability and scope.
146.2
Law authorizing these regulations.
146.3
Definitions.
146.4
Criteria for exempted aquifers.
146.5
Classification of injection wells.
146.6
Area of review.
146.7
Corrective action.
146.8
Mechanical integrity.
146.9
Criteria for establishing permitting priorities.
146.10
Plugging and abandoning Class I-III wells.

# Subpart B—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class I Wells
146.11
Criteria and standards applicable to Class I nonhazardous wells.
146.12
Construction requirements.
146.13
Operating, monitoring and reporting requirements.
146.14
Information to be considered by the Director.
146.15
Class I municipal disposal well alternative authorization in certain parts of Florida.
146.16
Requirements for new Class I municipal wells in certain parts of Florida.

# Subpart C—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class II Wells
146.21
Applicability.
146.22
Construction requirements.
146.23
Operating, monitoring, and reporting requirements.
146.24
Information to be considered by the Director.

# Subpart D—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class III Wells
146.31
Applicability.
146.32
Construction requirements.
146.33
Operating, monitoring, and reporting requirements.
146.34
Information to be considered by the Director.
Subpart E—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class IV Injection Wells [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class V Injection Wells
146.51
Applicability.

# Subpart G—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells
146.61
Applicability.
146.62
Minimum criteria for siting.
146.63
Area of review.
146.64
Corrective action for wells in the area of review.
146.65
Construction requirements.
146.66
Logging, sampling, and testing prior to new well operation.
146.67
Operating requirements.
146.68
Testing and monitoring requirements.
146.69
Reporting requirements.
146.70
Information to be evaluated by the Director.
146.71
Closure.
146.72
Post-closure care.
146.73
Financial responsibility for post-closure care.

# Subpart H—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class VI Wells
146.81
Applicability.
146.82
Required Class VI permit information.
146.83
Minimum criteria for siting.
146.84
Area of review and corrective action.
146.85
Financial responsibility.
146.86
Injection well construction requirements.
146.87
Logging, sampling, and testing prior to injection well operation.
146.88
Injection well operating requirements.
146.89
Mechanical integrity.
146.90
Testing and monitoring requirements.
146.91
Reporting requirements.
146.92
Injection well plugging.
146.93
Post-injection site care and site closure.
146.94
Emergency and remedial response.
146.95
Class VI injection depth waiver requirements.

# Authority:
Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.;
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.

# Source:
45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 146.1
Applicability and scope.
(a) This part sets forth technical criteria and standards for the Underground Injection Control Program. This part should be read in conjunction with 40 CFR parts 124, 144, and 145, which also apply to UIC programs. 40 CFR part 144 defines the regulatory framework of EPA administered permit programs. 40 CFR part 145 describes the elements of an approvable State program and procedures for EPA approval of State participation in the permit programs. 40 CFR part 124 describes the procedures the Agency will use for issuing permits under the covered programs. Certain of these procedures will also apply to State-administered programs as specified in 40 CFR part 145.
(b) Upon the approval, partial approval or promulgation of a State UIC program by the Administrator, any underground injection which is not authorized by the Director by rule or by permit is unlawful.
(Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act: 42 U.S.C. 6905, 6912, 6925, 6927, 6974)
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 14293, Apr. 1, 1983]
§ 146.2
Law authorizing these regulations.
The Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.
authorizes these regulations and all other UIC program regulations referenced in 40 CFR part 144. Certain regulations relating to the injection of hazardous waste are also authorized by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.
[58 FR 63898, Dec. 3, 1993]
§ 146.3
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to the underground injection control program.
Abandoned well
means a well whose use has been permanently discontinued or which is in a state of disrepair such that it cannot be used for its intended purpose or for observation purposes.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or an authorized representative.
Application
means the EPA standard national forms for applying for a permit, including any additions, revisions or modifications to the forms; or forms approved by EPA for use in approved States, including any approved modifications or revisions. For RCRA, application also includes the information required by the Director under § 122.25 (contents of Part B of the RCRA application).
Aquifer
means a geological formation, group of formations, or part of a formation that is capable of yielding a significant amount of water to a well or spring.
Area of review
means the area surrounding an injection well described according to the criteria set forth in § 146.06 or in the case of an area permit, the project area plus a circumscribing area the width of which is either
1/4
of a mile or a number calculated according to the criteria set forth in § 146.06.
Casing
means a pipe or tubing of appropriate material, of varying diameter and weight, lowered into a borehole during or after drilling in order to support the sides of the hole and thus prevent the walls from caving, to prevent loss of drilling mud into porous ground, or to prevent water, gas, or other fluid from entering or leaving the hole.
Catastrophic collapse
means the sudden and utter failure of overlying “strata” caused by removal of underlying materials.
Cementing
means the operation whereby a cement slurry is pumped into a drilled hole and/or forced behind the casing.
Cesspool
means a “drywell” that receives untreated sanitary waste containing human excreta, and which sometimes has an open bottom and/or perforated sides.
Confining bed
means a body of impermeable or distinctly less permeable material stratigraphically adjacent to one or more aquifers.
Confining zone
means a geological formation, group of formations, or part of a formation that is capable of limiting fluid movement above an injection zone.
Contaminant
means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or matter in water.
Conventional mine
means an open pit or underground excavation for the production of minerals.
Director
means the Regional Administrator, the State director or the Tribal director as the context requires, or an authorized representative. When there is no approved State or Tribal program, and there is an EPA administered program, “Director” means the Regional Administrator. When there is an approved State or Tribal program, “Director” normally means the State or Tribal director. In some circumstances, however, EPA retains the authority to take certain actions even when there is an approved State or Tribal program. (For example, when EPA has issued an NPDES permit prior to the approval of a State program, EPA may retain jurisdiction over that permit after program approval; see § 123.69). In such cases, the term
Director
means the Regional Administrator and not the State or Tribal director.
Disposal well
means a well used for the disposal of waste into a subsurface stratum.
Drywell
means a well, other than an improved sinkhole or subsurface fluid distribution system, completed above the water table so that its bottom and sides are typically dry except when receiving fluids.
Effective date of a UIC program
means the date that a State UIC program is approved or established by the Administrator.
Environmental Protection Agency
(“EPA”) means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
EPA
means the United States “Environmental Protection Agency.”
Exempted aquifer
means an aquifer or its portion that meets the criteria in the definition of “underground source of drinking water” but which has been exempted according to the procedures of § 144.8(b).
Existing injection well
means an “injection well” other than a “new injection well.”
Experimental technology
means a technology which has not been proven feasible under the conditions in which it is being tested.
Facility or activity
means any “HWM facility,” UIC “injection well,” NPDES “point source,” or State 404 dredge and fill activity, or any other facility or activity (including land or appurtenances thereto) that is subject to regulation under the RCRA, UIC, NPDES, or 404 programs.
Fault
means a surface or zone of rock fracture along which there has been displacement.
Flow rate
means the volume per time unit given to the flow of gases or other fluid substance which emerges from an orifice, pump, turbine or passes along a conduit or channel.
Fluid
means material or substance which flows or moves whether in a semisolid, liquid, sludge, gas, or any other form or state.
Formation
means a body of rock characterized by a degree of lithologic homogeneity which is prevailingly, but not necessarily, tabular and is mappable on the earth's surface or traceable in the subsurface.
Formation fluid
means “fluid” present in a “formation” under natural conditions as opposed to introduced fluids, such as drilling mud.
Generator
means any person, by site location, whose act or process produces hazardous waste identified or listed in 40 CFR part 261.
Ground water
means water below the land surface in a zone of saturation.
Hazardous waste
means a hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR 261.3.
Hazardous Waste Management facility
(“HWM facility”) means all contiguous land, and structures, other appurtenances, and improvements on the land used for treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous waste. A facility may consist of several treatment, storage, or disposal operational units (for example, one or more landfills, surface impoundments, or combination of them).
HWM facility
means “Hazardous Waste Management facility.”
Improved sinkhole
means a naturally occurring karst depression or other natural crevice found in volcanic terrain and other geologic settings which have been modified by man for the purpose of directing and emplacing fluids into the subsurface.
Indian Tribe
means any Indian Tribe having a Federally recognized governing body carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers over a defined area.
Injection well
means a “well” into which “fluids” are being injected.
Injection zone
means a geological “formation”, group of formations, or part of a formation receiving fluids through a well.
Lithology
means the description of rocks on the basis of their physical and chemical characteristics.
Owner or operator
means the owner or operator of any facility or activity subject to regulation under the RCRA, UIC, NPDES, or 404 programs.
Packer
means a device lowered into a well to produce a fluid-tight seal.
Permit
means an authorization, license, or equivalent control document issued by EPA or an “approved State” to implement the requirements of this part and parts 124, 144, and 145. Permit does not include RCRA interim status (§ 122.23), UIC authorization by rule (§§ 144.21 to 144.26 and 144.15), or any permit which has not yet been the subject of final agency action, such as a “draft permit” or a “proposed permit.”
Plugging
means the act or process of stopping the flow of water, oil or gas into or out of a formation through a borehole or well penetrating that formation.
Plugging record
means a systematic listing of permanent or temporary abandonment of water, oil, gas, test, exploration and waste injection wells, and may contain a well log, description of amounts and types of plugging material used, the method employed for plugging, a description of formations which are sealed and a graphic log of the well showing formation location, formation thickness, and location of plugging structures.
Point of injection for Class V wells
means the last accessible sampling point prior to waste fluids being released into the subsurface environment
through a Class V injection well. For example, the point of injection of a Class V septic system might be the distribution box—the last accessible sampling point before the waste fluids drain into the underlying soils. For a dry well, it is likely to be the well bore itself.
Pressure
means the total load or force per unit area acting on a surface.
Project
means a group of wells in a single operation.
Radioactive waste
means any waste which contains radioactive material in concentrations which exceed those listed in 10 CFR part 20, appendix B, table II column 2.
RCRA
means the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (Pub. L. 94-580, as amended by Pub. L. 95-609, 42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.).
Sanitary waste
means liquid or solid wastes originating solely from humans and human activities, such as wastes collected from toilets, showers, wash basins, sinks used for cleaning domestic areas, sinks used for food preparation, clothes washing operations, and sinks or washing machines where food and beverage serving dishes, glasses, and utensils are cleaned. Sources of these wastes may include single or multiple residences, hotels and motels, restaurants, bunkhouses, schools, ranger stations, crew quarters, guard stations, campgrounds, picnic grounds, day-use recreation areas, other commercial facilities, and industrial facilities provided the waste is not mixed with industrial waste.
SDWA
means the Safe Drinking Water Act (Pub. L. 95-523, as amended by Pub. L. 95-190, 42 U.S.C. 300(f)
et seq.).
Septic system
means a “well” that is used to emplace sanitary waste below the surface and is typically comprised of a septic tank and subsurface fluid distribution system or disposal system.
Site
means the land or water area where any facility or activity is physically located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection with the facility or activity.
Sole or principal source aquifer
means an aquifer which has been designated by the Administrator pursuant to section 1424 (a) or (e) of the SDWA.
State Director
means the chief administrative officer of any State, interstate, or Tribal agency operating an “approved program,” or the delegated representative of the State Director. If the responsibility is divided among two or more State, interstate, or Tribal agencies, “State Director” means the chief administrative officer of the State, interstate, or Tribal agency authorized to perform the particular procedure or function to which reference is made.
Stratum
(plural
strata
) means a single sedimentary bed or layer, regardless of thickness, that consists of generally the same kind of rock material.
Subsidence
means the lowering of the natural land surface in response to: Earth movements; lowering of fluid pressure; removal of underlying supporting material by mining or solution of solids, either artificially or from natural causes; compaction due to wetting (Hydrocompaction); oxidation of organic matter in soils; or added load on the land surface.
Subsurface fluid distribution system
means an assemblage of perforated pipes, drain tiles, or other similar mechanisms intended to distribute fluids below the surface of the ground.
Surface casing
means the first string of well casing to be installed in the well.
Total dissolved solids
(“TDS”) means the total dissolved (filterable) solids as determined by use of the method specified in 40 CFR part 136.
UIC
means the Underground Injection Control program under Part C of the Safe Drinking Water Act, including an “approved program.”
Underground injection
means a “well injection.”
Underground source of drinking water
(USDW) means an aquifer or its portion:
(1)(i) Which supplies any public water system; or
(ii) Which contains a sufficient quantity of ground water to supply a public water system; and
(A) Currently supplies drinking water for human consumption; or
(B) Contains fewer than 10,000 mg/l total dissolved solids; and
(2) Which is not an exempted aquifer.
USDW
means “underground source of drinking water.”
Well
means: A bored, drilled, or driven shaft whose depth is greater than the largest surface dimension; or, a dug hole whose depth is greater than the largest surface dimension; or, an improved sinkhole; or, a subsurface fluid distribution system.
Well injection
means the subsurface emplacement of fluids through a well.
Well plug
means a watertight and gastight seal installed in a borehole or well to prevent movement of fluids.
Well stimulation
means several processes used to clean the well bore, enlarge channels, and increase pore space in the interval to be injected thus making it possible for wastewater to move more readily into the formation, and includes (1) surging, (2) jetting, (3) blasting, (4) acidizing, (5) hydraulic fracturing.
Well monitoring
means the measurement, by on-site instruments or laboratory methods, of the quality of water in a well.
(Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act: 42 U.S.C. 6905, 6912, 6925, 6927, 6974)
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43161, Aug. 27, 1981; 47 FR 4998, Feb. 3, 1982; 48 FR 14293, Apr. 1, 1983; 53 FR 37414, Sept. 26, 1988; 64 FR 68573, Dec. 7, 1999]
§ 146.4
Criteria for exempted aquifers.
An aquifer or a portion thereof which meets the criteria for an “underground source of drinking water” in § 146.3 may be determined under § 144.7 of this chapter to be an “exempted aquifer” for Class I-V wells if it meets the criteria in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. Class VI wells must meet the criteria under paragraph (d) of this section:
(a) It does not currently serve as a source of drinking water; and
(b) It cannot now and will not in the future serve as a source of drinking water because:
(1) It is mineral, hydrocarbon or geothermal energy producing, or can be demonstrated by a permit applicant as part of a permit application for a Class II or III operation to contain minerals or hydrocarbons that considering their quantity and location are expected to be commercially producible.
(2) It is situated at a depth or location which makes recovery of water for drinking water purposes economically or technologically impractical;
(3) It is so contaminated that it would be economically or technologically impractical to render that water fit for human consumption; or
(4) It is located over a Class III well mining area subject to subsidence or catastrophic collapse; or
(c) The total dissolved solids content of the ground water is more than 3,000 and less than 10,000 mg/l and it is not reasonably expected to supply a public water system.
(d) The areal extent of an aquifer exemption for a Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery well may be expanded for the exclusive purpose of Class VI injection for geologic sequestration under § 144.7(d) of this chapter if it meets the following criteria:
(1) It does not currently serve as a source of drinking water; and
(2) The total dissolved solids content of the ground water is more than 3,000 mg/l and less than 10,000 mg/l; and
(3) It is not reasonably expected to supply a public water system.
(Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act: 42 U.S.C. 6905, 6912, 6925, 6927, 6974)
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 4998, Feb. 3, 1982; 48 FR 14293, Apr. 1, 1983; 75 FR 77291, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 146.5
Classification of injection wells.
Injection wells are classified as follows:
(a)
Class I.
(1) Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or owners or operators of hazardous waste management facilities to inject hazardous waste beneath the lowermost formation containing, within one quarter (
1/4
) mile of the well bore, an underground source of drinking water.
(2) Other industrial and municipal disposal wells which inject fluids beneath the lowermost formation containing, within one quarter mile of the well bore, an underground source of drinking water.
(3) Radioactive waste disposal wells which inject fluids below the lowermost formation containing an underground source of drinking water within one quarter mile of the well bore.
(b)
Class II.
Wells which inject fluids:
(1) Which are brought to the surface in connection with conventional oil or natural gas production and may be commingled with waste waters from gas plants which are an integral part of production operations, unless those waters are classified as a hazardous waste at the time of injection.
(2) For enhanced recovery of oil or natural gas; and
(3) For storage of hydrocarbons which are liquid at standard temperature and pressure.
(c)
Class III.
Wells which inject for extraction of minerals including:
(1) Mining of sulfur by the Frasch process;
(2) In situ production of uranium or other metals. This category includes only in-situ production from ore bodies which have not been conventionally mined. Solution mining of conventional mines such as stopes leaching is included in Class V.
(3) Solution mining of salts or potash.
(d)
Class IV.
(1) Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or of radioactive waste, by owners or operators of hazardous waste management facilities, or by owners or operators of radioactive waste disposal sites to dispose of hazardous waste or radioactive waste into a formation which within one quarter (
1/4
) mile of the well contains an underground source of drinking water.
(2) Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or of radioactive waste, by owners or operators of hazardous waste management facilities, or by owners or operators of radioactive waste disposal sites to dispose of hazardous waste or radioactive waste above a formation which within one quarter (
1/4
) mile of the well contains an underground source of drinking water.
(3) Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or owners or operators of hazardous waste management facilities to dispose of hazardous waste, which cannot be classified under § 146.05(a)(1) or § 146.05(d) (1) and (2) (e.g., wells used to dispose of hazardous wastes into or above a formation which contains an aquifer which has been exempted pursuant to § 146.04).
(e)
Class V.
Injection wells not included in Class I, II, III, IV or VI. Specific types of Class V injection wells are also described in 40 CFR 144.81. Class V wells include:
(1) Air conditioning return flow wells used to return to the supply aquifer the water used for heating or cooling in a heat pump;
(2) Cesspools including multiple dwelling, community or regional cesspools, or other devices that receive wastes which have an open bottom and sometimes have perforated sides. The UIC requirements do not apply to single family residential cesspools nor to non-residential cesspools which receive solely sanitary wastes and have the capacity to serve fewer than 20 persons a day.
(3) Cooling water return flow wells used to inject water previously used for cooling;
(4) Drainage wells used to drain surface fluid, primarily storm runoff, into a subsurface formation;
(5) Dry wells used for the injection of wastes into a subsurface formation;
(6) Recharge wells used to replenish the water in an aquifer;
(7) Salt water intrusion barrier wells used to inject water into a fresh water aquifer to prevent the intrusion of salt water into the fresh water;
(8) Sand backfill and other backfill wells used to inject a mixture of water and sand, mill tailings or other solids into mined out portions of subsurface mines whether what is injected is a radioactive waste or not.
(9) Septic system wells used to inject the waste or effluent from a multiple dwelling, business establishment, community or regional business establishment septic tank. The UIC requirements do not apply to single family residential septic system wells, nor to non-residential septic system wells which are used solely for the disposal of sanitary waste and have the capacity to serve fewer than 20 persons a day.
(10) Subsidence control wells (not used for the purpose of oil or natural
gas production) used to inject fluids into a non-oil or gas producing zone to reduce or eliminate subsidence associated with the overdraft of fresh water;
(11) Radioactive waste disposal wells other than Class IV;
(12) Injection wells associated with the recovery of geothermal energy for heating, aquaculture and production of electric power.
(13) Wells used for solution mining of conventional mines such as stopes leaching;
(14) Wells used to inject spent brine into the same formation from which it was withdrawn after extraction of halogens or their salts;
(15) Injection wells used in experimental technologies.
(16) Injection wells used for in situ recovery of lignite, coal, tar sands, and oil shale.
(f)
Class VI.
Wells that are not experimental in nature that are used for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide beneath the lowermost formation containing a USDW; or, wells used for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide that have been granted a waiver of the injection depth requirements pursuant to requirements at § 146.95; or, wells used for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide that have received an expansion to the areal extent of an existing Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery aquifer exemption pursuant to §§ 146.4 and 144.7(d) of this chapter.
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43161, Aug. 27, 1981; 47 FR 4999, Feb. 3, 1982; 64 FR 68573, Dec. 7, 1999; 75 FR 77291, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 146.6
Area of review.
The area of review for each injection well or each field, project or area of the State shall be determined according to either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. The Director may solicit input from the owners or operators of injection wells within the State as to which method is most appropriate for each geographic area or field.
(a)
Zone of endangering influence.
(1) The zone of endangering influence shall be:
(i) In the case of application(s) for well permit(s) under § 122.38 that area the radius of which is the lateral distance in which the pressures in the injection zone may cause the migration of the injection and/or formation fluid into an underground source of drinking water; or
(ii) In the case of an application for an area permit under § 122.39, the project area plus a circumscribing area the width of which is the lateral distance from the perimeter of the project area, in which the pressures in the injection zone may cause the migration of the injection and/or formation fluid into an underground source of drinking water.
(2) Computation of the zone of endangering influence may be based upon the parameters listed below and should be calculated for an injection time period equal to the expected life of the injection well or pattern. The following modified Theis equation illustrates one form which the mathematical model may take.
EC15NO91.140
where:
EC15NO91.141
r = Radius of endangering influence from injection well (length)
k = Hydraulic conductivity of the injection zone (length/time)
H = Thickness of the injection zone (length)
t = Time of injection (time)
S = Storage coefficient (dimensionless)
Q = Injection rate (volume/time)
h
bo
= Observed original hydrostatic head of injection zone (length) measured from the base of the lowermost underground source of drinking water
h
w
= Hydrostatic head of underground source of drinking water (length) measured from the base of the lowest underground source of drinking water
S
p
G
b
= Specific gravity of fluid in the injection zone (dimensionless)
π = 3.142 (dimensionless)
The above equation is based on the following assumptions:
(i) The injection zone is homogenous and isotropic;
(ii) The injection zone has infinite area extent;
(iii) The injection well penetrates the entire thickness of the injection zone;
(iv) The well diameter is infinitesimal compared to “r” when injection time is longer than a few minutes; and
(v) The emplacement of fluid into the injection zone creates instantaneous increase in pressure.
(b)
Fixed radius.
(1) In the case of application(s) for well permit(s) under § 122.38 a fixed radius around the well of not less than one-fourth (
1/4
) mile may be used.
(2) In the case of an application for an area permit under § 122.39 a fixed width of not less than one-fourth (
1/4
) mile for the circumscribing area may be used.
In determining the fixed radius, the following factors shall be taken into consideration: Chemistry of injected and formation fluids; hydrogeology; population and ground-water use and dependence; and historical practices in the area.
(c) If the area of review is determined by a mathematical model pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the permissible radius is the result of such calculation even if it is less than one-fourth (
1/4
) mile.
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43161, Aug. 27, 1981; 47 FR 4999, Feb. 3, 1982]
§ 146.7
Corrective action.
In determining the adequacy of corrective action proposed by the applicant under 40 CFR 144.55 and in determining the additional steps needed to prevent fluid movement into underground sources of drinking water, the following criteria and factors shall be considered by the Director:
(a) Nature and volume of injected fluid;
(b) Nature of native fluids or by-products of injection;
(c) Potentially affected population;
(d) Geology;
(e) Hydrology;
(f) History of the injection operation;
(g) Completion and plugging records;
(h) Abandonment procedures in effect at the time the well was abandoned; and
(i) Hydraulic connections with underground sources of drinking water.
(Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act: 42 U.S.C. 6905, 6912, 6925, 6927, 6974)
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43162, Aug. 27, 1981; 48 FR 14293, Apr. 1, 1983]
§ 146.8
Mechanical integrity.
(a) An injection well has mechanical integrity if:
(1) There is no significant leak in the casing, tubing or packer; and
(2) There is no significant fluid movement into an underground source of drinking water through vertical channels adjacent to the injection well bore.
(b) One of the following methods must be used to evaluate the absence of significant leaks under paragraph (a)(1) of this section:
(1) Following an initial pressure test, monitoring of the tubing-casing annulus pressure with sufficient frequency to be representative, as determined by the Director, while maintaining an annulus pressure different from atmospheric pressure measured at the surface;
(2) Pressure test with liquid or gas; or
(3) Records of monitoring showing the absence of significant changes in the relationship between injection pressure and injection flow rate for the following Class II enhanced recovery wells:
(i) Existing wells completed without a packer provided that a pressure test has been performed and the data is available and provided further that one pressure test shall be performed at a time when the well is shut down and if the running of such a test will not cause further loss of significant amounts of oil or gas; or
(ii) Existing wells constructed without a long string casing, but with surface casing which terminates at the base of fresh water provided that local geological and hydrological features allow such construction and provided further that the annular space shall be visually inspected. For these wells, the Director shall prescribe a monitoring program which will verify the absence
of significant fluid movement from the injection zone into an USDW.
(c) One of the following methods must be used to determine the absence of significant fluid movement under paragraph (a)(2) of this section:
(1) The results of a temperature or noise log; or
(2) For Class II only, cementing records demonstrating the presence of adequate cement to prevent such migration; or
(3) For Class III wells where the nature of the casing precludes the use of the logging techniques prescribed at paragraph (c)(1) of this section, cementing records demonstrating the presence of adequate cement to prevent such migration;
(4) For Class III wells where the Director elects to rely on cementing records to demonstrate the absence of significant fluid movement, the monitoring program prescribed by § 146.33(b) shall be designed to verify the absence of significant fluid movement.
(d) The Director may allow the use of a test to demonstrate mechanical integrity other than those listed in paragraphs (b) and (c)(2) of this section with the written approval of the Administrator. To obtain approval, the Director shall submit a written request to the Administrator, which shall set forth the proposed test and all technical data supporting its use. The Administrator shall approve the request if it will reliably demonstrate the mechanical integrity of wells for which its use is proposed. Any alternate method approved by the Administrator shall be published in the
Federal Register
and may be used in all States unless its use is restricted at the time of approval by the Administrator.
(e) In conducting and evaluating the tests enumerated in this section or others to be allowed by the Director, the owner or operator and the Director shall apply methods and standards generally accepted in the industry. When the owner or operator reports the results of mechanical integrity tests to the Director, he shall include a description of the test(s) and the method(s) used. In making his/her evaluation, the Director shall review monitoring and other test data submitted since the previous evaluation.
(f) The Director may require additional or alternative tests if the results presented by the owner or operator under § 146.8(e) are not satisfactory to the Director to demonstrate that there is no movement of fluid into or between USDWs resulting from the injection activity.
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43162, Aug. 27, 1981; 47 FR 4999, Feb. 3, 1982; 58 FR 63898, Dec. 3, 1993]
§ 146.9
Criteria for establishing permitting priorities.
In determining priorities for setting times for owners or operators to submit applications for authorization to inject under the procedures of § 144.31 (a), (c), (g) or § 144.22(f), the Director shall base these priorities upon consideration of the following factors:
(a) Injection wells known or suspected to be contaminating underground sources of drinking water;
(b) Injection wells known to be injecting fluids containing hazardous contaminants;
(c) Likelihood of contamination of underground sources of drinking water;
(d) Potentially affected population;
(e) Injection wells violating existing State requirements;
(f) Coordination with the issuance of permits required by other State or Federal permit programs;
(g) Age and depth of the injection well; and
(h) Expiration dates of existing State permits, if any.
(Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act: 42 U.S.C. 6905, 6912, 6925, 6927, 6974)
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 14293, Apr. 1, 1983]
§ 146.10
Plugging and abandoning Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells.
(a) Requirements for Class I, II and III wells. (1) Prior to abandoning Class I, II and III wells, the well shall be plugged with cement in a manner which will not allow the movement of fluids either into or between underground sources of drinking water. The Director may allow Class III wells to use other plugging materials if the Director is satisfied that such materials will prevent movement of fluids into or
between underground sources of drinking water.
(2) Placement of the cement plugs shall be accomplished by one of the following:
(i) The Balance method;
(ii) The Dump Bailer method;
(iii) The Two-Plug method; or
(iv) An alternative method approved by the Director, which will reliably provide a comparable level of protection to underground sources of drinking water.
(3) The well to be abandoned shall be in a state of static equilibrium with the mud weight equalized top to bottom, either by circulating the mud in the well at least once or by a comparable method prescribed by the Director, prior to the placement of the cement plug(s).
(4) The plugging and abandonment plan required in 40 CFR 144.51(o) and 144.52(a)(6) shall, in the case of a Class III project which underlies or is in an aquifer which has been exempted under § 146.04, also demonstrate adequate protection of USDWs. The Director shall prescribe aquifer cleanup and monitoring where he deems it necessary and feasible to insure adequate protection of USDWs.
(b) Requirements for Class IV wells. Prior to abandoning a Class IV well, the owner or operator shall close the well in accordance with 40 CFR 144.23(b).
(c) Requirements for Class V wells. (1) Prior to abandoning a Class V well, the owner or operator shall close the well in a manner that prevents the movement of fluid containing any contaminant into an underground source of drinking water, if the presence of that contaminant may cause a violation of any primary drinking water regulation under 40 CFR part 141 or may otherwise adversely affect the health of persons. Closure requirements for motor vehicle waste disposal wells and large-capacity cesspools are reiterated at § 144.89.
(2) The owner or operator shall dispose of or otherwise manage any soil, gravel, sludge, liquids, or other materials removed from or adjacent to the well in accordance with all applicable Federal, State, and local regulations and requirements.
[64 FR 68573, Dec. 7, 1999]

# Subpart B—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class I Wells
§ 146.11
Criteria and standards applicable to Class I nonhazardous wells.
This subpart establishes criteria and standards for underground injection control programs to regulate Class I nonhazardous wells.
[53 FR 28148, July 26, 1988]
§ 146.12
Construction requirements.
(a) All Class I wells shall be sited in such a fashion that they inject into a formation which is beneath the lowermost formation containing, within one quarter mile of the well bore, an underground source of drinking water.
(b) All Class I wells shall be cased and cemented to prevent the movement of fluids into or between underground sources of drinking water. The casing and cement used in the construction of each newly drilled well shall be designed for the life expectancy of the well. In determining and specifying casing and cementing requirements, the following factors shall be considered:
(1) Depth to the injection zone;
(2) Injection pressure, external pressure, internal pressure, and axial loading;
(3) Hole size;
(4) Size and grade of all casing strings (wall thickness, diameter, nominal weight, length, joint specification, and construction material);
(5) Corrosiveness of injected fluid, formation fluids, and temperatures;
(6) Lithology of injection and confining intervals; and
(7) Type or grade of cement.
(c) All Class I injection wells, except those municipal wells injecting non-corrosive wastes, shall inject fluids through tubing with a packer set immediately above the injection zone, or tubing with an approved fluid seal as an alternative. The tubing, packer, and fluid seal shall be designed for the expected service.
(1) The use of other alternatives to a packer may be allowed with the written approval of the Director. To obtain approval, the operator shall submit a written request to the Director, which shall set forth the proposed alternative and all technical data supporting its use. The Director shall approve the request if the alternative method will reliably provide a comparable level of protection to underground sources of drinking water. The Director may approve an alternative method solely for an individual well or for general use.
(2) In determining and specifying requirements for tubing, packer, or alternatives the following factors shall be considered:
(i) Depth of setting;
(ii) Characteristics of injection fluid (chemical content, corrosiveness, and density);
(iii) Injection pressure;
(iv) Annular pressure;
(v) Rate, temperature and volume of injected fluid; and
(vi) Size of casing.
(d) Appropriate logs and other tests shall be conducted during the drilling and construction of new Class I wells. A descriptive report interpreting the results of such logs and tests shall be prepared by a knowledgeable log analyst and submitted to the Director. At a minimum, such logs and tests shall include:
(1) Deviation checks on all holes constructed by first drilling a pilot hole, and then enlarging the pilot hole by reaming or another method. Such checks shall be at sufficiently frequent intervals to assure that vertical avenues for fluid migration in the form of diverging holes are not created during drilling.
(2) Such other logs and tests as may be needed after taking into account the availability of similar data in the area of the drilling site, the construction plan, and the need for additional information, that may arise from time to time as the construction of the well progresses. In determining which logs and tests shall be required, the following logs shall be considered for use in the following situations:
(i) For surface casing intended to protect underground sources of drinking water:
(A) Resistivity, spontaneous potential, and caliper logs before the casing is installed; and
(B) A cement bond, temperature, or density log after the casing is set and cemented.
(ii) For intermediate and long strings of casing intended to facilitate injection:
(A) Resistivity, spontaneous potential, porosity, and gamma ray logs before the casing is installed;
(B) Fracture finder logs; and
(C) A cement bond, temperature, or density log after the casing is set and cemented.
(e) At a minimum, the following information concerning the injection formation shall be determined or calculated for new Class I wells:
(1) Fluid pressure;
(2) Temperature;
(3) Fracture pressure;
(4) Other physical and chemical characteristics of the injection matrix; and
(5) Physical and chemical characteristics of the formation fluids.
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43162, Aug. 27, 1981]
§ 146.13
Operating, monitoring and reporting requirements.
(a)
Operating requirements.
Operating requirements shall at a minimum, specify that:
(1) Except during stimulation injection pressure at the wellhead shall not exceed a maximum which shall be calculated so as to assure that the pressure in the injection zone during injection does not initiate new fractures or propagate existing fractures in the injection zone. In no case shall injection pressure initiate fractures in the confining zone or cause the movement of injection or formation fluids into an underground source of drinking water.
(2) Injection between the outermost casing protecting underground sources of drinking water and the well bore is prohibited.
(3) Unless an alternative to a packer has been approved under § 146.12(c), the annulus between the tubing and the long string of casings shall be filled with a fluid approved by the Director and a pressure, also approved by the Director, shall be maintained on the annulus.
(b)
Monitoring requirements.
Monitoring requirements shall, at a minimum, include:
(1) The analysis of the injected fluids with sufficient frequency to yield representative data of their characteristics;
(2) Installation and use of continuous recording devices to monitor injection pressure, flow rate and volume, and the pressure on the annulus between the tubing and the long string of casing;
(3) A demonstration of mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.8 at least once every five years during the life of the well; and
(4) The type, number and location of wells within the area of review to be used to monitor any migration of fluids into and pressure in the underground sources of drinking water, the parameters to be measured and the frequency of monitoring.
(c)
Reporting requirements.
Reporting requirements shall, at a minimum, include:
(1) Quarterly reports to the Director on:
(i) The physical, chemical and other relevant characteristics of injection fluids;
(ii) Monthly average, maximum and minimum values for injection pressure, flow rate and volume, and annular pressure; and
(iii) The results of monitoring prescribed under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(2) Reporting the results, with the first quarterly report after the completion, of:
(i) Periodic tests of mechanical integrity;
(ii) Any other test of the injection well conducted by the permittee if required by the Director; and
(iii) Any well work over.
(d)
Ambient monitoring.
(1) Based on a site-specific assessment of the potential for fluid movement from the well or injection zone and on the potential value of monitoring wells to detect such movement, the Director shall require the owner or operator to develop a monitoring program. At a minimum, the Director shall require monitoring of the pressure buildup in the injection zone annually, including at a minimum, a shut down of the well for a time sufficient to conduct a valid observation of the pressure fall-off curve.
(2) When prescribing a monitoring system the Director may also require:
(i) Continuous monitoring for pressure changes in the first aquifer overlying the confining zone. When such a well is installed, the owner or operator shall, on a quarterly basis, sample the aquifer and analyze for constituents specified by the Director;
(ii) The use of indirect, geophysical techniques to determine the position of the waste front, the water quality in a formation designated by the Director, or to provide other site specific data;
(iii) Periodic monitoring of the ground water quality in the first aquifer overlying the injection zone;
(iv) Periodic monitoring of the ground water quality in the lowermost USDW; and
(v) Any additional monitoring necessary to determine whether fluids are moving into or between USDWs.
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43162, Aug. 27, 1981; 47 FR 32129, July 26, 1982; 53 FR 28148, July 26, 1988]
§ 146.14
Information to be considered by the Director.
This section sets forth the information which must be considered by the Director in authorizing Class I wells. For an existing or converted new Class I well the Director may rely on the existing permit file for those items of information listed below which are current and accurate in the file. For a newly drilled Class I well, the Director shall require the submission of all the information listed below. For both existing and new Class I wells certain maps, cross-sections, tabulations of wells within the area of review and other data may be included in the application by reference provided they are current, readily available to the Director (for example, in the permitting agency's files) and sufficiently identified to be retrieved. In cases where EPA issues the permit all the information in this section must be submitted to the Administrator.
(a) Prior to the issuance of a permit for an existing Class I well to operate or the construction or conversion of a new Class I well the Director shall consider the following:
(1) Information required in 40 CFR 144.31 and 144.31(g);
(2) A map showing the injection well(s) for which a permit is sought and the applicable area of review. Within the area of review, the map must show the number, or name, and location of all producing wells, dry holes, surface bodies of water, springs, mines (surface and subsurface), quarries, water wells and other pertinent surface features including residences and roads. The map should also show faults, if known or suspected. Only information of public record is required to be included on this map;
(3) A tabulation of data on all wells within the area of review which penetrate into the proposed injection zone. Such data shall include a description of each well's type, construction, date drilled, location, depth, record of plugging and/or completion, and any additional information the Director may require;
(4) Maps and cross sections indicating the general vertical and lateral limits of all underground sources of drinking water within the area of review, their position relative to the injection formation and the direction of water movement, where known, in each underground source of drinking water which may be affected by the proposed injection;
(5) Maps and cross sections detailing the geologic structure of the local area;
(6) Generalized maps and cross sections illustrating the regional geologic setting;
(7) Proposed operating data:
(i) Average and maximum daily rate and volume of the fluid to be injected;
(ii) Average and maximum injection pressure; and
(iii) Source and an analysis of the chemical, physical, radiological and biological characteristics of injection fluids;
(8) Proposed formation testing program to obtain an analysis of the chemical, physical and radiological characteristics of and other information on the receiving formation;
(9) Proposed stimulation program;
(10) Proposed injection procedure;
(11) Schematic or other appropriate drawings of the surface and subsurface construction details of the well.
(12) Contingency plans to cope with all shut-ins or well failures so as to prevent migration of fluids into any underground source of drinking water;
(13) Plans (including maps) for meeting the monitoring requirements in § 146.13(b);
(14) For wells within the area of review which penetrate the injection zone but are not properly completed or plugged, the corrective action proposed to be taken under 40 CFR 144.55;
(15) Construction procedures including a cementing and casing program, logging procedures, deviation checks, and a drilling, testing, and coring program; and
(16) A certificate that the applicant has assured, through a performance bond or other appropriate means, the resources necessary to close, plug or abandon the well as required by 40 CFR 122.42(g).
(b) Prior to granting approval for the operation of a Class I well the Director shall consider the following information:
(1) All available logging and testing program data on the well;
(2) A demonstration of mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.8;
(3) The anticipated maximum pressure and flow rate at which the permittee will operate;
(4) The results of the formation testing program;
(5) The actual injection procedure;
(6) The compatibility of injected waste with fluids in the injection zone and minerals in both the injection zone and the confining zone; and
(7) The status of corrective action on defective wells in the area of review.
(c) Prior to granting approval for the plugging and abandonment of a Class I well the Director shall consider the following information:
(1) The type and number of plugs to be used;
(2) The placement of each plug including the elevation of the top and bottom;
(3) The type and grade and quantity of cement to be used;
(4) The method for placement of the plugs; and
(5) The procedure to be used to meet the requirement of § 146.10(c).
(Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act: 42 U.S.C. 6905, 6912, 6925, 6927, 6974)
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43162, Aug. 27, 1981; 48 FR 14293, Apr. 1, 1983]
§ 146.15
Class I municipal disposal well alternative authorization in certain parts of Florida.
(a) Existing Class I municipal disposal wells in specific geographic regions as defined in paragraph (f) of this section may continue to inject without violating the regulatory prohibitions in Parts 144 and 146 of this chapter against the movement of injection or formation fluids into a USDW, provided that such wells meet the requirements of this section, even if the Director determines they have caused or may cause fluid movement into a USDW. Nothing in this section excuses such Class I municipal disposal wells from meeting all other applicable State and Federal requirements including 40 CFR 144.12(a).
(b) For purposes of this section, an existing Class I municipal disposal well is defined as a well for which a complete UIC construction permit application was received by the Director on or before December 22, 2005.
(c) For purposes of this section, the determination that a Class I municipal disposal well has caused or may cause movement of injection or formation fluids into a USDW may be made by the Director based on any relevant data available to him/her, including ground water monitoring data generated pursuant to regulatory requirements governing operation of Class I municipal disposal wells.
(d) In order for a Class I municipal disposal well to qualify for authorization to inject pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the Owner/Operator of that well shall:
(1) Develop and implement a pretreatment program that is no less stringent than the requirements of Chapter 62-625, Florida Administrative Code, or have no significant industrial users as defined in that chapter.
(2) Treat the injectate using secondary treatment in a manner that is no less stringent than the requirements of Florida Rule 62-600.420(1)(d), and using high-level disinfection in a manner that is no less stringent than the requirements of Florida Rule 62-600.440(5)(a)-(f), within five years after notification by the Director that the well has caused or may cause fluid movement into a USDW.
(e) Where the Director issued such notice for a well prior to December 22, 2005, in order for that well to qualify for authorization to inject pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the Owner/Operator shall:
(1) Develop and implement a pretreatment program that is no less stringent than the requirements of Chapter 62-625, Florida Administrative Code, or have no significant industrial users as defined in that chapter; and
(2) Treat the injectate using secondary treatment in a manner that is no less stringent than the requirements of Florida Rule 62-600.420(1)(d), and using high-level disinfection in a manner that is no less stringent than the requirements of Florida Rule 62-600.440(5)(a)-(f), within five years after December 22, 2005.
(f) Authorization to inject wastewater into existing Class I municipal disposal wells pursuant to this section is limited to Class I municipal disposal wells in Florida in the following counties: Brevard, Broward, Charlotte, Collier, Flagler, Glades, Hendry, Highlands, Hillsborough, Indian River, Lee, Manatee, Martin, Miami-Dade, Monroe, Okeechobee, Orange, Osceola, Palm Beach, Pinellas, St. Johns, St. Lucie, Sarasota, and Volusia.
[70 FR 70531, Nov. 22, 2005]
§ 146.16
Requirements for new Class I municipal wells in certain parts of Florida.
Prior to commencing injection, any Class I municipal disposal well in one of the counties identified in § 146.15(f) that is not an existing Class I municipal disposal well as defined in § 146.15(b) of this section shall meet all of the requirements for existing wells
seeking authorization to inject pursuant to § 146.15.
[70 FR 70532, Nov. 22, 2005]

# Subpart C—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class II Wells
§ 146.21
Applicability.
This subpart establishes criteria and standards for underground injection control programs to regulate Class II wells.
§ 146.22
Construction requirements.
(a) All new Class II wells shall be sited in such a fashion that they inject into a formation which is separated from any USDW by a confining zone that is free of known open faults or fractures within the area of review.
(b)(1) All Class II injection wells shall be cased and cemented to prevent movement of fluids into or between underground sources of drinking water. The casing and cement used in the construction of each newly drilled well shall be designed for the life expectancy of the well. In determining and specifying casing and cementing requirements, the following factors shall be considered:
(i) Depth to the injection zone;
(ii) Depth to the bottom of all USDWs; and
(iii) Estimated maximum and average injection pressures;
(2) In addition the Director may consider information on:
(i) Nature of formation fluids;
(ii) Lithology of injection and confining zones;
(iii) External pressure, internal pressure, and axial loading;
(iv) Hole size;
(v) Size and grade of all casing strings; and
(vi) Class of cement.
(c) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section need not apply to existing or newly converted Class II wells located in existing fields if:
(1) Regulatory controls for casing and cementing existed for those wells at the time of drilling and those wells are in compliance with those controls; and
(2) Well injection will not result in the movement of fluids into an underground source of drinking water so as to create a significant risk to the health of persons.
(d) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section need not apply to newly drilled wells in existing fields if;
(1) They meet the requirements of the State for casing and cementing applicable to that field at the time of submission of the State program to the Administrator; and
(2) Well injection will not result in the movement of fluids into an underground source of drinking water so as to create a significant risk to the health of persons.
(e) Where a State did not have regulatory controls for casing and cementing prior to the time of the submission of the State program to the Administrator, the Director need not apply the casing and cementing requirements in paragraph (b) of this section if he submits as a part of his application for primacy, an appropriate plan for casing and cementing of existing, newly converted, and newly drilled wells in existing fields, and the Administrator approves the plan.
(f) Appropriate logs and other tests shall be conducted during the drilling and construction of new Class II wells. A descriptive report interpreting the results of that portion of those logs and tests which specifically relate to (1) an USDW and the confining zone adjacent to it, and (2) the injection and adjacent formations shall be prepared by a knowledgeable log analyst and submitted to the director. At a minimum, these logs and tests shall include:
(1) Deviation checks on all holes constructed by first drilling a pilot hole and then enlarging the pilot hole, by reaming or another method. Such checks shall be at sufficiently frequent intervals to assure that vertical avenues for fluid movement in the form of diverging holes are not created during drilling.
(2) Such other logs and tests as may be needed after taking into account the availability of similar data in the area of the drilling site, the construction plan, and the need for additional information that may arise from time to time as the construction of the well progresses. In determining which logs
and tests shall be required the following shall be considered by the Director in setting logging and testing requirements:
(i) For surface casing intended to protect underground sources of drinking water in areas where the lithology has not been determined:
(A) Electric and caliper logs before casing is installed; and
(B) A cement bond, temperature, or density log after the casing is set and cemented.
(ii) for intermediate and long strings of casing intended to facilitate injection:
(A) Electric porosity and gamma ray logs before the casing is installed;
(B) Fracture finder logs; and
(C) A cement bond, temperature, or density log after the casing is set and cemented.
(g) At a minimum, the following information concerning the injection formation shall be determined or calculated for new Class II wells or projects:
(1) Fluid pressure;
(2) Estimated fracture pressure;
(3) Physical and chemical characteristics of the injection zone.
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43162, Aug. 27, 1981; 47 FR 5000, Feb. 3, 1982]
§ 146.23
Operating, monitoring, and reporting requirements.
(a)
Operating requirements.
Operating requirements shall, at a minimum, specify that:
(1) Injection pressure at the wellhead shall not exceed a maximum which shall be calculated so as to assure that the pressure during injection does not initiate new fractures or propagate existing fractures in the confining zone adjacent to the USDWs. In no case shall injection pressure cause the movement of injection or formation fluids into an underground source of drinking water
(2) Injection between the outermost casing protecting underground sources of drinking water and the well bore shall be prohibited.
(b)
Monitoring requirements.
Monitoring requirements shall, at a minimum, include:
(1) Monitoring of the nature of injected fluids at time intervals sufficiently frequent to yield data representative of their characteristics;
(2) Observation of injection pressure, flow rate, and cumulative volume at least with the following frequencies:
(i) Weekly for produced fluid disposal operations;
(ii) Monthly for enhanced recovery operations;
(iii) Daily during the injection of liquid hydrocarbons and injection for withdrawal of stored hydrocarbons; and
(iv) Daily during the injection phase of cyclic steam operations
And recording of one observation of injection pressure, flow rate and cumulative volume at reasonable intervals no greater than 30 days.
(3) A demonstration of mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.8 at least once every five years during the life of the injection well;
(4) Maintenance of the results of all monitoring until the next permit review (see 40 CFR 144.52(a)(5)); and
(5) Hydrocarbon storage and enhanced recovery may be monitored on a field or project basis rather than on an individual well basis by manifold monitoring. Manifold monitoring may be used in cases of facilities consisting of more than one injection well, operating with a common manifold. Separate monitoring systems for each well are not required provided the owner/operator demonstrates that manifold monitoring is comparable to individual well monitoring.
(c)
Reporting requirements.
(1) Reporting requirements shall at a minimum include an annual report to the Director summarizing the results of monitoring required under paragraph (b) of this section. Such summary shall include monthly records of injected fluids, and any major changes in characteristics or sources of injected fluid. Previously submitted information may be included by reference.
(2) Owners or operators of hydrocarbon storage and enhanced recovery projects may report on a field or project basis rather than an individual
well basis where manifold monitoring is used.
(Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; 42 U.S.C. 6905, 6912, 6925, 6927, 6974)
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43162, Aug. 27, 1981; 47 FR 5000, Feb. 3, 1982; 48 FR 14293, Apr. 1, 1983; 48 FR 31404, July 8, 1983]
§ 146.24
Information to be considered by the Director.
This section sets forth the information which must be considered by the Director in authorizing Class II wells. Certain maps, cross-sections, tabulations of wells within the area of review, and other data may be included in the application by reference provided they are current, readily available to the Director (for example, in the permitting agency's files) and sufficiently identified to be retrieved. In cases where EPA issues the permit, all the information in this section is to be submitted to the Administrator.
(a) Prior to the issuance of a permit for an existing Class II well to operate or the construction or conversion of a new Class II well the Director shall consider the following:
(1) Information required in 40 CFR 144.31 and 144.31(g);
(2) A map showing the injection well or project area for which a permit is sought and the applicable area of review. Within the area of review, the map must show the number or name and location of all existing producing wells, injection wells, abandoned wells, dry holes, and water wells. The map may also show surface bodies of waters, mines (surface and subsurface), quarries and other pertinent surface features including residences and roads, and faults if known or suspended. Only information of public record and pertinent information known to the applicant is required to be included on this map. This requirement does not apply to existing Class II wells; and
(3) A tabulation of data reasonably available from public records or otherwise known to the applicant on all wells within the area of review included on the map required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section which penetrate the proposed injection zone or, in the case of Class II wells operating over the fracture pressure of the injection formation, all known wells within the area of review which penetrate formations affected by the increase in pressure. Such data shall include a description of each well's type, construction, date drilled, location, depth, record of plugging and complete, and any additional information the Director may require. In cases where the information would be repetitive and the wells are of similar age, type, and construction the Director may elect to only require data on a representative number of wells. This requirement does not apply to existing Class II wells.
(4) Proposed operating data:
(i) Average and maximum daily rate and volume of fluids to be injected.
(ii) Average and maximum injection pressure; and
(iii) Source and an appropriate analysis of the chemical and physical characteristics of the injection fluid.
(5) Appropriate geological data on the injection zone and confining zone including lithologic description, geological name, thickness and depth;
(6) Geologic name and depth to bottom of all underground sources of drinking water which may be affected by the injection;
(7) Schematic or other appropriate drawings of the surface and subsurface construction details of the well;
(8) In the case of new injection wells the corrective action proposed to be taken by the applicant under 40 CFR 122.44;
(9) A certificate that the applicant has assured through a performance bond or other appropriate means, the resources necessary to close plug or abandon the well as required by 40 CFR 122.42(g);
(b) In addition the Director may consider the following:
(1) Proposed formation testing program to obtain the information required by § 146.22(g);
(2) Proposed stimulation program;
(3) Proposed injection procedure;
(4) Proposed contingency plans, if any, to cope with well failures so as to prevent migration of contaminating fluids into an underground source of drinking water;
(5) Plans for meeting the monitoring requirements of § 146.23(b).
(c) Prior to granting approval for the operation of a Class II well the Director shall consider the following information:
(1) All available logging and testing program data on the well;
(2) A demonstration of mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.8;
(3) The anticipated maximum pressure and flow rate at which the permittee will operate.
(4) The results of the formation testing program;
(5) The actual injection procedure; and
(6) For new wells the status of corrective action on defective wells in the area of review.
(d) Prior to granting approval for the plugging and abandonment of a Class II well the Director shall consider the following information:
(1) The type, and number of plugs to be used;
(2) The placement of each plug including the elevation of top and bottom;
(3) The type, grade, and quantity of cement to be used;
(4) The method of placement of the plugs; and
(5) The procedure to be used to meet the requirements of § 146.10(c).
(Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act: 42 U.S.C. 6905, 6912, 6925, 6927, 6974)
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43162, Aug. 27, 1981; 47 FR 5000, Feb. 3, 1982; 48 FR 14293, Apr. 1, 1983]

# Subpart D—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class III Wells
§ 146.31
Applicability.
This subpart establishes criteria and standards for underground injection control programs to regulate Class III wells.
§ 146.32
Construction requirements.
(a) All new Class III wells shall be cased and cemented to prevent the migration of fluids into or between underground sources of drinking water. The Director may waive the cementing requirement for new wells in existing projects or portions of existing projects where he has substantial evidence that no contamination of underground sources of drinking water would result. The casing and cement used in the construction of each newly drilled well shall be designed for the life expectancy of the well. In determining and specifying casing and cementing requirements, the following factors shall be considered:
(1) Depth to the injection zone;
(2) Injection pressure, external pressure, internal pressure, axial loading, etc.;
(3) Hole size;
(4) Size and grade of all casing strings (wall thickness, diameter, nominal weight, length, joint specification, and construction material);
(5) Corrosiveness of injected fluids and formation fluids;
(6) Lithology of injection and confining zones; and
(7) Type and grade of cement.
(b) Appropriate logs and other tests shall be conducted during the drilling and construction of new Class III wells. A descriptive report interpreting the results of such logs and tests shall be prepared by a knowledgeable log analyst and submitted to the Director. The logs and tests appropriate to each type of Class III well shall be determined based on the intended function, depth, construction and other characteristics of the well, availability of similar data in the area of the drilling site and the need for additional information that may arise from time to time as the construction of the well progresses. Deviation checks shall be conducted on all holes where pilot holes and reaming are used, unless the hole will be cased and cemented by circulating cement to the surface. Where deviation checks are necessary they shall be conducted at sufficiently frequent intervals to assure that vertical avenues for fluid migration in the form of diverging holes are not created during drillings.
(c) Where the injection zone is a formation which is naturally water-bearing the following information concerning the injection zone shall be determined or calculated for new Class III wells or projects:
(1) Fluid pressure;
(2) Fracture pressure; and
(3) Physical and chemical characteristics of the formation fluids.
(d) Where the injection formation is not a water-bearing formation, the information in paragraph (c)(2) of this section must be submitted.
(e) Where injection is into a formation which contains water with less than 10,000 mg/l TDS monitoring wells shall be completed into the injection zone and into any underground sources of drinking water above the injection zone which could be affected by the mining operation. These wells shall be located in such a fashion as to detect any excursion of injection fluids, process by-products, or formation fluids outside the mining area or zone. If the operation may be affected by subsidence or catastrophic collapse the monitoring wells shall be located so that they will not be physically affected.
(f) Where injection is into a formation which does not contain water with less than 10,000 mg/l TDS, no monitoring wells are necessary in the injection stratum.
(g) Where the injection wells penetrate an USDW in an area subject to subsidence or catastrophic collapse an adequate number of monitoring wells shall be completed into the USDW to detect any movement of injected fluids, process by-products or formation fluids into the USDW. The monitoring wells shall be located outside the physical influence of the subsidence or catastrophic collapse.
(h) In determining the number, location, construction and frequency of monitoring of the monitoring wells the following criteria shall be considered:
(1) The population relying on the USDW affected or potentially affected by the injection operation;
(2) The proximity of the injection operation to points of withdrawal of drinking water;
(3) The local geology and hydrology;
(4) The operating pressures and whether a negative pressure gradient is being maintained;
(5) The nature and volume of the injected fluid, the formation water, and the process by-products; and
(6) The injection well density.
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43163, Aug. 27, 1981; 47 FR 5000, Feb. 3, 1982]
§ 146.33
Operating, monitoring, and reporting requirements.
(a)
Operating requirements.
Operating requirements prescribed shall, at a minimum, specify that:
(1) Except during well stimulation injection pressure at the wellhead shall be calculated so as to assure that the pressure in the injection zone during injection does not initiate new fractures or propagate existing fractures in the injection zone. In no case, shall injection pressure initiate fractures in the confining zone or cause the migration of injection or formation fluids into an underground source of drinking water.
(2) Injection between the outermost casing protecting underground sources of drinking water and the well bore is prohibited.
(b)
Monitoring requirements.
Monitoring requirements shall, at a minimum, specify:
(1) Monitoring of the nature of injected fluids with sufficient frequency to yield representative data on its characteristics. Whenever the injection fluid is modified to the extent that the analysis required by § 146.34(a)(7)(iii) is incorrect or incomplete, a new analysis as required by § 146.34(a)(7)(iii) shall be provided to the Director.
(2) Monitoring of injection pressure and either flow rate or volume semi-monthly, or metering and daily recording of injected and produced fluid volumes as appropriate.
(3) Demonstration of mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.08 at least once every five years during the life of the well for salt solution mining.
(4) Monitoring of the fluid level in the injection zone semi-monthly, where appropriate and monitoring of the parameters chosen to measure water quality in the monitoring wells required by § 146.32(e), semi-monthly.
(5) Quarterly monitoring of wells required by § 146.32(g).
(6) All Class III wells may be monitored on a field or project basis rather than an individual well basis by manifold monitoring. Manifold monitoring may be used in cases of facilities consisting of more than one injection well, operating with a common manifold. Separate monitoring systems for each well are not required provided the
owner/operator demonstrates that manifold monitoring is comparable to individual well monitoring.
(c)
Reporting requirements.
Reporting requirements shall, at a minimum, include:
(1) Quarterly reporting to the Director on required monitoring;
(2) Results of mechanical integrity and any other periodic test required by the Director reported with the first regular quarterly report after the completion of the test; and
(3) Monitoring may be reported on a project or field basis rather than individual well basis where manifold monitoring is used.
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43163, Aug. 27, 1981; 46 FR 5001, Feb. 3, 1982; 48 FR 31404, July 8, 1983]
§ 146.34
Information to be considered by the Director.
This section sets forth the information which must be considered by the Director in authorizing Class III wells. Certain maps, cross sections, tabulations of wells within the area of review, and other data may be included in the application by reference provided they are current, readily available to the Director (for example, in the permitting agency's files) and sufficiently identified to be retrieved. In cases where EPA issues the permit, all the information in this section must be submitted to the Administrator.
(a) Prior to the issuance of a permit for an existing Class III well or area to operate or the construction of a new Class III well the Director shall consider the following:
(1) Information required in 40 CFR 144.31 and 144.31(g);
(2) A map showing the injection well or project area for which a permit is sought and the applicable area of review. Within the area of review, the map must show the number or name and location of all existing producing wells, injection wells, abandoned wells, dry holes, public water systems and water wells. The map may also show surface bodies of waters, mines (surface and subsurface), quarries and other pertinent surface features including residences and roads, and faults if known or suspected. Only information of public record and pertinent information known to the applicant is required to be included on this map.
(3) A tabulation of data reasonably available from public records or otherwise known to the applicant on wells within the area of review included on the map required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section which penetrate the proposed injection zone. Such data shall include a description of each well's type, construction, date drilled, location, depth, record of plugging and completion, and any additional information the Director may require. In cases where the information would be repetitive and the wells are of similar age, type, and construction the Director may elect to only require data on a representative number of wells.
(4) Maps and cross sections indicating the vertical limits of all underground sources of drinking water within the area of review, their position relative to the injection formation, and the direction of water movement, where known, in every underground source of drinking water which may be affected by the proposed injection:
(5) Maps and cross sections detailing the geologic structure of the local area;
(6) Generalized map and cross sections illustrating the regional geologic setting;
(7) Proposed operating data:
(i) Average and maximum daily rate and volume of fluid to be injected;
(ii) Average and maximum injection pressure; and
(iii) Qualitative analysis and ranges in concentrations of all constituents of injected fluids. The applicant may request Federal confidentiality as specified in 40 CFR part 2. If the information is proprietary an applicant may, in lieu of the ranges in concentrations, choose to submit maximum concentrations which shall not be exceeded. In such a case the applicant shall retain records of the undisclosed concentrations and provide them upon request to the Director as part of any enforcement investigation.
(8) Proposed formation testing program to obtain the information required by § 146.32(c).
(9) Proposed stimulation program;
(10) Proposed injection procedure;
(11) Schematic or other appropriate drawings of the surface and subsurface construction details of the well;
(12) Plans (including maps) for meeting the monitoring requirements of § 146.33(b);
(13) Expected changes in pressure, native fluid displacement, direction of movement of injection fluid;
(14) Contingency plans to cope with all shut-ins or well failures so as to prevent the migration of contaminating fluids into underground sources of drinking water;
(15) A certificate that the applicant has assured, through a performance bond, or other appropriate means, the resources necessary to close, plug, or abandon the well as required by 40 CFR 144.52(a)(7) and
(16) The corrective action proposed to be taken under 40 CFR 144.55.
(b) Prior to granting approval for the operation of a Class III well the Director shall consider the following information:
(1) All available logging and testing data on the well;
(2) A satisfactory demonstration of mechanical integrity for all new wells and for all existing salt solution wells pursuant to § 146.08;
(3) The anticipated maximum pressure and flow rate at which the permittee will operate;
(4) The results of the formation testing program;
(5) The actual injection procedures; and
(6) The status of corrective action on defective wells in the area of review.
(c) Prior to granting approval for the plugging and abandonment of a Class III well the Director shall consider the following information:
(1) The type and number of plugs to be used;
(2) The placement of each plug including the elevation of the top and bottom;
(3) The type, grade, and quantity of cement to be used;
(4) The method of placement of the plugs; and
(5) The procedure to be used to meet the requirements of § 146.10(c).
(Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act: 42 U.S.C. 6905, 6912, 6925, 6927, 6974)
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 43163, Aug. 27, 1981; 47 FR 5001, Feb. 3, 1982; 48 FR 14293, Apr. 1, 1983]
Subpart E—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class IV Injection Wells [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class V Injection Wells
§ 146.51
Applicability.
This subpart sets forth criteria and standards for underground injection control programs to regulate all injection not regulated in subparts B, C, D, and E.
(a) Generally, wells covered by this subpart inject non-hazardous fluids into or above formations that contain underground sources of drinking water. It includes all wells listed in § 146.5(e) but is not limited to those types of injection wells.
(b) It also includes wells not covered in Class IV that inject radioactive material listed in 10 CFR part 20, appendix B, table II, column 2.
[45 FR 42500, June 24, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 5001, Feb. 3, 1982]

# Subpart G—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells

# Source:
53 FR 28148, July 26, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 146.61
Applicability.
(a) This subpart establishes criteria and standards for underground injection control programs to regulate Class I hazardous waste injection wells. Unless otherwise noted this subpart supplements the requirements of subpart A and applies instead of subpart B to Class I hazardous waste injection wells.
(b)
Definitions.
Cone of influence
means that area around the well within which increased
injection zone pressures caused by injection into the hazardous waste injection well would be sufficient to drive fluids into an underground source of drinking water (USDW).
Existing well
means a Class I well which was authorized prior to August 25, 1988, by an approved State program, or an EPA-administered program or a well which has become a Class I well as a result of a change in the definition of the injected waste which would render the waste hazardous under § 261.3 of this part.
Injection interval
means that part of the injection zone in which the well is screened, or in which the waste is otherwise directly emplaced.
New well
means any Class I hazardous waste injection well which is not an existing well.
Transmissive fault or fracture
is a fault or fracture that has sufficient permeability and vertical extent to allow fluids to move between formations.
§ 146.62
Minimum criteria for siting.
(a) All Class I hazardous waste injection wells shall be sited such that they inject into a formation that is beneath the lowermost formation containing within one quarter mile of the well bore an underground source of drinking water.
(b) The siting of Class I hazardous waste injection wells shall be limited to areas that are geologically suitable. The Director shall determine geologic suitability based upon:
(1) An analysis of the structural and stratigraphic geology, the hydrogeology, and the seismicity of the region;
(2) An analysis of the local geology and hydrogeology of the well site, including, at a minimum, detailed information regarding stratigraphy, structure and rock properties, aquifer hydrodynamics and mineral resources; and
(3) A determination that the geology of the area can be described confidently and that limits of waste fate and transport can be accurately predicted through the use of models.
(c) Class I hazardous waste injection wells shall be sited such that:
(1) The injection zone has sufficient permeability, porosity, thickness and areal extent to prevent migration of fluids into USDWs.
(2) The confining zone:
(i) Is laterally continuous and free of transecting, transmissive faults or fractures over an area sufficient to prevenet the movement of fluids into a USDW; and
(ii) Contains at least one formation of sufficient thickness and with lithologic and stress characteristics capable of preventing vertical propagation of fractures.
(d) The owner or operator shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that:
(1) The confining zone is separated from the base of the lowermost USDW by at least one sequence of permeable and less permeable strata that will provide an added layer of protection for the USDW in the event of fluid movement in an unlocated borehole or transmissive fault; or
(2) Within the area of review, the piezometric surface of the fluid in the injection zone is less than the piezometric surface of the lowermost USDW, considering density effects, injection pressures and any significant pumping in the overlying USDW; or
(3) There is no USDW present.
(4) The Director may approve a site which does not meet the requirements in paragraphs (d) (1), (2), or (3) of this section if the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Director that because of the geology, nature of the waste, or other considerations, abandoned boreholes or other conduits would not cause endangerment of USDWs.
§ 146.63
Area of review.
For the purposes of Class I hazardous waste wells, this section shall apply to the exclusion of § 146.6. The area of review for Class I hazardous waste injection wells shall be a 2-mile radius around the well bore. The Director may specify a larger area of review based on the calculated cone of influence of the well.
§ 146.64
Corrective action for wells in the area of review.
For the purposes of Class I hazardous waste wells, this section shall apply to the exclusion of §§ 144.55 and 146.07.
(a) The owner or operator of a Class I hazardous waste well shall as part of the permit application submit a plan to the Director outlining the protocol used to:
(1) Identify all wells penetrating the confining zone or injection zone within the area of review; and
(2) Determine whether wells are adequately completed or plugged.
(b) The owner or operator of a Class I hazardous waste well shall identify the location of all wells within the area of review that penetrate the injection zone or the confining zone and shall submit as required in § 146.70(a):
(1) A tabulation of all wells within the area of review that penetrate the injection zone or the confining zone; and
(2) A description of each well or type of well and any records of its plugging or completion.
(c) For wells that the Director determines are improperly plugged, completed, or abandoned, or for which plugging or completion information is unavailable, the applicant shall also submit a plan consisting of such steps or modification as are necessary to prevent movement of fluids into or between USDWs. Where the plan is adequate, the Director shall incorporate it into the permit as a condition. Where the Director's review of an application indicates that the permittee's plan is inadequate (based at a minimum on the factors in paragraph (e) of this section), the Director shall:
(1) Require the applicant to revise the plan;
(2) Prescribe a plan for corrective action as a condition of the permit; or
(3) Deny the application.
(d) Requirements:
(1) Existing injection wells. Any permit issued for an existing Class I hazardous waste injection well requiring corrective action other than pressure limitations shall include a compliance schedule requiring any corrective action accepted or prescribed under paragraph (c) of this section. Any such compliance schedule shall provide for compliance no later than 2 years following issuance of the permit and shall require observance of appropriate pressure limitations under paragraph (d)(3) until all other corrective action measures have been implemented.
(2) New injection wells. No owner or operator of a new Class I hazardous waste injection well may begin injection until all corrective actions required under this section have been taken.
(3) The Director may require pressure limitations in lieu of plugging. If pressure limitations are used in lieu of plugging, the Director shall require as a permit condition that injection pressure be so limited that pressure in the injection zone at the site of any improperly completed or abandoned well within the area of review would not be sufficient to drive fluids into or between USDWs. This pressure limitation shall satisfy the corrective action requirement. Alternatively, such injection pressure limitation may be made part of a compliance schedule and may be required to be maintained until all other required corrective actions have been implemented.
(e) In determining the adequacy of corrective action proposed by the applicant under paragraph (c) of this section and in determining the additional steps needed to prevent fluid movement into and between USDWs, the following criteria and factors shall be considered by the Director:
(1) Nature and volume of injected fluid;
(2) Nature of native fluids or byproducts of injection;
(3) Geology;
(4) Hydrology;
(5) History of the injection operation;
(6) Completion and plugging records;
(7) Closure procedures in effect at the time the well was closed;
(8) Hydraulic connections with USDWs;
(9) Reliability of the procedures used to identify abandoned wells; and
(10) Any other factors which might affect the movement of fluids into or between USDWs.
§ 146.65
Construction requirements.
(a)
General.
All existing and new Class I hazardous waste injection wells shall be constructed and completed to:
(1) Prevent the movement of fluids into or between USDWs or into any unauthorized zones;
(2) Permit the use of appropriate testing devices and workover tools; and
(3) Permit continuous monitoring of injection tubing and long string casing as required pursuant to § 146.67(f).
(b)
Compatibility.
All well materials must be compatible with fluids with which the materials may be expected to come into contact. A well shall be deemed to have compatibility as long as the materials used in the construction of the well meet or exceed standards developed for such materials by the American Petroleum Institute, The American Society for Testing Materials, or comparable standards acceptable to the Director.
(c)
Casing and Cementing of New Wells.
(1) Casing and cement used in the construction of each newly drilled well shall be designed for the life expectancy of the well, including the post-closure care period. The casing and cementing program shall be designed to prevent the movement of fluids into or between USDWs, and to prevent potential leaks of fluids from the well. In determining and specifying casing and cementing requirements, the Director shall consider the following information as required by § 146.70:
(i) Depth to the injection zone;
(ii) Injection pressure, external pressure, internal pressure and axial loading;
(iii) Hole size;
(iv) Size and grade of all casing strings (well thickness, diameter, nominal weight, length, joint specification and construction material);
(v) Corrosiveness of injected fluid, formation fluids and temperature;
(vi) Lithology of injection and confining zones;
(vii) Type or grade of cement; and
(viii) Quantity and chemical composition of the injected fluid.
(2) One surface casing string shall, at a minimum, extend into the confining bed below the lowest formation that contains a USDW and be cemented by circulating cement from the base of the casing to the surface, using a minimum of 120% of the calculated annual volume. The Director may require more than 120% when the geology or other circumstances warrant it.
(3) At least one long string casing, using a sufficient number of centralizers, shall extend to the injection zone and shall be cemented by circulating cement to the surface in one or more stages:
(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operating pressure; and
(ii) In a quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary to fill the annular space. The Director may require more than 120% when the geology or other circumstances warrant it.
(4) Circulation of cement may be accomplished by staging. The Director may approve an alternative method of cementing in cases where the cement cannot be recirculated to the surface, provided the owner or operator can demonstrate by using logs that the cement is continuous and does not allow fluid movement behind the well bore.
(5) Casings, including any casing connections, must be rated to have sufficient structural strength to withstand, for the design life of the well:
(i) The maximum burst and collapse pressures which may be experienced during the construction, operation and closure of the well; and
(ii) The maximum tensile stress which may be experienced at any point along the length of the casing during the construction, operation, and closure of the well.
(6) At a minimum, cement and cement additivies must be of sufficient quality and quantity to maintain integrity over the design life of the well.
(d)
Tubing and packer.
(1) All Class I hazardous waste injection wells shall inject fluids through tubing with a packer set at a point specified by the Director.
(2) In determining and specifying requirements for tubing and packer, the following factors shall be considered:
(i) Depth of setting;
(ii) Characteristics of injection fluid (chemical content, corrosiveness, temperature and density);
(iii) Injection pressure;
(iv) Annular pressure;
(v) Rate (intermittent or continuous), temperature and volume of injected fluid;
(vi) Size of casing; and
(vii) Tubing tensile, burst, and collapse strengths.
(3) The Director may approve the use of a fluid seal if he determines that the following conditions are met:
(i) The operator demonstrates that the seal will provide a level of protection comparable to a packer;
(ii) The operator demonstrates that the staff is, and will remain, adequately trained to operate and maintain the well and to identify and interpret variations in parameters of concern;
(iii) The permit contains specific limitations on variations in annular pressure and loss of annular fluid;
(iv) The design and construction of the well allows continuous monitoring of the annular pressure and mass balance of annular fluid; and
(v) A secondary system is used to monitor the interface between the annulus fluid and the injection fluid and the permit contains requirements for testing the system every three months and recording the results.
§ 146.66
Logging, sampling, and testing prior to new well operation.
(a) During the drilling and construction of a new Class I hazardous waste injection well, appropriate logs and tests shall be run to determine or verify the depth, thickness, porosity, permeability, and rock type of, and the salinity of any entrained fluids in, all relevant geologic units to assure conformance with performance standards in § 146.65, and to establish accurate baseline data against which future measurements may be compared. A descriptive report interpreting results of such logs and tests shall be prepared by a knowledgeable log analyst and submitted to the Director. At a minimum, such logs and tests shall include:
(1) Deviation checks during drilling on all holes constructed by drilling a pilot hole which are enlarged by reaming or another method. Such checks shall be at sufficiently frequent intervals to determine the location of the borehole and to assure that vertical avenues for fluid movement in the form of diverging holes are not created during drilling; and
(2) Such other logs and tests as may be needed after taking into account the availability of similar data in the area of the drilling site, the construction plan, and the need for additional information that may arise from time to time as the construction of the well progresses. At a minimum, the following logs shall be required in the following situations:
(i) Upon installation of the surface casing:
(A) Resistivity, spontaneous potential, and caliper logs before the casing is installed; and
(B) A cement bond and variable density log, and a temperature log after the casing is set and cemented.
(ii) Upon installation of the long string casing:
(A) Resistivity, spontaneous potential, porosity, caliper, gamma ray, and fracture finder logs before the casing is installed; and
(B) A cement bond and variable density log, and a temperature log after the casing is set and cemented.
(iii) The Director may allow the use of an alternative to the above logs when an alternative will provide equivalent or better information; and
(3) A mechanical integrity test consisting of:
(i) A pressure test with liquid or gas;
(ii) A radioactive tracer survey;
(iii) A temperature or noise log;
(iv) A casing inspection log, if required by the Director; and
(v) Any other test required by the Director.
(b) Whole cores or sidewall cores of the confining and injection zones and formation fluid samples from the injection zone shall be taken. The Director may accept cores from nearby wells if the owner or operator can demonstrate that core retrieval is not possible and that such cores are representative of conditions at the well. The Director may require the owner or operator to core other formations in the borehole.
(c) The fluid temperature, pH, conductivity, pressure and the static fluid level of the injection zone must be recorded.
(d) At a minimum, the following information concerning the injection and confining zones shall be determined or calculated for Class I hazardous waste injection wells:
(1) Fracture pressure;
(2) Other physical and chemical characteristics of the injection and confining zones; and
(3) Physical and chemical characteristics of the formation fluids in the injection zone.
(e) Upon completion, but prior to operation, the owner or operator shall conduct the following tests to verify hydrogeologic characteristics of the injection zone:
(1) A pump test; or
(2) Injectivity tests.
(f) The Director shall have the opportunity to witness all logging and testing by this subpart. The owner or operator shall submit a schedule of such activities to the Director 30 days prior to conducting the first test.
§ 146.67
Operating requirements.
(a) Except during stimulation, the owner or operator shall assure that injection pressure at the wellhead does not exceed a maximum which shall be calculated so as to assure that the pressure in the injection zone during injection does not initiate new fractures or propagate existing fractures in the injection zone. The owner or operator shall assure that the injection pressure does not initiate fractures or propagate existing fractures in the confining zone, nor cause the movement of injection or formation fluids into a USDW.
(b) Injection between the outermost casing protecting USDWs and the well bore is prohibited.
(c) The owner or operator shall maintain an annulus pressure that exceeds the operating injection pressure, unless the Director determines that such a requirement might harm the integrity of the well. The fluid in the annulus shall be noncorrosive, or shall contain a corrosion inhibitor.
(d) The owner or operator shall maintain mechanical integrity of the injection well at all times.
(e) Permit requirements for owners or operators of hazardous waste wells which inject wastes which have the potential to react with the injection formation to generate gases shall include:
(1) Conditions limiting the temperature, pH or acidity of the injected waste; and
(2) Procedures necessary to assure that pressure imbalances which might cause a backflow or blowout do not occur.
(f) The owner or operator shall install and use continuous recording devices to monitor: the injection pressure; the flow rate, volume, and temperature of injected fluids; and the pressure on the annulus between the tubing and the long string casing, and shall install and use:
(1) Automatic alarm and automatic shut-off systems, designed to sound and shut-in the well when pressures and flow rates or other parameters approved by the Director exceed a range and/or gradient specified in the permit; or
(2) Automatic alarms, designed to sound when the pressures and flow rates or other parameters approved by the Director exceed a rate and/or gradient specified in the permit, in cases where the owner or operator certifies that a trained operator will be on-site at all times when the well is operating.
(g) If an automatic alarm or shutdown is triggered, the owner or operator shall immediately investigate and identify as expeditiously as possible the cause of the alarm or shutoff. If, upon such investigation, the well appears to be lacking mechanical integrity, or if monitoring required under paragraph (f) of this section otherwise indicates that the well may be lacking mechanical integrity, the owner or operator shall:
(1) Cease injection of waste fluids unless authorized by the Director to continue or resume injection.
(2) Take all necessary steps to determine the presence or absence of a leak; and
(3) Notify the Director within 24 hours after the alarm or shutdown.
(h) If a loss of mechanical integrity is discovered pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section or during periodic mechanical integrity testing, the owner or operator shall:
(1) Immediately cease injection of waste fluids;
(2) Take all steps reasonably necessary to determine whether there may have been a release of hazardous wastes or hazardous waste constituents into any unauthorized zone;
(3) Notify the Director within 24 hours after loss of mechanical integrity is discovered;
(4) Notify the Director when injection can be expected to resume; and
(5) Restore and demonstrate mechanical integrity to the satisfaction of the Director prior to resuming injection of waste fluids.
(i) Whenever the owner or operator obtains evidence that there may have been a release of injected wastes into an unauthorized zone:
(1) The owner or operator shall immediately case injection of waste fluids, and:
(i) Notify the Director within 24 hours of obtaining such evidence;
(ii) Take all necessary steps to identify and characterize the extent of any release;
(iii) Comply with any remediation plan specified by the Director;
(iv) Implement any remediation plan approved by the Director; and
(v) Where such release is into a USDW currently serving as a water supply, place a notice in a newspaper of general circulation.
(2) The Director may allow the operator to resume injection prior to completing cleanup action if the owner or operator demonstrates that the injection operation will not endanger USDWs.
(j) The owner or operator shall notify the Director and obtain his approval prior to conducting any well workover.
§ 146.68
Testing and monitoring requirements.
Testing and monitoring requirements shall at a minimum include:
(a) Monitoring of the injected wastes. (1) The owner or operator shall develop and follow an approved written waste analysis plan that describes the procedures to be carried out to obtain a detailed chemical and physical analysis of a representative sample of the waste, including the quality assurance procedures used. At a minimum, the plan shall specify:
(i) The paramenters for which the waste will be analyzed and the rationale for the selection of these parameters;
(ii) The test methods that will be used to test for these parameters; and
(iii) The sampling method that will be used to obtain a representative sample of the waste to be analyzed.
(2) The owner or operator shall repeat the analysis of the injected wastes as described in the waste analysis plan at frequencies specified in the waste analysis plan and when process or operating changes occur that may significantly alter the characteristics of the waste stream.
(3) The owner or operator shall conduct continuous or periodic monitoring of selected parameters as required by the Director.
(4) The owner or operator shall assure that the plan remains accurate and the analyses remain representative.
(b) Hydrogeologic compatibility determination. The owner or operator shall submit information demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Director that the waste stream and its anticipated reaction products will not alter the permeability, thickness or other relevant characteristics of the confining or injection zones such that they would no longer meet the requirements specified in § 146.62.
(c) Compatibility of well materials. (1) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the waste stream will be compatible with the well materials with which the waste is expected to come into contact, and submit to the Director a description of the methodology used to make that determination. Compatibility for purposes of this requirement is established if contact with injected fluids will not cause the well materials to fail to satisfy any design requirement imposed under § 146.65(b).
(2) The Director shall require continuous corrosion monitoring of the construction materials used in the well for wells injecting corrosive waste, and may require such monitoring for other waste, by:
(i) Placing coupons of the well construction materials in contact with the waste stream; or
(ii) Routing the waste stream through a loop constructed with the material used in the well; or
(iii) Using an alternative method approved by the Director.
(3) If a corrosion monitoring program is required:
(i) The test shall use materials identical to those used in the construction of the well, and such materials must be continuously exposed to the operating pressures and temperatures (measured at the well head) and flow rates of the injection operation; and
(ii) The owner or operator shall monitor the materials for loss of mass, thickness, cracking, pitting and other signs of corrosion on a quarterly basis to ensure that the well components meet the minimum standards for material strength and performance set forth in § 146.65(b).
(d)
Periodic mechanical integrity testing.
In fulfilling the requirements of § 146.8, the owner or operator of a Class I hazardous waste injection well shall conduct the mechanical integrity testing as follows:
(1) The long string casing, injection tube, and annular seal shall be tested by means of an approved pressure test with a liquid or gas annually and whenever there has been a well workover;
(2) The bottom-hole cement shall be tested by means of an approved radioactive tracer survey annually;
(3) An approved temperature, noise, or other approved log shall be run at least once every five years to test for movement of fluid along the borehole. The Director may require such tests whenever the well is worked over;
(4) Casing inspection logs shall be run whenever the owner or operator conducts a workover in which the injection string is pulled, unless the Director waives this requirement due to well construction or other factors which limit the test's reliability, or based upon the satisfactory results of a casing inspection log run within the previous five years. The Director may require that a casing inspection log be run every five years, if he has reason to believe that the integrity of the long string casing of the well may be adversely affected by naturally-occurring or man-made events;
(5) Any other test approved by the Director in accordance with the procedures in § 146.8(d) may also be used.
(e)
Ambient monitoring.
(1) Based on a site-specific assessment of the potential for fluid movement from the well or injection zone, and on the potential value of monitoring wells to detect such movement, the Director shall require the owner or operator to develop a monitoring program. At a minimum, the Director shall require monitoring of the pressure buildup in the injection zone annually, including at a minimum, a shut down of the well for a time sufficient to conduct a valid observation of the pressure fall-off curve.
(2) When prescribing a monitoring system the Director may also require:
(i) Continuous monitoring for pressure changes in the first aquifer overlying the confining zone. When such a well is installed, the owner or operator shall, on a quarterly basis, sample the aquifer and analyze for constituents specified by the Director;
(ii) The use of indirect, geophysical techniques to determine the position of the waste front, the water quality in a formation designated by the Director, or to provide other site specific data;
(iii) Periodic monitoring of the ground water quality in the first aquifer overlying the injection zone;
(iv) Periodic monitoring of the ground water quality in the lowermost USDW; and
(v) Any additional monitoring necessary to determine whether fluids are moving into or between USDWs.
(f) The Director may require seismicity monitoring when he has reason to believe that the injection activity may have the capacity to cause seismic disturbances.
[53 FR 28148, July 26, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 46294, Oct. 7, 1992]
§ 146.69
Reporting requirements.
Reporting requirements shall, at a minimum, include:
(a) Quarterly reports to the Director containing:
(1) The maximum injection pressure;
(2) A description of any event that exceeds operating parameters for annulus pressure or injection pressure as specified in the permit;
(3) A description of any event which triggers an alarm or shutdown device required pursuant to § 146.67(f) and the response taken;
(4) The total volume of fluid injected;
(5) Any change in the annular fluid volume;
(6) The physical, chemical and other relevant characteristics of injected fluids; and
(7) The results of monitoring prescribed under § 146.68.
(b) Reporting, within 30 days or with the next quarterly report whichever comes later, the results of:
(1) Periodic tests of mechanical integrity;
(2) Any other test of the injection well conducted by the permittee if required by the Director; and
(3) Any well workover.
§ 146.70
Information to be evaluated by the Director.
This section sets forth the information which must be evaluated by the Director in authorizing Class I hazardous waste injection wells. For a new Class I hazardous waste injection well, the owner or operator shall submit all the information listed below as part of the permit application. For an existing or converted Class I hazardous waste injection well, the owner or operator shall submit all information listed below as part of the permit application except for those items of information which are current, accurate, and available in the existing permit file. For both existing and new Class I hazardous waste injection wells, certain maps, cross-sections, tabulations of wells within the area of review and other data may be included in the application by reference provided they are current and readily available to the Director (for example, in the permitting agency's files) and sufficiently identifiable to be retrieved. In cases where EPA issues the permit, all the information in this section must be submitted to the Administrator or his designee.
(a) Prior to the issuance of a permit for an existing Class I hazardous waste injection well to operate or the construction or conversion of a new Class I hazardous waste injection well, the Director shall review the following to assure that the requirements of this part and part 144 are met:
(1) Information required in § 144.31;
(2) A map showing the injection well for which a permit is sought and the applicable area of review. Within the area of review, the map must show the number or name and location of all producing wells, injection wells, abandoned wells, dry holes, surface bodies of water, springs, mines (surface and subsurface), quarries, water wells and other pertinent surface features, including residences and roads. The map should also show faults, if known or suspected;
(3) A tabulation of all wells within the area of review which penetrate the proposed injection zone or confining zone. Such data shall include a description of each well's type, construction, date drilled, location, depth, record of plugging and/or completion and any additional information the Director may require;
(4) The protocol followed to identify, locate and ascertain the condition of abandoned wells within the area of review which penetrate the injection or the confining zones;
(5) Maps and cross-sections indicating the general vertical and lateral limits of all underground sources of drinking water within the area of review, their position relative to the injection formation and the direction of water movement, where known, in each underground source of drinking water which may be affected by the proposed injection;
(6) Maps and cross-sections detailing the geologic structure of the local area;
(7) Maps and cross-sections illustrating the regional geologic setting;
(8) Proposed operating data;
(i) Average and maximum daily rate and volume of the fluid to be injected; and
(ii) Average and maximum injection pressure;
(9) Proposed formation testing program to obtain an analysis of the chemical, physical and radiological characteristics of and other information on the injection formation and the confining zone;
(10) Proposed stimulation program;
(11) Proposed injection procedure;
(12) Schematic or other appropriate drawings of the surface and subsurface construction details of the well;
(13) Contingency plans to cope with all shut-ins or well failures so as to prevent migration of fluids into any USDW;
(14) Plans (including maps) for meeting monitoring requirements of § 146.68;
(15) For wells within the area of review which penetrate the injection zone or the confining zone but are not properly completed or plugged, the corrective action to be taken under § 146.64;
(16) Construction procedures including a cementing and casing program, well materials specifications and their life expectancy, logging procedures, deviation checks, and a drilling, testing and coring program; and
(17) A demonstration pursuant to part 144, subpart F, that the applicant has the resources necessary to close, plug or abandon the well and for post-closure care.
(b) Prior to the Director's granting approval for the operation of a Class I hazardous waste injection well, the owner or operator shall submit and the Director shall review the following information, which shall be included in the completion report:
(1) All available logging and testing program data on the well;
(2) A demonstration of mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.68;
(3) The anticipated maximum pressure and flow rate at which the permittee will operate;
(4) The results of the injection zone and confining zone testing program as required in § 146.70(a)(9);
(5) The actual injection procedure;
(6) The compatibility of injected waste with fluids in the injection zone and minerals in both the injection zone and the confining zone and with the materials used to construct the well;
(7) The calculated area of review based on data obtained during logging and testing of the well and the formation, and where necessary revisions to the information submitted under § 146.70(a) (2) and (3).
(8) The status of corrective action on wells identified in § 146.70(a)(15).
(c) Prior to granting approval for the plugging and abandonment (
i.e.
, closure) of a Class I hazardous waste injection well, the Director shall review the information required in §§ 146.71(a)(4) and 146.72(a).
(d) Any permit issued for a Class I hazardous waste injection well for disposal on the premises where the waste is generated shall contain a certification by the owner or operator that:
(1) The generator of the hazardous waste has a program to reduce the volume or quantity and toxicity of such waste to the degree determined by the generator to be economically practicable; and
(2) Injection of the waste is that practicable method of disposal currently available to the generator which minimizes the present and future threat to human health and the environment.
§ 146.71
Closure.
(a)
Closure Plan.
The owner or operator of a Class I hazardous waste injection well shall prepare, maintain, and comply with a plan for closure of the well that meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section and is acceptable to the Director. The obligation to implement the closure plan survives the termination of a permit or the cessation of injection activities. The requirement to maintain and implement an approved plan is directly enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the permit.
(1) The owner or operator shall submit the plan as a part of the permit application and, upon approval by the Director, such plan shall be a condition of any permit issued.
(2) The owner or operator shall submit any proposed significant revision to the method of closure reflected in the plan for approval by the Director no later than the date on which notice of closure is required to be submitted to the Director under paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) The plan shall assure financial responsibility as required in § 144.52(a)(7).
(4) The plan shall include the following information:
(i) The type and number of plugs to be used;
(ii) The placement of each plug including the elevation of the top and bottom of each plug;
(iii) The type and grade and quantity of material to be used in plugging;
(iv) The method of placement of the plugs;
(v) Any proposed test or measure to be made;
(vi) The amount, size, and location (by depth) of casing and any other materials to be left in the well;
(vii) The method and location where casing is to be parted, if applicable;
(viii) The procedure to be used to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(5) of this section;
(ix) The estimated cost of closure; and
(x) Any proposed test or measure to be made.
(5) The Director may modify a closure plan following the procedures of § 124.5.
(6) An owner or operator of a Class I hazardous waste injection well who ceases injection temporarily, may keep the well open provided he:
(i) Has received authorization from the Director; and
(ii) Has described actions or procedures, satisfactory to the Director, that the owner or operator will take to ensure that the well will not endanger USDWs during the period of temporary disuse. These actions and procedures shall include compliance with the technical requirements applicable to active injection wells unless waived by the Director.
(7) The owner or operator of a well that has ceased operations for more than two years shall notify the Director 30 days prior to resuming operation of the well.
(b)
Notice of intent to close.
The owner or operator shall notify the Director at least 60 days before closure of a well. At the discretion of the Director, a shorter notice period may be allowed.
(c)
Closure report.
Within 60 days after closure or at the time of the next quarterly report (whichever is less) the owner or operator shall submit a closure report to the Director. If the quarterly report is due less than 15 days after completion of closure, then the report shall be submitted within 60 days after closure. The report shall be certified as accurate by the owner or operator and by the person who performed the closure operation (if other than the owner or operator). Such report shall consist of either:
(1) A statement that the well was closed in accordance with the closure plan previously submitted and approved by the Director; or
(2) Where actual closure differed from the plan previously submitted, a written statement specifying the differences between the previous plan and the actual closure.
(d)
Standards for well closure.
(1) Prior to closing the well, the owner or operator shall observe and record the pressure decay for a time specified by the Director. The Director shall analyze the pressure decay and the transient pressure observations conducted pursuant to § 146.68(e)(1)(i) and determine whether the injection activity has conformed with predicted values.
(2) Prior to well closure, appropriate mechanical integrity testing shall be conducted to ensure the integrity of that portion of the long string casing and cement that will be left in the ground after closure. Testing methods may include:
(i) Pressure tests with liquid or gas;
(ii) Radioactive tracer surveys;
(iii) Noise, temperature, pipe evaluation, or cement bond logs; and
(iv) Any other test required by the Director.
(3) Prior to well closure, the well shall be flushed with a buffer fluid.
(4) Upon closure, a Class I hazardous waste well shall be plugged with cement in a manner that will not allow the movement of fluids into or between USDWs.
(5) Placement of the cement plugs shall be accomplished by one of the following:
(i) The Balance Method;
(ii) The Dump Bailer Method;
(iii) The Two-Plug Method; or
(iv) An alternate method, approved by the Director, that will reliably provide a comparable level of protection.
(6) Each plug used shall be appropriately tagged and tested for seal and stability before closure is completed.
(7) The well to be closed shall be in a state of static equilibrium with the mud weight equalized top to bottom, either by circulating the mud in the well at least once or by a comparable method prescribed by the Director, prior to the placement of the cement plug(s).
§ 146.72
Post-closure care.
(a) The owner or operator of a Class I hazardous waste well shall prepare,
maintain, and comply with a plan for post-closure care that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and is acceptable to the Director. The obligation to implement the post-closure plan survives the termination of a permit or the cessation of injection activities. The requirement to maintain an approved plan is directly enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the permit.
(1) The owner or operator shall submit the plan as a part of the permit application and, upon approval by the Director, such plan shall be a condition of any permit issued.
(2) The owner or operator shall submit any proposed significant revision to the plan as appropriate over the life of the well, but no later than the date of the closure report required under § 146.71(c).
(3) The plan shall assure financial responsibility as required in § 146.73.
(4) The plan shall include the following information:
(i) The pressure in the injection zone before injection began;
(ii) The anticipated pressure in the injection zone at the time of closure;
(iii) The predicted time until pressure in the injection zone decays to the point that the well's cone of influence no longer intersects the base of the lowermost USDW;
(iv) Predicted position of the waste front at closure;
(v) The status of any cleanups required under § 146.64; and
(vi) The estimated cost of proposed post-closure care.
(5) At the request of the owner or operator, or on his own initiative, the Director may modify the post-closure plan after submission of the closure report following the procedures in § 124.5.
(b) The owner or operator shall:
(1) Continue and complete any cleanup action required under § 146.64, if applicable;
(2) Continue to conduct any groundwater monitoring required under the permit until pressure in the injection zone decays to the point that the well's cone of influence no longer intersects the base of the lowermost USDW. The Director may extend the period of post-closure monitoring if he determines that the well may endanger a USDW.
(3) Submit a survey plat to the local zoning authority designated by the Director. The plat shall indicate the location of the well relative to permanently surveyed benchmarks. A copy of the plat shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate EPA Regional Office.
(4) Provide appropriate notification and information to such State and local authorities as have cognizance over drilling activities to enable such State and local authorities to impose appropriate conditions on subsequent drilling activities that may penetrate the well's confining or injection zone.
(5) Retain, for a period of three years following well closure, records reflecting the nature, composition and volume of all injected fluids. The Director shall require the owner or operator to deliver the records to the Director at the conclusion of the retention period, and the records shall thereafter be retained at a location designated by the Director for that purpose.
(c) Each owner of a Class I hazardous waste injection well, and the owner of the surface or subsurface property on or in which a Class I hazardous waste injection well is located, must record a notation on the deed to the facility property or on some other instrument which is normally examined during title search that will in perpetuity provide any potential purchaser of the property the following information:
(1) The fact that land has been used to manage hazardous waste;
(2) The name of the State agency or local authority with which the plat was filed, as well as the address of the Regional Environmental Protection Agency Office to which it was submitted;
(3) The type and volume of waste injected, the injection interval or intervals into which it was injected, and the period over which injection occurred.
§ 146.73
Financial responsibility for post-closure care.
The owner or operator shall demonstrate and maintain financial responsibility for post-closure by using a
trust fund, surety bond, letter of credit, financial test, insurance or corporate guarantee that meets the specifications for the mechanisms and instruments revised as appropriate to cover closure and post-closure care in 40 CFR part 144, subpart F. The amount of the funds available shall be no less than the amount identified in § 146.72(a)(4)(vi). The obligation to maintain financial responsibility for post-closure care survives the termination of a permit or the cessation of injection. The requirement to maintain financial responsibility is enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the permit.

# Subpart H—Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class VI Wells

# Source:
75 FR 77291, Dec. 10, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 146.81
Applicability.
(a) This subpart establishes criteria and standards for underground injection control programs to regulate any Class VI carbon dioxide geologic sequestration injection wells.
(b) This subpart applies to any wells used to inject carbon dioxide specifically for the purpose of geologic sequestration,
i.e.,
the long-term containment of a gaseous, liquid, or supercritical carbon dioxide stream in subsurface geologic formations.
(c) This subpart also applies to owners or operators of permit- or rule-authorized Class I, Class II, or Class V experimental carbon dioxide injection projects who seek to apply for a Class VI geologic sequestration permit for their well or wells. Owners or operators seeking to convert existing Class I, Class II, or Class V experimental wells to Class VI geologic sequestration wells must demonstrate to the Director that the wells were engineered and constructed to meet the requirements at § 146.86(a) and ensure protection of USDWs, in lieu of requirements at §§ 146.86(b) and 146.87(a). By December 10, 2011, owners or operators of either Class I wells previously permitted for the purpose of geologic sequestration or Class V experimental technology wells no longer being used for experimental purposes that will continue injection of carbon dioxide for the purpose of GS must apply for a Class VI permit. A converted well must still meet all other requirements under part 146.
(d)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart. To the extent that these definitions conflict with those in § 144.3 or § 146.3 of this chapter these definitions govern for Class VI wells:
Area of review
means the region surrounding the geologic sequestration project where USDWs may be endangered by the injection activity. The area of review is delineated using computational modeling that accounts for the physical and chemical properties of all phases of the injected carbon dioxide stream and displaced fluids, and is based on available site characterization, monitoring, and operational data as set forth in § 146.84.
Carbon dioxide plume
means the extent underground, in three dimensions, of an injected carbon dioxide stream.
Carbon dioxide stream
means carbon dioxide that has been captured from an emission source (e.g., a power plant), plus incidental associated substances derived from the source materials and the capture process, and any substances added to the stream to enable or improve the injection process. This subpart does not apply to any carbon dioxide stream that meets the definition of a hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261.
Confining zone
means a geologic formation, group of formations, or part of a formation stratigraphically overlying the injection zone(s) that acts as barrier to fluid movement. For Class VI wells operating under an injection depth waiver, confining zone means a geologic formation, group of formations, or part of a formation stratigraphically overlying and underlying the injection zone(s).
Corrective action
means the use of Director-approved methods to ensure that wells within the area of review do not serve as conduits for the movement of fluids into underground sources of drinking water (USDW).
Geologic sequestration
means the long-term containment of a gaseous, liquid, or supercritical carbon dioxide stream in subsurface geologic formations. This
term does not apply to carbon dioxide capture or transport.
Geologic sequestration project
means an injection well or wells used to emplace a carbon dioxide stream beneath the lowermost formation containing a USDW; or, wells used for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide that have been granted a waiver of the injection depth requirements pursuant to requirements at § 146.95; or, wells used for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide that have received an expansion to the areal extent of an existing Class II enhanced oil recovery or enhanced gas recovery aquifer exemption pursuant to §§ 146.4 and 144.7(d) of this chapter. It includes the subsurface three-dimensional extent of the carbon dioxide plume, associated area of elevated pressure, and displaced fluids, as well as the surface area above that delineated region.
Injection zone
means a geologic formation, group of formations, or part of a formation that is of sufficient areal extent, thickness, porosity, and permeability to receive carbon dioxide through a well or wells associated with a geologic sequestration project.
Post-injection site care
means appropriate monitoring and other actions (including corrective action) needed following cessation of injection to ensure that USDWs are not endangered, as required under § 146.93.
Pressure front
means the zone of elevated pressure that is created by the injection of carbon dioxide into the subsurface. For the purposes of this subpart, the pressure front of a carbon dioxide plume refers to a zone where there is a pressure differential sufficient to cause the movement of injected fluids or formation fluids into a USDW.
Site closure
means the point/time, as determined by the Director following the requirements under § 146.93, at which the owner or operator of a geologic sequestration site is released from post-injection site care responsibilities.
Transmissive fault or fracture
means a fault or fracture that has sufficient permeability and vertical extent to allow fluids to move between formations.
§ 146.82
Required Class VI permit information.
This section sets forth the information which must be considered by the Director in authorizing Class VI wells. For converted Class I, Class II, or Class V experimental wells, certain maps, cross-sections, tabulations of wells within the area of review and other data may be included in the application by reference provided they are current, readily available to the Director, and sufficiently identified to be retrieved. In cases where EPA issues the permit, all the information in this section must be submitted to the Regional Administrator.
(a) Prior to the issuance of a permit for the construction of a new Class VI well or the conversion of an existing Class I, Class II, or Class V well to a Class VI well, the owner or operator shall submit, pursuant to § 146.91(e), and the Director shall consider the following:
(1) Information required in § 144.31(e)(1) through (6) of this chapter;
(2) A map showing the injection well for which a permit is sought and the applicable area of review consistent with § 146.84. Within the area of review, the map must show the number or name, and location of all injection wells, producing wells, abandoned wells, plugged wells or dry holes, deep stratigraphic boreholes, State- or EPA-approved subsurface cleanup sites, surface bodies of water, springs, mines (surface and subsurface), quarries, water wells, other pertinent surface features including structures intended for human occupancy, State, Tribal, and Territory boundaries, and roads. The map should also show faults, if known or suspected. Only information of public record is required to be included on this map;
(3) Information on the geologic structure and hydrogeologic properties of the proposed storage site and overlying formations, including:
(i) Maps and cross sections of the area of review;
(ii) The location, orientation, and properties of known or suspected faults and fractures that may transect the confining zone(s) in the area of review and a determination that they would not interfere with containment;
(iii) Data on the depth, areal extent, thickness, mineralogy, porosity, permeability, and capillary pressure of the injection and confining zone(s); including geology/facies changes based on field data which may include geologic cores, outcrop data, seismic surveys, well logs, and names and lithologic descriptions;
(iv) Geomechanical information on fractures, stress, ductility, rock strength, and in situ fluid pressures within the confining zone(s);
(v) Information on the seismic history including the presence and depth of seismic sources and a determination that the seismicity would not interfere with containment; and
(vi) Geologic and topographic maps and cross sections illustrating regional geology, hydrogeology, and the geologic structure of the local area.
(4) A tabulation of all wells within the area of review which penetrate the injection or confining zone(s). Such data must include a description of each well's type, construction, date drilled, location, depth, record of plugging and/or completion, and any additional information the Director may require;
(5) Maps and stratigraphic cross sections indicating the general vertical and lateral limits of all USDWs, water wells and springs within the area of review, their positions relative to the injection zone(s), and the direction of water movement, where known;
(6) Baseline geochemical data on subsurface formations, including all USDWs in the area of review;
(7) Proposed operating data for the proposed geologic sequestration site:
(i) Average and maximum daily rate and volume and/or mass and total anticipated volume and/or mass of the carbon dioxide stream;
(ii) Average and maximum injection pressure;
(iii) The source(s) of the carbon dioxide stream; and
(iv) An analysis of the chemical and physical characteristics of the carbon dioxide stream.
(8) Proposed pre-operational formation testing program to obtain an analysis of the chemical and physical characteristics of the injection zone(s) and confining zone(s) and that meets the requirements at § 146.87;
(9) Proposed stimulation program, a description of stimulation fluids to be used and a determination that stimulation will not interfere with containment;
(10) Proposed procedure to outline steps necessary to conduct injection operation;
(11) Schematics or other appropriate drawings of the surface and subsurface construction details of the well;
(12) Injection well construction procedures that meet the requirements of § 146.86;
(13) Proposed area of review and corrective action plan that meets the requirements under § 146.84;
(14) A demonstration, satisfactory to the Director, that the applicant has met the financial responsibility requirements under § 146.85;
(15) Proposed testing and monitoring plan required by § 146.90;
(16) Proposed injection well plugging plan required by § 146.92(b);
(17) Proposed post-injection site care and site closure plan required by § 146.93(a);
(18) At the Director's discretion, a demonstration of an alternative post-injection site care timeframe required by § 146.93(c);
(19) Proposed emergency and remedial response plan required by § 146.94(a);
(20) A list of contacts, submitted to the Director, for those States, Tribes, and Territories identified to be within the area of review of the Class VI project based on information provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
(21) Any other information requested by the Director.
(b) The Director shall notify, in writing, any States, Tribes, or Territories within the area of review of the Class VI project based on information provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(20) of this section of the permit application and pursuant to the requirements at § 145.23(f)(13) of this chapter.
(c) Prior to granting approval for the operation of a Class VI well, the Director shall consider the following information:
(1) The final area of review based on modeling, using data obtained during logging and testing of the well and the formation as required by paragraphs
(c)(2), (3), (4), (6), (7), and (10) of this section;
(2) Any relevant updates, based on data obtained during logging and testing of the well and the formation as required by paragraphs (c)(3), (4), (6), (7), and (10) of this section, to the information on the geologic structure and hydrogeologic properties of the proposed storage site and overlying formations, submitted to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(3) Information on the compatibility of the carbon dioxide stream with fluids in the injection zone(s) and minerals in both the injection and the confining zone(s), based on the results of the formation testing program, and with the materials used to construct the well;
(4) The results of the formation testing program required at paragraph (a)(8) of this section;
(5) Final injection well construction procedures that meet the requirements of § 146.86;
(6) The status of corrective action on wells in the area of review;
(7) All available logging and testing program data on the well required by § 146.87;
(8) A demonstration of mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.89;
(9) Any updates to the proposed area of review and corrective action plan, testing and monitoring plan, injection well plugging plan, post-injection site care and site closure plan, or the emergency and remedial response plan submitted under paragraph (a) of this section, which are necessary to address new information collected during logging and testing of the well and the formation as required by all paragraphs of this section, and any updates to the alternative post-injection site care timeframe demonstration submitted under paragraph (a) of this section, which are necessary to address new information collected during the logging and testing of the well and the formation as required by all paragraphs of this section; and
(10) Any other information requested by the Director.
(d) Owners or operators seeking a waiver of the requirement to inject below the lowermost USDW must also refer to § 146.95 and submit a supplemental report, as required at § 146.95(a). The supplemental report is not part of the permit application.
§ 146.83
Minimum criteria for siting.
(a) Owners or operators of Class VI wells must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that the wells will be sited in areas with a suitable geologic system. The owners or operators must demonstrate that the geologic system comprises:
(1) An injection zone(s) of sufficient areal extent, thickness, porosity, and permeability to receive the total anticipated volume of the carbon dioxide stream;
(2) Confining zone(s) free of transmissive faults or fractures and of sufficient areal extent and integrity to contain the injected carbon dioxide stream and displaced formation fluids and allow injection at proposed maximum pressures and volumes without initiating or propagating fractures in the confining zone(s).
(b) The Director may require owners or operators of Class VI wells to identify and characterize additional zones that will impede vertical fluid movement, are free of faults and fractures that may interfere with containment, allow for pressure dissipation, and provide additional opportunities for monitoring, mitigation, and remediation.
§ 146.84
Area of review and corrective action.
(a) The area of review is the region surrounding the geologic sequestration project where USDWs may be endangered by the injection activity. The area of review is delineated using computational modeling that accounts for the physical and chemical properties of all phases of the injected carbon dioxide stream and is based on available site characterization, monitoring, and operational data.
(b) The owner or operator of a Class VI well must prepare, maintain, and comply with a plan to delineate the area of review for a proposed geologic sequestration project, periodically reevaluate the delineation, and perform
corrective action that meets the requirements of this section and is acceptable to the Director. The requirement to maintain and implement an approved plan is directly enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the permit. As a part of the permit application for approval by the Director, the owner or operator must submit an area of review and corrective action plan that includes the following information:
(1) The method for delineating the area of review that meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, including the model to be used, assumptions that will be made, and the site characterization data on which the model will be based;
(2) A description of:
(i) The minimum fixed frequency, not to exceed five years, at which the owner or operator proposes to reevaluate the area of review;
(ii) The monitoring and operational conditions that would warrant a reevaluation of the area of review prior to the next scheduled reevaluation as determined by the minimum fixed frequency established in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
(iii) How monitoring and operational data (e.g., injection rate and pressure) will be used to inform an area of review reevaluation; and
(iv) How corrective action will be conducted to meet the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, including what corrective action will be performed prior to injection and what, if any, portions of the area of review will have corrective action addressed on a phased basis and how the phasing will be determined; how corrective action will be adjusted if there are changes in the area of review; and how site access will be guaranteed for future corrective action.
(c) Owners or operators of Class VI wells must perform the following actions to delineate the area of review and identify all wells that require corrective action:
(1) Predict, using existing site characterization, monitoring and operational data, and computational modeling, the projected lateral and vertical migration of the carbon dioxide plume and formation fluids in the subsurface from the commencement of injection activities until the plume movement ceases, until pressure differentials sufficient to cause the movement of injected fluids or formation fluids into a USDW are no longer present, or until the end of a fixed time period as determined by the Director. The model must:
(i) Be based on detailed geologic data collected to characterize the injection zone(s), confining zone(s) and any additional zones; and anticipated operating data, including injection pressures, rates, and total volumes over the proposed life of the geologic sequestration project;
(ii) Take into account any geologic heterogeneities, other discontinuities, data quality, and their possible impact on model predictions; and
(iii) Consider potential migration through faults, fractures, and artificial penetrations.
(2) Using methods approved by the Director, identify all penetrations, including active and abandoned wells and underground mines, in the area of review that may penetrate the confining zone(s). Provide a description of each well's type, construction, date drilled, location, depth, record of plugging and/or completion, and any additional information the Director may require; and
(3) Determine which abandoned wells in the area of review have been plugged in a manner that prevents the movement of carbon dioxide or other fluids that may endanger USDWs, including use of materials compatible with the carbon dioxide stream.
(d) Owners or operators of Class VI wells must perform corrective action on all wells in the area of review that are determined to need corrective action, using methods designed to prevent the movement of fluid into or between USDWs, including use of materials compatible with the carbon dioxide stream, where appropriate.
(e) At the minimum fixed frequency, not to exceed five years, as specified in the area of review and corrective action plan, or when monitoring and operational conditions warrant, owners or operators must:
(1) Reevaluate the area of review in the same manner specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section;
(2) Identify all wells in the reevaluated area of review that require corrective action in the same manner specified in paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) Perform corrective action on wells requiring corrective action in the reevaluated area of review in the same manner specified in paragraph (d) of this section; and
(4) Submit an amended area of review and corrective action plan or demonstrate to the Director through monitoring data and modeling results that no amendment to the area of review and corrective action plan is needed. Any amendments to the area of review and corrective action plan must be approved by the Director, must be incorporated into the permit, and are subject to the permit modification requirements at § 144.39 or § 144.41 of this chapter, as appropriate.
(f) The emergency and remedial response plan (as required by § 146.94) and the demonstration of financial responsibility (as described by § 146.85) must account for the area of review delineated as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or the most recently evaluated area of review delineated under paragraph (e) of this section, regardless of whether or not corrective action in the area of review is phased.
(g) All modeling inputs and data used to support area of review reevaluations under paragraph (e) of this section shall be retained for 10 years.
§ 146.85
Financial responsibility.
(a) The owner or operator must demonstrate and maintain financial responsibility as determined by the Director that meets the following conditions:
(1) The financial responsibility instrument(s) used must be from the following list of qualifying instruments:
(i) Trust Funds.
(ii) Surety Bonds.
(iii) Letter of Credit.
(iv) Insurance.
(v) Self Insurance (
i.e.,
Financial Test and Corporate Guarantee).
(vi) Escrow Account.
(vii) Any other instrument(s) satisfactory to the Director.
(2) The qualifying instrument(s) must be sufficient to cover the cost of:
(i) Corrective action (that meets the requirements of § 146.84);
(ii) Injection well plugging (that meets the requirements of § 146.92);
(iii) Post injection site care and site closure (that meets the requirements of § 146.93); and
(iv) Emergency and remedial response (that meets the requirements of § 146.94).
(3) The financial responsibility instrument(s) must be sufficient to address endangerment of underground sources of drinking water.
(4) The qualifying financial responsibility instrument(s) must comprise protective conditions of coverage.
(i) Protective conditions of coverage must include at a minimum cancellation, renewal, and continuation provisions, specifications on when the provider becomes liable following a notice of cancellation if there is a failure to renew with a new qualifying financial instrument, and requirements for the provider to meet a minimum rating, minimum capitalization, and ability to pass the bond rating when applicable.
(A)
Cancellation
—for purposes of this part, an owner or operator must provide that their financial mechanism may not cancel, terminate or fail to renew except for failure to pay such financial instrument. If there is a failure to pay the financial instrument, the financial institution may elect to cancel, terminate, or fail to renew the instrument by sending notice by certified mail to the owner or operator and the Director. The cancellation must not be final for 120 days after receipt of cancellation notice. The owner or operator must provide an alternate financial responsibility demonstration within 60 days of notice of cancellation, and if an alternate financial responsibility demonstration is not acceptable (or possible), any funds from the instrument being cancelled must be released within 60 days of notification by the Director.
(B)
Renewal
—for purposes of this part, owners or operators must renew all financial instruments, if an instrument expires, for the entire term of the
geologic sequestration project. The instrument may be automatically renewed as long as the owner or operator has the option of renewal at the face amount of the expiring instrument. The automatic renewal of the instrument must, at a minimum, provide the holder with the option of renewal at the face amount of the expiring financial instrument.
(C) Cancellation, termination, or failure to renew may not occur and the financial instrument will remain in full force and effect in the event that on or before the date of expiration: The Director deems the facility abandoned; or the permit is terminated or revoked or a new permit is denied; or closure is ordered by the Director or a U.S. district court or other court of competent jurisdiction; or the owner or operator is named as debtor in a voluntary or involuntary proceeding under Title 11 (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code; or the amount due is paid.
(5) The qualifying financial responsibility instrument(s) must be approved by the Director.
(i) The Director shall consider and approve the financial responsibility demonstration for all the phases of the geologic sequestration project prior to issue a Class VI permit (§ 146.82).
(ii) The owner or operator must provide any updated information related to their financial responsibility instrument(s) on an annual basis and if there are any changes, the Director must evaluate, within a reasonable time, the financial responsibility demonstration to confirm that the instrument(s) used remain adequate for use. The owner or operator must maintain financial responsibility requirements regardless of the status of the Director's review of the financial responsibility demonstration.
(iii) The Director may disapprove the use of a financial instrument if he determines that it is not sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
(6) The owner or operator may demonstrate financial responsibility by using one or multiple qualifying financial instruments for specific phases of the geologic sequestration project.
(i) In the event that the owner or operator combines more than one instrument for a specific geologic sequestration phase (e.g., well plugging), such combination must be limited to instruments that are not based on financial strength or performance (
i.e.,
self insurance or performance bond), for example trust funds, surety bonds guaranteeing payment into a trust fund, letters of credit, escrow account, and insurance. In this case, it is the combination of mechanisms, rather than the single mechanism, which must provide financial responsibility for an amount at least equal to the current cost estimate.
(ii) When using a third-party instrument to demonstrate financial responsibility, the owner or operator must provide a proof that the third-party providers either have passed financial strength requirements based on credit ratings; or has met a minimum rating, minimum capitalization, and ability to pass the bond rating when applicable.
(iii) An owner or operator using certain types of third-party instruments must establish a standby trust to enable EPA to be party to the financial responsibility agreement without EPA being the beneficiary of any funds. The standby trust fund must be used along with other financial responsibility instruments (e.g., surety bonds, letters of credit, or escrow accounts) to provide a location to place funds if needed.
(iv) An owner or operator may deposit money to an escrow account to cover financial responsibility requirements; this account must segregate funds sufficient to cover estimated costs for Class VI (geologic sequestration) financial responsibility from other accounts and uses.
(v) An owner or operator or its guarantor may use self insurance to demonstrate financial responsibility for geologic sequestration projects. In order to satisfy this requirement the owner or operator must meet a Tangible Net Worth of an amount approved by the Director, have a Net working capital and tangible net worth each at least six times the sum of the current well plugging, post injection site care and site closure cost, have assets located in the United States amounting to at least 90 percent of total assets or at least six times the sum of the current well plugging, post injection site care and site closure cost, and must
submit a report of its bond rating and financial information annually. In addition the owner or operator must either: Have a bond rating test of AAA, AA, A, or BBB as issued by Standard
Poor's or Aaa, Aa, A, or Baa as issued by Moody's; or meet all of the following five financial ratio thresholds: A ratio of total liabilities to net worth less than 2.0; a ratio of current assets to current liabilities greater than 1.5; a ratio of the sum of net income plus depreciation, depletion, and amortization to total liabilities greater than 0.1; A ratio of current assets minus current liabilities to total assets greater than −0.1; and a net profit (revenues minus expenses) greater than 0.
(vi) An owner or operator who is not able to meet corporate financial test criteria may arrange a corporate guarantee by demonstrating that its corporate parent meets the financial test requirements on its behalf. The parent's demonstration that it meets the financial test requirement is insufficient if it has not also guaranteed to fulfill the obligations for the owner or operator.
(vii) An owner or operator may obtain an insurance policy to cover the estimated costs of geologic sequestration activities requiring financial responsibility. This insurance policy must be obtained from a third party provider.
(b) The requirement to maintain adequate financial responsibility and resources is directly enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the permit.
(1) The owner or operator must maintain financial responsibility and resources until:
(i) The Director receives and approves the completed post-injection site care and site closure plan; and
(ii) The Director approves site closure.
(2) The owner or operator may be released from a financial instrument in the following circumstances:
(i) The owner or operator has completed the phase of the geologic sequestration project for which the financial instrument was required and has fulfilled all its financial obligations as determined by the Director, including obtaining financial responsibility for the next phase of the GS project, if required; or
(ii) The owner or operator has submitted a replacement financial instrument and received written approval from the Director accepting the new financial instrument and releasing the owner or operator from the previous financial instrument.
(c) The owner or operator must have a detailed written estimate, in current dollars, of the cost of performing corrective action on wells in the area of review, plugging the injection well(s), post-injection site care and site closure, and emergency and remedial response.
(1) The cost estimate must be performed for each phase separately and must be based on the costs to the regulatory agency of hiring a third party to perform the required activities. A third party is a party who is not within the corporate structure of the owner or operator.
(2) During the active life of the geologic sequestration project, the owner or operator must adjust the cost estimate for inflation within 60 days prior to the anniversary date of the establishment of the financial instrument(s) used to comply with paragraph (a) of this section and provide this adjustment to the Director. The owner or operator must also provide to the Director written updates of adjustments to the cost estimate within 60 days of any amendments to the area of review and corrective action plan (§ 146.84), the injection well plugging plan (§ 146.92), the post-injection site care and site closure plan (§ 146.93), and the emergency and remedial response plan (§ 146.94).
(3) The Director must approve any decrease or increase to the initial cost estimate. During the active life of the geologic sequestration project, the owner or operator must revise the cost estimate no later than 60 days after the Director has approved the request to modify the area of review and corrective action plan (§ 146.84), the injection well plugging plan (§ 146.92), the post-injection site care and site closure plan (§ 146.93), and the emergency and response plan (§ 146.94), if the change in the plan increases the cost. If the change to the plans decreases the cost,
any withdrawal of funds must be approved by the Director. Any decrease to the value of the financial assurance instrument must first be approved by the Director. The revised cost estimate must be adjusted for inflation as specified at paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(4) Whenever the current cost estimate increases to an amount greater than the face amount of a financial instrument currently in use, the owner or operator, within 60 days after the increase, must either cause the face amount to be increased to an amount at least equal to the current cost estimate and submit evidence of such increase to the Director, or obtain other financial responsibility instruments to cover the increase. Whenever the current cost estimate decreases, the face amount of the financial assurance instrument may be reduced to the amount of the current cost estimate only after the owner or operator has received written approval from the Director.
(d) The owner or operator must notify the Director by certified mail of adverse financial conditions such as bankruptcy that may affect the ability to carry out injection well plugging and post-injection site care and site closure.
(1) In the event that the owner or operator or the third party provider of a financial responsibility instrument is going through a bankruptcy, the owner or operator must notify the Director by certified mail of the commencement of a voluntary or involuntary proceeding under Title 11 (Bankruptcy), U.S. Code, naming the owner or operator as debtor, within 10 days after commencement of the proceeding.
(2) A guarantor of a corporate guarantee must make such a notification to the Director if he/she is named as debtor, as required under the terms of the corporate guarantee.
(3) An owner or operator who fulfills the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section by obtaining a trust fund, surety bond, letter of credit, escrow account, or insurance policy will be deemed to be without the required financial assurance in the event of bankruptcy of the trustee or issuing institution, or a suspension or revocation of the authority of the trustee institution to act as trustee of the institution issuing the trust fund, surety bond, letter of credit, escrow account, or insurance policy. The owner or operator must establish other financial assurance within 60 days after such an event.
(e) The owner or operator must provide an adjustment of the cost estimate to the Director within 60 days of notification by the Director, if the Director determines during the annual evaluation of the qualifying financial responsibility instrument(s) that the most recent demonstration is no longer adequate to cover the cost of corrective action (as required by § 146.84), injection well plugging (as required by § 146.92), post-injection site care and site closure (as required by § 146.93), and emergency and remedial response (as required by § 146.94).
(f) The Director must approve the use and length of pay-in-periods for trust funds or escrow accounts.
§ 146.86
Injection well construction requirements.
(a)
General.
The owner or operator must ensure that all Class VI wells are constructed and completed to:
(1) Prevent the movement of fluids into or between USDWs or into any unauthorized zones;
(2) Permit the use of appropriate testing devices and workover tools; and
(3) Permit continuous monitoring of the annulus space between the injection tubing and long string casing.
(b)
Casing and cementing of Class VI wells.
(1) Casing and cement or other materials used in the construction of each Class VI well must have sufficient structural strength and be designed for the life of the geologic sequestration project. All well materials must be compatible with fluids with which the materials may be expected to come into contact and must meet or exceed standards developed for such materials by the American Petroleum Institute, ASTM International, or comparable standards acceptable to the Director. The casing and cementing program must be designed to prevent the movement of fluids into or between USDWs. In order to allow the Director to determine and specify casing and cementing requirements, the owner or operator
must provide the following information:
(i) Depth to the injection zone(s);
(ii) Injection pressure, external pressure, internal pressure, and axial loading;
(iii) Hole size;
(iv) Size and grade of all casing strings (wall thickness, external diameter, nominal weight, length, joint specification, and construction material);
(v) Corrosiveness of the carbon dioxide stream and formation fluids;
(vi) Down-hole temperatures;
(vii) Lithology of injection and confining zone(s);
(viii) Type or grade of cement and cement additives; and
(ix) Quantity, chemical composition, and temperature of the carbon dioxide stream.
(2) Surface casing must extend through the base of the lowermost USDW and be cemented to the surface through the use of a single or multiple strings of casing and cement.
(3) At least one long string casing, using a sufficient number of centralizers, must extend to the injection zone and must be cemented by circulating cement to the surface in one or more stages.
(4) Circulation of cement may be accomplished by staging. The Director may approve an alternative method of cementing in cases where the cement cannot be recirculated to the surface, provided the owner or operator can demonstrate by using logs that the cement does not allow fluid movement behind the well bore.
(5) Cement and cement additives must be compatible with the carbon dioxide stream and formation fluids and of sufficient quality and quantity to maintain integrity over the design life of the geologic sequestration project. The integrity and location of the cement shall be verified using technology capable of evaluating cement quality radially and identifying the location of channels to ensure that USDWs are not endangered.
(c)
Tubing and packer.
(1) Tubing and packer materials used in the construction of each Class VI well must be compatible with fluids with which the materials may be expected to come into contact and must meet or exceed standards developed for such materials by the American Petroleum Institute, ASTM International, or comparable standards acceptable to the Director.
(2) All owners or operators of Class VI wells must inject fluids through tubing with a packer set at a depth opposite a cemented interval at the location approved by the Director.
(3) In order for the Director to determine and specify requirements for tubing and packer, the owner or operator must submit the following information:
(i) Depth of setting;
(ii) Characteristics of the carbon dioxide stream (chemical content, corrosiveness, temperature, and density) and formation fluids;
(iii) Maximum proposed injection pressure;
(iv) Maximum proposed annular pressure;
(v) Proposed injection rate (intermittent or continuous) and volume and/or mass of the carbon dioxide stream;
(vi) Size of tubing and casing; and
(vii) Tubing tensile, burst, and collapse strengths.
§ 146.87
Logging, sampling, and testing prior to injection well operation.
(a) During the drilling and construction of a Class VI injection well, the owner or operator must run appropriate logs, surveys and tests to determine or verify the depth, thickness, porosity, permeability, and lithology of, and the salinity of any formation fluids in all relevant geologic formations to ensure conformance with the injection well construction requirements under § 146.86 and to establish accurate baseline data against which future measurements may be compared. The owner or operator must submit to the Director a descriptive report prepared by a knowledgeable log analyst that includes an interpretation of the results of such logs and tests. At a minimum, such logs and tests must include:
(1) Deviation checks during drilling on all holes constructed by drilling a pilot hole which is enlarged by reaming or another method. Such checks must be at sufficiently frequent intervals to determine the location of the borehole and to ensure that vertical avenues for
fluid movement in the form of diverging holes are not created during drilling; and
(2) Before and upon installation of the surface casing:
(i) Resistivity, spontaneous potential, and caliper logs before the casing is installed; and
(ii) A cement bond and variable density log to evaluate cement quality radially, and a temperature log after the casing is set and cemented.
(3) Before and upon installation of the long string casing:
(i) Resistivity, spontaneous potential, porosity, caliper, gamma ray, fracture finder logs, and any other logs the Director requires for the given geology before the casing is installed; and
(ii) A cement bond and variable density log, and a temperature log after the casing is set and cemented.
(4) A series of tests designed to demonstrate the internal and external mechanical integrity of injection wells, which may include:
(i) A pressure test with liquid or gas;
(ii) A tracer survey such as oxygen-activation logging;
(iii) A temperature or noise log;
(iv) A casing inspection log; and
(5) Any alternative methods that provide equivalent or better information and that are required by and/or approved of by the Director.
(b) The owner or operator must take whole cores or sidewall cores of the injection zone and confining system and formation fluid samples from the injection zone(s), and must submit to the Director a detailed report prepared by a log analyst that includes: Well log analyses (including well logs), core analyses, and formation fluid sample information. The Director may accept information on cores from nearby wells if the owner or operator can demonstrate that core retrieval is not possible and that such cores are representative of conditions at the well. The Director may require the owner or operator to core other formations in the borehole.
(c) The owner or operator must record the fluid temperature, pH, conductivity, reservoir pressure, and static fluid level of the injection zone(s).
(d) At a minimum, the owner or operator must determine or calculate the following information concerning the injection and confining zone(s):
(1) Fracture pressure;
(2) Other physical and chemical characteristics of the injection and confining zone(s); and
(3) Physical and chemical characteristics of the formation fluids in the injection zone(s).
(e) Upon completion, but prior to operation, the owner or operator must conduct the following tests to verify hydrogeologic characteristics of the injection zone(s):
(1) A pressure fall-off test; and,
(2) A pump test; or
(3) Injectivity tests.
(f) The owner or operator must provide the Director with the opportunity to witness all logging and testing by this subpart. The owner or operator must submit a schedule of such activities to the Director 30 days prior to conducting the first test and submit any changes to the schedule 30 days prior to the next scheduled test.
§ 146.88
Injection well operating requirements.
(a) Except during stimulation, the owner or operator must ensure that injection pressure does not exceed 90 percent of the fracture pressure of the injection zone(s) so as to ensure that the injection does not initiate new fractures or propagate existing fractures in the injection zone(s). In no case may injection pressure initiate fractures in the confining zone(s) or cause the movement of injection or formation fluids that endangers a USDW. Pursuant to requirements at § 146.82(a)(9), all stimulation programs must be approved by the Director as part of the permit application and incorporated into the permit.
(b) Injection between the outermost casing protecting USDWs and the well bore is prohibited.
(c) The owner or operator must fill the annulus between the tubing and the long string casing with a non-corrosive fluid approved by the Director. The owner or operator must maintain on the annulus a pressure that exceeds the operating injection pressure, unless the Director determines that such requirement might harm the integrity of the well or endanger USDWs.
(d) Other than during periods of well workover (maintenance) approved by the Director in which the sealed tubing-casing annulus is disassembled for maintenance or corrective procedures, the owner or operator must maintain mechanical integrity of the injection well at all times.
(e) The owner or operator must install and use:
(1) Continuous recording devices to monitor: The injection pressure; the rate, volume and/or mass, and temperature of the carbon dioxide stream; and the pressure on the annulus between the tubing and the long string casing and annulus fluid volume; and
(2) Alarms and automatic surface shut-off systems or, at the discretion of the Director, down-hole shut-off systems (e.g., automatic shut-off, check valves) for onshore wells or, other mechanical devices that provide equivalent protection; and
(3) Alarms and automatic down-hole shut-off systems for wells located offshore but within State territorial waters, designed to alert the operator and shut-in the well when operating parameters such as annulus pressure, injection rate, or other parameters diverge beyond permitted ranges and/or gradients specified in the permit.
(f) If a shutdown (
i.e.,
down-hole or at the surface) is triggered or a loss of mechanical integrity is discovered, the owner or operator must immediately investigate and identify as expeditiously as possible the cause of the shutoff. If, upon such investigation, the well appears to be lacking mechanical integrity, or if monitoring required under paragraph (e) of this section otherwise indicates that the well may be lacking mechanical integrity, the owner or operator must:
(1) Immediately cease injection;
(2) Take all steps reasonably necessary to determine whether there may have been a release of the injected carbon dioxide stream or formation fluids into any unauthorized zone;
(3) Notify the Director within 24 hours;
(4) Restore and demonstrate mechanical integrity to the satisfaction of the Director prior to resuming injection; and
(5) Notify the Director when injection can be expected to resume.
§ 146.89
Mechanical integrity.
(a) A Class VI well has mechanical integrity if:
(1) There is no significant leak in the casing, tubing, or packer; and
(2) There is no significant fluid movement into a USDW through channels adjacent to the injection well bore.
(b) To evaluate the absence of significant leaks under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, owners or operators must, following an initial annulus pressure test, continuously monitor injection pressure, rate, injected volumes; pressure on the annulus between tubing and long-string casing; and annulus fluid volume as specified in § 146.88 (e);
(c) At least once per year, the owner or operator must use one of the following methods to determine the absence of significant fluid movement under paragraph (a)(2) of this section:
(1) An approved tracer survey such as an oxygen-activation log; or
(2) A temperature or noise log.
(d) If required by the Director, at a frequency specified in the testing and monitoring plan required at § 146.90, the owner or operator must run a casing inspection log to determine the presence or absence of corrosion in the long-string casing.
(e) The Director may require any other test to evaluate mechanical integrity under paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. Also, the Director may allow the use of a test to demonstrate mechanical integrity other than those listed above with the written approval of the Administrator. To obtain approval for a new mechanical integrity test, the Director must submit a written request to the Administrator setting forth the proposed test and all technical data supporting its use. The Administrator may approve the request if he or she determines that it will reliably demonstrate the mechanical integrity of wells for which its use is proposed. Any alternate method approved by the Administrator will be published in the
Federal Register
and may be used in all States in accordance with applicable State law unless its use is restricted at the time of approval by the Administrator.
(f) In conducting and evaluating the tests enumerated in this section or others to be allowed by the Director, the owner or operator and the Director must apply methods and standards generally accepted in the industry. When the owner or operator reports the results of mechanical integrity tests to the Director, he/she shall include a description of the test(s) and the method(s) used. In making his/her evaluation, the Director must review monitoring and other test data submitted since the previous evaluation.
(g) The Director may require additional or alternative tests if the results presented by the owner or operator under paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section are not satisfactory to the Director to demonstrate that there is no significant leak in the casing, tubing, or packer, or to demonstrate that there is no significant movement of fluid into a USDW resulting from the injection activity as stated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
§ 146.90
Testing and monitoring requirements.
The owner or operator of a Class VI well must prepare, maintain, and comply with a testing and monitoring plan to verify that the geologic sequestration project is operating as permitted and is not endangering USDWs. The requirement to maintain and implement an approved plan is directly enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the permit. The testing and monitoring plan must be submitted with the permit application, for Director approval, and must include a description of how the owner or operator will meet the requirements of this section, including accessing sites for all necessary monitoring and testing during the life of the project. Testing and monitoring associated with geologic sequestration projects must, at a minimum, include:
(a) Analysis of the carbon dioxide stream with sufficient frequency to yield data representative of its chemical and physical characteristics;
(b) Installation and use, except during well workovers as defined in § 146.88(d), of continuous recording devices to monitor injection pressure, rate, and volume; the pressure on the annulus between the tubing and the long string casing; and the annulus fluid volume added;
(c) Corrosion monitoring of the well materials for loss of mass, thickness, cracking, pitting, and other signs of corrosion, which must be performed on a quarterly basis to ensure that the well components meet the minimum standards for material strength and performance set forth in § 146.86(b), by:
(1) Analyzing coupons of the well construction materials placed in contact with the carbon dioxide stream; or
(2) Routing the carbon dioxide stream through a loop constructed with the material used in the well and inspecting the materials in the loop; or
(3) Using an alternative method approved by the Director;
(d) Periodic monitoring of the ground water quality and geochemical changes above the confining zone(s) that may be a result of carbon dioxide movement through the confining zone(s) or additional identified zones including:
(1) The location and number of monitoring wells based on specific information about the geologic sequestration project, including injection rate and volume, geology, the presence of artificial penetrations, and other factors; and
(2) The monitoring frequency and spatial distribution of monitoring wells based on baseline geochemical data that has been collected under § 146.82(a)(6) and on any modeling results in the area of review evaluation required by § 146.84(c).
(e) A demonstration of external mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.89(c) at least once per year until the injection well is plugged; and, if required by the Director, a casing inspection log pursuant to requirements at § 146.89(d) at a frequency established in the testing and monitoring plan;
(f) A pressure fall-off test at least once every five years unless more frequent testing is required by the Director based on site-specific information;
(g) Testing and monitoring to track the extent of the carbon dioxide plume and the presence or absence of elevated pressure (e.g., the pressure front) by using:
(1) Direct methods in the injection zone(s); and,
(2) Indirect methods (e.g., seismic, electrical, gravity, or electromagnetic surveys and/or down-hole carbon dioxide detection tools), unless the Director determines, based on site-specific geology, that such methods are not appropriate;
(h) The Director may require surface air monitoring and/or soil gas monitoring to detect movement of carbon dioxide that could endanger a USDW.
(1) Design of Class VI surface air and/or soil gas monitoring must be based on potential risks to USDWs within the area of review;
(2) The monitoring frequency and spatial distribution of surface air monitoring and/or soil gas monitoring must be decided using baseline data, and the monitoring plan must describe how the proposed monitoring will yield useful information on the area of review delineation and/or compliance with standards under § 144.12 of this chapter;
(3) If an owner or operator demonstrates that monitoring employed under §§ 98.440 to 98.449 of this chapter (Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.
) accomplishes the goals of paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section, and meets the requirements pursuant to § 146.91(c)(5), a Director that requires surface air/soil gas monitoring must approve the use of monitoring employed under §§ 98.440 to 98.449 of this chapter. Compliance with §§ 98.440 to 98.449 of this chapter pursuant to this provision is considered a condition of the Class VI permit;
(i) Any additional monitoring, as required by the Director, necessary to support, upgrade, and improve computational modeling of the area of review evaluation required under § 146.84(c) and to determine compliance with standards under § 144.12 of this chapter;
(j) The owner or operator shall periodically review the testing and monitoring plan to incorporate monitoring data collected under this subpart, operational data collected under § 146.88, and the most recent area of review reevaluation performed under § 146.84(e). In no case shall the owner or operator review the testing and monitoring plan less often than once every five years. Based on this review, the owner or operator shall submit an amended testing and monitoring plan or demonstrate to the Director that no amendment to the testing and monitoring plan is needed. Any amendments to the testing and monitoring plan must be approved by the Director, must be incorporated into the permit, and are subject to the permit modification requirements at § 144.39 or § 144.41 of this chapter, as appropriate. Amended plans or demonstrations shall be submitted to the Director as follows:
(1) Within one year of an area of review reevaluation;
(2) Following any significant changes to the facility, such as addition of monitoring wells or newly permitted injection wells within the area of review, on a schedule determined by the Director; or
(3) When required by the Director.
(k) A quality assurance and surveillance plan for all testing and monitoring requirements.
§ 146.91
Reporting requirements.
The owner or operator must, at a minimum, provide, as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, the following reports to the Director, for each permitted Class VI well:
(a) Semi-annual reports containing:
(1) Any changes to the physical, chemical, and other relevant characteristics of the carbon dioxide stream from the proposed operating data;
(2) Monthly average, maximum, and minimum values for injection pressure, flow rate and volume, and annular pressure;
(3) A description of any event that exceeds operating parameters for annulus pressure or injection pressure specified in the permit;
(4) A description of any event which triggers a shut-off device required pursuant to § 146.88(e) and the response taken;
(5) The monthly volume and/or mass of the carbon dioxide stream injected over the reporting period and the volume injected cumulatively over the life of the project;
(6) Monthly annulus fluid volume added; and
(7) The results of monitoring prescribed under § 146.90.
(b) Report, within 30 days, the results of:
(1) Periodic tests of mechanical integrity;
(2) Any well workover; and,
(3) Any other test of the injection well conducted by the permittee if required by the Director.
(c) Report, within 24 hours:
(1) Any evidence that the injected carbon dioxide stream or associated pressure front may cause an endangerment to a USDW;
(2) Any noncompliance with a permit condition, or malfunction of the injection system, which may cause fluid migration into or between USDWs;
(3) Any triggering of a shut-off system (
i.e.,
down-hole or at the surface);
(4) Any failure to maintain mechanical integrity; or.
(5) Pursuant to compliance with the requirement at § 146.90(h) for surface air/soil gas monitoring or other monitoring technologies, if required by the Director, any release of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere or biosphere.
(d) Owners or operators must notify the Director in writing 30 days in advance of:
(1) Any planned well workover;
(2) Any planned stimulation activities, other than stimulation for formation testing conducted under § 146.82; and
(3) Any other planned test of the injection well conducted by the permittee.
(e) Regardless of whether a State has primary enforcement responsibility, owners or operators must submit all required reports, submittals, and notifications under subpart H of this part to EPA in an electronic format approved by EPA.
(f) Records shall be retained by the owner or operator as follows:
(1) All data collected under § 146.82 for Class VI permit applications shall be retained throughout the life of the geologic sequestration project and for 10 years following site closure.
(2) Data on the nature and composition of all injected fluids collected pursuant to § 146.90(a) shall be retained until 10 years after site closure. The Director may require the owner or operator to deliver the records to the Director at the conclusion of the retention period.
(3) Monitoring data collected pursuant to § 146.90(b) through (i) shall be retained for 10 years after it is collected.
(4) Well plugging reports, post-injection site care data, including, if appropriate, data and information used to develop the demonstration of the alternative post-injection site care timeframe, and the site closure report collected pursuant to requirements at §§ 146.93(f) and (h) shall be retained for 10 years following site closure.
(5) The Director has authority to require the owner or operator to retain any records required in this subpart for longer than 10 years after site closure.
§ 146.92
Injection well plugging.
(a) Prior to the well plugging, the owner or operator must flush each Class VI injection well with a buffer fluid, determine bottomhole reservoir pressure, and perform a final external mechanical integrity test.
(b)
Well plugging plan.
The owner or operator of a Class VI well must prepare, maintain, and comply with a plan that is acceptable to the Director. The requirement to maintain and implement an approved plan is directly enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the permit. The well plugging plan must be submitted as part of the permit application and must include the following information:
(1) Appropriate tests or measures for determining bottomhole reservoir pressure;
(2) Appropriate testing methods to ensure external mechanical integrity as specified in § 146.89;
(3) The type and number of plugs to be used;
(4) The placement of each plug, including the elevation of the top and bottom of each plug;
(5) The type, grade, and quantity of material to be used in plugging. The material must be compatible with the carbon dioxide stream; and
(6) The method of placement of the plugs.
(c)
Notice of intent to plug.
The owner or operator must notify the Director in writing pursuant to § 146.91(e), at least 60 days before plugging of a well. At this time, if any changes have been made to the original well plugging
plan, the owner or operator must also provide the revised well plugging plan. The Director may allow for a shorter notice period. Any amendments to the injection well plugging plan must be approved by the Director, must be incorporated into the permit, and are subject to the permit modification requirements at § 144.39 or § 144.41 of this chapter, as appropriate.
(d)
Plugging report.
Within 60 days after plugging, the owner or operator must submit, pursuant to § 146.91(e), a plugging report to the Director. The report must be certified as accurate by the owner or operator and by the person who performed the plugging operation (if other than the owner or operator.) The owner or operator shall retain the well plugging report for 10 years following site closure.
§ 146.93
Post-injection site care and site closure.
(a) The owner or operator of a Class VI well must prepare, maintain, and comply with a plan for post-injection site care and site closure that meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section and is acceptable to the Director. The requirement to maintain and implement an approved plan is directly enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the permit.
(1) The owner or operator must submit the post-injection site care and site closure plan as a part of the permit application to be approved by the Director.
(2) The post-injection site care and site closure plan must include the following information:
(i) The pressure differential between pre-injection and predicted post-injection pressures in the injection zone(s);
(ii) The predicted position of the carbon dioxide plume and associated pressure front at site closure as demonstrated in the area of review evaluation required under § 146.84(c)(1);
(iii) A description of post-injection monitoring location, methods, and proposed frequency;
(iv) A proposed schedule for submitting post-injection site care monitoring results to the Director pursuant to § 146.91(e); and,
(v) The duration of the post-injection site care timeframe and, if approved by the Director, the demonstration of the alternative post-injection site care timeframe that ensures non-endangerment of USDWs.
(3) Upon cessation of injection, owners or operators of Class VI wells must either submit an amended post-injection site care and site closure plan or demonstrate to the Director through monitoring data and modeling results that no amendment to the plan is needed. Any amendments to the post-injection site care and site closure plan must be approved by the Director, be incorporated into the permit, and are subject to the permit modification requirements at § 144.39 or § 144.41 of this chapter, as appropriate.
(4) At any time during the life of the geologic sequestration project, the owner or operator may modify and resubmit the post-injection site care and site closure plan for the Director's approval within 30 days of such change.
(b) The owner or operator shall monitor the site following the cessation of injection to show the position of the carbon dioxide plume and pressure front and demonstrate that USDWs are not being endangered.
(1) Following the cessation of injection, the owner or operator shall continue to conduct monitoring as specified in the Director-approved post-injection site care and site closure plan for at least 50 years or for the duration of the alternative timeframe approved by the Director pursuant to requirements in paragraph (c) of this section, unless he/she makes a demonstration under (b)(2) of this section. The monitoring must continue until the geologic sequestration project no longer poses an endangerment to USDWs and the demonstration under (b)(2) of this section is submitted and approved by the Director.
(2) If the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director before 50 years or prior to the end of the approved alternative timeframe based on monitoring and other site-specific data, that the geologic sequestration project no longer poses an endangerment to USDWs, the Director may approve an amendment to the post-injection site care and site closure
plan to reduce the frequency of monitoring or may authorize site closure before the end of the 50-year period or prior to the end of the approved alternative timeframe, where he or she has substantial evidence that the geologic sequestration project no longer poses a risk of endangerment to USDWs.
(3) Prior to authorization for site closure, the owner or operator must submit to the Director for review and approval a demonstration, based on monitoring and other site-specific data, that no additional monitoring is needed to ensure that the geologic sequestration project does not pose an endangerment to USDWs.
(4) If the demonstration in paragraph (b)(3) of this section cannot be made (
i.e.,
additional monitoring is needed to ensure that the geologic sequestration project does not pose an endangerment to USDWs) at the end of the 50-year period or at the end of the approved alternative timeframe, or if the Director does not approve the demonstration, the owner or operator must submit to the Director a plan to continue post-injection site care until a demonstration can be made and approved by the Director.
(c)
Demonstration of alternative post-injection site care timeframe.
At the Director's discretion, the Director may approve, in consultation with EPA, an alternative post-injection site care timeframe other than the 50 year default, if an owner or operator can demonstrate during the permitting process that an alternative post-injection site care timeframe is appropriate and ensures non-endangerment of USDWs. The demonstration must be based on significant, site-specific data and information including all data and information collected pursuant to §§ 146.82 and 146.83, and must contain substantial evidence that the geologic sequestration project will no longer pose a risk of endangerment to USDWs at the end of the alternative post-injection site care timeframe.
(1) A demonstration of an alternative post-injection site care timeframe must include consideration and documentation of:
(i) The results of computational modeling performed pursuant to delineation of the area of review under § 146.84;
(ii) The predicted timeframe for pressure decline within the injection zone, and any other zones, such that formation fluids may not be forced into any USDWs; and/or the timeframe for pressure decline to pre-injection pressures;
(iii) The predicted rate of carbon dioxide plume migration within the injection zone, and the predicted timeframe for the cessation of migration;
(iv) A description of the site-specific processes that will result in carbon dioxide trapping including immobilization by capillary trapping, dissolution, and mineralization at the site;
(v) The predicted rate of carbon dioxide trapping in the immobile capillary phase, dissolved phase, and/or mineral phase;
(vi) The results of laboratory analyses, research studies, and/or field or site-specific studies to verify the information required in paragraphs (iv) and (v) of this section;
(vii) A characterization of the confining zone(s) including a demonstration that it is free of transmissive faults, fractures, and micro-fractures and of appropriate thickness, permeability, and integrity to impede fluid (e.g., carbon dioxide, formation fluids) movement;
(viii) The presence of potential conduits for fluid movement including planned injection wells and project monitoring wells associated with the proposed geologic sequestration project or any other projects in proximity to the predicted/modeled, final extent of the carbon dioxide plume and area of elevated pressure;
(ix) A description of the well construction and an assessment of the quality of plugs of all abandoned wells within the area of review;
(x) The distance between the injection zone and the nearest USDWs above and/or below the injection zone; and
(xi) Any additional site-specific factors required by the Director.
(2) Information submitted to support the demonstration in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must meet the following criteria:
(i) All analyses and tests performed to support the demonstration must be accurate, reproducible, and performed in accordance with the established quality assurance standards;
(ii) Estimation techniques must be appropriate and EPA-certified test protocols must be used where available;
(iii) Predictive models must be appropriate and tailored to the site conditions, composition of the carbon dioxide stream and injection and site conditions over the life of the geologic sequestration project;
(iv) Predictive models must be calibrated using existing information (e.g., at Class I, Class II, or Class V experimental technology well sites) where sufficient data are available;
(v) Reasonably conservative values and modeling assumptions must be used and disclosed to the Director whenever values are estimated on the basis of known, historical information instead of site-specific measurements;
(vi) An analysis must be performed to identify and assess aspects of the alternative post-injection site care timeframe demonstration that contribute significantly to uncertainty. The owner or operator must conduct sensitivity analyses to determine the effect that significant uncertainty may contribute to the modeling demonstration.
(vii) An approved quality assurance and quality control plan must address all aspects of the demonstration; and,
(viii) Any additional criteria required by the Director.
(d)
Notice of intent for site closure.
The owner or operator must notify the Director in writing at least 120 days before site closure. At this time, if any changes have been made to the original post-injection site care and site closure plan, the owner or operator must also provide the revised plan. The Director may allow for a shorter notice period.
(e) After the Director has authorized site closure, the owner or operator must plug all monitoring wells in a manner which will not allow movement of injection or formation fluids that endangers a USDW.
(f) The owner or operator must submit a site closure report to the Director within 90 days of site closure, which must thereafter be retained at a location designated by the Director for 10 years. The report must include:
(1) Documentation of appropriate injection and monitoring well plugging as specified in § 146.92 and paragraph (e) of this section. The owner or operator must provide a copy of a survey plat which has been submitted to the local zoning authority designated by the Director. The plat must indicate the location of the injection well relative to permanently surveyed benchmarks. The owner or operator must also submit a copy of the plat to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate EPA Regional Office;
(2) Documentation of appropriate notification and information to such State, local and Tribal authorities that have authority over drilling activities to enable such State, local, and Tribal authorities to impose appropriate conditions on subsequent drilling activities that may penetrate the injection and confining zone(s); and
(3) Records reflecting the nature, composition, and volume of the carbon dioxide stream.
(g) Each owner or operator of a Class VI injection well must record a notation on the deed to the facility property or any other document that is normally examined during title search that will in perpetuity provide any potential purchaser of the property the following information:
(1) The fact that land has been used to sequester carbon dioxide;
(2) The name of the State agency, local authority, and/or Tribe with which the survey plat was filed, as well as the address of the Environmental Protection Agency Regional Office to which it was submitted; and
(3) The volume of fluid injected, the injection zone or zones into which it was injected, and the period over which injection occurred.
(h) The owner or operator must retain for 10 years following site closure, records collected during the post-injection site care period. The owner or operator must deliver the records to the Director at the conclusion of the retention period, and the records must thereafter be retained at a location designated by the Director for that purpose.
§ 146.94
Emergency and remedial response.
(a) As part of the permit application, the owner or operator must provide the
Director with an emergency and remedial response plan that describes actions the owner or operator must take to address movement of the injection or formation fluids that may cause an endangerment to a USDW during construction, operation, and post-injection site care periods. The requirement to maintain and implement an approved plan is directly enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the permit.
(b) If the owner or operator obtains evidence that the injected carbon dioxide stream and associated pressure front may cause an endangerment to a USDW, the owner or operator must:
(1) Immediately cease injection;
(2) Take all steps reasonably necessary to identify and characterize any release;
(3) Notify the Director within 24 hours; and
(4) Implement the emergency and remedial response plan approved by the Director.
(c) The Director may allow the operator to resume injection prior to remediation if the owner or operator demonstrates that the injection operation will not endanger USDWs.
(d) The owner or operator shall periodically review the emergency and remedial response plan developed under paragraph (a) of this section. In no case shall the owner or operator review the emergency and remedial response plan less often than once every five years. Based on this review, the owner or operator shall submit an amended emergency and remedial response plan or demonstrate to the Director that no amendment to the emergency and remedial response plan is needed. Any amendments to the emergency and remedial response plan must be approved by the Director, must be incorporated into the permit, and are subject to the permit modification requirements at § 144.39 or § 144.41 of this chapter, as appropriate. Amended plans or demonstrations shall be submitted to the Director as follows:
(1) Within one year of an area of review reevaluation;
(2) Following any significant changes to the facility, such as addition of injection or monitoring wells, on a schedule determined by the Director; or
(3) When required by the Director.
§ 146.95
Class VI injection depth waiver requirements.
This section sets forth information which an owner or operator seeking a waiver of the Class VI injection depth requirements must submit to the Director; information the Director must consider in consultation with all affected Public Water System Supervision Directors; the procedure for Director—Regional Administrator communication and waiver issuance; and the additional requirements that apply to owners or operators of Class VI wells granted a waiver of the injection depth requirements.
(a) In seeking a waiver of the requirement to inject below the lowermost USDW, the owner or operator must submit a supplemental report concurrent with permit application. The supplemental report must include the following,
(1) A demonstration that the injection zone(s) is/are laterally continuous, is not a USDW, and is not hydraulically connected to USDWs; does not outcrop; has adequate injectivity, volume, and sufficient porosity to safely contain the injected carbon dioxide and formation fluids; and has appropriate geochemistry.
(2) A demonstration that the injection zone(s) is/are bounded by laterally continuous, impermeable confining units above and below the injection zone(s) adequate to prevent fluid movement and pressure buildup outside of the injection zone(s); and that the confining unit(s) is/are free of transmissive faults and fractures. The report shall further characterize the regional fracture properties and contain a demonstration that such fractures will not interfere with injection, serve as conduits, or endanger USDWs.
(3) A demonstration, using computational modeling, that USDWs above and below the injection zone will not be endangered as a result of fluid movement. This modeling should be conducted in conjunction with the area of review determination, as described in § 146.84, and is subject to requirements, as described in § 146.84(c), and periodic reevaluation, as described in § 146.84(e).
(4) A demonstration that well design and construction, in conjunction with the waiver, will ensure isolation of the injectate in lieu of requirements at 146.86(a)(1) and will meet well construction requirements in paragraph (f) of this section.
(5) A description of how the monitoring and testing and any additional plans will be tailored to the geologic sequestration project to ensure protection of USDWs above and below the injection zone(s), if a waiver is granted.
(6) Information on the location of all the public water supplies affected, reasonably likely to be affected, or served by USDWs in the area of review.
(7) Any other information requested by the Director to inform the Regional Administrator's decision to issue a waiver.
(b) To inform the Regional Administrator's decision on whether to grant a waiver of the injection depth requirements at §§ 144.6 of this chapter, 146.5(f), and 146.86(a)(1), the Director must submit, to the Regional Administrator, documentation of the following:
(1) An evaluation of the following information as it relates to siting, construction, and operation of a geologic sequestration project with a waiver:
(i) The integrity of the upper and lower confining units;
(ii) The suitability of the injection zone(s) (e.g., lateral continuity; lack of transmissive faults and fractures; knowledge of current or planned artificial penetrations into the injection zone(s) or formations below the injection zone);
(iii) The potential capacity of the geologic formation(s) to sequester carbon dioxide, accounting for the availability of alternative injection sites;
(iv) All other site characterization data, the proposed emergency and remedial response plan, and a demonstration of financial responsibility;
(v) Community needs, demands, and supply from drinking water resources;
(vi) Planned needs, potential and/or future use of USDWs and non-USDWs in the area;
(vii) Planned or permitted water, hydrocarbon, or mineral resource exploitation potential of the proposed injection formation(s) and other formations both above and below the injection zone to determine if there are any plans to drill through the formation to access resources in or beneath the proposed injection zone(s)/formation(s);
(viii) The proposed plan for securing alternative resources or treating USDW formation waters in the event of contamination related to the Class VI injection activity; and,
(ix) Any other applicable considerations or information requested by the Director.
(2) Consultation with the Public Water System Supervision Directors of all States and Tribes having jurisdiction over lands within the area of review of a well for which a waiver is sought.
(3) Any written waiver-related information submitted by the Public Water System Supervision Director(s) to the (UIC) Director.
(c) Pursuant to requirements at § 124.10 of this chapter and concurrent with the Class VI permit application notice process, the Director shall give public notice that a waiver application has been submitted. The notice shall clearly state:
(1) The depth of the proposed injection zone(s);
(2) The location of the injection well(s);
(3) The name and depth of all USDWs within the area of review;
(4) A map of the area of review;
(5) The names of any public water supplies affected, reasonably likely to be affected, or served by USDWs in the area of review; and,
(6) The results of UIC-Public Water System Supervision consultation required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(d) Following public notice, the Director shall provide all information received through the waiver application process to the Regional Administrator. Based on the information provided, the Regional Administrator shall provide written concurrence or non-concurrence regarding waiver issuance.
(1) If the Regional Administrator determines that additional information is required to support a decision, the Director shall provide the information. At his or her discretion, the Regional Administrator may require that public
notice of the new information be initiated.
(2) In no case shall a Director of a State-approved program issue a waiver without receipt of written concurrence from the Regional Administrator.
(e) If a waiver is issued, within 30 days of waiver issuance, EPA shall post the following information on the Office of Water's Web site:
(1) The depth of the proposed injection zone(s);
(2) The location of the injection well(s);
(3) The name and depth of all USDWs within the area of review;
(4) A map of the area of review;
(5) The names of any public water supplies affected, reasonably likely to be affected, or served by USDWs in the area of review; and
(6) The date of waiver issuance.
(f) Upon receipt of a waiver of the requirement to inject below the lowermost USDW for geologic sequestration, the owner or operator of the Class VI well must comply with:
(1) All requirements at §§ 146.84, 146.85, 146.87, 146.88, 146.89, 146.91, 146.92, and 146.94;
(2) All requirements at § 146.86 with the following modified requirements:
(i) The owner or operator must ensure that Class VI wells with a waiver are constructed and completed to prevent movement of fluids into any unauthorized zones including USDWs, in lieu of requirements at § 146.86(a)(1).
(ii) The casing and cementing program must be designed to prevent the movement of fluids into any unauthorized zones including USDWs in lieu of requirements at § 146.86(b)(1).
(iii) The surface casing must extend through the base of the nearest USDW directly above the injection zone and be cemented to the surface; or, at the Director's discretion, another formation above the injection zone and below the nearest USDW above the injection zone.
(3) All requirements at § 146.90 with the following modified requirements:
(i) The owner or operator shall monitor the groundwater quality, geochemical changes, and pressure in the first USDWs immediately above and below the injection zone(s); and in any other formations at the discretion of the Director.
(ii) Testing and monitoring to track the extent of the carbon dioxide plume and the presence or absence of elevated pressure (e.g., the pressure front) by using direct methods to monitor for pressure changes in the injection zone(s); and, indirect methods (e.g., seismic, electrical, gravity, or electromagnetic surveys and/or down-hole carbon dioxide detection tools), unless the Director determines, based on site-specific geology, that such methods are not appropriate.
(4) All requirements at § 146.93 with the following, modified post-injection site care monitoring requirements:
(i) The owner or operator shall monitor the groundwater quality, geochemical changes and pressure in the first USDWs immediately above and below the injection zone; and in any other formations at the discretion of the Director.
(ii) Testing and monitoring to track the extent of the carbon dioxide plume and the presence or absence of elevated pressure (e.g., the pressure front) by using direct methods in the injection zone(s); and indirect methods (e.g., seismic, electrical, gravity, or electromagnetic surveys and/or down-hole carbon dioxide detection tools), unless the Director determines based on site-specific geology, that such methods are not appropriate;
(5) Any additional requirements requested by the Director designed to ensure protection of USDWs above and below the injection zone(s).
Pt. 147

# PART 147—STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
147.1
Purpose and scope.
147.2
Severability of provisions.

# Subpart B—Alabama
147.50
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.51
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
147.52
State-administered program—Hydraulic Fracturing of Coal Beds.
147.60
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart C—Alaska
147.100
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.101
EPA-administered program.
147.102
Aquifer exemptions.
147.103
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
147.104
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.

# Subpart D—Arizona
147.150
State-administered program. [Reserved]
147.151
EPA-administered program.
147.152
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Arkansas
147.200
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
147.201
State-administered program—Class II wells. [Reserved]
147.205
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart F—California
147.250
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.251
EPA-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells and Indian lands.
147.252
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
147.253
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.

# Subpart G—Colorado
147.300
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.301
EPA-administered program—Class I, III, IV, V wells and Indian lands.
147.302
Aquifer exemptions.
147.303
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
147.304
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
147.305
Requirements for all wells.

# Subpart H—Connecticut
147.350
State-administered program.
147.351-147.352
[Reserved]
147.353
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
147.354-147.359
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Delaware
147.400
State-administered program.
147.401-147.402
[Reserved]
147.403
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
147.404-147.449
[Reserved]

# Subpart J—District of Columbia
147.450
State-administered program. [Reserved]
147.451
EPA-administered program.
147.452
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Florida
147.500
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
147.501
EPA-administered program—Class II wells and Indian lands.
147.502
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
147.503
Existing Class II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) wells authorized by rule.
147.504
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.

# Subpart L—Georgia
147.550
State-administered program.
147.551-147.552
[Reserved]
147.553
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
147.554-147.559
[Reserved]

# Subpart M—Hawaii
147.600
State-administered program. [Reserved]
147.601
EPA-administered program.

# Subpart N—Idaho
147.650
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
147.651
EPA-administered program—Class II wells and all wells on Indian lands.
147.652
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]

# Subpart O—Illinois
147.700
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
147.701
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.703
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart P—Indiana
147.750
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.751
EPA-administered program.
147.752
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
147.753
Existing Class I and III wells authorized by rule.

# Subpart Q—Iowa
147.800
State-administered program. [Reserved]
147.801
EPA-administered program.
147.802
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]

# Subpart R—Kansas
147.850
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV and V wells.
147.851
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.852-147.859
[Reserved]
147.860
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart S—Kentucky
147.900
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.901
EPA-administered program—Class I, III, IV, V, and VI wells and Indian lands.EPA-administered program.
147.902
Aquifer exemptions.
147.903
Existing Class I and III wells authorized by rule.
147.904
[Reserved]
147.905
Requirements for all wells—area of review.

# Subpart T—Louisiana
147.950
State-administered program—Class I, II, III, IV, V and VI wells.
147.951
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart U—Maine
147.1000
State-administered program.
147.1001
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart V—Maryland
147.1050
State-administered program—Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells.
147.1051-147.1052
[Reserved]
147.1053
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
147.1054-147.1099
[Reserved]

# Subpart W—Massachusetts
147.1100
State-administered program.
147.1101
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart X—Michigan
147.1150
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.1151
EPA-administered program—Class I, III, IV, V, and VI wells and Indian country.
147.1152
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
147.1153
Existing Class II disposal wells authorized by rule in Indian country.
147.1154
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule in Indian country.
147.1155
Requirements for all EPA-administered wells.

# Subpart Y—Minnesota
147.1200
State-administered program. [Reserved]
147.1201
EPA-administered program.
147.1202
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
147.1210
Requirements for Indian lands.

# Subpart Z—Mississippi
147.1250
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
147.1251
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.1252
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart AA—Missouri
147.1300
State-administered program.
147.1301
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
147.1302
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
147.1303
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart BB—Montana
147.1350
State-administered programs—Class II wells.
147.1351
EPA-administered program.
147.1352
Aquifer exemptions.
147.1353
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
147.1354
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
147.1355
Requirements for all wells.
Appendix A to Subpart BB of Part 147—State Requirements Incorporated by Reference in Subpart BB of Part 147 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

# Subpart CC—Nebraska
147.1400
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.1401
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
147.1402
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
147.1403
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart DD—Nevada
147.1450
State-administered program.
147.1451
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
147.1452
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
147.1453
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
147.1454
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.

# Subpart EE—New Hampshire
147.1500
State-administered program.
147.1501
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart FF—New Jersey
147.1550
State-administered program.
147.1551
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart GG—New Mexico
147.1600
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.1601
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV and V wells.
147.1603
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart HH—New York
147.1650
State-administered program. [Reserved]
147.1651
EPA-administered program.
147.1652
Aquifer exemptions.
147.1653
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
147.1654
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
147.1655
Requirements for wells authorized by permit.

# Subpart II—North Carolina
147.1700
State-administered program.
147.1701-147.1702
[Reserved]
147.1703
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
147.1704-147.1749
[Reserved]

# Subpart JJ—North Dakota
147.1750
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.1751
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, V and VI wells.
147.1752
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart KK—Ohio
147.1800
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.1801
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV and V wells.
147.1802
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
147.1803
Existing Class I and III wells authorized by rule—maximum injection pressure.
147.1805
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart LL—Oklahoma
147.1850
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV and V wells.
147.1851
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.1852
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart MM—Oregon
147.1900
State-administered program.
147.1901
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart NN—Pennsylvania
147.1950
State-administered program. [Reserved]
147.1951
EPA-administered program.
147.1952
Aquifer exemptions.
147.1953
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
147.1954
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
147.1955
Requirements for wells authorized by permit.

# Subpart OO—Rhode Island
147.2000
State-administered program—Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells.
147.2001
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart PP—South Carolina
147.2050
State-administered program.
147.2051
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart QQ—South Dakota
147.2100
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.2101
EPA-administered program—Class I, III, IV and V wells and all wells on Indian lands.
147.2102
Aquifer exemptions.
147.2103
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
147.2104
Requirements for all wells.

# Subpart RR—Tennessee
147.2150
State-administered program. [Reserved]
147.2151
EPA-administered program Class VI and Indian lands.
147.2152
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
147.2153
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.

# Subpart SS—Texas
147.2200
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
147.2201
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.2205
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart TT—Utah
147.2250
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
147.2251
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.2253
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart UU—Vermont
147.2300
State-administered program.
147.2301-147.2302
[Reserved]
147.2303
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
147.2304-147.2349
[Reserved]

# Subpart VV—Virginia
147.2350
State-administered program. [Reserved]
147.2351
EPA-administered program.
147.2352
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]

# Subpart WW—Washington
147.2400
State-administered program—Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells.
147.2403
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
147.2404
EPA-administered program—Colville Reservation.

# Subpart XX—West Virginia
147.2450
State-administered program—Class VI Wells.
147.2451-147.2452
[Reserved]
147.2453
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
147.2454-147.2499
[Reserved]

# Subpart YY—Wisconsin
147.2500
State-administered program.
147.2510
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart ZZ—Wyoming
147.2550
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, V and VI wells.
147.2551
State-administered program—Class II wells.
147.2553
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
147.2554
Aquifer exemptions.
147.2555
Aquifer exemptions since January 1, 1999.

# Subpart AAA—Guam
147.2600
State-administered program.
147.2601
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart BBB—Puerto Rico
147.2650
State-administered program—Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells.
147.2651
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.

# Subpart CCC—Virgin Islands
147.2700
State-administered program. [Reserved]
147.2701
EPA-administered program.

# Subpart DDD—American Samoa
147.2750
State administered program. [Reserved]
147.2751
EPA-administered program.
147.2752
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]

# Subpart EEE—Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
147.2800
State-administered program—Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells.
147.2801
EPA-administered program.
147.2802
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]

# Subpart FFF—Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
147.2850
State-administered program. [Reserved]
147.2851
EPA-administered program.
147.2852
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]

# Subpart GGG—Osage Mineral Reserve—Class II Wells
147.2901
Applicability and scope.
147.2902
Definitions.
147.2903
Prohibition of unauthorized injection.
147.2904
Area of review.
147.2905
Plugging and abandonment.
147.2906
Emergency permits.
147.2907
Confidentiality of information.
147.2908
Aquifer exemptions.
147.2909
Authorization of existing wells by rule.
147.2910
Duration of authorization by rule.
147.2911
Construction requirements for wells authorized by rule.
147.2912
Operating requirements for wells authorized by rule.
147.2913
Monitoring and reporting requirements for wells authorized by rule.
147.2914
Corrective action for wells authorized by rule.
147.2915
Requiring a permit for wells authorized by rule.
147.2916
Coverage of permitting requirements.
147.2917
Duration of permits.
147.2918
Permit application information.
147.2919
Construction requirements for wells authorized by permit.
147.2920
Operating requirements for wells authorized by permit.
147.2921
Schedule of compliance.
147.2922
Monitoring and reporting requirements for wells authorized by permit.
147.2923
Corrective action for wells authorized by permit.
147.2924
Area permits.
147.2925
Standard permit conditions.
147.2926
Permit transfers.
147.2927
Permit modification.
147.2928
Permit termination.
147.2929
Administrative permitting procedures.

# Subpart HHH—Lands of the Navajo, Ute Mountain Ute, and All Other New Mexico Tribes
147.3000
EPA-administered program.
147.3001
Definition.
147.3002
Public notice of permit actions.
147.3003
Aquifer exemptions.
147.3004
Duration of rule authorization for existing Class I and III wells.
147.3005
Radioactive waste injection wells.
147.3006
Injection pressure for existing Class II wells authorized by rule.
147.3007
Application for a permit.
147.3008
Criteria for aquifer exemptions.
147.3009
Area of review.
147.3010
Mechanical integrity tests.
147.3011
Plugging and abandonment of Class III wells.
147.3012
Construction requirements for Class I wells.
147.3013
Information to be considered for Class I wells.
147.3014
Construction requirements for Class III wells.
147.3015
Information to be considered for Class III wells.
147.3016
Criteria and standards applicable to Class V wells.
Appendix A to Subpart HHH of Part 147—Exempted Aquifers in New Mexico.

# Subpart III—Lands of Certain Oklahoma Indian Tribes
147.3100
EPA-administered program.
147.3101
Public notice of permit actions.
147.3102
Plugging and abandonment plans.
147.3103
Fluid seals.
147.3104
Notice of abandonment.
147.3105
Plugging and abandonment report.
147.3106
Area of review.
147.3107
Mechanical integrity.
147.3108
Plugging Class I, II, and III wells.
147.3109
Timing of mechanical integrity test.

# Subpart JJJ—Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes
147.3200
Fort Peck Indian Reservation: Assiniboine
Sioux Tribes—Class II wells.
Subpart KKK [Reserved]

# Subpart LLL—Navajo Indian Lands
147.3400
Navajo Indian lands—Class II wells.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.;
and 42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.

# Source:
49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 147 appear at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 147.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part sets forth the applicable Underground Injection Control (UIC) programs for each of the States, territories, and possessions identified pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) as needing a UIC program, including any Indian country geographically located within those States, territories, and possessions.
(b) The applicable UIC programs set forth in this part may be State-administered programs approved by EPA, Tribally-administered programs approved by EPA, or Federally-administered programs promulgated by EPA. In some cases, the applicable UIC program for a particular area may consist of a State-administered or Tribally-administered program applicable to some classes of wells and a Federally-administered program applicable to other classes of wells. Approval of a State or Tribal program is based upon a determination by the Administrator that the program meets the requirements of section 1422 or section 1425 of the SDWA, any other applicable provisions of this subpart, and the applicable provisions of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 145 and 146. A Federally-administered program is promulgated in those instances where the State or Tribe has not submitted any program for approval or where the submitted program does not
meet the minimum Federal statutory and regulatory requirements.
(c) In the case of each State or Tribal program approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA, the relevant subpart describes the major elements of that program, including the relevant State or Tribal statutes and regulations, the Statement(s) of Legal Authority, the Memorandum of Agreement, and the Program Description. State or Tribal statutes and regulations that contain standards, requirements, and procedures applicable to owners or operators have been incorporated by reference pursuant to regulations of the Office of the Federal Register. Material incorporated by reference is available for inspection in the appropriate EPA Regional office, in EPA Headquarters, and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Other State or Tribal statutes and regulations containing standards and procedures that constitute elements of a State or Tribal program but do not apply directly to owners or operators have been listed but have not been incorporated by reference.
(d) In the case of any program promulgated under section 1422 for a State or Tribe that is to be administered by EPA, the relevant State or Tribal subpart makes applicable the provisions of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, and 148, and any other additional requirements pertinent to the specific State or Tribal program.
(e) Regulatory provisions incorporated by reference (in the case of approved State or Tribal programs) or promulgated by EPA (in the case of EPA-administered programs), and all permit conditions or permit denials issued pursuant to such regulations, are enforceable by the Administrator pursuant to section 1423 of the SDWA.
(f) Class VI well owners or operators must comply with § 146.91(e) notwithstanding any State program approvals.
[73 FR 63646, Oct. 27, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 77303, Dec. 10, 2010]
§ 147.2
Severability of provisions.
The provisions in this part and the various applications thereof are distinct and severable. If any provision of this part or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or application of such provision to other persons or circumstances which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.

# Subpart B—Alabama
§ 147.50
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Alabama, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the State Oil and Gas Board of Alabama, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on August 2, 1982 (47 FR 33268); the effective date of this program is August 2, 1982. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Alabama. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Code of Alabama Sections 9-17-1 through 9-17-109 (Cumm. Supp. 1989);
(2) State Oil and Gas Board of Alabama Administrative Code, Oil and Gas Report 1 (supplemented through May 1989), Rules and Regulations Governing the Conservation of Oil and Gas in Alabama, and Oil and Gas Statutes of Alabama with Oil and Gas Board Forms, § 400-1-2 and § 400-1-5-.04.
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IV and the Alabama Oil and Gas Board, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on June 15, 1982.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
“State Oil and Gas Board has Authority to Carry Out Underground Injection Control Program Relating to Class II Wells
as Described in Federal Safe Drinking Water Act—Opinion by Assistant Attorney General,” May 28, 1982.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43086, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9411, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.51
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV and V wells in the State of Alabama, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Alabama Department of Environmental Management, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on August 25, 1983 (48 FR 38640); the effective date of this program is August 25, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Alabama. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Alabama Water Pollution Control Act, Code of Alabama 1975, sections 22-22-1 through 22-22-14 (1980 and Supp. 1983);
(2) Regulations, Policies and Procedures of the Alabama Water Improvement Commission, Title I (Regulations) (Rev. December 1980), as amended May 17, 1982, to add Chapter 9, Underground Injection Control Regulations (effective June 10, 1982), as amended April 6, 1983 (effective May 11, 1983).
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IV and the Alabama Department of Environment Management, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on May 24, 1983.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) “Water Pollution—Public Health—State has Authority to Carry Out Underground Injection Control Program Described in Federal Safe Drinking Water Act—Opinion by Legal Counsel for the Water Improvement Commission,” June 25, 1982;
(2) Letter from Attorney, Alabama Water Improvement Commission, to Regional Administrator, EPA Region IV, “Re: AWIC Response to Phillip Tate's (U.S. EPA, Washington) Comments on AWIC's Final Application for Class I, III, IV, and V UIC Program,” September 21, 1982;
(3) Letter from Alabama Chief Assistant Attorney General to Regional Counsel, EPA Region IV, “Re: Status of Independent Legal Counsel in Alabama Water Improvement Commission's Underground Injection Control Program,” September 14, 1982.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43086, Oct. 25, 1988]
§ 147.52
State-administered program—Hydraulic Fracturing of Coal Beds.
The UIC program for hydraulic fracturing of coal beds in the State of Alabama, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the State Oil and Gas Board of Alabama, approved by EPA pursuant to Section 1425 of the SDWA on December 22, 1999 and effective on January 19, 2000. The Alabama program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in State Oil and Gas Board of Alabama Rule 400-4-1-.02, Definitions, and Rule 400-4-5-.04, Protection of Underground Sources of Drinking Water during the Hydraulic Fracturing of Coal Beds, are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Alabama. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on January 19, 2000 in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the State Oil and Gas Board of Alabama, 420 Hackberry Lane, Tuscaloosa, AL 35489-9780. Copies may be inspected
at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region 4, Water Management Division, Ground Water/Drinking Water Branch, Ground Water
UIC Section, Sam Nunn Atlanta Federal Center, 61 Forsyth Street, S.W., Room15-T53, Atlanta, GA 30303-8960, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) Addendum One, Underground Injection Control Program, Memorandum of Agreement Between the State of Alabama and the USEPA Region 4, signed by the Supervisor, Alabama State Oil and Gas Board on December 10, 1999, and the Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Region 4, on December 13, 1999.
(c)
Statement of Legal Authority.
“I hereby certify, pursuant to my authority as Attorney General for the State of Alabama and for reasons set forth in this statement, that in my opinion, the laws of the State of Alabama provide the State Oil and Gas Board (hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) adequate authority to carry out an Underground Injection Program for the control of underground injection activity related to the hydraulic fracturing of coal beds.” Opinion by Alabama's Attorney General Office, extracted from Letter from R. Craig Kneisel, Chief, Environmental Division, Office of the Attorney General, dated October 8, 1999, to Dr. Donald F. Oltz, Supervisor, State Oil and Gas Board of Alabama, Subject: Attorney General's Statement for Final Authorization of Alabama Class II Underground injection Control Program.
(d) The Program Description for the Regulation of Hydraulic Fracturing of Coal Beds As required by 40 CFR 145.23—State Oil and Gas Board of Alabama, including Appendices A through F.
[65 FR 2897, Jan. 19, 2000]
§ 147.60
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in Alabama is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148 and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Alabama is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43086, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9411, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart C—Alaska
§ 147.100
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Alaska, other than those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
[May 6, 1986]; the effective date of this program is June 19, 1986. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Alaska. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective June 19, 1986.
(1) Alaska Statutes, Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Act, Title 31, §§ 31.05.005 through 31.30.010 (1979 and Cum. Supp. 1984);
(2) Alaska Statutes, Administrative Procedures Act, Title 44, §§ 44.62.010 through 44.62.650 (1984);
(3) Alaska Administrative Code, Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, 20 AAC 25.005 through 20 AAC 25.570 (Supp. 1986).
(b)
Memorandum of Agreement.
The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region 10, and the Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on January 29, 1986, as amended on June 21, 1988.
(c)
Statement of Legal Authority.
Statement from the Attorney General of the State of Alaska, signed by the Assistant Attorney General on December 10, 1985.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.
[51 FR 16684, May 6, 1986, as amended at 56 FR 9411, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.101
EPA-administered program.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program in the State of Alaska for Class I, III, IV, and V wells, and for all classes of wells on Indian lands, is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date of the UIC program for all non-Class II wells in Alaska and for all wells on Indian lands, is June 25, 1984.
[52 FR 17680, May 11, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 9412, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.102
Aquifer exemptions.
(a) This section identifies any aquifers or their portions exempted in accordance with §§ 144.7(b) and 146.4 of this chapter at the time of program promulgation. EPA may in the future exempt other aquifers or portions, according to applicable procedures, without codifying such exemptions in this section. An updated list of exemptions will be maintained in the Regional office.
(b) The following aquifers are exempted in accordance with the provisions of §§ 144.7(b) and 146.4 of this chapter for Class II injection activities only:
(1) The portions of aquifers in the Kenai Peninsula, greater than the indicated depths below the ground surface, and described by a
1/4
mile area beyond and lying directly below the following oil and gas producing fields:
(i) Swanson River Field—1700 feet.
(ii) Beaver Creek Field—1650 feet.
(iii) Kenai Gas Field—1300 feet.
(2) The portion of aquifers beneath Cook Inlet described by a
1/4
mile area beyond and lying directly below the following oil and gas producing fields:
(i) Granite Point.
(ii) McArthur River Field.
(iii) Middle Ground Shoal Field.
(iv) Trading Bay Field.
(3) The portions of aquifers on the North Slope described by a
1/4
mile area beyond and lying directly below the Kuparuk River Unit oil and gas producing field.
§ 147.103
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
Maximum injection pressure. The owner or operator shall limit injection pressure to the lesser of:
(a) A value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3) (i) or (ii) as applicable; or
(b) A value for well head pressure calculated by using the following formula:
Pm = (0.733-0.433 Sg)d
where:
Pm = injection pressure at the well head in pounds per square inch
Sg = specific gravity of inject fluid (unitless)
d = injection depth in feet.
§ 147.104
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
(a)
Maximum injection pressure.
(1) To meet the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B) of this chapter, the owner or operator:
(i) Shall use an injection pressure no greater than the pressure established by the Regional Administrator for the field or formation in which the well is located. The Regional Administrator shall establish maximum injection pressures after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter, and will inform owners and operators in writing of the applicable maximum pressure; or
(ii) May inject at pressures greater than those specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for the field or formation in which he is operating provided he submits a request in writing to the Regional Administrator, and
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that such injection pressure will not violate the requirement of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B). The Regional Administrator may grant such a request after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter.
(2) Prior to such time as the Regional Administrator establishes rules for maximum injection pressure based on data provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section the owner or operator shall:
(i) Limit injection pressure to a value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii); and
(ii) Submit data acceptable to the Regional Administrator which defines the fracture pressure of the formation in which injection is taking place. A single test may be submitted on behalf of two or more operators conducting operations in the same formation, if the Regional Administrator approves such submission. The data shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator within 1 year of the effective date of this program.
(b)
Casing and cementing.
Where the Regional Administrator determines that the owner or operator of an existing enhanced recovery or hydrocarbon storage well may not be in compliance with the requirements of §§ 144.28(e) and 146.22, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (b) (1) through (4) of this section, when required by the Regional Administrator:
(1) Protect USDWs by:
(i) Cementing surface casing by recirculating the cement to the surface from a point 50 feet below the lowermost USDW; or
(ii) Isolating all USDWs by placing cement between the outermost casing and the well bore; and
(2) Isolate any injection zones by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated space between the casing and the well bore to a point 250 feet above the injection zone; and
(3) Use cement:
(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operating pressure;
(ii) Which is resistant to deterioration from formation and injection fluids; and
(iii) In a quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary to cement off a zone.
(4) The Regional Administrator may specify other requirements in addition to or in lieu of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) as needed to protect USDWs.

# Subpart D—Arizona
§ 147.150
State-administered program. [Reserved]
§ 147.151
EPA-administered program.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program that applies to all injection activities in Arizona, including those on Indian lands, except for Class II wells on Navajo Indian lands for which EPA has granted the Navajo Nation primacy for the SDWA Class II UIC program (as defined in § 147.3400), is administered by EPA. The UIC program for Navajo Indian lands, except for Class II wells on Navajo Indian lands for which EPA has granted the Navajo Nation primacy for the SDWA Class II UIC program, consists of the requirements contained in subpart HHH of this part. The program for all injection activity except that on Navajo Indian lands consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date for the UIC program in Arizona, except for the lands of the Navajo Indians, is June 25, 1984. The effective date for the UIC program on the lands of the Navajo, except for Class II wells on Navajo Indian lands for which EPA has granted the Navajo Nation primacy for the SDWA Class II UIC program (as defined in § 147.3400), is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43086, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9412, Mar. 6, 1991; 73 FR 65564, Nov. 4, 2008]
§ 147.152
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Arkansas
§ 147.200
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV and V wells in the State of Arkansas, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on July 6, 1982 (47 FR 29236); the effective date of this program is July 6, 1982. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Arkansas. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Arkansas Water and Air Pollution Control Act, Act 472 of 1949 as amended, Arkansas Statutes Annotated sections 82-1901 through 82-1943 (1976);
(2) Act 105 of 1939, Arkansas Statutes Annotated sections 53-101 through 53-130 (1971 and Supp. 1981); Act 937 of 1979, Arkansas Statutes Annotated sections 53-1301 through 53-1320 (Supp. 1981); Act 523 of 1981;
(3) Arkansas Underground Injection Control Code, Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, promulgated January 22, 1982;
(4) General Rule and Regulations, Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission (Order No. 2-39, revised July 1972);
(5) Arkansas Hazardous Waste Management Code, Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, promulgated August 21, 1981.
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement and Addendum No. 1 to the Memorandum of Agreement, between EPA Region VI and the Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology and the Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on May 25, 1982.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Letter from Chief Attorney, Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, to Acting Regional Administrator, EPA Region VI, “Re: Legal Authority of the Department of Pollution Control and Ecology of the State of Arkansas to Administer an Underground Injection Control Program,” July 29, 1981;
(2) Letter from Chief Attorney, Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, to Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VI, “Re: Addendum to Legal Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” October 13, 1981;
(3) Letter from General Counsel, Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission, to Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VI, “Re: Supplemental Addendum to Legal Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” October 20, 1981;
(4) Letter from Chief Attorney, Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, to Attorney, Office of Regional Counsel, EPA Region VI (re: status as independent legal counsel), December 31, 1981;
(5) Letter from General Counsel, Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission, to Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VI, “Re: Supplemental Addendum to Legal Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” January 13, 1982;
(6) Letter from Chief Counsel, Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, to Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VI, “Re: Addendum to Legal Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” February 15, 1982;
(7) Letter from Chief Counsel, Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, to Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VI, “Re: Addendum to Legal Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” May 13, 1982.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43086, Oct. 25, 1988]
§ 147.201
State-administered program—Class II wells. [Reserved]
§ 147.205
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in Arkansas is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148 and any additional requirements set forth in this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Arkansas is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43086, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9412, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart F—California
§ 147.250
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of California, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the California Division of Oil and Gas, approved by EPA pursuant to SDWA section 1425.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of California. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) California Laws for Conservation of Petroleum and Gas, California Public Resources Code Div. 3, Chapt. 1, §§ 3000-3359 (1989);
(2) California Administrative Code, title 14, §§ 1710 to 1724.10 (May 28, 1988).
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IX and the California Division of Oil and Gas, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on September 29, 1982.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Letter from California Deputy Attorney General to the Administrator of EPA, “Re: Legal Authority of California Division of Oil and Gas to Carry Out Class II Injection Well Program,” April 1, 1981;
(2) Letter from California Deputy Attorney General to Chief of California Branch, EPA Region IX, “Re: California Application for Primacy, Class II UIC Program,” December 3, 1982.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 52 FR 17681, May 11, 1987; 56 FR 9412, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.251
EPA-administered program—Class I, III, IV and V wells and Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program in the State of California for Class I, III, IV and V wells, and for all classes of wells on Indian lands, is administered by EPA. The program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date for the UIC program for all lands in California, including Indian lands, is June 25, 1984.
[52 FR 17681, May 11, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 9412, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.252
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
§ 147.253
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
Maximum injection pressure. The owner or operator shall limit injection pressure to the lesser of:
(a) A value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3) (i) or (ii) as applicable; or
(b) A value for well head pressure calculated by using the following formula:
Pm = (0.733−0.433 Sg)d
where:
Pm = injection pressure at the well head in pounds per square inch
Sg = specific gravity of inject fluid (unitless)
d = injection depth in feet.

# Subpart G—Colorado
§ 147.300
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Colorado, except those wells on Indian Lands, is the program administered by the Colorado Oil and Gas Commission approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the FR on April 2, 1984 (49 FR 13040); the effective date of this program is April 2, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Colorado. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the State of Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, Department of Natural Resources, Suite 380 Logan Tower Building, 1580 Logan Street, Denver, Colorado, 80203. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region VIII, 999 18th Street, Suite 500, Denver, Colorado, 80202-2405, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(1) Colorado Revised Statutes, 1989 replacement volume, Section 34-60-101 through 34-60-123;
(2) Colorado Revised Statutes, 1989 replacement volume, Section 25-8-101 through 25-8-612;
(3) Rules and Regulations, Rules of Practice and Procedure, and Oil and Gas Conservation Act (As Amended) Department of Natural Resources, Oil and Gas Conservation Commission of the State of Colorado (revised July 1989);
(4) Oil and Gas Conservation Commission Revised Rules and Regulations in the 300, 400, 500, and 600 series, effective March 20, 1989.
(b)
Memorandum of agreement.
The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VIII and the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 3, 1984 and amended on August 30, 1989.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Letter from Colorado Assistant Attorney General to the Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VIII, “Re: Class II Well Underground Injection Control Program of Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission”, March 15, 1983;
(2) Letter from Colorado Assistant Attorney General to the Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VIII, “Re: Class II Well Injection Control Program of Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission”, April 29, 1983;
(3) Letter from Colorado Assistant Attorney General to the Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VIII, “Re: Class II Underground Injection Control Program of Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, interpretation of C.R.S. 1973, 34-60-110”, July 11, 1983;
(4) Letter from Colorado Assistant Attorney General to the Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VIII, “Re: Class II Well Underground Injection Control Program of Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission”, February 17, 1984;
(5) Memorandum from Colorado Assistant Attorney General to the Acting Regional Counsel, EPA Region VIII, “Re: Authority to set and enforce maximum pressure for injecting fluids into Class II wells with existing permits”, March 7, 1984.
(d)
Program description.
The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto:
(1) Application and accompanying materials for approval of Colorado's UIC program for Class II wells submitted by the Director of the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission to the Regional Administrator, May 3, 1983;
(2) Supplemental amendment to Colorado's application for primacy for the UIC program for Class II wells describing the process through which the State will ensure enforceable limits for
maximum injection pressure, describing the Commission's plan of administration for Class II wells, and describing Mechanical Integrity Test procedures for Class II wells, March 7, 1984;
(3) Official correspondence concerning various program issues between the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission and EPA Region VIII, for the period from March 7, 1984 to May 8, 1989.
[56 FR 9412, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.301
EPA-administered program—Class I, III, IV, V wells and Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV and V wells on all lands in Colorado, including Indian lands, and for Class II wells on Indian lands, is administered by EPA. The program for all EPA-administered wells in Colorado other than Class II wells on the lands of the Ute Mountain Ute consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date for the UIC program on all lands in Colorado, including Indian lands, except for Class II wells on lands of the Ute Mountain Ute, is June 25, 1984.
[52 FR 17681, May 11, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 9413, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.302
Aquifer exemptions.
(a) This section identifies any aquifers of their portions exempted in accordance with §§ 144.7(b) and 146.4 of this chapter at the time of program promulgation. EPA may in the future exempt other aquifers or portions according to applicable procedures without codifying such exemptions in this section. An updated list of exemptions will be maintained in the Regional office.
(b) For all aquifers into which existing Class II wells are injecting, those portions within a
1/4
mile radius of the well are exempted for the purpose of Class II injection activities only.
§ 147.303
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
Maximum injection pressure.
The owner or operator shall limit injection pressure to the lesser of:
(a) A value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3) (i) or (ii) as applicable; or
(b) A value for wellhead pressure calculated by using the following formula;
Pm = (0.733-0.433 Sg)d
where:
Pm = injection pressure at the wellhead in pounds per square inch
Sg = specific gravity of injected fluid (unitless)
d = injection depth in feet.
§ 147.304
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
(a)
Maximum injection pressure.
(1) To meet the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B) of this chapter, the owner or operator:
(i) Shall use an injection pressure no greater than the pressure established by the Regional Administrator for the field or formation in which the well is located. The Regional Administrator shall establish such a maximum pressure after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter, and will inform owners and operators in writing of the applicable maximum pressure; or
(ii) May inject at pressures greater than those specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for the field or formation in which he is operating provided he submits a request in writing to the Regional Administrator and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that such injection pressure will not violate the requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B). The Regional Administrator may grant such a request after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter.
(2) Prior to such time as the Regional Administrator establishes rules for maximum injection pressures based on
data provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section the owner or operator shall:
(i) Limit injection pressure to a value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii); and
(ii) Submit data acceptable to the Regional Administrator which defines the fracture pressure of the formation in which injection is taking place. A single test may be submitted on behalf of two or more operators conducting operations in the same formation, if the Regional Administrator approves such submission. The data shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator within one year of the effective date of this program.
(b)
Casing and cementing.
Where the Regional Administrator determines that the owner or operator of an existing enhanced recovery or hydrocarbon storage well may not be in compliance with the requirements of §§ 144.28(e) and 146.22, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (b) (1) through (4) of this section, when required by the Regional Administrator:
(1) Protect USDWs by:
(i) Cementing surface casing by recirculating the cement to the surface from a point 50 feet below the lowermost USDW; or
(ii) Isolating all USDWs by placing cement between the outermost casing and the well bore; and
(2) Isolate any injection zones by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated space between the casing and the well bore to a point 250 feet above the injection zone; and
(3) Use cement:
(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operating pressure;
(ii) Which is resistent to deterioration from formation and injection fluids; and
(iii) In quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary to cement off a zone.
(4) The Regional Administrator may specify other requirements in addition to or in lieu of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) as needed to protect USDWs.
§ 147.305
Requirements for all wells.
(a) The owner or operator converting an existing well to an injection well shall check the condition of the casing with one of the following logging tools:
(1) A Pipe analysis log; or
(2) A Caliper log.
(b) The owner or operator of a new injection well cased with plastic (PVC, ABS, and others) casings shall:
(1) Not construct a well deeper than 500 feet;
(2) Use cement and additives compatible with such casing material;
(3) Cement the annular space above the injection interval from the bottom of the blank casing to the surface.
(c) The owner or operator of a newly drilled well shall install centralizers as directed by the Regional Administrator.
(d) The owner or operator shall as required by the Regional Administrator:
(1) Protect USDWs by:
(i) Setting surface casing 50 feet below the base of the lowermost USDW;
(ii) Cementing surface casing by recirculating the cement to the surface from a point 50 feet below the lowermost USDW; or
(iii) Isolating all USDWs by placing cement between the outermost casing and the well bore; and
(2) Isolate any injection zones by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated space between the casing and the well bore to a point 250 feet above the injection zone; and
(3) Use cement:
(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operating pressure;
(ii) Which is resistant to deterioration from formation and injection fluids; and
(iii) In a quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary to cement off a zone.
(4) The Regional Administrator may approve alternate casing and cementing practices provided that the owner or operator demonstrates that such practices will adequately protect USDWs.
(e)
Area of review.
Notwithstanding the alternatives presented in § 146.6 of this chapter, the area of review shall be
a fixed radius as described in § 146.6(b) of this chapter.
(f) The applicant must give separate notice of intent to apply for a permit to each owner or tenant of the land within one-quarter mile of the site. The addresses of those to whom notice is given, and a description of how notice is given, shall be submitted with the permit application. The notice shall include:
(1) Name and address of applicant;
(2) A brief description of the planned injection activities, including well location, name and depth of the injection zone, maximum injection pressure and volume, and fluid to be injected;
(3) EPA contact person; and
(4) A statement that opportunity to comment will be announced after EPA prepares a draft permit. This requirement may be waived by the Regional Administrator when he determines that individual notice to all land owners and tenants would be impractical.

# Subpart H—Connecticut
§ 147.350
State-administered program.
The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of Connecticut, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the FR on March 26, 1984 (49 FR 11179); the effective date of this program is March 26, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Connecticut. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the State of Connecticut, Department of Environmental Protection, State Office Building, 165 Capitol Avenue, Hartford, Connecticut, 06106. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region I, 5 Post Office Square—Suite 100, Boston, MA 02109-3912, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(1) Connecticut General Statutes Annotated, title 22a (Environmental Protection), chapter 439, sections 22a-1 through 22a-27 (1985 and Cumm. Supp. 1990);
(2) Connecticut General Statutes Annotated, Title 22a (Environmental Protection), Chapter 446K (1985 and Cumm. Supp. 1990).
(b)
Memorandum of Agreement.
The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region I and the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on August 9, 1983.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Statement from the Attorney General of the State of Connecticut, signed by the Attorney General on May 8, 1981;
(2) Addendum to the Statement from the Attorney General of the State of Connecticut, signed by the Attorney General on May 10, 1983.
(d)
Program Description.
The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[56 FR 9413, Mar. 6, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 49673, Aug. 11, 2011]
§§ 147.351-147.352
[Reserved]
§ 147.353
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in Connecticut is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Connecticut is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43086, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9413, Mar. 6, 1991]
§§ 147.354-147.359
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Delaware
§ 147.400
State-administered program.
The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of Delaware, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the FR on April 5, 1984 (49 FR 13525); the effective date of this program is May 7, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Delaware. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 5l. Copies may be obtained at the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, 89 Kings Highway, P.O. Box 1401, Dover, Delaware, 19903. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region III, 841 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19107, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(1) Delaware Environmental Protection Act, (Environmental Control) 7 Delaware Code Annotated, Chapter 60, Sections 6001-6060 (Revised 1974 and Cumm. Supp. 1988);
(2) State of Delaware Regulations Governing Underground Injection Control, parts 122, 124 and 146 (Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control), effective August 15, 1983.
(b)
Memorandum of agreement.
The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region III and the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 28, 1984.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
Statement of the Delaware Attorney General for the Underground Injection Control Program, signed by the Attorney General on January 26, 1984.
(d)
Program Description.
The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application (August 10, 1983), or as supplements thereto (October 14, 1983).
[56 FR 9413, Mar. 6, 1991]
§§ 147.401-147.402
[Reserved]
§ 147.403
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in Delaware is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Delaware is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43086, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9413, Mar. 6, 1991]
§§ 147.404-147.449
[Reserved]

# Subpart J—District of Columbia
§ 147.450
State-administered program. [Reserved]
§ 147.451
EPA-administered program.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for the District of Columbia, including any Indian lands in the District, is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in the District of Columbia is November 25, 1988. The effective date for the UIC
program in the rest of the District is June 25, 1984.
[53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9413, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.452
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Florida
§ 147.500
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Florida, except for those on Indian lands is administered by the Florida Department of Environmental Regulations, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on February 7, 1983 (48 FR 5556); the effective date of this program is March 9, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Florida. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Florida Air and Water Pollution Control Act, Florida Statutes Annotated sections 403.011 through 403.90 (1973 and Supp. 1983);
(2) Chapter 17-28, Underground Injection Control, Florida Administrative Code (April 27, 1989).
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations although not incorporated by reference, also are part of the approved State-administered program:
(1) Administrative Procedures Act, Florida Statutes Chapter 120;
(2) Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 17-1 (1982) (Administrative Procedures Act);
(3) Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 17-3 (1982) (Water Quality Standards);
(4) Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 17-4 (1982) (Permits);
(5) Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 28-5 (1982) (Decisions Determining Substantial Interests);
(6) Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 28-6 (1982) (Licensing);
(c) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IV and the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 31, 1983.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) “Statement of Legal Authority for Implementation of Underground Injection Control Program” and accompanying certifications, signed by General Counsel for the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation, January 14, 1982;
(2) “Addendum to Statement of Legal Authority for Implementation of Underground Injection Control Program” and accompanying certifications, signed by Acting General Counsel for the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation, September 20, 1982.
(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9414, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.501
EPA-administered program—Class II wells and Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands and for Class II wells on non-Indian lands in the State of Florida is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Florida is November 25, 1988. The effective date for Class II wells on non-Indian lands is December 30, 1984.
[53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9414, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.502
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
§ 147.503
Existing Class II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) wells authorized by rule.
Maximum injection pressure.
To meet the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(i) of this chapter, the owner or operator shall use an injection pressure at the well head no greater than the pressure calculated using the following formula:
Pm = (0.733−0.433 Sg)d
where:
Pm = injection pressure at the well head in pounds per square inch
Sg = specific gravity of injected fluid (unitless)
d = injection depth in feet.
[49 FR 45306, Nov. 15, 1984]
§ 147.504
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
(a)
Maximum injection pressure.
(1) To meet the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B) of this chapter, the owner or operator:
(i) Shall use an injection pressure no greater than the pressure established by the Regional Administrator for the field or formation in which the well is located. The Regional Administrator shall establish such a maximum pressure after notice, opportunity for comment and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter, and will inform owners and operators in writing of the applicable maximum pressure; or
(ii) May inject at pressure greater than those specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for the field or formation in which he is operating provided he submits a request in writing to the Regional Administrator, and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that such injection pressure will not violate the requirement of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B). The Regional Administrator may grant such a request after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter.
(2) Prior to such time as the Regional Administrator establishes rules for maximum injection pressure based on data provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section the owner or operator shall:
(i) Limit injection pressure to a value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii); and
(ii) Submit data acceptable to the Regional Administrator which defines the fracture pressure of the formation in which injection is taking place. A single test may be submitted on behalf of two or more operators conducting operations in the same formation, if the Regional Administrator approves such submission. The data shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator within 1 year of the effective date of this program.
(b)
Casing and cementing.
Where the Regional Administrator determines that the owner or operator of an existing enhanced recovery or hydrocarbon storage well may not be in compliance with the requirements of §§ 144.28(e) and 146.22, the owner or operator shall, when required by the Regional Administrator:
(1) Protect USDWs by:
(i) Cementing surface casing by recirculating the cement to the surface from a point 50 feet below the lowermost USDW; or
(ii) Isolating all USDWs by placing cement between the outermost casing and the well bore; and
(2) Isolate any injection zones by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated space between the casing and the well bore to a point 250 feet above the injection zone; and
(3) Use cement:
(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operating pressure;
(ii) Which is resistant to deterioration from formation and injection fluids; and
(iii) In a quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary to cement off a zone.
(4) Comply with other requirements which the Regional Administrator may specify either in addition to or in lieu
of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section as needed to protect USDWs.
(c)
Area of review.
Notwithstanding the alternatives presented in § 146.06 of this chapter, the area of review shall be a minimum fixed radius as described in § 146.06(b) of this chapter.
(The information collection requirements contained in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) were appoved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2040-0042)
[49 FR 45306, Nov. 15, 1984]

# Subpart L—Georgia
§ 147.550
State-administered program.
The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of Georgia, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on April 19, 1984 (49 FR 15553); the effective date of this program is May 21, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph (a) are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Georgia. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division, 2 Martin Luther King Jr. Drive SE, East Tower—Suite 1456, Atlanta, Georgia 30334-9000. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region IV, 61 Forsyth Street SW, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-8960, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov
.
(1) Oil and Gas and Deep Drilling Act of 1975, Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A.) §§ 12-4-40 through 12-4-53 (1988);
(2) Ground Water Use Act of 1972, O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-90 through 12-5-107 (1988);
(3) Water Well Standards Act of 1985, O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-120, through 12-5-138 (1988);
(4) Georgia Administrative Procedure Act, O.C.G.A. §§ 50-13-1 through 50-13-22 (Reprinted from the O.C.G.A. and 1988 Cumm. Supp.);
(5) Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-20 through 12-5-53 (1988);
(6) Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. §§ 12-8-60 through 12-8-83 (1988);
(7) Georgia Safe Drinking Water Act of 1977, O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-170 through 12-5-193 (1988);
(8) Rules of Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division, Water Quality Control, GA. COMP. R.
REGS. Chapter 391-3-6-.13 (Revised July 28, 1988).
(b)
Memorandum of Agreement.
The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IV and the State of Georgia, signed March 1, 1984.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Unofficial Opinion of the Georgia Attorney General, Op. Atty. Gen. 080-24, June 12, 1980;
(2) Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement, February 4, 1982;
(3) Amended Attorney General's Statement Relating to Authority of the State of Georgia to Implement an Underground Injection Control Program, April 22, 1983;
(4) Letter to EPA Office of General Counsel from Senior Assistant Attorney General “Re: State UIC Program”, July 13, 1983.
(d)
Program Description.
The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[56 FR 9414, Mar. 6, 1991; 56 FR 14150, Apr. 5, 1991, as amended at 89 FR 86750, Oct. 31, 2024]
§§ 147.551-147.552
[Reserved]
§ 147.553
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Georgia is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Georgia is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9414, Mar. 6, 1991]
§§ 147.554-147.559
[Reserved]

# Subpart M—Hawaii
§ 147.600
State-administered program. [Reserved]
§ 147.601
EPA-administered program.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for the State of Hawaii, including all Indian lands, is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Hawaii is November 25, 1988. The effective date for the UIC program for all other lands in Hawaii is December 30, 1984.
[53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9414, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart N—Idaho
§ 147.650
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the state of Idaho, other than those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Idaho Department of Water Resources, approved by the EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the Safe Drinking Water Act. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on June 7, 1985; the effective date of this program is July 22, 1985. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to the EPA in Idaho's program application.
Note:
Because the EPA subsequently transferred the Class II UIC program from the Idaho Department of Water Resources to the EPA, references to Class II in the following elements are no longer relevant or applicable for federal UIC purposes.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Idaho. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective July 22, 1985.
(1) Public Writings, Title 9, Chapter 3, Idaho Code, sections 9-301 through 9-302 (Bobbs-Merrill 1979);
(2) Crimes and Punishments, Title 18, Chapter 1, Idaho Code, sections 18-113 through 18-114 (Bobbs-Merrill 1979 and Supp. 1984);
(3) Department of Health and Welfare, Title 39, Chapter 1, Idaho Code, Chapter 39-108 (Bobbs-Merrill 1977);
(4) Drainage-Water Rights and Reclamation, Title 42, Chapter 2, Idaho Code sections 42-237(e); section 42-238 (Bobbs-Merrill 1977 and Supp. 1984);
(5) Department of Water Resources-Water Resources Board, Title 42, Chapter 17, Idaho Code, sections 42-1701, 42-1703, 42-1735 (Bobbs-Merrill 1977, section 42-1701A (Supp. 1984);
(6) Director of Department of Water Resources, Title 42, Chapter 18, Idaho Code, sections 42-1801 through 42-1805 (Bobbs-Merrill 1977);
(7) Waste Disposal and Injection Wells, Title 42, Chapter 39, Idaho Code, sections 42-3901 through 42-3914 (Bobbs-Merrill 1977), sections 42-3915 through 42-3919 (Supp. 1984);
(8) Idaho Trade Secrets Act, Title 48, Chapter 8, Idaho Code, sections 48-801 through 48-807 (Bobbs-Merrill 1977 and Supp. 1984);
(9) Administrative Procedure, Title 67, Chapter 52, Idaho Code, sections
67-5201 through 67-5218 (Bobbs-Merrill 1980 and Supp. 1984);
(10) Idaho Radiation Control Regulations (IRCR section 1-9002.70; sections 1-9100 through 1-9110, Department of Health and Welfare (May 1981);
(11) Rules and Regulations: Construction and Use of Injection Wells, Idaho Department of Water Resources, Rules 1 through 14 (August 1984);
(12) Rules and Regulations: Practice and Procedures, Idaho Department of Water Resources, Rules 1 through 14 (October 1983).
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA and Region X and the Idaho Department of Water Resources signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on February 11, 1985.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) The Idaho Attorney General's Statement for the Underground Injection Control Program, October 31, 1984.
(2) Letter from David J. Barber, Deputy Attorney General, Idaho Department of Water Resources to Harold Scott, EPA, Region 10, revising the Attorney General's Statement, February 14, 1985.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[50 FR 23957, June 7, 1985, as amended at 83 FR 36435, July 30, 2018]
§ 147.651
EPA-administered program—Class II wells and all wells on Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The EPA administers the UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands and for Class II wells on non-Indian lands in the state of Idaho. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and the EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Idaho is June 11, 1984. The effective date of the UIC program for Class II wells on non-Indian lands in Idaho is July 30, 2018.
[83 FR 36435, July 30, 2018]
§ 147.652
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]

# Subpart O—Illinois
§ 147.700
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV and V wells in the State of Illinois, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of the approval was published in the
Federal Register
on February 1, 1984 (49 FR 3991); the effective date of this program is March 3, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the state statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Illinois. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Illinois Environmental Protection Act, Illinois ch. 111
1/2
, sections 1001 to 1051 (Smith-Hurd 1977 Revised Statutes and Supp. 1983), as amended by Public Act No. 83-431, 1983 Illinois Legislative Service, pages 2910 to 2916 (West);
(2) Illinois Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations at Title 35, Illinois Administrative Code, Chapter I, Part 700, Outline of Waste Disposal Regulations; Part 702, RCRA and UIC Permit Programs; Part 704, UIC Permit Program; Part 705, Procedures for Permit Issuance and Part 730, Underground Injection Control Operating Requirements as amended by IPCB Order No. R-83039 on December 15, 1983.
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region V and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 22, 1984.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
Letter from Illinois Attorney General to Regional Administrator, EPA Region V, and attached statement, December 16, 1982.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988]
§ 147.701
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Illinois, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of the approval was published in the
Federal Register
on February 1, 1984 (49 FR 3990); the effective date of this program is March 3, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the state's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State Statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Illinois. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Conservation of Oil and Gas, etc., Illinois Revised Statutes ch. 96
1/2
, sections 5401 to 5457 (Smith-Hurd 1979 and Supp. 1983), as amended by Public Act No. 83-1074 1983 Illinois Legislative Service pages 7183 to 7185 (West);
(2) Illinois Environmental Protection Act, Illinois Revised Statutes ch. 111
1/2
, sections 1001-1051 (Smith-Hurd 1977 and Supp. 1983), as amended by Public Act No. 83-431, 1983 Illinois Legislative Services pages 2910 to 2916 (West);
(3) Illinois Revised Statutes ch. 100
1/2
, section 26 (Smith-Hurd Supp. 1983);
(4) Illinois Department of Mines and Minerals Regulations for the Oil and Gas Division, Rules I, II, IIA, III, V, VII, and IX (1981).
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region V and the Illinois Department of Mines and Minerals, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 22, 1984.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
“Certification of Legal Authority,” signed by State Attorney, Richland County, Illinois, May 5, 1982.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988]
§ 147.703
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Illinois is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date for the UIC program for Indian lands is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9414, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart P—Indiana
§ 147.750
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II injection wells in the State of Indiana on non-Indian lands is the program administered by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (INDR) approved by the EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the FR on August 19, 1991; the effective date of this program is August 19, 1991. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Indiana. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the FR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Division of Oil and Gas, 402 West Washington Street, room 293, Indianapolis, Indiana, 46204. Copies may be inspected
at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region V, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois, 60604, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(1) Indiana Code, title 4, article 21.5, chapters 1 through 6 (1988).
(2) West's Annotated Indiana Code, title 13, article 8, chapters 1 through 15 (1990 and Cumm. Supp. 1990).
(3) Indiana Administrative Code, title 310, article 7, rules 1 through 3 (Cumm. Supp. 1991).
(b)
Memorandum of agreement.
The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region V and the Indiana Department of Natural Resources signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on February 18, 1991.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
Statement and Amendment to the Statement from the Attorney General of the State of Indiana, signed on July 12, 1990, and December 13, 1990, respectively.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.
[56 FR 41072, Aug. 19, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 1834, Jan. 14, 1997]
§ 147.751
EPA-administered program.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands, and for Class I, III, IV, and V wells on non-Indian lands in the State of Indiana is administered by the EPA. The program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, and 148 and the additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date for the UIC program on Indian lands is November 25, 1988. The effective date of the UIC program for the rest of Indiana is June 25, 1984.
[53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9414, Mar. 6, 1991; 56 FR 41072, Aug. 19, 1991]
§ 147.752
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
§ 147.753
Existing Class I and III wells authorized by rule.
Maximum injection pressure.
The owner or operator shall limit injection pressure to the lessor of:
(a) A value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3) (i) or (ii) as applicable; or
(b) A value for well head pressure calculated by using the following formula:
Pm = (0.800-0.433 Sg)d
where:
Pm = injection pressure at the wellhead in pounds per square inch
Sg = specific gravity of injected fluid (unitless)
d = injection depth in feet.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 56 FR 41072, Aug. 19, 1991]

# Subpart Q—Iowa
§ 147.800
State-administered program. [Reserved]
§ 147.801
EPA-administered program.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for the State of Iowa, including all Indian lands, is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date for the UIC program for all lands in Iowa, including Indian lands, is June 25, 1984.
[52 FR 17681, May 11, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 9415, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.802
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]

# Subpart R—Kansas
§ 147.850
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV and V wells.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV and V wells in the State of Kansas, except those on Indian lands as described in § 147.860, is the program administered by the Kansas Department of
Health and Environment, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on December 2, 1983 (48 FR 54350); the effective date of this program is December 2, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Kansas. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the Kansas Department of Health and Environment, Charles Curtis State Office Building, 1000 SW. Jackson, Topeka, Kansas 66612. Copies may be inspected at EPA Region 7, 11201 Renner Boulevard, Lenexa, Kansas 66219, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(1) Chapter 28, Article 46, Underground Injection Control Regulations, Kansas Administrative Regulations §§ 28-46-1 through 28-46-42 (1986 and Supp. 1987);
(2) Chapter 28, Article 43, Construction, operation, monitoring and abandonment of salt solution mining wells, Kansas Administrative Regulations §§ 28-43-1 through 28-43-10 (1986);
(3) Kansas Statutes Annotated §§ 65-161, 65-164 through 65-166a, 65-171d (1980 and Cumm. Supp. 1989).
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference except for the select sections identified in paragraph (a) of this section, are also part of the approved State-administered program: Kansas Statutes Annotated §§ 65-161 through 65-171(w), (1980 and Supp. 1983).
(c)
Memorandum of Agreement.
(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VII and the Kansas Department of Health and Environment, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on July 29, 1983;
(2) Addendum No. 1 of the Memorandum of Agreement, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on August 29, 1983.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) “Statement of Attorney General”, signed by the Attorney General of the State of Kansas, November 25, 1981;
(2) “Supplemental Statement of Attorney General”, signed by the Attorney General of the State of Kansas, undated (one page).
(e)
Program description.
The program description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or supplements thereto.
[49 FR 45306, Nov. 15, 1984, as amended at 56 FR 9415, Mar. 6, 1991; 78 FR 37978, June 25, 2013]
§ 147.851
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Kansas, except those on Indian lands as described in § 147.860, is the program administered by the Kansas Corporation Commission and the Kansas Department of Health and Environment, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on February 8, 1984 (49 FR 4735); the effective date of this program is February 8, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
[49 FR 45306, Nov. 15, 1984]
§§ 147.852-147.859
[Reserved]
§ 147.860
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Kansas is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Kansas is December 30, 1984.
[49 FR 45307, Nov. 15, 1984, as amended at 56 FR 9415, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart S—Kentucky
§ 147.900
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II injection wells in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, except for those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Kentucky Department of Natural Resources, Division of Oil and Gas approved by the EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notification of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on December 28, 2016; the effective date of this program is January 27, 2017. Table 1 to paragraph (a) of this section is the table of contents of the Kentucky state statutes and regulations incorporated as follows by reference. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to the EPA in the state's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the Kentucky State statutes and regulations cited in the binder entitled “EPA-Approved Commonwealth of Kentucky Safe Drinking Water Act § 1425 Underground Injection Control (UIC) Program Statutes and Regulations for Class II wells,” dated August 2016 is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the Commonwealth of Kentucky. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the Kentucky regulations may be obtained or inspected at the Kentucky Department of Natural Resources, Division of Oil and Gas, 3th Floor, 300 Sower Blvd., Frankfort, Kentucky 40601, (315) 532-0191; at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 4, 61 Forsyth Street SW., Atlanta, Georgia 30303-8960, (404) 562-8190; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)—EPA-Approved Kentucky SDWA § 1425 Underground Injection Control Program Statutes and Regulations for Class II Wells
State citation
Title/subject
State effective date
EPA approval date
1
Kentucky Revised Statutes Chapter 13B
Kentucky Administrative Procedures Act KRS 13B.005 to 13B.170
June 15, 1994
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
Kentucky Revised Statutes 353.180
Requirements for plugging abandoned well—Bids—Remedy for possessor of adjacent land or for department
June 24, 2015
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
Kentucky Revised Statutes 353.510
Definition of KRS 353.500 to 353.720
July 15, 2010
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
Kentucky Revised Statutes 353.520
Territorial application of KRS 353.500 to 353.720—Waste of oil and gas prohibited
June 24, 2003
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
Kentucky Revised Statutes 353.550
Specific authority over oil and gas operators
July 15, 1996
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
Kentucky Revised Statutes 353.570
Permit Required—May authorize operation prior to issuance of permit
July 15, 1998
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
Kentucky Revised Statutes 353.590
Application for permit—Fees-Plat-Bond to insure plugging—Schedule—Blanket bonds-Corporate guarantee—Use of forfeited funds—Oil and gas well. plugging fund—Wells not included in “water supply well.”
July 15, 2010
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
Kentucky Revised Statutes 353.591
Purpose and application of KRS 353.592 and 353.593
July 15, 1986
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
Kentucky Revised Statutes 353.592
Powers of the department
June 24, 2015
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
Kentucky Revised Statutes 353.593
Appeals
July 15, 1996
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
Kentucky Revised Statutes 353.992
Penalties
July 15, 1986
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
805 Kentucky Administrative Regulations 1:020
Providing Protection for USDWs
August 9, 2007
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
805 Kentucky Administrative Regulations 1:030
Well location and as-drilled location plat, preparation, form and contents
October 23, 2009
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
805 Kentucky Administrative Regulations 1:060
Plugging wells; non-coal-bearing strata
June 11, 1975
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
805 Administrative Regulations 1:070
Plugging wells; coal bearing strata
October 23, 1975
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
805 Kentucky Administrative Regulations 1:110
Underground Injection Control
April 4, 2008
12/28/2016, 81 FR 95480
1
In order to determine the EPA effective date for a specific provision listed in this table, consult the
Federal Register
document cited in this column for the particular provision.
(b)
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA).
The MOA between EPA Region 4 and the Commonwealth of Kentucky Department of Natural Resources signed by EPA Regional Administrator on October 20, 2015.
(c)
Statements of Legal Authority.
“Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement,” signed by General Counsel of Kentucky Energy and Environmental Cabinet on June 7, 2010.
(d)
Program Description.
The Program Description submitted as part of Kentucky's application, and any other materials submitted as part of this application or as a supplement thereto.
[81 FR 95483, Dec. 28, 2016]
§ 147.901
EPA-administered program—Class I, III, IV, V, and VI wells and Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, V and VI wells and all wells on Indian lands in the Commonwealth of Kentucky is administered by the EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date for the UIC program on Indian lands is November 25, 1988. The effective date for the UIC program in the remainder of Kentucky is June 25, 1984.
[53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9415, Mar. 6, 1991; 81 FR 95484, Dec. 28, 2016]
§ 147.902
Acquifer exemptions.
(a) This section identifies any aquifers or their portions exempted in accordance with §§ 144.7(b) and 146.4 of this chapter. These aquifers are not being proposed for exemption under the Commonwealth of Kentucky's primacy approval. Rather, the exempted aquifers listed below were previously approved while EPA had primary enforcement authority for the Class II UIC program in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and are included here for reference. Additional information pertinent to these exempted aquifers or their portions resides in EPA Region 4.
(1) The following eight aquifers (underground sources of drinking water) in the Commonwealth of Kentucky have been exempted in accordance with the provisions of §§ 144.7(b) and 146.4 of this chapter for Class II injection activities only: A portion of the Tar Springs sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.7261 and longitude −86.6914. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 280 feet.
(2) A portion of the Tar Springs sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.7294 and longitude −867212. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 249 feet.
(3) A portion of the Tar Springs sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.7055 and longitude −86.7177. The formation has
a true vertical depth from surface of 210 feet.
(4) A portion of the Pennsylvanian Age sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.5402 and longitude −87.2551. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 1,050 feet.
(5) A portion of the Tar Springs sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.7301 and longitude −87.6922. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 240 feet.
(6) A portion of the Caseyville sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.5776 and longitude −87.1321. The formation had a true vertical depth from surface of 350 feet.
(7) A portion of the Caseyville sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.5778 and longitude −87.1379. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 1,080 feet.
(8) A portion of the Caseyville sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.5652 and longitude −87.1222. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 1,060 feet.
(b) [Reserved]
[81 FR 95484, Dec. 28, 2016]
§ 147.903
Existing Class I and III wells authorized by rule.
Maximum injection pressure.
The owner or operator shall limit injection pressure to the lesser of:
(a) A value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3) (i) or (ii) as applicable or;
(b) A value for well head pressure calculated by using the following formula:
Pm = (0.733-0.433 Sg)d
where:
Pm = injection pressure at the well head in pounds per square inch
Sg = specific gravity of inject fluid (unitless)
d = injection depth in feet.
§ 147.904
[Reserved]
§ 147.905
Requirements for all wells—area of review.
Notwithstanding the alternatives presented in § 146.6 of this chapter, the area of review shall be a minimum fixed radius as described in § 146.6(b) of this chapter.

# Subpart T—Louisiana
§ 147.950
State-administered program—Class I, II, III, IV, V and VI wells.
The UIC program for Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Louisiana, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources approved by EPA pursuant to sections 1422 and 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on April 23, 1982; the effective date of this program is March 23, 1982. The UIC Program for Class VI wells in Louisiana, except those located on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources, approved by EPA pursuant to SDWA section 1422. The effective date of this program is February 5, 2024. The UIC program for Class I, II, III, IV, V, and VI wells in the State of Louisiana, except those located on Indian lands, consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application and program revision application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the state statutes and regulations approved by the EPA for including in “EPA-approved Louisiana SDWA § 1422 and § 1425 Underground Injection Control Program Statutes and Regulations for Well Classes I, II, III, IV, V, and VI, dated November 8, 2023, and listed in table 1 to this paragraph (a), are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Louisiana. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the State of Louisiana's statutes and regulations that are incorporated by reference may be inspected at the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, Region VI Library, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Dallas, Texas 75270 and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Water Docket, EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC), EPA WJC West, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20004. If you wish to obtain materials from the EPA Regional Office, please call (214) 665-7515, or from the EPA Headquarters Library, please call the Water Docket at (202) 566-2426. You may also view this material at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)—EPA-Approved Louisiana SDWA Sec. 1422 and Sec. 1425 Underground Injection Control Program Statutes and Regulations for Well Classes I, II, III, IV, V, and VI
State citation
Title/subject
State effective date
EPA approval date
Louisiana Revised Statutes Annotated §§ 30:1-30:24
Minerals, Oil, and Gas and Environmental Quality
January 1, 1975, and Supp. 1982
June 25, 1984.
Louisiana Administrative Code 43: XVII Chapter 1 (Statewide Order No. 29-N-1)
Underground Injection Control Program Regulations for Class I, III, IV, and V wells
February 20, 1982, as amended June 1, 1985 and January 20, 1986
March 6, 1991.
Louisiana Administrative Code 43: XIX Chapters 1-6 (Statewide Order No. 29-B)
Statewide Order Governing the Drilling for and Producing of Oil and Gas in the State of Louisiana
August 26, 1974 as amended July 20, 1980, January 1 1981, February 20, 1982, May 20, 1983, May 20, 1984, and July 1 1985
March 6, 1991.
Louisiana Administrative Code 43: XVII Chapter 3 (Statewide Order No. 29-M)
Hydrocarbon Storage Wells in Salt Dome Cavities
July 6, 1977, as amended October 2, 1978, June 8, 1979
June 25, 1984.
Louisiana Revised Statutes Annotated §§ 30:1101-30:1112
Louisiana Geologic Sequestration of Carbon dioxide Act
July 10, 2009 as amended June 14, 2023
January 5, 2024, 89 FR 711.
Louisiana Administrative Code 43: XVII Chapter 36 (Statewide Order No. 29-N-6)
Class VI Injection Wells
January 20, 2021
January 5, 2024, 89 FR 711.
(1) Louisiana Revised Statutes Annotated sections 30:1-30:24 (1975 and Supp. 1982);
(2) Underground Injection Control Program Regulations for Class I, III, IV, and V wells, Statewide Order No. 29-N-1 (February 20, 1982), as amended June 1, 1985 and January 20, 1986;
(3)(i) Statewide Order Governing the Drilling for and Producing of Oil and Gas in the State of Louisiana, Statewide Order No. 29-B (August 26, 1974) (Composite Order Incorporating Amendments through March 1, 1974);
(ii) Amendments to Statewide Order No. 29-B (Off-site Disposal of Drilling Mud and Salt Water Generated from Drilling and Production of Oil and Gas Wells) (effective July 20, 1980);
(iii) Amendment to Statewide Order No. 29-B (Amendment concerning the use of Tables 5A and 6A, etc.) (December 15, 1980, effective January 1, 1981);
(iv) Amendment to Statewide Order No. 29-B (Amendment concerning the underground injection control of saltwater disposal wells, enhanced recovery injection wells, and liquid hydrocarbon storage wells) (effective February 20, 1982);
(v) Amendment to Statewide Order No. 29-B (Amendment concerning the offsite disposal of drilling mud and saltwater) (effective May 20, 1983);
(vi) Amendment to Statewide Order No. 29-B (Amendment concerning disposal of nonhazardous oilfield waste) (March 20, 1984, effective May 20, 1984);
(vii) Amendment to Statewide Order No. 29-B (Amendment concerning the administrative approval of injectivity tests and pilot projects in order to determine the feasibility of proposed enhanced recovery projects) (June 20, 1985, effective July 1, 1985).
(4)(i) Statewide Order adopting rules and regulations pertaining to the use of salt dome cavities (
i.e.
, storage chambers) for storage of liquid and/or gaseous hydrocarbons, etc., Statewide Order No. 29-M (July 6, 1977, effective July 20, 1977);
(ii) Supplement to Statewide Order No. 29-M (October 2, 1978);
(iii) Second Supplement to Statewide Order No. 29-M (June 8, 1979).
(b)
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA).
(1) The Memorandum of Agreement (Class I, III, IV, and V wells) between EPA Region VI and the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources, Office of Conservation, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 17, 1982 and amended by Addendum 1 and Addendum 2 on November 3, 1989;
(2) The Memorandum of Agreement (Class II wells) between EPA Region VI and the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources, Office of Conservation, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 17, 1982.
(3) Memorandum of Agreement Addendum 3 between the State of Louisiana and EPA, Region VI for the UIC Class VI Program, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 3, 2023.
(4) Letter from Governor of Louisiana to Regional Administrator, EPA Region VI, March 4, 2021.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Letter from Attorney General of Louisiana to EPA, “Re: Louisiana Underground Injection Control Program Authorization for State of Louisiana” (Class I, III, IV and V Wells), January 13, 1982, (10 pages);
(2) Letter from Attorney General of Louisiana to EPA, “Re: Louisiana Underground Injection Control Program Authorization for State of Louisiana” (Class II Wells), January 13, 1982 (5 pages).
(3) Letter from Attorney General of Louisiana to EPA, “Re: Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Well Regulatory Program; Attorney General's Statement, October 9, 1989 (9 pages);
(4) Attorney General's Statement “Attorney General's Statement to Accompany Louisiana's Underground Injection Control Program Class VI Primacy Application,” signed by the Attorney General for the State of Louisiana, February 10, 2021.
(d)
Program Description.
The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or amendment thereto, and the Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the program revision application or amendment thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 56 FR 9415, Mar. 6, 1991; 89 FR 711, Jan. 5, 2024]
§ 147.951
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Louisiana is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Louisiana is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43087, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9415, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart U—Maine
§ 147.1000
State-administered program.
The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of Maine, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Maine Department of Environmental Protection approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on August 25, 1983 (48 FR 38641); the effective date of this program is September 26, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Maine. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR on June 25, 1984.
(1) Maine Revised Statutes Annotated title 38, sections 361-A, 363-B, 413, 414, 414-A, 420, and 1317-A (1978);
(2) Rules to Control the Subsurface Discharge of Pollutants by Well Injection, Rules of the Department of Environmental Protection, Chapter 543 (adopted June 22, 1983, effective July 4, 1983).
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region I and the Maine Department of Environmental Protection, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on May 16, 1983.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
Letter from Attorney General of Maine to EPA Regional Administrator, “Re: Attorney General's Statement: Maine Underground Injection Control Program Primacy Application,” June 30, 1983.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9415, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.1001
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Maine is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Maine is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9416, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart V—Maryland
§ 147.1050
State-administered program—Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells.
The UIC program for Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Maryland, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Maryland Department of the Environment approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the FR on April 19, 1984 (49 FR 15553); the effective date of this program is June 4, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Maryland. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the Maryland Department of the Environment, 2500 Broening Highway, Baltimore, Maryland, 21224. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region III, 841 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19107, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(1) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 08, Chapter 07 promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989;
(2) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 08, Chapter 01, promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989;
(3) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 08, Chapter 02, promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989;
(4) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 08, Chapter 03, promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989;
(5) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 08, Chapter 04, promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989;
(6) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 13, Chapter 05, section .19, promulgated and effective as of August 1, 1989;
(7) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 01, Chapter 02, promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989;
(8) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 01, Chapter 04, promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989.
(b)
Memorandum of Agreement.
The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region III and the Maryland Department of the Environment, as submitted on August 2, 1983, and revised on February 16, 1984.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
Statement from the Maryland Attorney General on the Underground Injection Control Program, as submitted on August 2, 1983, and revised on February 16, 1984.
(d)
Program Description.
The Program Description and other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[56 FR 9416, Mar. 6, 1991]
§§ 147.1051-147.1052
[Reserved]
§ 147.1053
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Maryland is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Maryland is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9416, Mar. 6, 1991]
§§ 147.1054-147.1099
[Reserved]

# Subpart W—Massachusetts
§ 147.1100
State-administered program.
The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of Massachusetts, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on November 23, 1982 (47 FR 52705); the effective date of this program is December 23, 1982. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Massachusetts. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Massachusetts General Laws Annotated chapter 21, sections 27, 43, and 44 (West 1981);
(2) Code of Massachusetts Regulations, title 310, sections 23.01-23.11 as amended April 26, 1982.
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region I and the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on August 18, 1982.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
“Underground Injection Control Program—Attorney General's Statement for Class I, II, III, IV and V Injection Wells,” signed by Assistant Attorney General for Attorney General of Massachusetts, May 13, 1982.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988]
§ 147.1101
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Massachusetts is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Massachusetts is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9416, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart X—Michigan
§ 147.1150
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II injection wells in the State of Michigan, except for those in Indian country, is the program administered by the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy, approved by EPA pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) section 1425. The effective date of this program is August 29, 2022. Table 1 to paragraph (a) of this section is the table of contents of the Michigan State statutes and regulations incorporated as follows by reference. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to the EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State's statutes and regulations approved by EPA for inclusion in “EPA-Approved State of Michigan Safe Drinking Water Act § 1425 Underground Injection Control (UIC) Program Statutes and Regulations for Class II wells,” dated November 24, 2020, and listed in Table 1 to this paragraph (a), are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under SDWA for the State of Michigan. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the Michigan regulations and statutes that are incorporated by reference may be inspected at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Water Docket, EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC), EPA WJC West, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20004; the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois 60604; or the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy, Oil, Gas, and Minerals Division, Constitution Hall, 525 West Allegan Street, Lansing, Michigan 48909; telephone number (517) 284-6823. If you wish to obtain materials from the EPA Headquarters in Washington DC, please call the Water Docket at (202) 566-2426 or from the EPA Regional Office, please call (312) 353-2147. You may also inspect the materials at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)—EPA-Approved State of Michigan SDWA Section 1425 Underground Injection Control Program Statutes and Regulations for Well Class II
State citation
Title/subject
State effective date
EPA approval date
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Act 451 of 1994, Part 615 (Supervisor of Wells), Michigan Compiled Laws (MCL) Sections 324.61501—324.61527
Supervisor of Wells
Effective September 10, 2004
July 28, 2022, 87 FR 45251
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Act 451 of 1994, Part 13 (Permits), MCL Sections 324.1301-324.1317
Permits
Effective March 29, 2019
July 28, 2022, 87 FR 45251
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Act 451 of 1994, Part 616 (Orphan Well Fund), MCL Sections 324.61601-324.61607
Orphan Well Fund
Effective May 24, 1995
July 28, 2022, 87 FR 45251
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Act 451 of 1994, Part 17 (Michigan Environmental Protection Act), MCL Sections 324.1701-324.1706
Michigan Environmental Protection Act
Effective March 30, 1995
July 28, 2022, 87 FR 45251
Administrative Procedures Act, Act 306 of 1969, MCL Sections 24.201-24.328
Administrative Procedures Act
Effective June 29, 2018
July 28, 2022, 87 FR 45251
Revised Judicature Act of 1961, Act 236 of 1961, MCL Section 600.631
Revised Judicature Act
Effective April 1, 1974
July 28, 2022, 87 FR 45251
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality Part 615 (Oil and Gas Operations) Administrative Rules, Michigan Administrative Code (MAC) as follows: R 324.101 to 324.199, R 324.201 to 324.208, R 324.210 to 324.216, R 324.401 to 324.422, R 324.501 to 324.504, R 324.507, R 324.508, R 324.510, R 324.511, R 324.701 to 324.705, R 324.801 to 324.808, R 324.810 to 324.816, R 324.901 to 324.904, R 324.1001 to 324.1013, R 324.1015, R 324.1101 to 324.1130, R 324.1201 to 324.1212, R 324.1301, and R 324.1401 to 324.1406
Oil and Gas Operations (administrative rules)
Effective 2019
July 28, 2022, 87 FR 45251
Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs (Contested Case Procedures for Department of Environmental Quality) Administrative Rules, MAC, R 324.73 and R 324.74
General Provisions (administrative rules)
Effective 2003
July 28, 2022, 87 FR 45251
Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs (Contested Case Procedures for Department of Environmental Quality) Administrative Rules, MAC, R 324.81
Declaratory Rulings (administrative rules)
Effective 2003
July 28, 2022, 87 FR 45251
(b)
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA).
The MOA between EPA Region 5 and the State of Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on October 13, 2020.
(c)
Statements of Legal Authority.
“Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement,” signed by the Chief of the Environment, Natural Resources, and Agriculture Division of the Michigan Department of Attorney General on September 1, 2020.
(d)
Program Description.
The Program Description submitted as part of Michigan's application, and any other materials submitted as part of this application or as a supplement thereto.
[87 FR 45255, July 28, 2022]
§ 147.1151
EPA-administered program—Class I, III, IV, V, and VI wells and Indian country.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, V and VI wells and all wells in Indian country in the State of Michigan is administered by the EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date for the UIC program for all lands in Michigan, including Indian lands, is June 25, 1984.
[52 FR 17681, May 11, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 9416, Mar. 6, 1991; 87 FR 45256, July 28, 2022]
§ 147.1152
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
§ 147.1153
Existing Class II disposal wells authorized by rule in Indian country.
The owner or operator shall limit injection pressure to the lesser of:
(a) A value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(i) or (ii) of this chapter as applicable; or
(b) A value for well head pressure calculated by using the following formula:
Pm = (0.800−0.433 Sg)d
Where:
Pm = injection pressure at the well head in pounds per square inch.
Sg = specific gravity of injected fluid (unitless).
d = injection depth in feet.
[87 FR 45256, July 28, 2022]
§ 147.1154
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule in Indian country.
(a)
Maximum injection pressure.
(1) To meet the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this chapter, the owner or operator:
(i) Shall use an injection pressure no greater than the pressure established by the Regional Administrator for the field or formation in which the well is located. The Regional Administrator shall establish such a maximum pressure after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A, of this chapter, and will inform owners and operators in writing of the applicable maximum pressure; or
(ii) May inject at pressures greater than those specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for the field or formation in which he is operating provided he submits a request in writing to the Regional Administrator and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that such injection pressure will not violate the requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this chapter. The Regional Administrator may grant such a request after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A, of this chapter.
(2) Prior to such time as the Regional Administrator establishes field rules for maximum injection pressure based on data provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section the owner or operator shall:
(i) Limit injection pressure to a value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) of this chapter; and
(ii) Submit data acceptable to the Regional Administrator, which defines the fracture pressure of the formation in which injection is taking place. A single test may be submitted on behalf of two or more operators conducting operations in the same formation if the Regional Administrator approves such submission. The data shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator within one year following the effective date of this program.
(b)
Casing and cementing.
Where the Regional Administrator determines that the owner or operator of an existing enhanced recovery or hydrocarbon storage well may not be in compliance with the requirements of §§ 144.28(e) and 146.22 of this chapter, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, when required by the Regional Administrator:
(1) Protect underground sources of drinking water (USDWs) by:
(i) Cementing surface casing by recirculating the cement to the surface from a point 50 feet below the lowermost USDW; or
(ii) Isolating all USDWs by placing cement between the outermost casing and thewell bore; and
(2) Isolate any injection zones by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated space between the casing and the well bore to a point 250 feet above the injection zone; and
(3) Use cement:
(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operatingpressure;
(ii) Which is resistant to deterioration from formation and injection fluids; and
(iii) In a quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary tocement-off a zone.
(4) The Regional Administrator may specify other requirements in addition to or in lieu of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as needed to protect USDWs.
[87 FR 45256, July 28, 2022]
§ 147.1155
Requirements for all EPA-administered wells.
(a)
Area of review.
Notwithstanding the alternatives presented in § 146.6 of this chapter, the area of review for Class II wells shall be a fixed radius as described in § 146.6(b) of this chapter.
(b)
Tubing and packer.
The owner or operator of an injection well injecting salt water for disposal shall inject through tubing and packer. The owner of an existing well must comply with
this requirement within one year of the effective date of this program.
[87 FR 45256, July 28, 2022]

# Subpart Y—Minnesota
§ 147.1200
State-administered program. [Reserved]
§ 147.1201
EPA-administered program.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for the State of Minnesota is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Minnesota is: June 11, 1984.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 56 FR 9416, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.1202
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
§ 147.1210
Requirements for Indian lands.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
This section sets forth additional requirements that apply to injection activities on Indian lands in Minnesota.
(b)
Requirements.
Notwithstanding the other requirements of this subpart, for Indian lands described in paragraph (a) of this section, no owner or operator shall construct, operate, maintain, or convert any Class I, II, III, or IV well. The UIC program for Class V wells on such Indian Lands is administered by EPA, and consists of the applicable requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, and 146. In addition, no owner or operator shall abandon a well without the approval of the Regional Administrator.
(c)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program requirements for Indian lands in Minnesota is December 30, 1984.
[49 FR 45307, Nov. 15, 1984]

# Subpart Z—Mississippi
§ 147.1250
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV and V wells in the State of Mississippi, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Mississippi Department of Natural Resources approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on August 25, 1983 (48 FR 38641); the effective date of this program is September 26, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Mississippi. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Mississippi Air and Water Pollution Control Law, Mississippi Code Annotated sections 49-17-1 through 49-17-29 (1972) and Supp. 1983);
(2) Mississippi Department of Natural Resources, Bureau of Pollution Control, Underground Injection Control Program Regulations (adopted February 11, 1982);
(3) Mississippi Department of Natural Resources, Bureau of Pollution Control, State of Mississippi Wastewater Permit Regulations for National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), Underground Injection Control (UIC), and State Operating Permits (adopted May 1, 1974; amended February 11, 1982).
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IV and the Mississippi Department of Natural Resources, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on February 8, 1983.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Letter from Attorney General of Mississippi (by Special Assistant Attorney General) to Executive Director, Mississippi Department of Natural Resources, “Re: Mississippi Department
of Natural Resources, Bureau of Pollution Control, State Underground Injection Control (UIC) Program; Statement of the Attorney General of the State of Mississippi,” December 3, 1981;
(2) Letter from Attorney General of Mississippi (by Special Assistant Attorney General) to Executive Director, Mississippi Department of Natural Resources, “Re: Authority to Regulate and Take Samples from Underground Injection Systems,” October 18, 1982;
(3) Letter from Attorney General of Mississippi (by Special Assistant Attorney General) to Regional Administrator, EPA Region IV, “Re: Public Participation in State Enforcement Actions, UIC Program,” June 10, 1983.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988]
§ 147.1251
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Mississippi, other than those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the State Oil and Gas Board of Mississippi approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on March 2, 1989; the effective date of this program is March 2, 1989. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a) Incorporation by reference. The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Mississippi. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a).
(1) Mississippi Code Annotated, section 5-9-9 (Supp. 1988).
(2) Mississippi Code Annotated, sections 53-1-1 through 53-1-47, inclusive and sections 53-1-71 through 53-1-77, inclusive (1972 and Supp. 1988).
(3) Mississippi Code Annotated, sections 53-3-1 through 53-3-165, inclusive (1972 and Supp. 1988).
(4) State Oil and Gas Board Statewide Rules and Regulations, Rules 1 through 65, inclusive (Aug. 1, 1987, as amended, Sept. 17, 1987).
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IV and the State Oil and Gas Board of Mississippi signed by the Regional Administrator on October 31, 1988.
(c) Statement of legal authority. Statement from the Attorney General signed on October 1, 1987 with amendments to the Statement signed August 5, 1988 and September 15, 1988 by the Special Assistant Attorney General.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.
[54 FR 8735, Mar. 2, 1989]
§ 147.1252
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Mississippi is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program on Indian lands is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 8735, Mar. 2, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 9416, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart AA—Missouri
§ 147.1300
State-administered program.
The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of Missouri, except those on Indian lands, is administered by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 and 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on December 2, 1983 (48 FR 54349); the effective date of this program is December 2, 1983). This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Missouri. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Vernon's Annotated Missouri Statutes sections 259.010 to 259.240 (Supp. 1984);
(2) Missouri Code of State Regulations, title 10, division 50, chapters 1 and 2 (June 1984);
(3) Vernon's Annotated Missouri Statutes chapter 204, §§ 204.006 through 204.470 (1983 and Cumm. Supp. 1990).
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VII and the Missouri Department of Oil and Gas, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on December 3, 1982.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Opinion Letter No. 63 and attached Memorandum Opinion, signed by Attorney General of Missouri, March 16, 1982;
(2) Addendum to Opinion Letter No. 63 (1982), signed by Attorney General of Missouri, October 28, 1982.
(3) Opinion No. 127-83, signed by Attorney General of Missouri, July 11, 1983.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9416, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.1301
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Missouri, other than those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on November 2, 1984; the effective date of this program is July 31, 1985. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Missouri. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective July 31, 1985.
(1) Revised Statutes of the State of Missouri, Volume 2, sections 204.016, 204.026, 204.051, 204.056 and Volume V, section 577.155 (1978 and Cumm. Supp. 1984);
(2) Missouri Code of State Regulations, title 10, division 20, Chapter 6, sections 20-6.010, 20-6.020, 20-6.070, 20-6.080, 20-6.090, and title 10, division 20, Chapter 7, section 20-7.031 (1977, amended 1984).
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference except for select sections identified in paragraph (a) of this section, are also part of the approved State-administered program.
(1) Revised Statutes of the State of Missouri, chapters 204, 260, 536, 557, 558 and 560; sections 640.130.1 and 1.020 (1978 and Cumm. Supp. 1984);
(2) Rule 52.12 Vernon's Annotated Missouri Rules (1978);
(3) Missouri Code of State Regulations, title 10, division 20, Chapters 1 through 7 (1977, amended 1984).
(c) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VII and the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on October 10, 1984.
(d)
Statement of Legal Authority.
Opinion No. 123-84, signed by Attorney General of Missouri, September 24, 1984. Amended April 2, 1985.
(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[50 FR 28942, July 17, 1985]
§ 147.1302
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
§ 147.1303
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Missouri is administered by
EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 145, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date for the UIC program for Indian lands is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart BB—Montana
§ 147.1350
State-administered programs—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II injection wells in the State of Montana, except for those in Indian Country, is the program administered by the Montana Board of Oil and Gas Conservation (MBOGC) approved by the EPA pursuant to Section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on November 19, 1996; the effective date of this program is November 19, 1996. This program consists of the following elements as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Montana. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the FR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the Montana Board of Oil and Gas Conservation, 2535 St. Johns Avenue, Billings, Montana, 59102. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region VIII, 999 18th Street, Suite 500, Denver, Colorado, 80202-2466, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(1) Montana Statutory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Injection Control Program, August, 1996.
(2) Montana Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Injection Control Program, August, 1996.
(b)
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA).
(1) The MOA between EPA Region VIII and the MBOGC signed by the Acting EPA Regional Administrator on June 9, 1996.
(2) Letter dated May 24, 1996, from the Administrator of the MBOGC and the attached addendum (Addendum No. 1-96) to the MOA between MBOGC and EPA Region VIII, signed by the Acting EPA Regional Administrator on August 14, 1996.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Letter from the Montana Attorney General to the Regional Administrator dated August 1, 1995.
(2) MBOGC independent counsel's certification of Montana's UIC program for Class II wells dated July 24, 1995.
(3) Letter dated March 8, 1996, from MBOGC independent counsel to USEPA, Region VIII; “Re: EPA comments of November 29, 1995, on Montana Class II primacy application.”
(4) Letter dated March 8, 1996, from the Administrator of the MBOGC and the attached proposed replacement language for the MOA; “Re: Responses to EPA comments on Montana Class II Primacy Application.”
(d)
Program Description.
The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplemented thereto:
(1) Application and accompanying materials for approval of Montana's UIC program for Class II wells submitted by the Governor of Montana, August 3, 1995.
(2) [Reserved]
[61 FR 58933, Nov. 19, 1996]
§ 147.1351
EPA-administered program.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program in the State of Montana for Class I, III, IV, and V wells, and for all Classes of wells in Indian country in Montana, except for Class II wells on all lands within the exterior boundaries of the Fort Peck Indian Reservation, is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection
well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date for the UIC program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells for all lands in Montana, including all Indian country in Montana, and for Class II wells for all Indian country in Montana other than the Fort Peck Indian Reservation, is June 25, 1984. The effective date for the EPA-approved State-administered UIC Class II program for all lands in Montana, except for those in Indian country, is provided in § 147.1350.
[52 FR 17681, May 11, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991; 61 FR 58933, Nov. 19, 1996; 73 FR 63646, Oct. 27, 2008]
§ 147.1352
Aquifer exemptions.
Those portions of aquifers within one-quarter mile of existing Class II wells are exempted for the purpose of Class II injection activities only.

# Note:
A complete listing of the exemptions and their location is available for review in the EPA Regional Office, 1860 Lincoln Street, Denver, Colorado. An updated list of exemptions will be maintained in the Regional Office.
§ 147.1353
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
Maximum injection pressure.
The owner or operator shall limit injection pressure to the lesser of:
(a) A value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3) (i) or (ii) as applicable or
(b) A value for well head pressure calculated by using the following formula:
Pm = (0.733 - 0.433 Sg)d
where:
Pm = injection pressure at the well head in pounds per square inch
Sg = specific gravity of inject fluid (unitless)
d = injection depth in feet.
§ 147.1354
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
(a)
Maximum injection pressure.
(1) To meet the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B) of this chapter, the owner or operator:
(i) Shall use an injection pressure no greater than the pressure established by the Regional Administrator for the field or formation in which the well is located. The Regional Administrator shall establish such a maximum pressure after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter, and will inform owners and operators in writing of the applicable maximum pressure; or
(ii) May inject at pressures greater than those specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for the field or formation in which he is operating provided he submits a request in writing to the Regional Administrator, and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that such injection pressure will not violate the requirement of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B). The Regional Administrator may grant such a request after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter.
(2) Prior to such time as the Regional Administrator established rules for maximum injection pressure based on data provided pursuant to paragraph (ii) below the owner or operator shall:
(i) Limit injection pressure to a value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii); and
(ii) Submit data acceptable to the Regional Administrator which defines the fracture pressure of the formation in which injection is taking place. A single test may be submitted on behalf of two or more operators conducting operations in the same formation, if the Regional Administrator approves such submission. The data shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator within 1 year of the effective date of this program.
(b)
Casing and cementing.
Where the Regional Administrator determines that the owner or operator of an existing enhanced recovery or hydrocarbon storage well may not be in compliance with the requirements of §§ 144.28(e) and 146.22, the owner or operator shall when required by the Regional Administrator:
(1) Isolate all USDWs by placing cement between the outermost casing and the well bore as follows:
(i) If the injection well is east of the 108th meridian, cement the outermost casing from a point 50 feet into a major shale formation underlying the uppermost USDW to the surface. For the purpose of this paragraph, major shale formations are defined as the Bearpaw, Clagget, and Colorado formations.
(ii) If the injection well is west of the 108th meridian, cement the outermost casing to a depth of 1,000 feet, or to the base of the lowermost USDW in use as a source of drinking water whichever is deeper. The Regional Administrator may allow an owner or operator to cement to a lesser depth if he can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that no USDW will be affected by the injection facilities.
(2) Isolate any injection zones by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated space between the casing and the well bore to a point 250 feet above the injection zone; and
(3) Use cement:
(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operating pressure;
(ii) Which is resistant to deteriortion from formation and injection fluids; and
(iii) In a quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary to cement off a zone.
(4) The Regional Administrator may specify other requirements in addition to or in lieu of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section, as needed to protect USDWs.
§ 147.1355
Requirements for all wells.
(a)
Area of review.
Notwithstanding the alternatives presented in § 146.6 of this chapter, the area of review shall be a fixed radius as described in § 146.06(b) of this chapter.
(b) The applicant must give separate notice of intent to apply for a permit to each owner or tenant of the land within one-quarter mile of the site. This requirement may be waived by the Regional Administrator where individual notice to all land owners and tenants would be impractical. The addresses of those to whom notice is given, and a description of how notice was given, shall be submitted with the permit application. The notice shall include:
(1) Name and address of applicant;
(2) A brief description of the planned injection activities, including well location, name and depth of the injection zone, maximum injection pressure and volume, and fluid to be injected;
(3) EPA contact person; and
(4) A statement that opportunity to comment will be announced after EPA prepares a draft permit.
(c) Owners and operators on or within one-half mile of Indian lands shall provide notice as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, except that such notice shall be provided within a one-half mile radius of the site.
Pt. 147, Subpt. BB, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart BB of Part 147—State Requirements Incorporated by Reference in Subpart BB of Part 147 of the Code of Federal Regulations
The following is an informational listing of state requirements incorporated by reference in Subpart BB of part 147 of the Code of Federal Regulations:
Subpart BB—Montana
(a) The statutory provisions include:
(1) Montana Code annotated, 1995, Title 2, Chapter 15:
Section 2-15-121. Allocation for administrative purposes only.
Section 2-15-124. Quasi-judicial boards.
Section 2-15-3303. Board of oil and gas conservation-composition—allocation—quasi-judicial.
(2) Montana Code annotated, 1995, Title 82, Chapter 10:
Section 82-10-101. Action for accounting for royalty.
Section 82-10-102. Remedy not exclusive.
Section 82-10-103. Obligation to pay royalties as essence of contract-interest.
Section 82-10-104. Payment of royalties-form of record required.
Section 82-10-105 through 82-10-109 reserved.
Section 82-10-110. Division order-definition-effect.
Section 82-10-201. Authorization for lease and terms-land not subject to leasing.
Section 82-10-202. Acreage pooling.
Section 82-10-203. Interference with normal use of land prohibited.
Section 82-10-204. Lease of acquired oil and gas interests.
Section 82-10-301. Definitions.
Section 82-10-302. Policy.
Section 82-10-303. Use of eminent domain to acquire underground reservoirs.
Section 82-10-304. Certificate of board required prior to use of eminent domain.
Section 82-10-305. Proceedings.
Section 82-10-401. Notice required before abandonment of well-owner's option.
Section 82-10-402. Inventory of abandoned wells and seismic operations-reclamation procedures.
Section 82-10-501. Purpose-legislative findings.
Section 82-10-502. Definitions.
Section 82-10-503. Notice of drilling operations.
Section 82-10-504. Surface damage and disruption payments-penalty for late payment.
Section 82-10-505. Liability for damages to property.
Section 82-10-506. Notification of injury.
Section 82-10-0507. Agreement—offer of settlement.
Section 82-10-508. Rejection—legal action.
Section 82-10-509 and 82-10-510. Reserved.
Section 82-10-511. Remedies cumulative.
(3) Montana Code annotated, 1995, Title 82, Chapter 11:
Section 82-11-101. Definitions.
Section 82-11-102. Oil or gas wells not public utilities.
Section 82-11-103. Lands subject to law.
Section 82-11-104. Construction-no conflict with board of land commissioners' authority.
Section 82-11-105 through 82-11-110 reserved.
Section 82-11-111. Powers and duties of board.
Section 82-11-112. Intergovernmental cooperation.
Section 82-11-113. Role of board in implementation of national gas policy.
Section 82-11-114. Appointment of examiners.
Section 82-11-115. Procedure to make determinations.
Section 82-11-116. Public access.
Section 82-11-117. Confidentiality of records.
Section 82-11-118. Fees for processing applications.
Section 82-11-119 through 82-11-120 reserved.
Section 82-11-121. Oil and gas waste prohibited.
Section 82-11-122. Notice of intention to drill or conduct seismic operations-notice to surface owner.
Section 82-11-123. Requirements for oil and gas operations.
Section 82-11-124. Requirement relating to waste prevention.
Section 82-11-125. Availability of cores or chips, cuttings, and bottom-hole temperatures to board.
Section 82-11-126. Availability of facilities to bureau of mines.
Section 82-11-127. Prohibited activity.
Section 82-11-128 through 82-11-130 reserved.
Section 82-11-131. Privilege and license tax.
Section 82-11-132. Statements to treasurer and payment of tax.
Section 82-11-133. Penalty for late payment.
Section 82-11-134. Permit fees.
Section 82-11-135. Money earmarked for board expenses.
Section 82-11-136. Expenditure of funds from bonds for plugging wells.
Section 82-11-137. Class II injection well operating fee.
Section 82-11-138 through 82-11-140 reserved.
Section 82-11-141. Administrative procedure.
Section 82-11-142. Subpoena power-civil actions.
Section 82-11-143. Rehearing.
Section 82-11-144. Court review.
Section 82-11-145. Injunction or restraining order.
Section 82-11-146. Appeal.
Section 82-11-147. Violations.
Section 82-11-148. Criminal penalties.
Section 82-11-149. Civil penalties.
Section 82-11-150. Legal assistance.
Section 82-11-151. Emergencies-notice and hearing.
Section 82-11-152 through 82-11-160 reserved.
Section 82-11-161. Oil and gas production damage mitigation account-statutory appropriation.
Section 82-11-162. Release of producing oil or gas well from drilling bond-fee.
Section 82-11-163. Landowner's bond on noncommercial well.
Section 82-11-164. Lien created.
Section 82-11-165 through 82-11-170 reserved.
Section 82-11-171. Terminated.
Section 82-11-201. Establishment of well spacing units.
Section 82-11-202. Pooling of interest within spacing unit.
Section 82-11-203. Pooling agreements not in violation of antitrust laws.
Section 82-11-204. Hearing on operation of pool as unit.
Section 82-11-205. Board order for unit operation-criteria.
Section 82-11-206. Terms and conditions of plan for unit operations.
Section 82-11-207. Approval of plan for unit operations by persons paying costs.
Section 82-11-208. Board orders-amendment.
Section 82-11-209. Units established by previous order.
Section 82-11-210. Unit operations-less than whole of pool.
Section 82-11-211. Operations considered as done by all owners in unit.
Section 82-11-212. Property rights and operator's lien.
Section 82-11-213. Contract not terminated by board order.
Section 82-11-214. Title to oil and gas rights not affected by board order.
Section 82-11-215. Unit operation not restraint of trade.
Section 82-11-216. No creation of relationship between parties in unit.
Section 82-11-301. Authorization to join interstate compact for conservation of oil and gas.
Section 82-11-302. Interstate oil and gas compact.
Section 82-11-303. Extension of expiration date.
Section 82-11-304. Governor as member of Interstate Oil Compact Commission.
Section 82-11-305. Limitation on power of representative.
Section 82-11-306. Expenses of representative.
(b) The regulatory provisions include: Administrative Rules of Montana Board of Oil and Gas Conservation, Chapter 22, revised March 1996:
Rule 36.22.101. Organizational Rule.
Rule 36.22.201. Procedural Rules.
Rule 36.22.202. Environmental Policy Act Procedural Rules.
Rule 36.22.301. Effective Scope of Rules.
Rule 36.22.302. Definitions.
Rule 36.22.303. Classification of Wildcat or Exploratory Wells.
Rule 36 22.304. Inspection of Record, Properties, and Wells.
Rule 36.22.305. Naming of Pools.
Rule 36.22.306. Organization of Reports.
Rule 36.22.307. Adoption of Forms.
Rule 36.22.308. Seal of Board.
Rule 36.22.309. Referral of Administrative Decisions.
Rule 36.22.401. Office and Duties of Petroleum Engineer.
Rule 36.22.402. Office and Duties of Administrator.
Rule 36.22.403. Office and Duties of Geologist.
Rule 36.22.501. Shot Location Limitations.
Rule 36.22.502. Plugging and Abandonment.
Rule 36.22.503. Notification.
Rule 36.22.504. Identification.
Rule 36.22.601. Notice of Intention and Permit to Drill.
Rule 36.22.602. Notice of Intention to Drill and Application for Permit to Drill.
Rule 36.22.603. Permit Fees.
Rule 36.22.604. Permit Issuance - Expiration - Extension.
Rule 36.22.605. Transfer of Permits.
Rule 36.22.606. Notice and Eligibility Statement for Drilling or Recompletion in Unit Operations.
Rule 36.22.607. Drilling Permits Pending Special Field Rules.
Rule 36.22.701. Spacing Units - General.
Rule 36.22.702. Spacing of Wells.
Rule 36.22.703. Horizontal Wells.
Rule 36.22.1001. Rotary Drilling Procedure.
Rule 36.22.1002. Cable Drilling Procedure.
Rule 36.22.1003. Vertical Drilling Required Deviation.
Rule 36.22.1004. Dual Completion of Wells.
Rule 36.22.1005. Drilling Waste Disposal and Surface Restoration.
Rules 36.22.1006 through 36.22.1010. Reserved.
Rule 36.22.1011. Well Completion and Recompletion Reports.
Rule 36.22.1012. Samples of Cores and Cuttings.
Rule 36.22.1013. Filing of Completion Reports, Well Logs, Analyses, Reports, and Surveys.
Rule 36.22.1014. Blowout Prevention and Well Control Equipment.
Rule 36.22.1101. Fire Hazard Prevention.
Rule 36.22.1102. Fire Walls Required.
Rule 36.22.1103. Notification and Report of Emergencies and Undesirable Incidents.
Rule 36.22.1104. Control and Cleanup.
Rule 36.22.1105. Solid Waste.
Rule 36.22.1201. Surface Equipment.
Rule 36.22.1202. Identification.
Rule 36.22.1203. Chokes Required.
Rule 36.22.1204. Separators Required.
Rule 36.22.1205. Vacuum Pumps Prohibited.
Rule 36.22.1206. Tubing Required.
Rule 36.22.1207. Earthen Pits and Open Vessels.
Rule 36.22.1208. Producing from Different Pools Through the Same Casing.
Rules 36.22.1209 through 36.22.1212. Reserved.
Rule 36.22.1213. Reservoir or Pool Surveys.
Rule 36.22.1214. Subsurface Pressure Tests.
Rule 36.22.1215. Stabilized Production Test.
Rule 36.22.1216. Gas Oil Ratio Tests.
Rule 36.22.1217. Water Production Report.
Rule 36.22.1218. Gas to be Metered.
Rule 36.22.1219. Gas Waste Prohibited.
Rule 36.22.1220. Associated Gas Flaring Limitation—Application to exceed—Board Review and Action.
Rule 36.22.1221. Burning of Waste Gas Required.
Rule 36.22.1222. Hydrogen Sulfide Gas.
Rule 36.22.1223. Fencing, Screening, and Netting of Pits.
Rules 36.22.1224 and 36.22.1425. Reserved.
Rule 36.22.1226. Disposal of Water.
Rule 36.22.1227. Earthen Pits and Ponds.
Rule 36.22.1228. Disposal by Injection.
Rule 36.22.1229. Water Injection and Gas Repressuring.
Rule 36.22.1230. Application Contents and Requirements.
Rule 36.22.1231. Notice of Application Objections.
Rule 36.22.1232. Board Authorization.
Rule 36.22.1233. Notice of Commencement or Discontinuance—Plugging of Abandoned Wells.
Rule 36.22.1234. Record Required.
Rules 36.22.1235 through 36.22.1239. Reserved.
Rule 36.22.1240. Report of Well Status Change.
Rule 36.22.1241. Service Company Reports.
Rule 36.22.1242. Reports by Producers.
Rule 36.22.1243. Reports from Transporters, Refiners, and Gasoline or Extraction Plants.
Rule 36.22.1244. Producer's Certificate of Compliance.
Rule 36.22.1245. Illegal Production.
Rule 36.22.1301. Notice and Approval of Intention to Abandon Report.
Rule 36.22.1302. Notice of Abandonment.
Rule 36.22.1303. Well Plugging Requirement.
Rule 36.22.1304. Plugging Methods and Procedure.
Rule 36.22.1305. Exception for Fresh Water Wells.
Rule 36.22.1306. Approval for Pulling Casing and Reentering Wells.
Rule 36.22.1307. Restoration of Surface.
Rule 36.22.1308. Plugging and Restoration Bond.
Rule 36.22.1309. Subsequent Report of Abandonment.
Rule 36.22.1401. Definitions.
Rule 36.22.1402. Underground Injection.
Rule 36.22.1403. Application Contents and Requirements Rules.
Rule 36.22.1404 and 36.22.1405. Reserved.
Rule 36.22.1406. Corrective Action.
Rule 36.22.1407. Signing the Application.
Rule 36.22.1408. Financial Responsibility.
Rule 36.22.1409. Hearings.
Rule 36.22.1410. Notice of Application.
Rule 36.22.1411. Board Authorization.
Rules 36.22.1412 and 36.22.1413. Reserved.
Rule 36.22.1414. Notice of Commencement or Discontinuance—Plugging of Abandoned Wells.
Rule 36.22.1415. Records Required.
Rule 36.22.1416. Mechanical Integrity.
Rule 36.22.1417. Notification of Tests—Reporting Results.
Rule 36.22.1418. Exempt Aquifers.
Rule 36.22.1419. Tubingless Completions.
Rules 36.22.1420 and 36.22.1421. Reserved.
Rule 36.22.1422. Permit Conditions.
Rule 36.22.1423. Injection Fee—Well Classification.
Rule 36.22.1601. Who May Apply for Determination.
Rule 36.22.1602. Application Requirements and Contents.
Rule 36.22.1603. Documents and Technical Data Supporting Application.
Rule 36.22.1604. Docket Number.
Rule 36.22.1605. List of Applications—Public Access.
Rule 36.22.1606. Objections to Applications.
Rule 36.22.1607. Deadlines for Action Determinations.
Rule 36.22.1608. Deficient Applications.
Rule 36.22.1609. Board Action on Applications.
Rule 36.22.1610. Special Findings and Determinations New Onshore Production Wells Under Section 103.
Rule 36.22.1611. Special Findings and Determinations Stripper Well Production.
[61 FR 58934, Nov. 19, 1996]

# Subpart CC—Nebraska
§ 147.1400
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Nebraska, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Nebraska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Nebraska. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Rules and Regulations of the Nebraska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, Rules 1 through 6 (as published by the Commission, May 1981);
(2) Revised Statutes of Nebraska, sections 57-903 and 57-906 (Reissue 1988).
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference except for select sections identified in paragraph (a) of this section, are also part of the approved state-administered program:
(1) Chapter 57, Oil and Gas Conservation, Revised Statutes of Nebraska sections 57-901 through 57-922 (Reissue 1985).
(c) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VII and the Nebraska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on July 12, 1982.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) “Nebraska Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement for Class II Wells,” signed by Assistant Attorney General for Attorney General of Nebraska, as submitted with “State of Nebraska Request for Administration of UIC Program,” January 23, 1982;
(2) “Re: Nebraska Underground Injection Control Program, Addendum to Attorney General's Statement for Class II Wells,” signed by Assistant Attorney General for Attorney General of Nebraska,” undated.
(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 52 FR 17681, May 11, 1987; 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.1401
State administered program—Class I, III, IV and V wells.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Nebraska, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Control, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Nebraska. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective June 26, 1984.
(1) Nebraska Environmental Protection Act, Revised Statutes of Nebraska sections 81-1502, 81-1506, 81-1519, and 81-1520 (Reissue 1987);
(2) Nebraska Department of Environmental Control, Title 122—Rules and Regulations for Underground Injection and Mineral Production Wells, Effective Date: February 16, 1982, Amended Dates: November 12, 1983, March 22, 1984; as amended by amendment approved by the Governor on January 2, 1989.
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations although not incorporated by reference, also are part of the approved State-administered program:
(1) Nebraska Environmental Protection Act, Nebraska Revised Statutes sections 81-1502, 81-1506, 81-1519, and 81-1520 (Reissue 1987 and Cumm. Supp. 1988);
(c)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VII and the Nebraska Department of Environmental Control, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on July 12, 1982.
(2) Addendum to Underground Injection Control Memorandum of Agreement signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on July 12, 1982.
(3) Amendments to the Memorandum of Agreement signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on November 22, 1983.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) “Nebraska Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement for Class I, III, IV, and V Wells”, signed by Assistant Attorney General for Attorney General of Nebraska, as submitted with “State of Nebraska Request for Administration of UIC Program, January 28, 1982;
(2) Letter from Attorney General (of Nebraska), by Assistant Attorney General, to Director, (Nebraska) Department of Environmental Control, August 7, 1981;
(3) Letter from Attorney General (of Nebraska), by Assistant Attorney General, to Director, (Nebraska) Department of Environmental Control, April 29, 1982;
(4) Letter from Attorney General (of Nebraska), by Assistant Attorney General, to Legal Counsel, (Nebraska) Department of Environmental Control, October 18, 1983.
(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.
(42 U.S.C. 1422)
[49 FR 24134, June 12, 1984, as amended at 52 FR 17681, May 11, 1987; 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.1402
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
§ 147.1403
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Nebraska is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian Lands in Nebraska is June 25, 1984.
[52 FR 17681, May 11, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart DD—Nevada
§ 147.1450
State-administered program.
The UIC program for all classes of underground injection wells in the State of Nevada, other than those on
Indian lands, is the program administered by the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on February 18, 1988; the effective date of this program is October 5, 1988. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Nevada. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the Nevada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Protection, 201 South Fall Street, Carson City, Nevada 89710.
Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region IX, 215 Fremont Street, San Francisco, California 99105, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(1) Nevada Revised Statutes [NRS], Volume 25, Chapters 445.131 through 445.354, Inclusive. 1987.
(2) Nevada Revised Statutes [NRS], Volume 29, Chapters 534A.010 through 534A.090, Inclusive. 1987.
(3) Nevada Revised Statutes [NRS], Volume 28, Chapters 522.010 through 522.190, Inclusive. 1987.
(4) Nevada Administrative Code [NAC], Underground Injection Control Regulations, Sections 1 through 96.1, Inclusive. July 22, 1987, revised September 3, 1987 (amending NAC Chapter 445).
(5) Nevada Administrative Code [NAC], Regulations and Rules of Practice and Procedure adopted Pursuant to NRS 534A, Sections 1 through 69, Inclusive. November 12, 1985 (amending NAC Chapter 534A).
(6) Nevada Administrative Code [NAC], Regulations and Rules of Practice and Procedure adopted Pursuant to NRS 522.010 through 522.625, Inclusive. July 22, 1987 (amending NAC Chapter 522).
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region 9 and the Nevada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on April 6, 1988.
(c)
Statement of Legal Authority.
Statement and Amendment to the Statement from the Attorney General of the State of Nevada, signed on July 22, 1987 and November 6, 1987 respectively, by the Deputy Attorney General.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.
[53 FR 39089, Oct. 5, 1988]
§ 147.1451
EPA administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Nevada is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Nevada is June 25, 1984.
[53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.1452
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
§ 147.1453
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
Maximum injection pressure.
The owner or operator shall limit injection pressure to the lesser of:
(a) A value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3) (i) or (ii) as applicable; or
(b) A value for well head pressure calculated by using the formula:
Pm = (0.733-0.433 Sg)d
where:
Pm = injection pressure at the wellhead in pounds per square inch
Sg = specific gravity of injected fluid (unitless)
d = injection depth in feet.
§ 147.1454
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
(a)
Maximum injection pressure.
(1) To meet the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B) of this chapter, the owner or operator:
(i) Shall use an injection pressure no greater than the pressure established by the Regional Administrator for the field or formation in which the well is located. The Regional Administrator shall establish such a maximum pressure after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter, and will inform owners and operators in writing of the applicable maximum pressure; or
(ii) May inject at pressures greater than those specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for the field or formation in which he is operating provided he submits a request in writing to the Regional Administrator, and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that such injection pressure will not violate the requirement of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B). The Regional Administrator may grant such a request after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter.
(2) Prior to such time as the Regional Administrator establishes field rules for maximum injection pressure based on data provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section the owner or operator shall:
(i) Limit injection pressure to a value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii); and
(ii) Submit data acceptable to the Regional Administrator which defines the fracture pressure of the formation in which injection is taking place. A single test may be submitted on behalf of two or more operators conducting operations in the same formation, if the Regional Administrator approves such submission. The data shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator within one year following the effective date of this program.
(b)
Casing and cementing.
Where the Regional Administrator determines that the owner or operator of an existing enhanced recovery or hydrocarbon storage well may not be in compliance with the requirements of §§ 144.28(e) and 146.22, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (b) (1) through (4) of this section, when required by the Regional Administrator:
(1) Protect USDWs by:
(i) Cementing surface casing by recirculating the cement to the surface from a point 50 feet below the lowermost USDW; or
(ii) Isolating all USDWs by placing cement between the outermost casing and the well bore; and
(2) Isolate any injection zones by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated space between the casing and the well bore to a point 250 feet above the injection zone; and
(3) Use cement:
(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operating pressure;
(ii) Which is resistant to deterioration from formation and injection fluids; and
(iii) In a quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary to cement off a zone.
(4) The Regional Administrator may specify other requirements in addition to or in lieu of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section, as needed to protect USDWs.

# Subpart EE—New Hampshire
§ 147.1500
State-administered program.
The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of New Hampshire, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, approved by the EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the FR on September 21, 1982 (47 FR
41561); the effective date of this program is October 21, 1982. This program consists of the following elements:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of New Hampshire. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated section 149:8 III(a) (1978);
(2) New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules, Part Wc 410 (Protection of Groundwaters of the State, sections Ws 410.1 through Ws 410.16) (Issue Ws 3-82).
(b)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region I and the New Hampshire Water Supply and Pollution Control Commission, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on August 23, 1982;
(2) Amendment No. 1 to the Memorandum of Agreement, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on July 16, 1982.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Letter from Attorney General of New Hampshire to Regional Administrator, EPA Region I, “Re: Attorney General's Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” March 23, 1982;
(2) Letter from Attorney General of New Hampshire to Regional Administrator, EPA Region I, “Re: Attorney General's Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” July 1, 1982.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.1501
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of New Hampshire is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in New Hampshire is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart FF—New Jersey
§ 147.1550
State-administered program.
The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of New Jersey, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on July 15, 1983 (48 FR 32343); the effective date of this program is August 15, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of New Jersey. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Water Pollution Control Act, New Jersey Statutes Annotated sections 58:10A-1 through 58:10A-20 (West 1982 and Supp. 1990);
(2) New Jersey Administrative Code, sections 7:14A-1.1 through 1.9 (subchapter 1), 7:14A-2.1 through 2.15 (subchapter 2), 7:14A-5.1 through 5.17, (subchapter 5) (amended March 1988).
(b)(1) The Memorandum Agreement between EPA Region II and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on September 9, 1982;
(2) Letter from Commissioner, New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, to Regional Administrator, EPA Region II, March 21, 1983.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Letter from Attorney General of New Jersey (by Deputy Attorney General)
to Commissioner, Department of Environmental Protection, “Re: New Jersey Pollutant Discharge Elimination System—Underground Injection Control,” February 9, 1982;
(2) Letter from Attorney General of New Jersey (by Deputy Attorney General) to Commissioner, Department of Environmental Protection, “Re: New Jersey Pollutant Discharge Elimination System—Underground Injection Control,” April 15, 1983 (six pages);
(3) Letter from Attorney General of New Jersey (by Assistant Attorney General) to Commissioner, Department of Environmental Protection, “Re: New Jersey Pollutant Discharge Elimination System—Underground Injection Control,” April 15, 1983 (two pages).
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.1551
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of New Jersey is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in New Jersey is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart GG—New Mexico
§ 147.1600
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of New Mexico, except for those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the New Mexico Energy and Minerals Department, Oil Conservation Division, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on February 5, 1982 (47 FR 5412); the effective date of this program is March 7, 1982. This program consists of the following elements as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of New Mexico. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Oil and Gas Act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated sections 70-2-1 through -36 (1978);
(2)
State of New Mexico Energy and Mineral Department, Oil Conservation Division—Rules and Regulations
(dated 10-1-78), sections B-3, I-701 through I-708, M-1100 through M-1121.
(b)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VI and the New Mexico Energy and Minerals Department, Oil Conservation Division, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on December 10, 1981;
(2) Addendum No. 1 to the Memorandum of Agreement, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on June 28, 1982;
(3) Addendum No. 2 to the Memorandum of Agreement, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on November 18, 1982;
(4) Letter from Director, Oil Conservation Division, New Mexico Energy and Minerals Department, and Assistant Attorney General of New Mexico, to Regional Administrator, EPA Region VI, November 6, 1981.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
“Statement of Legal Authority of the State of New Mexico by and through its Oil Conservation Division of the Energy and Mines Department to conduct an Underground Injection Control Program,” signed by Assistant Attorney General and General Counsel to the Oil Conservation Division.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988]
§ 147.1601
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV and V wells.
The UIC Program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the State of New Mexico, except for those located on Indian country as defined under 40 CFR 144.3, is the program administered by the New Mexico Water Quality Control Commission, the New Mexico Environment Department (formerly the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Division), and the Oil Conservation Division of the New Mexico Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Department and approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA). The effective date of this program is August 10, 1983. A subsequent program revision application for Class I hazardous waste injection wells, which are only authorized for use by petroleum refineries for the waste generated by the refinery (“generator”), except in Indian country, was approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. The effective date of this program is January 3, 2022. The State-administered UIC programs for Classes I, III, IV, and V consist of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program applications.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The New Mexico State provisions cited in “EPA-Approved New Mexico SDWA § 1422 Underground Injection Control Program Statutes and Regulations for Well Classes I, III, IV, and V,” dated March 11, 2021, and listed in Table 1 to this paragraph (a), are incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under SDWA for the State of New Mexico. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the State of New Mexico's provisions that are incorporated by reference may be inspected at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Water Docket, EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC), EPA WJC West, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20004, or the Region VI, Library, U. S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Dallas, Texas 75270. If you wish to obtain materials from the EPA Headquarters Library, please call the Water Docket at (202) 566-2426 or from the EPA Regional Office, please call (214) 665-8326. You may also inspect the materials at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov
or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
): EPA—Approved State of New Mexico SDWA § 1422 Underground Injection Control Program Statutes and Regulations for Well Classes I, III, IV, and V
State citation
Title/subject
State effective date
EPA approval date
New Mexico Administrative Code, Title 20, Chapter 6, Part 2
Ground and Surface Water Protection
December 21, 2018
January 3, 2022, 87 FR 47.
New Mexico Administrative Code, Title 19, Chapter 14, Parts 1-4
Geothermal Resources Development
February 27, 2018
January 3, 2022, [87 FR 47.
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference, are also part of the approved State-administered UIC program:
(1) Water Quality Act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated Sections 74-6-1 through 74-6-13 (1978 and Supp. 1982);
(2) Geothermal Resources Development Act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated, Chapter 71, Article 9 (July 1, 2016);
(3) Surface Mining Act, New Mexico Statutes Annotated Sections 69-25A-1 through 69-25A-35 (1978 and Supp. 1980).
(c)
Memorandum of Agreement.
(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VI and the New Mexico Water Quality Control Commission, the Environmental Improvement Division, and the Oil Conservation Division, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on April 13, 1983;
(2) Letter from the Director, Environmental Improvement Division and
the Director, Oil Conservation Division, to Regional Administrator, EPA Region IV, “Re: New Mexico Underground Injection Control Program—Clarification,” February 10, 1983.
(3) Amendment No. 1, Underground Injection Program Substitute Memorandum of Agreement Between the State of New Mexico and United States Environmental Protection Agency Region VI, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on May 2, 2019.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Attorney General's Statement, signed by the Assistant Attorney General for the Environmental Improvement Division, the Assistant Attorney General for Oil Conservation Division, and the Deputy Attorney General, Civil Division, Counsel for the Mining and Minerals Division, undated, submitted December 8, 1982.
(2) Attorney General's Statement for Program Revision of New Mexico UIC Program, signed by Bill Brancard, Special Assistant Attorney General, State of New Mexico Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Department, submitted December 12, 2018.
(e)
Program Description and any other materials.
The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[87 FR 50, Jan. 3, 2022]
§ 147.1603
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in New Mexico, except for Class II wells on Navajo Indian lands for which EPA has granted the Navajo Nation primacy for the SDWA Class II UIC program (as defined in § 147.3400), is administered by EPA. The program consists of the requirements set forth at Subpart HHH of this part. Injection well owners and operators and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date for the UIC program on Indian lands in New Mexico, except for Class II wells on Navajo Indian lands for which EPA has granted the Navajo Nation primacy for the SDWA Class II UIC program (as defined in § 147.3400), is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 73 FR 65565, Nov. 4, 2008]

# Subpart HH—New York
§ 147.1650
State-administered program. [Reserved]
§ 147.1651
EPA-administered program.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for the State of New York, including all Indian lands, is administered by EPA. The program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date of the UIC program for New York for all injection activities except those on lands of the Seneca Indian Tribe is June 25, 1984. The effective date for the UIC program for the lands of the Seneca Indian Tribe is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988; 54 FR 10616, Mar. 14, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.1652
Aquifer exemptions.
(a) This section identifies any aquifer or their portions exempted in accordance with §§ 144.7(b) and 146.4 of this chapter at the time of program promulgation. EPA may in the future exempt other aquifers or portions, according to applicable procedures, without codifying such exemptions in this section. An updated list of exemptions will be maintained in the Regional office.
(b) The following portions of aquifers are exempted in accordance with the provisions of §§ 144.7(b) and 146.4 of this chapter for Class II injection activities only:
(1) The Bradford First, Second, and Third Sand Members and the Kane Sand Member in the Bradford Field in Cattaraugus County.
(2) The Chipmunk Oil field in Cattaraugus County.
§ 147.1653
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
Maximum injection pressure.
The owner or operator shall limit injection pressure to the lesser of:
(a) A value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3) (i) or (ii) as applicable; or
(b) A value for well head pressure calculated by using the following formula:
Pm = (0.733−0.433 Sg)d
where:
Pm = injection pressure at the well head in pounds per square inch
Sg = specific gravity of inject fluid (unitless)
d = injection depth in feet.
§ 147.1654
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
(a)
Maximum injection pressure.
(1) To meet the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B) of this chapter, the owner or operator:
(i) Shall use an injection pressure no greater than the pressure established by the Regional Administrator for the field or formation in which the well is located. The Regional Administrator shall establish such a maximum pressure after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter, and will inform owners and operators in writing of the applicable maximum pressure, or
(ii) May inject at pressures greater than those specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for the field or formation in which he is operating provided he submits a request in writing to the Regional Administrator, and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that such injection pressure will not violate the requirement of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B). The Regional Administrator may grant such a request after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter.
(2) Prior to such time as the Regional Administrator establishes rules for maximum injection pressure based on data provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section the owner or operator shall:
(i) Limit injection pressure to a value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii); and
(ii) Submit data acceptable to the Regional Administrator which defines the fracture pressure of the formation in which injection is taking place. A single test may be submitted on behalf of two or more operators conducting operations in the same formation, if the Regional Administrator approves such submission. The data shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator within one year of the effective date of this program.
(b)
Casing and cementing.
Where the Regional Administrator determines that the owner or operator of an existing enhanced recovery or hydrocarbon storage well may not be in compliance with the requirements of §§ 144.28(e) and 146.22, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (b) (1) through (4) of this section, when required by the Regional Administrator:
(1) Protect USDWs by:
(i) Cementing surface casing by recirculating the cement to the surface from a point 50 feet below the lowermost USDW; or
(ii) Isolating all USDWs by placing cement between the outermost casing and the well bore; and
(iii) For wells as described in § 146.8(b)(3)(ii), installing a smaller diameter pipe inside the existing injection tubing and setting it on an appropriate packer; and
(2) Isolate any injection zones by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated space between the casing and the well bore to a point 50 feet above the injection zone; and
(3) Use cement:
(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operating pressure;
(ii) Which is resistant to deterioration from formation and injection fluids; and
(iii) In a quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary to cement off a zone.
(4) The Regional Administrator may specify other requirements in addition to or in lieu of the requirements set
forth in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section as needed to protect USDWs.
§ 147.1655
Requirements for wells authorized by permit.
(a) The owner or operator of a Class I well authorized by permit shall install or shall ensure that the well has:
(1) Surface casing present;
(i) Extending from the surface to a depth at least 50 feet below the base of the lowermost USDW; and
(ii) Cemented back to the surface by recirculating the cement; and
(2) Long string casing and tubing;
(i) Extending to the injection zone; and
(ii) Cemented back to 50 feet above the base of the next largest casing string.
(b) The owner or operator of a new Class II well authorized by permit shall:
(1) Install surface casing from the surface to at least 50 feet below the base of the lowermost USDW.
(2) Cement the casing by recirculating to the surface or by using no less than 120% of the calculated annular volume.
(3) For new enhanced recovery wells, install tubing or long string casing extending to the injection zone.
(4) For new salt water disposal wells, install long string casing and tubing extending to the injection zone.
(5) Isolate any injection zone by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated volume to a point 50 feet above the injection zone.
(c) The Regional Administrator may specify casing and cementing requirements other than those listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section on a case by case basis as conditions of the permit.

# Subpart II—North Carolina
§ 147.1700
State-administered program.
The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of North Carolina, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the North Carolina Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on April 19, 1984 (49 FR 15553); the effective date of this program is April 19, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph (a) are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of North Carolina. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Water Resources, Attention UIC Program, 1636 Mail Service Center, Raleigh, North Carolina 27699. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region IV, 61 Forsyth Street SW, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-8960, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
(1) Administrative Procedure Act, N.C. GEN. STAT. 150B-1 through 150B-64 (1987 and Cumm. Supp. 1989);
(2) North Carolina Well Construction Act, N.C. GEN. STAT. §§ 87-83 through 87-99 (1989 and Cumm. Supp. 1989);
(3) Water and Air Resources, N.C. GEN. STAT. §§ 143-211 through 143-215.10 (1987 and Cumm. Supp. 1989);
(4) Solid Waste Management, N.C. GEN. STAT. §§ 130A-290 through 130A-309.03 (1989);
(5) North Carolina Drinking Water Act, N.C. GEN. STAT. §§ 130A-311 through 130A-332 (1989);
(6) Sanitary Sewage Systems, N.C. GEN. STAT. §§ 130A-333 through 130A-335 (1989).
(b)
Other laws.
The following rules and regulations, although not incorporated by reference, are also part of the approved State-administered program:
(1) N.C. ADMIN. CODE, Title 15, r. 02L.0100
et seq.
Groundwater Classification and Standards: General Considerations (September 22, 1988);
(2) N.C. ADMIN. CODE, Title 15, r. 02L.0100
et seq.
Criteria and Standards Applicable to Injection Wells (September 22, 1988).
(c)
Memorandum of Agreement.
The Memorandum of Agreement between the State of North Carolina and EPA Region IV, signed March 1, 1984.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement (June 15, 1982);
(2) Amendment to Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement (February 9, 1984).
(e)
Program Description.
The Program Description and other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991, as amended at 89 FR 86750, Oct. 31, 2024]
§§ 147.1701-147.1702
[Reserved]
§ 147.1703
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of North Carolina is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in North Carolina is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9418, Mar. 6, 1991]
§§ 147.1704-147.1749
[Reserved]

# Subpart JJ—North Dakota
§ 147.1750
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of North Dakota, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the North Dakota Industrial Commission, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on August 23, 1983 (48 FR 38237); the effective date of this program is September 24, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of North Dakota. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) North Dakota Century Code, Chapter 38-08 (Control of Gas and Oil Resources, 1987 and Supp. 1989);
(2) North Dakota Administrative Code, Chapter 43-02-05 (Underground Injection Control, as published in
Statutes and Rules for the Conservation of Oil and Gas,
North Dakota Industrial Commission, revised effective November 1, 1987);
(3) North Dakota Administrative Code, Chapter 43-02-03 (General Rules, as published in
Statutes and Rules for the Conservation of Oil and Gas,
North Dakota Industrial Commission, revised effective November 1, 1987).
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VIII and the North Dakota Industrial Commission, Oil and Gas Division, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on June 16, 1983, as amended September 7, 1989.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
“Underground Injection Control Program Attorney General's Statement,” as submitted with the North Dakota Underground Injection Control Program Primacy Application for Class II Injection Wells, transmitted by the Governor on July 15, 1982 (16 pages).
(d) The Program Description and other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9418, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.1751
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, V and VI wells.
The UIC Program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the State of North Dakota, except those located on Indian lands, as defined under 40 CFR 144.3, is the program administered by the North Dakota Department of Environmental
Quality, approved by the EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notification of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on April 15, 2019; the program is effective May 15, 2019. The UIC Program for Class VI wells in the State of North Dakota, except those located on Indian lands, is the program administered by the North Dakota Industrial Commission (NDIC), approved by the EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notification of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on April 24, 2018; the effective date of the NDIC UIC Class VI program is April 24, 2018. The State-administered UIC programs for Classes I, III, IV, V, and VI consist of the following elements, as submitted to the EPA in the State's program applications.
(a) The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations approved by the EPA for inclusion in “EPA-Approved North Dakota SDWA § 1422 Underground Injection Control Program Statutes and Regulations for Well Classes I, III, IV, V and VI,” dated January 2019, and listed in table 1 to this paragraph (a), are incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of North Dakota. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the material incorporated by reference in this paragraph (a) may be inspected at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region VIII, Library 2nd Floor, 1595 Wynkoop Street, Denver, Colorado 80202-1129. If you wish to obtain this material from the EPA Regional Office, call (303) 312-1226. Copies of this material also may be inspected at the EPA Headquarters Library, in the Water Docket, at the EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC), EPA WJC West, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460. If you wish to obtain this material from the EPA Docket Center, call (202) 566-2426. Copies of this material also may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
Table 1 to Paragraph
(a)
—EPA-Approved North Dakota SDWA Section 1422 Underground Injection Control Program Statutes and Regulations for Well Classes I, III, IV, V and VI
State citation
Title/subject
State
effective
date
EPA approval date
North Dakota Century Code Sections 38-12-01 through 38-12-03
Regulation, Development and Production of Subsurface Minerals
1980
September 21, 1984, 49 FR 37066.
North Dakota Century Code Sections 61-28-02 and 61-28-06
Control, Prevention and Abatement of Pollution of Surface Waters
1989
March 6, 1991, 56 FR 9418.
North Dakota Century Code Sections 61-28.1-01 and 61-28.1-12
Safe Drinking Water Act
2019
April 15, 2019, 84 FR 15119.
North Dakota Administrative Code Sections 33.1-25-01-01 through 33.1-25-01-18
Underground Injection Control Program
2019
April 15, 2019, 84 FR 15119.
North Dakota Administrative Code Sections 43-02-02-01 through 43-02-02-50
Subsurface Mineral Exploration and Development
1986
March 6, 1991, 56 FR 9418.
North Dakota Administrative Code Sections 43-02-02.1-01 through 43-02-02.2-19
Underground Injection Control Program
1984
September 21, 1984, 49 FR 37066.
North Dakota Century Code Sections 38-22-01 through 38-22-23
Carbon Dioxide Underground Storage
2009
April 24, 2018, 83 FR 17761.
North Dakota Administrative Code Sections 38-08-16 and 38-08-17
Control of Oil and Gas Resources
2013
April 24, 2018, 83 FR 17761.
North Dakota Administrative Code Sections 43-05-01-01 through 43-05-01-20
Geologic Storage of Carbon Dioxide
2013
April 24, 2018, 83 FR 17761.
(b) The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference, also are part of the approved State-administered program:
(1) North Dakota Environmental Law Enforcement Act of 1975, North Dakota Century Code Sections 32-40-01 to 32-40-11 (1976); and
(2) North Dakota Administrative Code Article 33-22 (Practice and Procedure) (1983).
(c) The Memorandum of Agreement for the Class I, III, IV, and V Underground Injection Control Program between EPA Region 8 and the North Dakota Department of Environmental Quality, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on September 18, 2018.
(d) The statement of legal authority, “Class I, III, IV, and V Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement,” signed by the Assistant Attorney General of North Dakota on July 30, 2018, and the “Supplement to the Attorney General Statements Relating to Programs Being Transferred to the North Dakota Department of Environmental Quality,” signed by the Assistant Attorney General of North Dakota on October 23, 2018.
(e) The Class I, III, IV, and V Underground Injection Control Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the program revision or as supplements thereto.
(f) The Memorandum of Agreement for the Class VI Underground Injection Control Program between EPA Region 8 and the North Dakota Industrial Commission, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on October 28, 2013.
(g) The Memorandum of Understanding for Class VI between the North Dakota Industrial Commission, Department of Mineral Resources, Oil and Gas Division and the North Dakota Department of Health, Water Quality Division Related to the Underground Injection Control Program, signed on June 19, 2013.
(h) The statement of legal authority, “Class VI Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement,” signed by the Attorney General of North Dakota on January 22, 2013.
(i) The Class VI Underground Injection Control Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the program revision or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 37066, Sept. 21, 1984, as amended at 56 FR 9418, Mar. 6, 1991; 83 FR 17761, Apr. 24, 2018; 84 FR 15121, Apr. 15, 2019]
§ 147.1752
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of North Dakota is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in North Dakota is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9418, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart KK—Ohio
§ 147.1800
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Ohio, except for those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on August 23, 1983 (48 FR 38238); the effective date of this program is September 22, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Ohio. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Ohio Revised Code Annotated, sections 1509.01 through 1509.22 (Page 1978 and Supp. 1982);
(2) Rules of the Division of Oil and Gas, Ohio Administrative Code sections 1501:91-01, through 1501: 9-11-13 (1983).
(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region V and the Ohio Department of Natural Resources.
(c)
Statement of legal authority.
“Underground Injection Control Program—Attorney General's Statement,” signed by the Assistant Attorney General, Chief, Environmental Law Section, for the Attorney General of Ohio, September 30, 1982.
(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988]
§ 147.1801
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV and V wells.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Ohio, other than those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on November 29, 1984; the effective date of this program is January 14, 1985. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Ohio. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective January 14, 1985.
(1) Ohio Revised Code Annotated, sections 1509.01, 1509.03, 1509.221 (Supp. 1983);
(2) Rules of the Division of Oil and Gas, Ohio Administrative Code, sections 1501:9-7-01 through 7-14 (1984);
(3) Ohio Revised Code Annotated, sections 6111.04, 6111.043, 6111.044 (Supp. 1983);
(4) Rules of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, Ohio Administrative Code, sections 3745-34-01 through 34-41; 3745-9-01 through 9-11 (Director Ohio EPA Order, June 18, 1984).
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference, also are part of the approved State-administered program:
(1) Ohio Revised Code, Chapter 119 (1978 Replacement Part);
(2) Ohio Code Supplement, sections 6111.041, 6111.042, 6111.045 (Supp. 1982).
(c) (1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region V and the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 30, 1984;
(2) Memorandum of Agreement between the Ohio Department of Natural Resources and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, Related to the Underground Injection Control Program for the State of Ohio, signed August 1, 1984.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
Statement from Attorney General of the State of Ohio, by Senior Assistant Attorney General, “Underground Injection Control Program—Attorney General's Statement,” July 25, 1984.
(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 46897, Nov. 29, 1984]
§ 147.1802
Aquifer exemptions. [Reserved]
§ 147.1803
Existing Class I and III wells authorized by rule—maximum injection pressure.
The owner or operator shall limit injection pressure to the lesser of:
(a) A value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(i); or
(b) A value for well head pressure calculated by using the following formula:
Pm = (0.8 − 0.433 Sg) d
where:
Pm = injection pressure at the well head in pounds per square inch
Sg = specific gravity of injected fluid (unitless)
d = injection depth in feet.
[49 FR 45308, Nov. 15, 1984]
§ 147.1805
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Ohio is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Ohio is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9418, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart LL—Oklahoma
§ 147.1850
State-administered program—Class I, III, IV and V wells.
The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Oklahoma, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Oklahoma State Department of Health, approved by EPA pursuant to SDWA section 1422. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on June 24, 1982 (47 FR 27273). The effective date of this program is July 24, 1982. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Oklahoma. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.
(1) Oklahoma Statutes title 63 sections 1-901, 1-903 (1981);
(2) Oklahoma Controlled Industrial Waste Disposal Act, Oklahoma Statute Annotated title 63 sections 1-2002, 1-2014 (West Supp. 1983-1984);
(3)
Regulations.
[Reserved]
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference except for select sections identified in paragraph (a) of this section, are also part of the approved State-administered UIC program:
(1) Oklahoma Open Meeting Act, Oklahoma Statutes title 25 sections 301 through 314 (Supp. 1978);
(2) Oklahoma Statutes Annotated title 63 sections 1-101 to 1-114, 1-901 to 1-911, 1-1601
et seq.,
1-1701, 1-2001 to 1-2014 (West 1973 and Supp. 1982);
(3) Oklahoma Statutes Annotated title 75 sections 301 to 327 (West 1976 and Supp. 1982).
(c) (1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VI and the Oklahoma State Department of Health, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on April 13, 1982;
(2) Memorandum of Understanding between the Oklahoma State Department of Health and the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (OCC), signed by members of the OCC on February 12, 1982;
(3) Memorandum of Understanding between the Oklahoma State Department of Health and the Oklahoma Department of Mines (ODM), signed by the Deputy Chief Mine Inspector, ODM, on February 15, 1982.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
Letter from Attorney General of Oklahoma to Commissioner of Health, Oklahoma State Department of Health, “Re: Statement and Memorandum of Law Concerning the Authority for the Oklahoma State Department of Health's Underground Injection Control Program,” February 12, 1982.
(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43090, Oct. 25, 1988]
§ 147.1851
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Oklahoma, including the lands of the Five Civilized Tribes, but not including those on other Indian lands, is the program administered by the Oklahoma Corporation Commission approved by EPA pursuant to SDWA section 1425. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on December 2, 1981 (46 FR 58588). This program consists of the following
elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
[Reserved]
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference, are also part of the approved State-administered UIC program:
(1) Oklahoma Statutes, title 17 sections 51-53; title 52 sections 86.1-86.5, 139-153, 243, 307-318.1 (1971).
(2) OCC-OGR Rules No. 1-101-3-303.
(c) (1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VI and the Oklahoma Corporation Commission, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on April 13, 1981;
(2) Letter from the Manager, Underground Injection Control, Oklahoma Corporation Commission, to EPA, June 18, 1981.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
“Statement of Legal Authority of the Oklahoma Corporation Commission to Conduct an Underground Injection Control Program,” (Part IV, pages 30-41 of “State of Oklahoma Primacy Application for Authority to Regulate Class II Injection Wells,” submitted April 14, 1981), signed by the Conservation Attorney, Counsel to the Director and the Oklahoma Corporation Commission.
(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43090, Oct. 25, 1988]
§ 147.1852
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all wells on Indian lands in Oklahoma, except Class II wells on the lands of the Five Civilized Tribes, is administered by EPA. The UIC program for Class II wells on the Osage Mineral Reserve consists of the requirements set forth in subpart GGG of this part. The UIC program for all other wells on Indian lands consists of the requirements set forth in subpart III of this part. Injection well owners and operators and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date for UIC program for Class II wells on the Osage Mineral Reserve is December 30, 1984. The effective date for the UIC program for all other wells on Indian lands is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43090, Oct. 25, 1988]

# Subpart MM—Oregon
§ 147.1900
State-administered program.
The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of Oregon, except those on Indian lands, is administered by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 and section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on September 25, 1984; the effective date of this program is October 9, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Oregon. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective October 9, 1984.
(1) Oregon Revised Statutes, Title 16, chapter 164, section 164.785; Title 36, chapter 468, sections 468.005, 468.065 to 468.070, 468.700 to 468.815; Title 43, chapter 520 sections 520.005, 520.095, 520.155-520.330 (1983);
(2) Oregon Administrative Rules, Chapter 340, Division 44, sections 340-44-005 through 340-44-055 (October 1983); Chapter 340, Division 45, sections 340-45-005 through 340-45-075 (January 1990); Chapter 632, Division 10, sections 632-10-002 through 632-10-235 (May 1986); Chapter 632, Division 20, sections 632-20-005 through 632-20-180 (May 1984).
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference, also are part of the approved State-administered program:
(1) Oregon Revised Statutes, Chapter 183 (1987); 192.420, 192.500, 459.460(3), 468.005 through 468.605, and 468.780 through 468.997; Chapters 516 and 522 (1983);
(2) Oregon Administrative Rules, chapter 137, Div. 3 (July 1982); chapter 340, Div. 11 (April 1988); chapter 340, Div. 12 (March 1989); chapter 340, Div. 14 (November 1983); chapter 340, Div. 52 (November 1983); chapter 632, Div. 1 (June 1980); chapter 632, Div. 20 (January 1981).
(c)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region X and the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on May 3, 1984.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) “Underground Injection Control Program Legal Counsel's Statement,” October 1983, signed by the Assistant Attorney General, Oregon;
(2) Opinion of the Attorney General, Oregon, 35 Op. Attorney General 1042 (1972).
(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 37594, Sept. 25, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43090, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9418, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.1901
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Oregon is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Oregon is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43090, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9419, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart NN—Pennsylvania
§ 147.1950
State-administered program. [Reserved]
§ 147.1951
EPA-administered program.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for the State of Pennsylvania, including all Indian lands, is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective dates.
The effective date for the UIC program on Indian lands is November 25, 1988. The effective date for the UIC program for the rest of Pennsylvania is June 25, 1984.
[53 FR 43090, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9419, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.1952
Aquifer exemptions.
(a) This section identifies any aquifers or their portions exempted in accordance with §§ 144.7(b) and 146.4 of this chapter at the time of program promulgation. EPA may in the future exempt other aquifers or portions, according to applicable procedures, without codifying such exemptions in this section. An updated list of exemptions will be maintained in the Regional office.
(b) Those portions of the following oil bearing aquifers, which would otherwise meet the definition of a USDW, are exempted in accordance with the provisions of §§ 144.7(b) and 146.4 of this chapter for Class II enhanced recovery injection activities only.
(1) The Sugar Run and Bradford series of oil producing sands of the Bradford Field, in McKean County; including the Bradford, West Branch, Stack, Bennett Brook, Marilla Brook, Brooder Hollow, Cyclone, Minard Run, Minard Run School, and Sugar Run (or Watsonville) Pools.
(2) The Bradford Third oil producing sand of the Guffey Field in McKean County.
(3) The Bradford series of oil producing sands of the Lewis Run Field in McKean County.
(4) The Bradford series of oil producing sands of the Windfall Field and Kings Run Pool in McKean County.
(5) The Red Valley member of the Second Sand formation of the Venango Group of oil producing sands in the Foster-Reno Field in Venango County; including the Foster, Bully Hill, Victory, Bredinsburg, Egypt Corners, Reno, Monarch Park and Seneca Pools.
(6) The Glade and Clarendon oil producing sands of the Morrison Run Field and Elk Run Pool in Warren County.
(7) The Clarendon and Glade oil producing sands of the Clarendon Field in Warren County.
(8) The Bradford Third oil producing sand in the Shinglehouse Field, including the Kings Run, Janders Run and Ceres Pools in Potter and McKean Counties.
§ 147.1953
Existing Class I, II (except enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage) and III wells authorized by rule.
Maximum injection pressure.
The owner or operator shall limit injection pressure to the lesser of:
(a) A value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3) (i) or (ii) as applicable or
(b) A value for well head pressure calculated by using the following formula:
Pm = (0.733 − 0.433 Sg)d
where:
Pm = injection pressure at the well head in pounds per square inch
Sg = specific gravity of injection fluid (unitless)
d = injection depth in feet.
§ 147.1954
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
(a)
Maximum injection pressure.
(1) To meet the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B) of this chapter, the owner or operator:
(i) Shall use an injection pressure no greater than the pressure established by the Regional Administrator for the field or formation in which the well is located. The Regional Administrator shall establish such a maximum pressure after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter, and will inform owners and operators in writing of the applicable maximum pressure; or
(ii) May inject at pressures greater than those specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for the field or formation in which he is operating provided he submits a request in writing to the Regional Administrator, and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that such injection pressure will not violate the requirement of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B). The Regional Administrator may grant such a request after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter.
(2) Prior to such time as the Regional Administrator establishes rules for maximum injection pressure based on data provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section the owner or operator shall:
(i) Limit injection pressure to a value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii); and
(ii) Submit data acceptable to the Regional Administrator which defines the fracture pressure of the formation in which injection is taking place. A single test may be submitted on behalf of two or more operators conducting operations in the same formation, if the Regional Administrator approves such submission. The information shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator within one year of the effective date of this regulation.
(b)
Casing and cementing.
Where the Regional Administrator determines that the owner or operator of an existing enhanced recovery or hydrocarbon storage well may not be in compliance with the requirements of §§ 144.28(e) and 146.22, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (b) (1) through (4) of this section, when required by the Regional Administrator:
(1) Protect USDWs by:
(i) Cementing surface casing by recirculating the cement to the surface from a point 50 feet below the lowermost USDW; or
(ii) Isolating all USDWs by placing cement between the outermost casing and the well bore; and
(iii) For wells as described in § 146.8(b)(3)(ii), installing a smaller diameter pipe inside the existing injection tubing and setting it on an appropriate packer; and
(2) Isolate any injection zones by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated space between the casing and the well bore to a point 50 feet above the injection zone; and
(3) Use cement:
(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operating pressure;
(ii) Which is resistant to deterioration from formation and injection fluids; and
(iii) In a quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary to cement off a zone.
(4) The Regional Administrator may specify other requirements in addition to or in lieu of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section as needed to protect USDWs.
§ 147.1955
Requirements for wells authorized by permit.
(a) The owner or operator of a Class I well authorized by permit shall install or shall ensure that the well has:
(1) Surface casing present;
(i) Extending from the surface to a depth at least 50 feet below the base of the lowermost USDW; and
(ii) Cemented back to the surface by recirculating the cement; and
(2) Long string casing and tubing;
(i) Extending to the injection zone; and
(ii) Cemented back to 50 feet above the base of the next largest casing string.
(b) The owner or operator of a new Class II well authorized by permit shall:
(1) Install surface casing from the surface to at least 50 feet below the base of the lowermost USDW.
(2) Cement the casing by recirculating to the surface or by using no less than 120% of the calculated annular volume.
(3) For new enhanced recovery wells, install tubing or long string casing extending to the injection zone.
(4) For new salt water disposal wells, install long string casing and tubing extending to the injection zone.
(5) Isolate any injection zone by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated volume to a point 50 feet above the injection zone.
(c) The Regional Administrator may specify casing and cementing requirements other than those listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section on a case by case basis as conditions of the permit.

# Subpart OO—Rhode Island
§ 147.2000
State-administered program—Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells.
The UIC program for all classes of wells in Rhode Island, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on August 1, 1984; the effective date of this program is August 15, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Rhode Island. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective August 15, 1984.
(1) Rhode Island Gen. Laws sections 46-12-1, 46-12-5, and 46-12-28 (Supp. 1983);
(2) “Underground Injection Control Program Rules and Regulations.” State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations Department of Environmental Management. Division of Water Resources (as received by the Secretary of State, May 21, 1984).
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations although not incorporated by reference, also are part of the approved State-administered program:
(1) Rhode Island General Laws, Section 10-20-1
et seq.,
entitled “State Environmental Rights”;
(2) Rhode Island General Laws, Section 23-19.1-1
et seq.,
entitled “Hazardous Waste Management”;
(3) Rhode Island General Laws, Section 42-17.1
et seq.,
entitled “Department of Environmental Management”;
(4) Rhode Island General Laws, Section 42-35-1
et seq.,
entitled “Administrative Procedures”;
(5) Rhode Island General Laws, Section 46-12-1
et seq.,
entitled “Water Pollution”;
(6) Hazardous Waste Management Facility Operating Permit Rules and Regulations—Landfills, at last amended November 2, 1981 (hereinafter referred to as the “Hazardous Waste Regulation”);
(7) Water Quality Regulations for Water Pollution Control, effective November 19, 1981; and
(8) Administrative Rules of Practices and Procedure for Department of Environmental Management, effective November 12, 1980.
(c) (1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region I and the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on March 29, 1984;
(2) Letter from Director, Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management, to Regional Administrator, EPA Region I, amending Section III, C of the Memorandum of Agreement, April 25, 1984.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
Letter from Attorney General, State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, to Regional Administrator, EPA Region 1, “Re: Attorney General's Statement, Underground Injection Control Program,” January 17, 1984.
(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 30699, Aug. 1, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43090, Oct. 25, 1988]
§ 147.2001
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Rhode Island is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in Rhode Island is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43090, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9419, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart PP—South Carolina
§ 147.2050
State-administered program.
The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of South Carolina, except for those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on July 10, 1984; the effective date of this program is July 24, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of South Carolina. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective July 24, 1984.
(1) Pollution Control Act, S.C. Code Ann. Sections 48-1-10, 48-1-90, 48-1-100, 48-1-110 (Law. Co-op. 1976 and Supp. 1983).
(2) South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, Ground-Water Protection Division, Underground Injection Control Regulations, R-61-87, Effective Date: June 24, 1983 Published in South Carolina State Register, Volume 7, Issue 6; Amended Date: March 23, 1984, as amended by notice in South Carolina State Register, Volume 8, Issue 3.
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations although not incorporated by reference, also are part of the approved State-Administered program:
(1) Pollution Control Act, S.C. Code Ann. Sections 48-1-10 to 48-1-350 (Law. Co-op. 1976 and Supp. 1983).
(2) State Safe Drinking Water Act, S.C. Code Ann. Sections 44-55-10 to 44-55-100 (Law. Co-op. 1976 and Supp. 1983).
(3) Administrative Procedures Act, S.C. Code Ann. Sections 1-23-10
et seq.,
and 1-23-310 to 1-23-400 (Law. Co-op. 1976 and Supp. 1983).
(4) S.C. Code Ann. Sections 15-5-20, 15-5-200 (Law. Co-op. 1976 and Supp. 1983).
(c)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IV and the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on May 29, 1984.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) “Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement for Class I, II, III, IV and VA and VB Wells,” signed by the Attorney General of South Carolina on April 27, 1984.
(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.
[49 FR 28058, July 10, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43090, Oct. 25, 1988]
§ 147.2051
EPA-administered program—Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all classes of wells on Indian lands in the State of Rhode Island is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Indian lands in South Carolina is November 25, 1988.
[53 FR 43090, Oct. 25, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 9419, Mar. 6, 1991]

# Subpart QQ—South Dakota
§ 147.2100
State-administered program—Class II wells.
The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of South Dakota, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the South Dakota Department of Water and Natural Resources, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the
Federal Register
on October 24, 1984; the effective date of this program is December 7, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.
(a)
Incorporation by reference.
The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of South Dakota. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective December 7, 1984.
(1) South Dakota Codified Laws, sections 45-9-2, 45-9-4, 45-9-11, 45-9-13, 45-9-14, 45-9-15 (1983).
(2) Administrative Rules of South Dakota, sections 74:10:02 through 74:10:07, 74:10:09, and 74:10:11 published by the South Dakota Code Commission, as revised through October 4, 1987.
(b)
Other laws.
The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference, also are part of the approved State-administered program:
(1) South Dakota Codified Laws, Chapter 45-9 (sections not cited above) (1983); 1-26 (1981).
(c)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VIII and the South Dakota Department of Water and Natural Resources, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on July 18, 1984.
(d)
Statement of legal authority.
(1) “Underground Injection Control Program for Class II Wells: Attorney General's Statement,” signed by Mark V. Meierhery, Attorney General, South Dakota, on January 16, 1984.
(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.
[50 FR 7061, Feb. 20, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 9419, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.2101
EPA-administered program—Class I, III, IV and V wells and all wells on Indian lands.
(a)
Contents.
The UIC program for all Class I, III, IV, and V wells, including those on Indian lands, and for Class II wells on Indian lands in the state of South Dakota is administered by EPA. This program consists of the UIC program requirements of 40 CFR parts 124, 144, 146, 148, and any additional requirements set forth in the remainder of this subpart. Injection well owners and
operators, and EPA shall comply with these requirements.
(b)
Effective date.
The effective date of the UIC program for Class I, III, IV and V wells on all lands in South Dakota, including Indian lands, and for Class II wells on Indian lands only, is December 30, 1984.
[52 FR 17682, May 11, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 9419, Mar. 6, 1991]
§ 147.2102
Aquifer exemptions.
(a) This section identifies any aquifers or their portions exempted in accordance with §§ 144.7(b) and 146.4 of this chapter at the time of program promulgation. EPA may in the future exempt other aquifers or their portions, according to applicable procedures, without codifying such exemptions in this section. An updated list of exemptions will be maintained in the Regional office.
(b) Those portions of all aquifers located on Indian Lands, which meet the definition of USDW and into which existing Class II wells are injecting, are exempted within a
1/4
mile radius of the well for the purpose of Class II injection activities only.
[49 FR 45308, Nov. 15, 1984]
§ 147.2103
Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
(a)
Maximum injection pressure.
(1) To meet the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B) of this chapter, the owner or operator:
(i) Shall use an injection pressure no greater than the pressure established by the Regional Administrator for the field or formation in which the well is located. The Regional Administrator shall establish such a maximum pressure after notice, opportunity for comments, and opportunity for a public hearings, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter, and will inform owners and operators in writing of the applicable maximum pressure; or
(ii) May inject at a pressure greater than those specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for the field or formation in which he is operating provided he submits a request in writing to the Regional Administrator, and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that such injection pressure will not violate the requirement of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii)(A) and (B). The Regional Administrator may grant such a request after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter.
(2) Prior to such time as the Regional Administrator establishes field rules for maximum injection pressure based on data provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section the owner or operator shall:
(i) Limit injection pressure to a value which will not exceed the operating requirements of § 144.28(f)(3)(ii); and
(ii) Submit to the Regional Administrator data acceptable to the Regional administrator which defines the fracture pressure of the formation in which injection is taking place. A single test may be submitted on behalf of two or more operators conducting operations in the same formation, if the Regional Administrator approves such submission.
(b)
Casing and cementing.
Where the Regional Administrator determines that the owner or operator of an existing enhanced recovery or hydrocarbon storage well may not be in compliance with the requirement of §§ 144.28(e) and 146.22, the owner or operator shall when required by the Regional Administrator:
(1) Protect USDWs by:
(i) Cementing surface casing by recirculating the cement to the surface from a point 50 feet below the lowermost USDW; or
(ii) Isolating all USDWs by placing cement between the outermost casing and the well bore; and
(2) Isolate any injection zones by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated space between the casing and the well bore to a point 250 feet above the injection zone; and
(3) Use cement:
(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operation pressure;
(ii) Which is resistant to deterioration from formation and injection fluids; and
(iii) In a quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary to cement off a zone; and/or
(4) Comply with other requirements which the Regional Administrator may specify in addition to or in lieu of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section as needed to protect USDWs.
[49 FR 45308, Nov. 15, 1984]
§ 147.2104
Requirements for all wells.
