Dec. 30, 2024
Title 14
Aeronautics and Space
Parts 1 to 59
Revised as of January 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of January 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
e:\seals\archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
e:\seals\gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
v

# Title 14:
Chapter I—Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
3

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
921
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
941
List of CFR Sections Affected
951
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
14 CFR 1.1
refers to title 14, part 1, section 1.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, January 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
January 1, 2025.

# THIS TITLE
Title 14—
Aeronautics and Space
is composed of five volumes. The parts in these volumes are arranged in the following order: Parts 1-59, 60-109, 110-199, 200-1199, and part 1200-End. The first three volumes containing parts 1-199 are comprised of chapter I—Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (DOT). The fourth volume containing parts 200-1199 is comprised of chapter II—Office of the Secretary, DOT (Aviation Proceedings) and chapter III—Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. The fifth volume containing part 1200-End is comprised of chapter V—National Aeronautics and Space Administration and chapter VI—Air Transportation System Stabilization. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of January 1, 2025.
For this volume, Susannah C. Hurley was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
14 CFR Ch. I (1-1-25 Edition)
Federal Aviation Administration, DOT

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
(This book contains parts 1 to 59)
Part
chapter i
—Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation
1

# CHAPTER I—FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

# SUBCHAPTER A—DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Part
Page
1
Definitions and abbreviations
5
3
General requirements
21
5
Safety management systems
24

# SUBCHAPTER B—PROCEDURAL RULES
11
General rulemaking procedures
32
13
Investigative and enforcement procedures
42
14
Rules implementing the Equal Access to Justice Act of 1980
87
15
Administrative claims under Federal Tort Claims Act
94
16
Rules of practice for Federally-assisted airport enforcement proceedings.
98
17
Procedures for protests and contract disputes
119

# SUBCHAPTER C—AIRCRAFT
21
Certification procedures for products and articles
136
23
Airworthiness standards: Normal category airplanes
181
25
Airworthiness standards: Transport category airplanes
201
26
Continued airworthiness and safety improvements for transport category airplanes
481
27
Airworthiness standards: Normal category rotorcraft
496
29
Airworthiness standards: Transport category rotorcraft
582
31
Airworthiness standards: Manned free balloons
701
33
Airworthiness standards: Aircraft engines
708
34
Fuel venting and exhaust emission requirements for turbine engine powered airplanes
755
35
Airworthiness standards: Propellers
771
36
Noise standards: Aircraft type and airworthiness certification
780
38
Airplane fuel efficiency certification
858
39
Airworthiness directives
869
43
Maintenance, preventive maintenance, rebuilding, and alteration
871
45
Identification and registration marking
887
47
Aircraft registration
894
48
Registration and marking requirements for small unmanned aircraft
908
49
Recording of aircraft titles and security documents
912
50-59
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Pt. 1

# PART 1—DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS
Sec.
1.1
General definitions.
1.2
Abbreviations and symbols.
1.3
Rules of construction.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 40113, 44701.
§ 1.1
General definitions.
As used in Subchapters A through K of this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise:
Administrator
means the Federal Aviation Administrator or any person to whom he has delegated his authority in the matter concerned.
Aerodynamic coefficients
means non-dimensional coefficients for aerodynamic forces and moments.
Air carrier
means a person who undertakes directly by lease, or other arrangement, to engage in air transportation.
Air commerce
means interstate, overseas, or foreign air commerce or the transportation of mail by aircraft or any operation or navigation of aircraft within the limits of any Federal airway or any operation or navigation of aircraft which directly affects, or which may endanger safety in, interstate, overseas, or foreign air commerce.
Aircraft
means a device that is used or intended to be used for flight in the air.
Aircraft engine
means an engine that is used or intended to be used for propelling aircraft. It includes turbosuperchargers, appurtenances, and accessories necessary for its functioning, but does not include propellers.
Airframe
means the fuselage, booms, nacelles, cowlings, fairings, airfoil surfaces (including rotors but excluding propellers and rotating airfoils of engines), and landing gear of an aircraft and their accessories and controls.
Airplane
means an engine-driven fixed-wing aircraft heavier than air, that is supported in flight by the dynamic reaction of the air against its wings.
Airport
means an area of land or water that is used or intended to be used for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, and includes its buildings and facilities, if any.
Airship
means an engine-driven lighter-than-air aircraft that can be steered.
Air traffic
means aircraft operating in the air or on an airport surface, exclusive of loading ramps and parking areas.
Air traffic clearance
means an authorization by air traffic control, for the purpose of preventing collision between known aircraft, for an aircraft to proceed under specified traffic conditions within controlled airspace.
Air traffic control
means a service operated by appropriate authority to promote the safe, orderly, and expeditious flow of air traffic.
Air Traffic Service (ATS) route
is a specified route designated for channeling the flow of traffic as necessary for the provision of air traffic services. The term “ATS route” refers to a variety of airways, including jet routes, area navigation (RNAV) routes, and arrival and departure routes. An ATS route is defined by route specifications, which may include:
(1) An ATS route designator;
(2) The path to or from significant points;
(3) Distance between significant points;
(4) Reporting requirements; and
(5) The lowest safe altitude determined by the appropriate authority.
Air transportation
means interstate, overseas, or foreign air transportation or the transportation of mail by aircraft.
Alert Area.
An alert area is established to inform pilots of a specific area wherein a high volume of pilot training or an unusual type of aeronautical activity is conducted.
Alternate airport
means an airport at which an aircraft may land if a landing at the intended airport becomes inadvisable.
Altitude engine
means a reciprocating aircraft engine having a rated takeoff
power that is producible from sea level to an established higher altitude.
Amateur rocket
means an unmanned rocket that:
(1) Is propelled by a motor or motors having a combined total impulse of 889,600 Newton-seconds (200,000 pound-seconds) or less; and
(2) Cannot reach an altitude greater than 150 kilometers (93.2 statute miles) above the earth's surface.
Appliance
means any instrument, mechanism, equipment, part, apparatus, appurtenance, or accessory, including communications equipment, that is used or intended to be used in operating or controlling an aircraft in flight, is installed in or attached to the aircraft, and is not part of an airframe, engine, or propeller.
Approved
, unless used with reference to another person, means approved by the FAA or any person to whom the FAA has delegated its authority in the matter concerned, or approved under the provisions of a bilateral agreement between the United States and a foreign country or jurisdiction.
Area navigation (RNAV)
is a method of navigation that permits aircraft operations on any desired flight path.
Area navigation (RNAV) route
is an ATS route based on RNAV that can be used by suitably equipped aircraft.
Armed Forces
means the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard, including their regular and reserve components and members serving without component status.
Autorotation
means a rotorcraft flight condition in which the lifting rotor is driven entirely by action of the air when the rotorcraft is in motion.
Auxiliary rotor
means a rotor that serves either to counteract the effect of the main rotor torque on a rotorcraft or to maneuver the rotorcraft about one or more of its three principal axes.
Balloon
means a lighter-than-air aircraft that is not engine driven, and that sustains flight through the use of either gas buoyancy or an airborne heater.
Brake horsepower
means the power delivered at the propeller shaft (main drive or main output) of an aircraft engine.
Calibrated airspeed
means the indicated airspeed of an aircraft, corrected for position and instrument error. Calibrated airspeed is equal to true airspeed in standard atmosphere at sea level.
Canard
means the forward wing of a canard configuration and may be a fixed, movable, or variable geometry surface, with or without control surfaces.
Canard configuration
means a configuration in which the span of the forward wing is substantially less than that of the main wing.
Category:
(1) As used with respect to the certification, ratings, privileges, and limitations of airmen, means a broad classification of aircraft. Examples include: airplane; rotorcraft; glider; and lighter-than-air; and
(2) As used with respect to the certification of aircraft, means a grouping of aircraft based upon intended use or operating limitations. Examples include: transport, normal, utility, acrobatic, limited, restricted, and provisional.
Category A,
with respect to transport category rotorcraft, means multiengine rotorcraft designed with engine and system isolation features specified in Part 29 and utilizing scheduled takeoff and landing operations under a critical engine failure concept which assures adequate designated surface area and adequate performance capability for continued safe flight in the event of engine failure.
Category B,
with respect to transport category rotorcraft, means single-engine or multiengine rotorcraft which do not fully meet all Category A standards. Category B rotorcraft have no guaranteed stay-up ability in the event of engine failure and unscheduled landing is assumed.
Category II operations,
with respect to the operation of aircraft, means a straight-in ILS approach to the runway of an airport under a Category II ILS instrument approach procedure issued by the Administrator or other appropriate authority.
Category III operations,
with respect to the operation of aircraft, means an ILS approach to, and landing on, the runway of an airport using a Category III ILS instrument approach procedure
issued by the Administrator or other appropriate authority.
Ceiling
means the height above the earth's surface of the lowest layer of clouds or obscuring phenomena that is reported as “broken”, “overcast”, or “obscuration”, and not classified as “thin” or “partial”.
Civil aircraft
means aircraft other than public aircraft.
Class:
(1) As used with respect to the certification, ratings, privileges, and limitations of airmen, means a classification of aircraft within a category having similar operating characteristics. Examples include: single engine; multiengine; land; water; gyroplane; helicopter; airship; and free balloon; and
(2) As used with respect to the certification of aircraft, means a broad grouping of aircraft having similar characteristics of propulsion, flight, or landing. Examples include: airplane; rotorcraft; glider; balloon; landplane; and seaplane.
Clearway
means:
(1) For turbine engine powered airplanes certificated after August 29, 1959, an area beyond the runway, not less than 500 feet wide, centrally located about the extended centerline of the runway, and under the control of the airport authorities. The clearway is expressed in terms of a clearway plane, extending from the end of the runway with an upward slope not exceeding 1.25 percent, above which no object nor any terrain protrudes. However, threshold lights may protrude above the plane if their height above the end of the runway is 26 inches or less and if they are located to each side of the runway.
(2) For turbine engine powered airplanes certificated after September 30, 1958, but before August 30, 1959, an area beyond the takeoff runway extending no less than 300 feet on either side of the extended centerline of the runway, at an elevation no higher than the elevation of the end of the runway, clear of all fixed obstacles, and under the control of the airport authorities.
Climbout speed,
with respect to rotorcraft, means a referenced airspeed which results in a flight path clear of the height-velocity envelope during initial climbout.
Commercial operator
means a person who, for compensation or hire, engages in the carriage by aircraft in air commerce of persons or property, other than as an air carrier or foreign air carrier or under the authority of Part 375 of this title. Where it is doubtful that an operation is for “compensation or hire”, the test applied is whether the carriage by air is merely incidental to the person's other business or is, in itself, a major enterprise for profit.
Configuration, Maintenance, and Procedures (CMP) document
means a document approved by the FAA that contains minimum configuration, operating, and maintenance requirements, hardware life-limits, and Master Minimum Equipment List (MMEL) constraints necessary for an airplane-engine combination to meet ETOPS type design approval requirements.
Consensus standard
means, for the purpose of certificating light-sport aircraft, an industry-developed consensus standard that applies to aircraft design, production, and airworthiness. It includes, but is not limited to, standards for aircraft design and performance, required equipment, manufacturer quality assurance systems, production acceptance test procedures, operating instructions, maintenance and inspection procedures, identification and recording of major repairs and major alterations, and continued airworthiness.
Controlled airspace
means an airspace of defined dimensions within which air traffic control service is provided to IFR flights and to VFR flights in accordance with the airspace classification.

# Note:
Controlled airspace is a generic term that covers Class A, Class B, Class C, Class D, and Class E airspace.
Controlled Firing Area.
A controlled firing area is established to contain activities, which if not conducted in a controlled environment, would be hazardous to nonparticipating aircraft.
Crewmember
means a person assigned to perform duty in an aircraft during flight time.
Critical altitude
means the maximum altitude at which, in standard atmosphere, it is possible to maintain, at a specified rotational speed, a specified power or a specified manifold pressure.
Unless otherwise stated, the critical altitude is the maximum altitude at which it is possible to maintain, at the maximum continuous rotational speed, one of the following:
(1) The maximum continuous power, in the case of engines for which this power rating is the same at sea level and at the rated altitude.
(2) The maximum continuous rated manifold pressure, in the case of engines, the maximum continuous power of which is governed by a constant manifold pressure.
Critical engine
means the engine whose failure would most adversely affect the performance or handling qualities of an aircraft.
Decision altitude (DA)
is a specified altitude in an instrument approach procedure at which the pilot must decide whether to initiate an immediate missed approach if the pilot does not see the required visual reference, or to continue the approach. Decision altitude is expressed in feet above mean sea level.
Decision height (DH)
is a specified height above the ground in an instrument approach procedure at which the pilot must decide whether to initiate an immediate missed approach if the pilot does not see the required visual reference, or to continue the approach. Decision height is expressed in feet above ground level.
Early ETOPS
means ETOPS type design approval obtained without gaining non-ETOPS service experience on the candidate airplane-engine combination certified for ETOPS.
EFVS operation
means an operation in which visibility conditions require an EFVS to be used in lieu of natural vision to perform an approach or landing, determine enhanced flight visibility, identify required visual references, or conduct a rollout.
Enhanced flight visibility (EFV)
means the average forward horizontal distance, from the cockpit of an aircraft in flight, at which prominent topographical objects may be clearly distinguished and identified by day or night by a pilot using an enhanced flight vision system.
Enhanced flight vision system (EFVS)
means an installed aircraft system which uses an electronic means to provide a display of the forward external scene topography (the natural or manmade features of a place or region especially in a way to show their relative positions and elevation) through the use of imaging sensors, including but not limited to forward-looking infrared, millimeter wave radiometry, millimeter wave radar, or low-light level image intensification. An EFVS includes the display element, sensors, computers and power supplies, indications, and controls.
Equivalent airspeed
means the calibrated airspeed of an aircraft corrected for adiabatic compressible flow for the particular altitude. Equivalent airspeed is equal to calibrated airspeed in standard atmosphere at sea level.
ETOPS Significant System
means an airplane system, including the propulsion system, the failure or malfunctioning of which could adversely affect the safety of an ETOPS flight, or the continued safe flight and landing of an airplane during an ETOPS diversion. Each ETOPS significant system is either an ETOPS group 1 significant system or an ETOPS group 2 significant system.
(1) An ETOPS group 1 Significant System—
(i) Has fail-safe characteristics directly linked to the degree of redundancy provided by the number of engines on the airplane.
(ii) Is a system, the failure or malfunction of which could result in an IFSD, loss of thrust control, or other power loss.
(iii) Contributes significantly to the safety of an ETOPS diversion by providing additional redundancy for any system power source lost as a result of an inoperative engine.
(iv) Is essential for prolonged operation of an airplane at engine inoperative altitudes.
(2) An ETOPS group 2 significant system is an ETOPS significant system that is not an ETOPS group 1 significant system.
Extended Operations (ETOPS)
means an airplane flight operation, other than an all-cargo operation in an airplane with more than two engines, during
which a portion of the flight is conducted beyond a time threshold identified in part 121 or part 135 of this chapter that is determined using an approved one-engine-inoperative cruise speed under standard atmospheric conditions in still air.
Extended over-water operation
means—
(1) With respect to aircraft other than helicopters, an operation over water at a horizontal distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the nearest shoreline; and
(2) With respect to helicopters, an operation over water at a horizontal distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the nearest shoreline and more than 50 nautical miles from an off-shore heliport structure.
External load
means a load that is carried, or extends, outside of the aircraft fuselage.
External-load attaching means
means the structural components used to attach an external load to an aircraft, including external-load containers, the backup structure at the attachment points, and any quick-release device used to jettison the external load.
Final approach fix (FAF)
defines the beginning of the final approach segment and the point where final segment descent may begin.
Final takeoff speed
means the speed of the airplane that exists at the end of the takeoff path in the en route configuration with one engine inoperative.
Fireproof
—
(1) With respect to materials and parts used to confine fire in a designated fire zone, means the capacity to withstand at least as well as steel in dimensions appropriate for the purpose for which they are used, the heat produced when there is a severe fire of extended duration in that zone; and
(2) With respect to other materials and parts, means the capacity to withstand the heat associated with fire at least as well as steel in dimensions appropriate for the purpose for which they are used.
Fire resistant
—
(1) With respect to sheet or structural members means the capacity to withstand the heat associated with fire at least as well as aluminum alloy in dimensions appropriate for the purpose for which they are used; and
(2) With respect to fluid-carrying lines, fluid system parts, wiring, air ducts, fittings, and powerplant controls, means the capacity to perform the intended functions under the heat and other conditions likely to occur when there is a fire at the place concerned.
Flame resistant
means not susceptible to combustion to the point of propagating a flame, beyond safe limits, after the ignition source is removed.
Flammable,
with respect to a fluid or gas, means susceptible to igniting readily or to exploding.
Flap extended speed
means the highest speed permissible with wing flaps in a prescribed extended position.
Flash resistant
means not susceptible to burning violently when ignited.
Flightcrew member
means a pilot, flight engineer, or flight navigator assigned to duty in an aircraft during flight time.
Flight level
means a level of constant atmospheric pressure related to a reference datum of 29.92 inches of mercury. Each is stated in three digits that represent hundreds of feet. For example, flight level 250 represents a barometric altimeter indication of 25,000 feet; flight level 255, an indication of 25,500 feet.
Flight plan
means specified information, relating to the intended flight of an aircraft, that is filed orally or in writing with air traffic control.
Flight simulation training device (FSTD)
means a full flight simulator or a flight training device.
Flight time
means:
(1) Pilot time that commences when an aircraft moves under its own power for the purpose of flight and ends when the aircraft comes to rest after landing; or
(2) For a glider without self-launch capability, pilot time that commences when the glider is towed for the purpose of flight and ends when the glider comes to rest after landing.
Flight training device (FTD)
means a replica of aircraft instruments, equipment, panels, and controls in an open flight deck area or an enclosed aircraft cockpit replica. It includes the equipment and computer programs necessary to represent aircraft (or set of aircraft) operations in ground and
flight conditions having the full range of capabilities of the systems installed in the device as described in part 60 of this chapter and the qualification performance standard (QPS) for a specific FTD qualification level.
Flight visibility
means the average forward horizontal distance, from the cockpit of an aircraft in flight, at which prominent unlighted objects may be seen and identified by day and prominent lighted objects may be seen and identified by night.
Foreign air carrier
means any person other than a citizen of the United States, who undertakes directly, by lease or other arrangement, to engage in air transportation.
Foreign air commerce
means the carriage by aircraft of persons or property for compensation or hire, or the carriage of mail by aircraft, or the operation or navigation of aircraft in the conduct or furtherance of a business or vocation, in commerce between a place in the United States and any place outside thereof; whether such commerce moves wholly by aircraft or partly by aircraft and partly by other forms of transportation.
Foreign air transportation
means the carriage by aircraft of persons or property as a common carrier for compensation or hire, or the carriage of mail by aircraft, in commerce between a place in the United States and any place outside of the United States, whether that commerce moves wholly by aircraft or partly by aircraft and partly by other forms of transportation.
Forward wing
means a forward lifting surface of a canard configuration or tandem-wing configuration airplane. The surface may be a fixed, movable, or variable geometry surface, with or without control surfaces.
Full flight simulator (FFS)
means a replica of a specific type; or make, model, and series aircraft cockpit. It includes the assemblage of equipment and computer programs necessary to represent aircraft operations in ground and flight conditions, a visual system providing an out-of-the-cockpit view, a system that provides cues at least equivalent to those of a three-degree-of-freedom motion system, and has the full range of capabilities of the systems installed in the device as described in part 60 of this chapter and the qualification performance standards (QPS) for a specific FFS qualification level.
Glider
means a heavier-than-air aircraft, that is supported in flight by the dynamic reaction of the air against its lifting surfaces and whose free flight does not depend principally on an engine.
Ground visibility
means prevailing horizontal visibility near the earth's surface as reported by the United States National Weather Service or an accredited observer.
Go-around power or thrust setting
means the maximum allowable in-flight power or thrust setting identified in the performance data.
Gyrodyne
means a rotorcraft whose rotors are normally engine-driven for takeoff, hovering, and landing, and for forward flight through part of its speed range, and whose means of propulsion, consisting usually of conventional propellers, is independent of the rotor system.
Gyroplane
means a rotorcraft whose rotors are not engine-driven, except for initial starting, but are made to rotate by action of the air when the rotorcraft is moving; and whose means of propulsion, consisting usually of conventional propellers, is independent of the rotor system.
Helicopter
means a rotorcraft that, for its horizontal motion, depends principally on its engine-driven rotors.
Heliport
means an area of land, water, or structure used or intended to be used for the landing and takeoff of helicopters.
Idle thrust
means the jet thrust obtained with the engine power control level set at the stop for the least thrust position at which it can be placed.
IFR conditions
means weather conditions below the minimum for flight under visual flight rules.
IFR over-the-top,
with respect to the operation of aircraft, means the operation of an aircraft over-the-top on an IFR flight plan when cleared by air traffic control to maintain “VFR conditions” or “VFR conditions on top”.
Indicated airspeed
means the speed of an aircraft as shown on its pitot static airspeed indicator calibrated to reflect
standard atmosphere adiabatic compressible flow at sea level uncorrected for airspeed system errors.
In-flight shutdown (IFSD)
means, for ETOPS only, when an engine ceases to function (when the airplane is airborne) and is shutdown, whether self induced, flightcrew initiated or caused by an external influence. The FAA considers IFSD for all causes: for example, flameout, internal failure, flightcrew initiated shutdown, foreign object ingestion, icing, inability to obtain or control desired thrust or power, and cycling of the start control, however briefly, even if the engine operates normally for the remainder of the flight. This definition excludes the airborne cessation of the functioning of an engine when immediately followed by an automatic engine relight and when an engine does not achieve desired thrust or power but is not shutdown.
Instrument
means a device using an internal mechanism to show visually or aurally the attitude, altitude, or operation of an aircraft or aircraft part. It includes electronic devices for automatically controlling an aircraft in flight.
Instrument approach procedure (IAP)
is a series of predetermined maneuvers by reference to flight instruments with specified protection from obstacles and assurance of navigation signal reception capability. It begins from the initial approach fix, or where applicable, from the beginning of a defined arrival route to a point:
(1) From which a landing can be completed; or
(2) If a landing is not completed, to a position at which holding or en route obstacle clearance criteria apply.
Interstate air commerce
means the carriage by aircraft of persons or property for compensation or hire, or the carriage of mail by aircraft, or the operation or navigation of aircraft in the conduct or furtherance of a business or vocation, in commerce between a place in any State of the United States, or the District of Columbia, and a place in any other State of the United States, or the District of Columbia; or between places in the same State of the United States through the airspace over any place outside thereof; or between places in the same territory or possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
Interstate air transportation
means the carriage by aircraft of persons or property as a common carrier for compensation or hire, or the carriage of mail by aircraft in commerce:
(1) Between a place in a State or the District of Columbia and another place in another State or the District of Columbia;
(2) Between places in the same State through the airspace over any place outside that State; or
(3) Between places in the same possession of the United States;
Whether that commerce moves wholly by aircraft of partly by aircraft and partly by other forms of transportation.
Intrastate air transportation
means the carriage of persons or property as a common carrier for compensation or hire, by turbojet-powered aircraft capable of carrying thirty or more persons, wholly within the same State of the United States.
Kite
means a framework, covered with paper, cloth, metal, or other material, intended to be flown at the end of a rope or cable, and having as its only support the force of the wind moving past its surfaces.
Landing gear extended speed
means the maximum speed at which an aircraft can be safely flown with the landing gear extended.
Landing gear operating speed
means the maximum speed at which the landing gear can be safely extended or retracted.
Large aircraft
means aircraft of more than 12,500 pounds, maximum certificated takeoff weight.
Light-sport aircraft
means an aircraft, other than a helicopter or powered-lift that, since its original certification, has continued to meet the following:
(1) A maximum takeoff weight of not more than—
(i) 1,320 pounds (600 kilograms) for aircraft not intended for operation on water; or
(ii) 1,430 pounds (650 kilograms) for an aircraft intended for operation on water.
(2) A maximum airspeed in level flight with maximum continuous power (V
H
) of not more than 120 knots CAS
under standard atmospheric conditions at sea level.
(3) A maximum never-exceed speed (V
NE
) of not more than 120 knots CAS for a glider.
(4) A maximum stalling speed or minimum steady flight speed without the use of lift-enhancing devices (V
S1
) of not more than 45 knots CAS at the aircraft's maximum certificated takeoff weight and most critical center of gravity.
(5) A maximum seating capacity of no more than two persons, including the pilot.
(6) A single, reciprocating engine, if powered.
(7) A fixed or ground-adjustable propeller if a powered aircraft other than a powered glider.
(8) A fixed or feathering propeller system if a powered glider.
(9) A fixed-pitch, semi-rigid, teetering, two-blade rotor system, if a gyroplane.
(10) A nonpressurized cabin, if equipped with a cabin.
(11) Fixed landing gear, except for an aircraft intended for operation on water or a glider.
(12) Fixed or retractable landing gear, or a hull, for an aircraft intended for operation on water.
(13) Fixed or retractable landing gear for a glider.
Lighter-than-air aircraft
means aircraft that can rise and remain suspended by using contained gas weighing less than the air that is displaced by the gas.
Load factor
means the ratio of a specified load to the total weight of the aircraft. The specified load is expressed in terms of any of the following: aerodynamic forces, inertia forces, or ground or water reactions.
Long-range communication system (LRCS).
A system that uses satellite relay, data link, high frequency, or another approved communication system which extends beyond line of sight.
Long-range navigation system (LRNS).
An electronic navigation unit that is approved for use under instrument flight rules as a primary means of navigation, and has at least one source of navigational input, such as inertial navigation system or global positioning system.
Mach number
means the ratio of true airspeed to the speed of sound.
Main rotor
means the rotor that supplies the principal lift to a rotorcraft.
Maintenance
means inspection, overhaul, repair, preservation, and the replacement of parts, but excludes preventive maintenance.
Major alteration
means an alteration not listed in the aircraft, aircraft engine, or propeller specifications—
(1) That might appreciably affect weight, balance, structural strength, performance, powerplant operation, flight characteristics, or other qualities affecting airworthiness; or
(2) That is not done according to accepted practices or cannot be done by elementary operations.
Major repair
means a repair:
(1) That, if improperly done, might appreciably affect weight, balance, structural strength, performance, powerplant operation, flight characteristics, or other qualities affecting airworthiness; or
(2) That is not done according to accepted practices or cannot be done by elementary operations.
Manifold pressure
means absolute pressure as measured at the appropriate point in the induction system and usually expressed in inches of mercury.
Maximum engine overtorque
, as it applies to turbopropeller and turboshaft engines incorporating free power turbines for all ratings except one engine inoperative (OEI) ratings of two minutes or less, means the maximum torque of the free power turbine rotor assembly, the inadvertent occurrence of which, for periods of up to 20 seconds, will not require rejection of the engine from service, or any maintenance action other than to correct the cause.
Maximum speed for stability characteristics, V
FC
/M
FC
means a speed that may not be less than a speed midway between maximum operating limit speed (V
MO
/M
MO
) and demonstrated flight diving speed (V
DF
/M
DF
), except that, for altitudes where the Mach number is the limiting factor, M
FC
need not exceed the Mach number at which effective speed warning occurs.
Medical certificate
means acceptable evidence of physical fitness on a form prescribed by the Administrator.
Military operations area.
A military operations area (MOA) is airspace established outside Class A airspace to separate or segregate certain nonhazardous military activities from IFR Traffic and to identify for VFR traffic where theses activities are conducted.
Minimum descent altitude (MDA)
is the lowest altitude specified in an instrument approach procedure, expressed in feet above mean sea level, to which descent is authorized on final approach or during circle-to-land maneuvering until the pilot sees the required visual references for the heliport or runway of intended landing.
Minor alteration
means an alteration other than a major alteration.
Minor repair
means a repair other than a major repair.
National defense airspace
means airspace established by a regulation prescribed, or an order issued under, 49 U.S.C. 40103(b)(3).
Navigable airspace
means airspace at and above the minimum flight altitudes prescribed by or under this chapter, including airspace needed for safe takeoff and landing.
Night
means the time between the end of evening civil twilight and the beginning of morning civil twilight, as published in the Air Almanac, converted to local time.
Nonprecision approach procedure
means a standard instrument approach procedure in which no electronic glide slope is provided.
Operate,
with respect to aircraft, means use, cause to use or authorize to use aircraft, for the purpose (except as provided in § 91.13 of this chapter) of air navigation including the piloting of aircraft, with or without the right of legal control (as owner, lessee, or otherwise).
Operational control,
with respect to a flight, means the exercise of authority over initiating, conducting or terminating a flight.
Overseas air commerce
means the carriage by aircraft of persons or property for compensation or hire, or the carriage of mail by aircraft, or the operation or navigation of aircraft in the conduct or furtherance of a business or vocation, in commerce between a place in any State of the United States, or the District of Columbia, and any place in a territory or possession of the United States; or between a place in a territory or possession of the United States, and a place in any other territory or possession of the United States.
Overseas air transportation
means the carriage by aircraft of persons or property as a common carrier for compensation or hire, or the carriage of mail by aircraft, in commerce:
(1) Between a place in a State or the District of Columbia and a place in a possession of the United States; or
(2) Between a place in a possession of the United States and a place in another possession of the United States; whether that commerce moves wholly by aircraft or partly by aircraft and partly by other forms of transportation.
Over-the-top
means above the layer of clouds or other obscuring phenomena forming the ceiling.
Parachute
means a device used or intended to be used to retard the fall of a body or object through the air.
Person
means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, joint-stock association, or governmental entity. It includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar representative of any of them.
Pilotage
means navigation by visual reference to landmarks.
Pilot in command
means the person who:
(1) Has final authority and responsibility for the operation and safety of the flight;
(2) Has been designated as pilot in command before or during the flight; and
(3) Holds the appropriate category, class, and type rating, if appropriate, for the conduct of the flight.
Pitch setting
means the propeller blade setting as determined by the blade angle measured in a manner, and at a radius, specified by the instruction manual for the propeller.
Portable oxygen concentrator
means a medical device that separates oxygen from other gasses in ambient air and dispenses this concentrated oxygen to the user.
Positive control
means control of all air traffic, within designated airspace, by air traffic control.
Powered parachute
means a powered aircraft comprised of a flexible or semi-rigid wing connected to a fuselage so that the wing is not in position for flight until the aircraft is in motion. The fuselage of a powered parachute contains the aircraft engine, a seat for each occupant and is attached to the aircraft's landing gear.
Powered-lift
means a heavier-than-air aircraft capable of vertical takeoff, vertical landing, and low speed flight that depends principally on engine-driven lift devices or engine thrust for lift during these flight regimes and on nonrotating airfoil(s) for lift during horizontal flight.
Precision approach procedure
means a standard instrument approach procedure in which an electronic glide slope is provided, such as ILS and PAR.
Preventive maintenance
means simple or minor preservation operations and the replacement of small standard parts not involving complex assembly operations.
Prohibited area.
A prohibited area is airspace designated under part 73 within which no person may operate an aircraft without the permission of the using agency.
Propeller
means a device for propelling an aircraft that has blades on an engine-driven shaft and that, when rotated, produces by its action on the air, a thrust approximately perpendicular to its plane of rotation. It includes control components normally supplied by its manufacturer, but does not include main and auxiliary rotors or rotating airfoils of engines.
Public aircraft
means any of the following aircraft when not being used for a commercial purpose or to carry an individual other than a crewmember or qualified non-crewmenber:
(1) An aircraft used only for the United States Government; an aircraft owned by the Government and operated by any person for purposes related to crew training, equipment development, or demonstration; an aircraft owned and operated by the government of a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States or a political subdivision of one of these governments; or an aircraft exclusively leased for at least 90 continuous days by the government of a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States or a political subdivision of one of these governments.
(i) For the sole purpose of determining public aircraft status,
commercial purposes
means the transportation of persons or property for compensation or hire, but does not include the operation of an aircraft by the armed forces for reimbursement when that reimbursement is required by any Federal statute, regulation, or directive, in effect on November 1, 1999, or by one government on behalf of another government under a cost reimbursement agreement if the government on whose behalf the operation is conducted certifies to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration that the operation is necessary to respond to a significant and imminent threat to life or property (including natural resources) and that no service by a private operator is reasonably available to meet the threat.
(ii) For the sole purpose of determining public aircraft status,
governmental function
means an activity undertaken by a government, such as national defense, intelligence missions, firefighting, search and rescue, law enforcement (including transport of prisoners, detainees, and illegal aliens), aeronautical research, biological or geological resource management (including data collection on civil aviation systems undergoing research, development, test, or evaluation at a test range (as such term is defined in 49 U.S.C. 44801)), infrastructure inspections, or any other activity undertaken by a governmental entity that the Administrator determines is inherently governmental.
(iii) For the sole purpose of determining public aircraft status,
qualified non-crewmember
means an individual, other than a member of the crew, aboard an aircraft operated by the armed forces or an intelligence agency of the United States Government, or whose presence is required to perform, or is associated with the performance of, a governmental function.
(2) An aircraft owned or operated by the armed forces or chartered to provide transportation to the armed forces if—
(i) The aircraft is operated in accordance with title 10 of the United States Code;
(ii) The aircraft is operated in the performance of a governmental function under title 14, 31, 32, or 50 of the United States Code and the aircraft is not used for commercial purposes; or
(iii) The aircraft is chartered to provide transportation to the armed forces and the Secretary of Defense (or the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating) designates the operation of the aircraft as being required in the national interest.
(3) An aircraft owned or operated by the National Guard of a State, the District of Columbia, or any territory or possession of the United States, and that meets the criteria of paragraph (2) of this definition, qualifies as a public aircraft only to the extent that it is operated under the direct control of the Department of Defense.
Rated 30-second OEI Power
, with respect to rotorcraft turbine engines, means the approved brake horsepower developed under static conditions at specified altitudes and temperatures within the operating limitations established for the engine under part 33 of this chapter, for continuation of one flight operation after the failure or shutdown of one engine in multiengine rotorcraft, for up to three periods of use no longer than 30 seconds each in any one flight, and followed by mandatory inspection and prescribed maintenance action.
Rated 2-minute OEI Power
, with respect to rotorcraft turbine engines, means the approved brake horsepower developed under static conditions at specified altitudes and temperatures within the operating limitations established for the engine under part 33 of this chapter, for continuation of one flight operation after the failure or shutdown of one engine in multiengine rotorcraft, for up to three periods of use no longer than 2 minutes each in any one flight, and followed by mandatory inspection and prescribed maintenance action.
Rated continuous OEI power
, with respect to rotorcraft turbine engines, means the approved brake horsepower developed under static conditions at specified altitudes and temperatures within the operating limitations established for the engine under part 33 of this chapter, and limited in use to the time required to complete the flight after the failure or shutdown of one engine of a multiengine rotorcraft.
Rated maximum continuous augmented thrust,
with respect to turbojet engine type certification, means the approved jet thrust that is developed statically or in flight, in standard atmosphere at a specified altitude, with fluid injection or with the burning of fuel in a separate combustion chamber, within the engine operating limitations established under Part 33 of this chapter, and approved for unrestricted periods of use.
Rated maximum continuous power,
with respect to reciprocating, turbopropeller, and turboshaft engines, means the approved brake horsepower that is developed statically or in flight, in standard atmosphere at a specified altitude, within the engine operating limitations established under part 33, and approved for unrestricted periods of use.
Rated maximum continuous thrust,
with respect to turbojet engine type certification, means the approved jet thrust that is developed statically or in flight, in standard atmosphere at a specified altitude, without fluid injection and without the burning of fuel in a separate combustion chamber, within the engine operating limitations established under part 33 of this chapter, and approved for unrestricted periods of use.
Rated takeoff augmented thrust,
with respect to turbojet engine type certification, means the approved jet thrust that is developed statically under standard sea level conditions, with fluid injection or with the burning of fuel in a separate combustion chamber, within the engine operating limitations established under part 33 of this chapter, and limited in use to periods of not over 5 minutes for takeoff operation.
Rated takeoff power,
with respect to reciprocating, turbopropeller, and turboshaft engine type certification, means the approved brake horsepower that is developed statically under standard sea level conditions, within the engine operating limitations established under part 33, and limited in use to periods of not over 5 minutes for takeoff operation.
Rated takeoff thrust,
with respect to turbojet engine type certification, means the approved jet thrust that is developed statically under standard sea level conditions, without fluid injection and without the burning of fuel in a separate combustion chamber, within the engine operating limitations established under part 33 of this chapter, and limited in use to periods of not over 5 minutes for takeoff operation.
Rated 30-minute OEI power
, with respect to rotorcraft turbine engines, means the approved brake horsepower developed under static conditions at specified altitudes and temperatures within the operating limitations established for the engine under part 33 of this chapter, and limited in use to one period of use no longer than 30 minutes after the failure or shutdown of one engine of a multiengine rotorcraft.
Rated 2
1/2
-minute OEI power
, with respect to rotorcraft turbine engines, means the approved brake horsepower developed under static conditions at specified altitudes and temperatures within the operating limitations established for the engine under part 33 of this chapter for periods of use no longer than 2
1/2
minutes each after the failure or shutdown of one engine of a multiengine rotorcraft.
Rating
means a statement that, as a part of a certificate, sets forth special conditions, privileges, or limitations.
Reference landing speed
means the speed of the airplane, in a specified landing configuration, at the point where it descends through the 50 foot height in the determination of the landing distance.
Reporting point
means a geographical location in relation to which the position of an aircraft is reported.
Restricted area.
A restricted area is airspace designated under Part 73 within which the flight of aircraft, while not wholly prohibited, is subject to restriction.
Rocket
means an aircraft propelled by ejected expanding gases generated in the engine from self-contained propellants and not dependent on the intake of outside substances. It includes any part which becomes separated during the operation.
Rotorcraft
means a heavier-than-air aircraft that depends principally for its support in flight on the lift generated by one or more rotors.
Rotorcraft-load combination
means the combination of a rotorcraft and an external-load, including the external-load attaching means. Rotorcraft-load combinations are designated as Class A, Class B, Class C, and Class D, as follows:
(1)
Class A rotorcraft-load combination
means one in which the external load cannot move freely, cannot be jettisoned, and does not extend below the landing gear.
(2)
Class B rotorcraft-load combination
means one in which the external load is jettisonable and is lifted free of land or water during the rotorcraft operation.
(3)
Class C rotorcraft-load combination
means one in which the external load is jettisonable and remains in contact with land or water during the rotorcraft operation.
(4)
Class D rotorcraft-load combination
means one in which the external-load is other than a Class A, B, or C and has been specifically approved by the Administrator for that operation.
Route segment
is a portion of a route bounded on each end by a fix or navigation aid (NAVAID).
Sea level engine
means a reciprocating aircraft engine having a rated takeoff power that is producible only at sea level.
Second in command
means a pilot who is designated to be second in command of an aircraft during flight time.
Show,
unless the context otherwise requires, means to show to the satisfaction of the Administrator.
Small aircraft
means aircraft of 12,500 pounds or less, maximum certificated takeoff weight.
Small unmanned aircraft
means an unmanned aircraft weighing less than 55
pounds on takeoff, including everything that is on board or otherwise attached to the aircraft.
Small unmanned aircraft system (small UAS)
means a small unmanned aircraft and its associated elements (including communication links and the components that control the small unmanned aircraft) that are required for the safe and efficient operation of the small unmanned aircraft in the national airspace system.
Special VFR conditions
mean meteorological conditions that are less than those required for basic VFR flight in controlled airspace and in which some aircraft are permitted flight under visual flight rules.
Special VFR operations
means aircraft operating in accordance with clearances within controlled airspace in meteorological conditions less than the basic VFR weather minima. Such operations must be requested by the pilot and approved by ATC.
Standard atmosphere
means the atmosphere defined in U.S. Standard Atmosphere, 1962 (Geopotential altitude tables).
Stopway
means an area beyond the takeoff runway, no less wide than the runway and centered upon the extended centerline of the runway, able to support the airplane during an aborted takeoff, without causing structural damage to the airplane, and designated by the airport authorities for use in decelerating the airplane during an aborted takeoff.
Suitable RNAV system
is an RNAV system that meets the required performance established for a type of operation, e.g. IFR; and is suitable for operation over the route to be flown in terms of any performance criteria (including accuracy) established by the air navigation service provider for certain routes (e.g. oceanic, ATS routes, and IAPs). An RNAV system's suitability is dependent upon the availability of ground and/or satellite navigation aids that are needed to meet any route performance criteria that may be prescribed in route specifications to navigate the aircraft along the route to be flown. Information on suitable RNAV systems is published in FAA guidance material.
Supplemental restraint system
means any device that is not installed on the aircraft pursuant to an FAA approval, used to secure an individual inside an aircraft when that person is not properly secured by an FAA-approved safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness, or an approved child restraint system. It consists of a harness secured around the torso of the individual using the supplemental restraint system and a lanyard that connects the harness to an FAA-approved airframe attachment point inside the aircraft.
Synthetic vision
means a computer-generated image of the external scene topography from the perspective of the flight deck that is derived from aircraft attitude, high-precision navigation solution, and database of terrain, obstacles and relevant cultural features.
Synthetic vision
system means an electronic means to display a synthetic vision image of the external scene topography to the flight crew.
Takeoff power:
(1) With respect to reciprocating engines, means the brake horsepower that is developed under standard sea level conditions, and under the maximum conditions of crankshaft rotational speed and engine manifold pressure approved for the normal takeoff, and limited in continuous use to the period of time shown in the approved engine specification; and
(2) With respect to turbine engines, means the brake horsepower that is developed under static conditions at a specified altitude and atmospheric temperature, and under the maximum conditions of rotor shaft rotational speed and gas temperature approved for the normal takeoff, and limited in continuous use to the period of time shown in the approved engine specification.
Takeoff safety speed
means a referenced airspeed obtained after lift-off at which the required one-engine-inoperative climb performance can be achieved.
Takeoff thrust,
with respect to turbine engines, means the jet thrust that is developed under static conditions at a specific altitude and atmospheric temperature under the maximum conditions of rotorshaft rotational speed and gas temperature approved for the
normal takeoff, and limited in continuous use to the period of time shown in the approved engine specification.
Tandem wing configuration
means a configuration having two wings of similar span, mounted in tandem.
TCAS I
means a TCAS that utilizes interrogations of, and replies from, airborne radar beacon transponders and provides traffic advisories to the pilot.
TCAS II
means a TCAS that utilizes interrogations of, and replies from airborne radar beacon transponders and provides traffic advisories and resolution advisories in the vertical plane.
TCAS III
means a TCAS that utilizes interrogation of, and replies from, airborne radar beacon transponders and provides traffic advisories and resolution advisories in the vertical and horizontal planes to the pilot.
Time in service,
with respect to maintenance time records, means the time from the moment an aircraft leaves the surface of the earth until it touches it at the next point of landing.
Traffic pattern
means the traffic flow that is prescribed for aircraft landing at, taxiing on, or taking off from, an airport.
True airspeed
means the airspeed of an aircraft relative to undisturbed air. True airspeed is equal to equivalent airspeed multiplied by (ρ0/ρ)
1/2
.
Type:
(1) As used with respect to the certification, ratings, privileges, and limitations of airmen, means a specific make and basic model of aircraft, including modifications thereto that do not change its handling or flight characteristics. Examples include: DC-7, 1049, and F-27; and
(2) As used with respect to the certification of aircraft, means those aircraft which are similar in design. Examples include: DC-7 and DC-7C; 1049G and 1049H; and F-27 and F-27F.
(3) As used with respect to the certification of aircraft engines means those engines which are similar in design. For example, JT8D and JT8D-7 are engines of the same type, and JT9D-3A and JT9D-7 are engines of the same type.
United States,
in a geographical sense, means (1) the States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the possessions, including the territorial waters, and (2) the airspace of those areas.
United States air carrier
means a citizen of the United States who undertakes directly by lease, or other arrangement, to engage in air transportation.
Unmanned aircraft
means an aircraft operated without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft.
Unmanned aircraft system
means an unmanned aircraft and its associated elements (including communication links and the components that control the unmanned aircraft) that are required for the safe and efficient operation of the unmanned aircraft in the airspace of the United States.
VFR over-the-top,
with respect to the operation of aircraft, means the operation of an aircraft over-the-top under VFR when it is not being operated on an IFR flight plan.
Warning area.
A warning area is airspace of defined dimensions, extending from 3 nautical miles outward from the coast of the United States, that contains activity that may be hazardous to nonparticipating aircraft. The purpose of such warning areas is to warn nonparticipating pilots of the potential danger. A warning area may be located over domestic or international waters or both.
Weight-shift-control aircraft
means a powered aircraft with a framed pivoting wing and a fuselage controllable only in pitch and roll by the pilot's ability to change the aircraft's center of gravity with respect to the wing. Flight control of the aircraft depends on the wing's ability to flexibly deform rather than the use of control surfaces.
Winglet or tip fin
means an out-of-plane surface extending from a lifting surface. The surface may or may not have control surfaces.
[Doc. No. 1150, 27 FR 4588, May 15, 1962]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 1.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 1.1, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 92483, Nov. 21, 2024, § 1.1 was amended by revising the introductory text and the definition of “Autorotation”, effective Jan. 21, 2025. For the
convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1.1
General definitions.
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise:
Autorotation
means a rotorcraft or powered-lift flight condition in which the lifting rotor is driven entirely by action of the air when the rotorcraft or powered-lift is in motion.
§ 1.2
Abbreviations and symbols.
In Subchapters A through K of this chapter:
AFM
means airplane flight manual.
AGL
means above ground level.
ALS
means approach light system.
APU
means auxiliary power unit.
ASR
means airport surveillance radar.
ATC
means air traffic control.
ATS
means Air Traffic Service.
CAMP
means continuous airworthiness maintenance program.
CAS
means calibrated airspeed.
CAT II
means Category II.
CMP
means configuration, maintenance, and procedures.
DH
means decision height.
DME
means distance measuring equipment compatible with TACAN.
EAS
means equivalent airspeed.
EFVS
means enhanced flight vision system.
Equi-Time Point
means a point on the route of flight where the flight time, considering wind, to each of two selected airports is equal.
ETOPS
means extended operations.
EWIS
, as defined by § 25.1701 of this chapter, means electrical wiring interconnection system.
FAA
means Federal Aviation Administration.
FFS
means full flight simulator.
FM
means fan marker.
FSTD
means flight simulation training device.
FTD
means flight training device.
GS
means glide slope.
HIRL
means high-intensity runway light system.
IAS
means indicated airspeed.
ICAO
means International Civil Aviation Organization.
IFR
means instrument flight rules.
IFSD
means in-flight shutdown.
ILS
means instrument landing system.
IM
means ILS inner marker.
INT
means intersection.
LDA
means localizer-type directional aid.
LFR
means low-frequency radio range.
LMM
means compass locator at middle marker.
LOC
means ILS localizer.
LOM
means compass locator at outer marker.
M
means mach number.
MAA
means maximum authorized IFR altitude.
MALS
means medium intensity approach light system.
MALSR
means medium intensity approach light system with runway alignment indicator lights.
MCA
means minimum crossing altitude.
MDA
means minimum descent altitude.
MEA
means minimum en route IFR altitude.
MEL
means minimum equipment list.
MM
means ILS middle marker.
MOCA
means minimum obstruction clearance altitude.
MRA
means minimum reception altitude.
MSL
means mean sea level.
NDB (ADF)
means nondirectional beacon (automatic direction finder).
NM
means nautical mile.
NOPAC
means North Pacific area of operation.
NOPT
means no procedure turn required.
OEI
means one engine inoperative.
OM
means ILS outer marker.
OPSPECS
means operations specifications.
PACOTS
means Pacific Organized Track System.
PAR
means precision approach radar.
PMA
means parts manufacturer approval.
POC
means portable oxygen concentrator.
PTRS
means Performance Tracking and Reporting System.
RAIL
means runway alignment indicator light system.
RBN
means radio beacon.
RCLM
means runway centerline marking.
RCLS
means runway centerline light system.
REIL
means runway end identification lights.
RFFS
means rescue and firefighting services.
RNAV
means area navigation.
RR
means low or medium frequency radio range station.
RVR
means runway visual range as measured in the touchdown zone area.
SALS
means short approach light system.
SATCOM
means satellite communications.
SSALS
means simplified short approach light system.
SSALSR
means simplified short approach light system with runway alignment indicator lights.
TACAN
means ultra-high frequency tactical air navigational aid.
TAS
means true airspeed.
TCAS
means a traffic alert and collision avoidance system.
TDZL
means touchdown zone lights.
TSO
means technical standard order.
TVOR
means very high frequency terminal omnirange station.
V
A
means design maneuvering speed.
V
B
means design speed for maximum gust intensity.
V
C
means design cruising speed.
V
D
means design diving speed.
V
DF
/
M
DF
means demonstrated flight diving speed.
V
EF
means the speed at which the critical engine is assumed to fail during takeoff.
V
F
means design flap speed.
V
FC
/
M
FC
means maximum speed for stability characteristics.
V
FE
means maximum flap extended speed.
V
FTO
means final takeoff speed.
V
H
means maximum speed in level flight with maximum continuous power.
V
LE
means maximum landing gear extended speed.
V
LO
means maximum landing gear operating speed.
V
LOF
means lift-off speed.
V
MC
means minimum control speed with the critical engine inoperative.
V
MO
/
M
MO
means maximum operating limit speed.
V
MU
means minimum unstick speed.
V
NE
means never-exceed speed.
V
NO
means maximum structural cruising speed.
V
R
means rotation speed.
V
REF
means reference landing speed.
V
S
means the stalling speed or the minimum steady flight speed at which the airplane is controllable.
V
S
0
means the stalling speed or the minimum steady flight speed in the landing configuration.
V
S
1
means the stalling speed or the minimum steady flight speed obtained in a specific configuration.
V
SR
means reference stall speed.
V
SR
O
means reference stall speed in the landing configuration.
V
SR
1
means reference stall speed in a specific configuration.
V
SW
means speed at which onset of natural or artificial stall warning occurs.
V
TOSS
means takeoff safety speed for Category A rotorcraft.
V
X
means speed for best angle of climb.
V
Y
means speed for best rate of climb.
V
1
means the maximum speed in the takeoff at which the pilot must take the first action (e.g., apply brakes, reduce thrust, deploy speed brakes) to stop the airplane within the accelerate-stop distance. V
1
also means the minimum speed in the takeoff, following a failure of the critical engine at V
EF
, at which the pilot can continue the takeoff and achieve the required height above the takeoff surface within the takeoff distance.
V
2
means takeoff safety speed.
V
2min
means minimum takeoff safety speed.
VFR
means visual flight rules.
VGSI
means visual glide slope indicator.
VHF
means very high frequency.
VOR
means very high frequency omnirange station.
VORTAC
means collocated VOR and TACAN.
[Doc. No. 1150, 27 FR 4590, May 15, 1962]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 1.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the
Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 1.2, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 92483, Nov. 21, 2024, § 1.2 was amended by revising the introductory text, effective Jan. 21, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1.2
Abbreviations and symbols.
In this chapter:
§ 1.3
Rules of construction.
(a) In Subchapters A through K of this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise:
(1) Words importing the singular include the plural;
(2) Words importing the plural include the singular; and
(3) Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine.
(b) In Subchapters A through K of this chapter, the word:
(1)
Shall
is used in an imperative sense;
(2)
May
is used in a permissive sense to state authority or permission to do the act prescribed, and the words “no person may * * *” or “a person may not * * *” mean that no person is required, authorized, or permitted to do the act prescribed; and
(3)
Includes
means “includes but is not limited to”.
[Doc. No. 1150, 27 FR 4590, May 15, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 1-10, 31 FR 5055, Mar. 29, 1966]
§ 1.3, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 92483, Nov. 21, 2024, § 1.3 was amended by revising paragraphs (a) introductory text and (b) introductory text, effective Jan. 21, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1.3
Rules of construction.
(a) In this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise:
(b) In this chapter, the word:
Pt. 3

# PART 3—GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

# Subpart A—General Requirements Concerning Type Certificated Products or Products, Parts, Appliances, or Materials That May Be Used on Type-Certificated Products
Sec.
3.1
Applicability.
3.5
Statements about products, parts, appliances and materials.

# Subpart B—Security Threat Disqualification
3.200
Effect of Transportation Security Administration notification on a certificate or any part of a certificate held by an individual.
3.205
Effect of Transportation Security Administration notification on applications by individuals for a certificate or any part of a certificate.

# Subpart C—Designated U.S. Agents for Service
3.301
Applicability.
3.302
Definitions.
3.303
Designation of a U.S. agent for service.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 106(g), 40113, 44701, 44704, 46111, and 46103.

# Source:
70 FR 54832, Sept. 16, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Requirements Concerning Type Certificated Products or Products, Parts, Appliances, or Materials That May Be Used on Type-Certificated Products
§ 3.1
Applicability.
(a) This part applies to any person who makes a record regarding:
(1) A type-certificated product, or
(2) A product, part, appliance or material that may be used on a type-certificated product.
(b) Section 3.5(b) does not apply to records made under part 43 of this chapter.
§ 3.5
Statements about products, parts, appliances and materials.
(a)
Definitions.
The following terms will have the stated meanings when used in this section:
Airworthy
means the aircraft conforms to its type design and is in a condition for safe operation.
Product
means an aircraft, aircraft engine, or aircraft propeller.
Record
means any writing, drawing, map, recording, tape, film, photograph or other documentary material by which information is preserved or conveyed in any format, including, but not limited to, paper, microfilm, identification plates, stamped marks, bar codes or electronic format, and can either be separate from, attached to or inscribed on any product, part, appliance or material.
(b)
Prohibition against fraudulent and intentionally false statements.
When conveying information related to an advertisement or sales transaction, no person may make or cause to be made:
(1) Any fraudulent or intentionally false statement in any record about the airworthiness of a type-certificated product, or the acceptability of any product, part, appliance, or material for installation on a type-certificated product.
(2) Any fraudulent or intentionally false reproduction or alteration of any record about the airworthiness of any type-certificated product, or the acceptability of any product, part, appliance, or material for installation on a type-certificated product.
(c)
Prohibition against intentionally misleading statements.
(1) When conveying information related to an advertisement or sales transaction, no person may make, or cause to be made, a material representation that a type-certificated product is airworthy, or that a product, part, appliance, or material is acceptable for installation on a type-certificated product in any record if that representation is likely to mislead a consumer acting reasonably under the circumstances.
(2) When conveying information related to an advertisement or sales transaction, no person may make, or cause to be made, through the omission of material information, a representation that a type-certificated product is airworthy, or that a product, part, appliance, or material is acceptable for installation on a type-certificated product in any record if that representation is likely to mislead a consumer acting reasonably under the circumstances.
(d) The provisions of § 3.5(b) and § 3.5(c) shall not apply if a person can show that the product is airworthy or that the product, part, appliance or material is acceptable for installation on a type-certificated product.

# Subpart B—Security Threat Disqualification

# Source:
84 FR 42803, Aug. 19, 2019, FAA-2018-0656; Amendment No. 3-2, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3.200
Effect of Transportation Security Administration notification on a certificate or any part of a certificate held by an individual.
When the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) notifies the FAA that an individual holding a certificate or part of a certificate issued by the FAA poses, or is suspected of posing, a risk of air piracy or terrorism or a threat to airline or passenger safety, the FAA will issue an order amending, modifying, suspending, or revoking any certificate or part of a certificate issued by the FAA.
§ 3.205
Effect of Transportation Security Administration notification on applications by individuals for a certificate or any part of a certificate.
(a) When the TSA notifies the FAA that an individual who has applied for a certificate or any part of a certificate issued by the FAA poses, or is suspected of posing, a risk of air piracy or terrorism or a threat to airline or passenger safety, the FAA will hold the individual's certificate applications in abeyance pending further notification from the TSA.
(b) When the TSA notifies the FAA that the TSA has made a final security threat determination regarding an individual, the FAA will deny all the individual's certificate applications. Alternatively, if the TSA notifies the FAA that it has withdrawn its security threat determination, the FAA will continue processing the individual's applications.

# Subpart C—Designated U.S. Agents for Service

# Source:
89 FR 81312, Oct. 8, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3.301
Applicability.
This subpart applies to individuals who:
(a) Do not have a U.S. physical address of record on file with the FAA;
(b) Have a foreign address of record on file with the FAA; and
(c) Hold or apply for certificates, ratings, or authorizations under part 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107 of this chapter.
§ 3.302
Definitions.
U.S. agent address
is an address in the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any U.S. territory or possession. If the U.S. agent is an entity, the address must be the U.S. agent's office address. If the U.S. agent is an individual, the address must be the U.S. agent's usual place of residence or, if applicable, the individual's U.S. military office address. If the U.S. agent is serving as a U.S. agent in their official capacity with the military, the address may be a military office address. A U.S. agent address may not be a post office box, military post office box, or a mail drop box.
U.S. agent for service (U.S. agent)
is an entity or an adult (individual who is 18 or older) with a U.S. address who a certificate, rating, or authorization holder or applicant designates to receive FAA service on their behalf.
U.S. physical address
is an address in the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any U.S. territory or possession, but excludes post office boxes, military post office boxes, mail drop boxes, and commercial addresses that are not also residential addresses.
§ 3.303
Designation of a U.S. agent for service.
(a) Individuals must designate a U.S. agent for service within the U.S. in writing to the FAA in a form and manner prescribed by the Administrator. Individuals designating a U.S. agent must ensure that the U.S. agent understands the requirements for receiving FAA service on behalf of the individual and is competent to perform that responsibility.
(b) The designation must include the U.S. agent's full name, U.S. agent address, email address, and certification by the individual that the U.S. agent has accepted responsibility for receiving FAA service on behalf of the individual. It may also include the U.S. agent's fax number and phone number.
(c) Individuals must notify the FAA in a form and manner prescribed by the Administrator of any change to their U.S. agent designation or the U.S. agent's contact information within 30 days of the change.
(d) Individuals must comply with the requirements listed in this subpart no later than:
(1) July 7, 2025, for holders of any certificate, rating, or authorization issued under part 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107. These individuals who fail to timely designate a U.S. agent for service and comply with the requirements under this subpart may not exercise the privileges of any certificate, rating, or authorization issued under part 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107, and an individual aircraft owner's aircraft registration certificate will be considered ineffective; and
(2) January 6, 2025, for applicants of any certificate, rating, or authorization issued under part 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107. An applicant who fails to designate a U.S. agent for service and comply with the requirements under this subpart shall not be issued a certificate, rating, or authorization under part 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107.
§ 3.303, Nt.

# Effective Date Notes:
1. At 89 FR 81312, Oct. 8, 2024, § 3.303 was amended by revising paragraph (d) and adding paragraph (e), effective Jan. 6, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added and revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 3.303
Designation of a U.S. agent for service.
(d) Individuals holding any certificate, rating, or authorization issued under part 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107 must comply with the requirements listed in this subpart no later than July 7, 2025. These individuals who fail to timely designate a U.S. agent for service and comply with the requirements under this subpart may not exercise the privileges of
any certificate, rating, or authorization issued under part 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107, and an individual aircraft owner's aircraft registration certificate will be considered ineffective.
(e) No individual shall be issued a certificate, rating, or authorization under parts 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107 of this chapter unless the individual has designated a U.S. agent as required under this subpart.
2. At 89 FR 81312, Oct. 8, 2024, § 3.303 was amended by revising paragraph (d), effective July 7, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 3.303
Designation of a U.S. agent for service.
(d) No individual shall exercise the privileges of any certificate, rating, or authorization issued under part 47, 61, 63, 65, 67, or 107 of this chapter unless the individual has designated a U.S. agent as required under this subpart. Aircraft registration certificates issued to individuals who fail to designate a U.S. agent as required under this subpart will be ineffective.
Pt. 5

# PART 5—SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
5.1
Applicability.
5.3
Definitions.
5.5
General requirements.
5.7
Requirements for domestic, flag, and supplemental operations.
5.9
Requirements for commuter and on-demand operations or passenger-carrying flights for compensation or hire.
5.11
Requirements for production certificate holders that are holders or licensees of a type certificate for the same product.
5.13
Requirements for type certificate holders or licensees applying for a production certificate for the same product.
5.15
Requirements for type certificate holders that allow another person to use the type certificate to obtain a production certificate for the same product.
5.17
Organizational system description.
5.19
Implementation plan.

# Subpart B—Safety Policy
5.21
Safety policy.
5.23
Safety accountability and authority.
5.25
Designation and responsibilities of required safety management personnel.
5.27
Coordination of emergency response planning.

# Subpart C—Safety Risk Management
5.51
Applicability.
5.53
System analysis and hazard identification.
5.55
Safety risk assessment and control.
5.57
Notification of hazards to interfacing persons.

# Subpart D—Safety Assurance
5.71
Safety performance monitoring and measurement.
5.73
Safety performance assessment.
5.75
Continuous improvement.

# Subpart E—Safety Promotion
5.91
Competencies and training.
5.93
Safety communication.

# Subpart F—SMS Documentation and Recordkeeping
5.95
SMS documentation.
5.97
SMS records.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 106(g), 40101, 40113, 40119, 41706, 44101, 44701-44702, 44705, 44709-44711, 44713, 44716-44717, 44722, 46105; Sec. 102, Pub. L. 116-260, 134 Stat. 2309; Sec 215, Pub. L. 111-216, 124 Stat. 2366.

# Source:
Doc. No. FAA-2009-0671, Amdt. 5-1, 80 FR 1326, Jan. 8, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2021-0419; Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33104, Apr. 26, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 5.1
Applicability.
This part applies to all of the following:
(a) Any person that holds or applies for a certificate issued under part 119 of this chapter authorizing the person to conduct operations under part 121 of this chapter.
(b) Any person that holds or applies for a certificate issued under part 119 of this chapter authorizing the person to conduct operations under part 135 of this chapter.
(c) Any person that holds or applies for a Letter of Authorization issued under § 91.147 of this chapter.
(d) Any person that holds both a type certificate and a production certificate
issued under part 21 of this chapter for the same product.
(e) Any person that holds a production certificate issued under part 21 of this chapter for a product for which the person is a licensee of the type certificate for the same product.
(f) Any person that applies for a production certificate under part 21 of this chapter for a product for which the person is the holder or licensee of the type certificate for the same product.
(g) Any person that holds a type certificate issued under part 21 of this chapter for a product, except for persons that hold only type certificates issued under § 21.29 of this chapter, that allows another person to use the type certificate to manufacture the same product under a production certificate.
§ 5.3
Definitions.
Hazard
means a condition or an object that could foreseeably cause or contribute to an incident or aircraft accident, as defined in 49 CFR 830.2.
Risk
means the composite of predicted severity and likelihood of the potential effect of a hazard.
Risk control
means a means to reduce or eliminate the effects of hazards.
Safety assurance
means processes within the SMS that function systematically to ensure the performance and effectiveness of safety risk controls and that the organization meets or exceeds its safety objectives through the collection, analysis, and assessment of information.
Safety Management System (SMS)
means the formal, top-down, organization-wide approach to managing safety risk and assuring the effectiveness of safety risk controls. It includes systematic procedures, practices, and policies for the management of safety risk.
Safety objective
means a measurable goal or desirable outcome related to safety.
Safety performance
means realized or actual safety accomplishment relative to the organization's safety objectives.
Safety policy
means the person's documented commitment to safety, which defines its safety objectives and the accountabilities and responsibilities of its employees in regards to safety.
Safety promotion
means a combination of training and communication of safety information to support the implementation and operation of an SMS in an organization.
Safety Risk Management
means a process within the SMS composed of describing the system, identifying the hazards, and analyzing, assessing, and controlling risk.
§ 5.5
General requirements.
(a)
SMS components.
An SMS under this part must be appropriate to the size, scope, and complexity of the person's organization and include, at a minimum, all of the following components:
(1) Safety policy that meets the requirements of subpart B of this part.
(2) Safety risk management that meets the requirements of subpart C of this part.
(3) Safety assurance that meets the requirements of subpart D of this part.
(4) Safety promotion that meets the requirements of subpart E of this part.
(b)
Continuing requirements.
Any person required to develop and implement an SMS under this part must maintain the SMS in accordance with this part.
§ 5.7
Requirements for domestic, flag, and supplemental operations.
(a) Any person authorized to conduct operations under part 121 of this chapter that has an SMS acceptable to the FAA on or before May 28, 2024, must revise its SMS to meet the requirements of this part no later than May 28, 2025.
(b) Any person applying for authorization to conduct operations under part 121 of this chapter or with such application pending on or after May 28, 2024, must develop and implement an SMS that meets the requirements of this part.
(c) Any person required to develop and implement an SMS under this section must maintain the SMS as long as the person is authorized to conduct operations under part 121 of this chapter.
(d) Any person required to develop and implement an SMS under this section must make available to the Administrator, upon request, all necessary information and data that demonstrates that the person has an SMS that meets the requirements set forth in this part.
§ 5.9
Requirements for commuter and on-demand operations or passenger-carrying flights for compensation or hire.
(a) Any person authorized to conduct operations under part 135 of this chapter or that holds a Letter of Authorization issued under § 91.147 of this chapter before May 28, 2024, must:
(1) Develop and implement an SMS that meets the requirements of this part no later than May 28, 2027.
(2) Submit to the FAA, a declaration of compliance with this part in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator no later than May 28, 2027.
(b) Any person applying for authorization to conduct operations under part 135 of this chapter or a Letter of Authorization under § 91.147 of this chapter, or with such application pending on or after May 28, 2024, must develop and implement an SMS that meets the requirements of this part.
(c) Any person required to develop and implement an SMS under this section must maintain the SMS as long as the person is authorized to conduct operations under either part 135 or § 91.147 of this chapter.
(d) Any person required to develop and implement an SMS under this section must make available to the Administrator, upon request, all necessary information and data that demonstrates that the person has an SMS that meets the requirements set forth in this part.
(e) The following requirements do not apply to those organizations with a single pilot who is the sole individual performing all necessary functions in the conduct and execution related to, or in direct support of, the safe operation of the aircraft: §§ 5.21(a)(4), 5.21(a)(5), 5.21(c), 5.23(a)(2), 5.23(a)(3), 5.23(b), 5.25(b)(3), 5.25(c), 5.27(a), 5.27(b), 5.71(a)(7), 5.93, and 5.97(d) of this part.
§ 5.11
Requirements for production certificate holders that are holders or licensees of a type certificate for the same product.
Any person that holds a production certificate issued under part 21 of this chapter for a product for which the person is the holder or licensee of the type certificate for the same product on or before May 28, 2024, must:
(a) Develop and maintain an organizational system description in accordance with § 5.17 of this subpart.
(b) Submit an implementation plan in accordance with § 5.19 of this subpart for FAA approval in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator no later than November 28, 2024.
(c) Develop an SMS that meets the requirements of this part.
(d) Implement the SMS in accordance with this part no later than May 28, 2027.
(e) Make available to the Administrator, upon request, all necessary information and data that demonstrates that the person has an SMS that meets the requirements set forth in this part.
(f) Maintain the SMS as long as the person is both a holder of a production certificate and a holder or licensee of a type certificate for the same product.
§ 5.13
Requirements for type certificate holders or licensees applying for a production certificate for the same product.
(a) This section applies to any holder or licensee of a type certificate for a product who either:
(1) Applies for a production certificate for that same product under part 21 of this chapter on or after May 28, 2024, or
(2) Has an application for a production certificate for that same product under part 21 of this chapter pending on May 28, 2024.
(b) Any person that meets paragraph (a) of this section must:
(1) Develop and maintain an organizational system description in accordance with § 5.17 of this subpart.
(2) Submit an implementation plan in accordance with § 5.19 of this subpart for FAA approval in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator during the certification process.
(3) Develop an SMS that meets the requirements of this part.
(4) Implement the SMS in accordance with this part no later than 36 months after submission of the implementation plan.
(5) Make available to the Administrator, upon request, all necessary information and data that demonstrates that the person has an SMS that meets the requirements set forth in this part.
(6) Maintain the SMS as long as the person is both a holder of a production certificate and a holder or licensee of a type certificate for the same product.
§ 5.15
Requirements for type certificate holders that allow another person to use the type certificate to obtain a production certificate for the same product.
(a) This section applies to any person that holds a type certificate issued under part 21 of this chapter for a product, except for persons that hold only type certificates issued under § 21.29 of this chapter, that allows another person to use the type certificate to manufacture the same product under a production certificate.
(b) Any person that meets paragraph (a) of this section and has a licensing agreement in accordance with § 21.55 of this chapter on May 28, 2024, must:
(1) Develop and maintain an organizational system description in accordance with § 5.17 of this subpart.
(2) Submit an implementation plan in accordance with § 5.19 of this subpart for FAA approval in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator no later than November 28, 2024.
(3) Develop an SMS that meets the requirements of this part.
(4) Implement the SMS in accordance with this part no later than May 28, 2027.
(5) Make available to the Administrator, upon request, all necessary information and data that demonstrates that the person has an SMS that meets the requirements set forth in this part.
(6) Maintain the SMS as long as the person continues to meet paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Any person that meets paragraph (a) of this section and enters into a licensing agreement in accordance with § 21.55 of this chapter after May 28, 2024, must:
(1) Develop and maintain an organizational system description in accordance with § 5.17 of this subpart.
(2) Submit an implementation plan in accordance with § 5.19 of this subpart for FAA approval in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator when providing written licensing agreements in accordance with § 21.55 of this chapter.
(3) Develop an SMS that meets the requirements of this part.
(4) Implement the SMS in accordance with this part no later than 36 months after submission of the person's implementation plan.
(5) Make available to the Administrator, upon request, all necessary information and data that demonstrates that the person has an SMS that meets the requirements set forth in this part.
(6) Maintain the SMS as long as the person continues to meet paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 5.17
Organizational system description.
An organizational system description developed and maintained under this part must include a summary of the following information about the safety of the aviation products or services provided by the person:
(a) The person's aviation-related processes, procedures, and activities.
(b) The function and purpose of the aviation products or services.
(c) The operating environment.
(d) The personnel, equipment, and facilities necessary for operation.
§ 5.19
Implementation plan.
(a) An implementation plan filed under this part must be based on the organizational system description as defined in § 5.17 and describe the means of compliance (including, but not limited to, new or existing policies, processes, or procedures) used to meet the requirements of this part.
(b) A person required to submit an implementation plan under this part must make available to the Administrator, upon request, all necessary information and data that demonstrates that the SMS has been or will be implemented in accordance with the implementation plan.

# Subpart B—Safety Policy
§ 5.21
Safety policy.
(a) Any person required to have an SMS under this part must have a safety policy that includes at least the following:
(1) The person's safety objectives.
(2) The person's commitment to fulfill the safety objectives.
(3) A clear statement about the provision of the necessary resources for the implementation of the SMS.
(4) A safety reporting policy that defines requirements for employee reporting of safety hazards or issues.
(5) A policy that defines unacceptable behavior and conditions for disciplinary action.
(6) An emergency response plan that provides for the safe transition from normal to emergency operations in accordance with the requirements of § 5.27.
(7) A code of ethics that is applicable to all employees, including management personnel and officers, which clarifies that safety is the organization's highest priority.
(b) The safety policy must be signed by the accountable executive described in § 5.25.
(c) The safety policy must be documented and communicated throughout the person's organization.
(d) The safety policy must be regularly reviewed by the accountable executive to ensure it remains relevant and appropriate to the person.
[Doc. No. FAA-2009-0671, Amdt. 5-1, 80 FR 1326, Jan. 8, 2015, as amended by Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33106, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 5.23
Safety accountability and authority.
(a) Any person required to have an SMS under this part must define in its safety policy the accountability for safety of the following individuals:
(1) Accountable executive, as described in § 5.25.
(2) All members of management in regard to developing, implementing, and maintaining SMS processes within their area of responsibility, including, but not limited to:
(i) Hazard identification and safety risk assessment.
(ii) Assuring the effectiveness of safety risk controls.
(iii) Promoting safety as required in subpart E of this part.
(iv) Advising the accountable executive on the performance of the SMS and on any need for improvement.
(3) Employees relative to the person's safety performance.
(b) The person must identify the levels of management with the authority to make decisions regarding safety risk acceptance.
[Doc. No. FAA-2009-0671, Amdt. 5-1, 80 FR 1326, Jan. 8, 2015, as amended by Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33106, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 5.25
Designation and responsibilities of required safety management personnel.
(a)
Designation of the accountable executive.
Any person required to have an SMS under this part must identify an accountable executive who, irrespective of other functions, satisfies the following:
(1) Is the final authority over operations authorized to be conducted under the person's certificate(s) or Letter(s) of Authorization.
(2) Controls the financial resources required for the operations to be conducted under the person's certificate(s) or Letter(s) of Authorization.
(3) Controls the human resources required for the operations authorized to be conducted under the person's certificate(s) or Letter(s) of Authorization.
(4) Retains ultimate responsibility for the safety performance of the operations conducted under the person's certificate(s) or Letter(s) of Authorization.
(b)
Responsibilities of the accountable executive.
The accountable executive must accomplish the following:
(1) Ensure that the SMS is properly implemented and is performing across all pertinent areas.
(2) Develop and sign the safety policy.
(3) Communicate the safety policy throughout the person's organization.
(4) Regularly review the safety policy to ensure it remains relevant and appropriate to the person.
(5) Regularly review the safety performance and direct actions necessary to address substandard safety performance in accordance with § 5.75.
(c)
Designation of management personnel.
The accountable executive must designate sufficient management personnel who, on behalf of the accountable executive, are responsible for the following:
(1) Coordinate implementation, maintenance, and integration of the SMS throughout the person's organization.
(2) Facilitate hazard identification and safety risk analysis.
(3) Monitor the effectiveness of safety risk controls.
(4) Ensure safety promotion throughout the person's organization as required in subpart E of this part.
(5) Regularly report to the accountable executive on the performance of the SMS and on any need for improvement.
[Doc. No. FAA-2021-0419, Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33106, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 5.27
Coordination of emergency response planning.
Where emergency response procedures are necessary, any person required to have an SMS under this part must develop, and the accountable executive must approve as part of the safety policy, an emergency response plan that addresses at least the following:
(a) Delegation of emergency authority throughout the person's organization.
(b) Assignment of employee responsibilities during the emergency.
(c) Coordination of the emergency response plans with the emergency response plans of other organizations it must interface with during the provision of its services.
[Doc. No. FAA-2021-0419, Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33106, Apr. 26, 2024]

# Subpart C—Safety Risk Management
§ 5.51
Applicability.
Any person required to have an SMS under this part must apply safety risk management to the following:
(a) Implementation of new systems.
(b) Revision of existing systems.
(c) Development of operational procedures.
(d) Identification of hazards or ineffective risk controls through the safety assurance processes in subpart D of this part.
[Doc. No. FAA-2009-0671, Amdt. 5-1, 80 FR 1326, Jan. 8, 2015, as amended by Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33107, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 5.53
System analysis and hazard identification.
(a) When applying safety risk management, any person required to have an SMS under this part must analyze the systems identified in § 5.51. Those system analyses must be used to identify hazards under paragraph (c) of this section and in developing and implementing risk controls related to the system under § 5.55(c).
(b) In conducting the system analysis, the following information must be considered:
(1) Function and purpose of the system.
(2) The system's operating environment.
(3) An outline of the system's processes and procedures.
(4) The personnel, equipment, and facilities necessary for operation of the system.
(5) The interfaces of the system.
(c) Any person required to have an SMS under this part must develop and maintain processes to identify hazards within the context of the system analysis.
[Doc. No. FAA-2009-0671, Amdt. 5-1, 80 FR 1326, Jan. 8, 2015, as amended by Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33106, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 5.55
Safety risk assessment and control.
Any person required to have an SMS under this part must:
(a) Develop and maintain processes to analyze safety risk associated with the hazards identified in § 5.53(c).
(b) Define a process for conducting risk assessment that allows for the determination of acceptable safety risk.
(c) Develop and maintain processes to develop safety risk controls that are necessary as a result of the safety risk assessment process under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Evaluate whether the risk will be acceptable with the proposed safety risk control applied before the safety risk control is implemented.
[Doc. No. FAA-2021-0419, Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33107, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 5.57
Notification of hazards to interfacing persons.
If a person required to have an SMS under this part identifies a hazard in the operating environment, the person must provide notice of the hazard to any interfacing person that, to the best of the person's knowledge, could address the hazard or mitigate the risk. For the purpose of this section, interfacing persons are those that contribute to the safety of the certificate or Letter of Authorization holder's aviation-related products and services.
[Doc. No. FAA-2021-0419, Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33107, Apr. 26, 2024]

# Subpart D—Safety Assurance
§ 5.71
Safety performance monitoring and measurement.
(a) Any person required to have an SMS under this part must develop and maintain processes and systems to acquire data with respect to its operations, products, and services to monitor the safety performance of the organization. These processes and systems must include, at a minimum, the following:
(1) Monitoring of operational processes.
(2) Monitoring of the operational environment to detect changes.
(3) Auditing of operational processes and systems.
(4) Evaluations of the SMS and operational processes and systems.
(5) Investigations of incidents and accidents.
(6) Investigations of reports regarding potential non-compliance with regulatory standards or other safety risk controls established by the person through the safety risk management process established in subpart C of this part.
(7) A confidential employee reporting system in which employees can report hazards, issues, concerns, occurrences, incidents, as well as propose solutions and safety improvements, without concern of reprisal for reporting.
(8) Investigations of hazard notifications that have been received from external sources.
(b) Any person required to have an SMS under this part must develop and maintain processes that analyze the data acquired through the processes and systems identified under paragraph (a) of this section and any other relevant data with respect to its operations, products, and services.
(c) Any person that holds both a type certificate and a production certificate issued under part 21 of this chapter for the same product must submit a summary of the confidential employee reports received under paragraph (a)(7) of this section to the Administrator once every 6 months.
[Doc. No. FAA-2021-0419, Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33107, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 5.73
Safety performance assessment.
(a) Any person required to have an SMS under this part must conduct assessments of its safety performance against its safety objectives, which include reviews by the accountable executive, to:
(1) Ensure compliance with the safety risk controls established by the person.
(2) Evaluate the performance of the SMS.
(3) Evaluate the effectiveness of the safety risk controls established under § 5.55(c) and identify any ineffective controls.
(4) Identify changes in the operational environment that may introduce new hazards.
(5) Identify new hazards.
(b) Upon completion of the assessment, if ineffective controls or new hazards are identified under paragraphs (a)(2) through (5) of this section, the person must use the safety risk management process described in subpart C of this part.
[Doc. No. FAA-2009-0671, Amdt. 5-1, 80 FR 1326, Jan. 8, 2015, as amended by Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33108, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 5.75
Continuous improvement.
Any person required to have an SMS under this part must establish and implement processes to correct safety performance deficiencies identified in the assessments conducted under § 5.73.
[Doc. No. FAA-2021-0419, Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33108, Apr. 26, 2024]

# Subpart E—Safety Promotion
§ 5.91
Competencies and training.
Any person required to have an SMS under this part must provide training to each individual identified in § 5.23 of this part to ensure the individuals attain and maintain the competencies necessary to perform their duties relevant to the operation and performance of the SMS.
[Doc. No. FAA-2021-0419, Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33108, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 5.93
Safety communication.
Any person required to have an SMS under this part must develop and maintain means for communicating safety information that, at a minimum:
(a) Ensures that employees are aware of the SMS policies, processes, and tools that are relevant to their responsibilities.
(b) Conveys hazard information relevant to the employee's responsibilities.
(c) Explains why safety actions have been taken.
(d) Explains why safety procedures are introduced or changed.
[Doc. No. FAA-2009-0671, Amdt. 5-1, 80 FR 1326, Jan. 8, 2015, as amended by Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33108, Apr. 26, 2024]

# Subpart F—SMS Documentation and Recordkeeping
§ 5.95
SMS documentation.
Any person required to have an SMS under this part must develop and maintain the following SMS documentation:
(a) Safety policy.
(b) SMS processes and procedures.
[Doc. No. FAA-2009-0671, Amdt. 5-1, 80 FR 1326, Jan. 8, 2015, as amended by Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33108, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 5.97
SMS records.
Any person required to have an SMS under this part must:
(a) Maintain records of outputs of safety risk management processes as described in subpart C of this part. Such records must be retained for as long as the control remains relevant to the operation.
(b) Maintain records of outputs of safety assurance processes as described in subpart D of this part. Such records must be retained for a minimum of 5 years.
(c) Maintain a record of all training provided under § 5.91 for each individual. Such records must be retained for as long as the individual is employed by the person.
(d) Retain records of all communications provided under § 5.93 or § 5.57 for a minimum of 24 consecutive calendar months.
[Doc. No. FAA-2021-0419, Amdt. 5-2, 89 FR 33108, Apr. 26, 2024]

# SUBCHAPTER B—PROCEDURAL RULES
Pt. 11

# PART 11—GENERAL RULEMAKING PROCEDURES

# Subpart A—Rulemaking Procedures
Sec.
11.1
To what does this part apply?

# Definition of Terms
11.3
What is an advance notice of proposed rulemaking?
11.5
What is a notice of proposed rulemaking?
11.7
What is a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking?
11.9
What is a final rule?
11.11
What is a final rule with request for comments?
11.13
What is a direct final rule?
11.15
What is a petition for exemption?
11.17
What is a petition for rulemaking?
11.19
What is a special condition?

# General
11.21
What are the most common kinds of rulemaking actions for which FAA follows the Administrative Procedure Act?
11.23
Does FAA follow the same procedures in issuing all types of rules?
11.25
How does FAA issue rules?
11.27
Are there other ways FAA collects specific rulemaking recommendations before we issue an NPRM?
11.29
May FAA change its regulations without first issuing an ANPRM or NPRM?
11.31
How does FAA process direct final rules?
11.33
How can I track FAA's rulemaking activities?
11.35
Does FAA include sensitive security information and proprietary information in the Federal Docket Management System (FDMS)?
11.37
Where can I find information about an Airworthiness Directive, an airspace designation, or a petition handled in a region?
11.38
What public comment procedures does FAA follow for Special Conditions?
11.39
How may I participate in FAA's rulemaking process?
11.40
Can I get more information about a rulemaking?

# Written Comments
11.41
Who may file comments?
11.43
What information must I put in my written comments?
11.45
Where and when do I file my comments?
11.47
May I ask for more time to file my comments?

# Public Meetings and Other Proceedings
11.51
May I request that FAA hold a public meeting on a rulemaking action?
11.53
What takes place at a public meeting?

# Petitions for Rulemaking and for Exemptions
11.61
May I ask FAA to adopt, amend, or repeal a regulation, or grant relief from the requirements of a current regulation?
11.63
How and to whom do I submit my petition for rulemaking or petition for exemption?
11.71
What information must I include in my petition for rulemaking?
11.73
How does FAA process petitions for rulemaking?
11.75
Does FAA invite public comment on petitions for rulemaking?
11.77
Is there any additional information I must include in my petition for designating airspace?
11.81
What information must I include in my petition for an exemption?
11.83
How can I operate under an exemption outside the United States?
11.85
Does FAA invite public comment on petitions for exemption?
11.87
Are there circumstances in which FAA may decide not to publish a summary of my petition for exemption?
11.89
How much time do I have to submit comments to FAA on a petition for exemption?
11.91
How does FAA inform me of its decision on my petition for exemption?
11.101
May I ask FAA to reconsider my petition for rulemaking or petition for exemption if it is denied?
11.103
What exemption relief may be available to federal, state, and local governments when operating aircraft that are not public aircraft?

# Subpart B—Paperwork Reduction Act Control Numbers
11.201
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control numbers assigned under the Paperwork Reduction Act.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 40101, 40103, 40105, 40109, 40113, 44110, 44502, 44701-44702, 44711, 46102, and 51 U.S.C. 50901-50923.

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-1999-6622, 65 FR 50863, Aug. 21, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 11 appear at 61 FR 18052, April 24, 1996.

# Subpart A—Rulemaking Procedures
§ 11.1
To what does this part apply?
This part applies to the issuance, amendment, and repeal of any regulation for which FAA (“we”) follows public rulemaking procedures under the Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”) (5 U.S.C. 553).

# Definition of Terms
§ 11.3
What is an advance notice of proposed rulemaking?
An advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM) tells the public that FAA is considering an area for rulemaking and requests written comments on the appropriate scope of the rulemaking or on specific topics. An advance notice of proposed rulemaking may or may not include the text of potential changes to a regulation.
§ 11.5
What is a notice of proposed rulemaking?
A notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) proposes FAA's specific regulatory changes for public comment and contains supporting information. It includes proposed regulatory text.
§ 11.7
What is a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking?
On occasion, FAA may decide that it needs more information on an issue, or that we should take a different approach than we proposed. Also, we may want to follow a commenter's suggestion that goes beyond the scope of the original proposed rule. In these cases, FAA may issue a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking (SNPRM) to give the public an opportunity to comment further or to give us more information.
§ 11.9
What is a final rule?
A final rule sets out new or revised requirements and their effective date. It also may remove requirements. When preceded by an NPRM, a final rule will also identify significant substantive issues raised by commenters in response to the NPRM and will give the agency's response.
§ 11.11
What is a final rule with request for comments?
A final rule with request for comment is a rule that the FAA issues in final (with an effective date) that invites public comment on the rule. We usually do this when we have not first issued an ANPRM or NPRM, because we have found that doing so would be impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest. We give our reasons for our determination in the preamble. The comment period often ends after the effective date of the rule. A final rule not preceded by an ANPRM or NPRM is commonly called an “immediately adopted final rule.” We invite comments on these rules only if we think that we will receive useful information. For example, we would not invite comments when we are just making an editorial clarification or correction.
§ 11.13
What is a direct final rule?
A direct final rule is a type of final rule with request for comments. Our reason for issuing a direct final rule without an NPRM is that we would not expect to receive any adverse comments, and so an NPRM is unnecessary. However, to be certain that we are correct, we set the comment period to end before the effective date.If we receive an adverse comment, we will either publish a document withdrawing the direct final rule before it becomes effective and may issue an NPRM, or proceed by any other means permitted under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 551
et seq.,
consistent with procedures at 49 CFR 5.13(l).
[Docket No. FAA-1999-6622, 65 FR 50863, Aug. 21, 2000, as amended at 84 FR 71717, Dec. 27, 2019]
§ 11.15
What is a petition for exemption?
A petition for exemption is a request to the FAA by an individual or entity asking for relief from the requirements of a current regulation. For petitions for waiver of commercial space transportation regulations, see part 404 of this title.
[FAA-2016-6761, Amdt. No. 11-62, 83 FR 28534, June 20, 2016]
§ 11.17
What is a petition for rulemaking?
A petition for rulemaking is a request to FAA by an individual or entity asking the FAA to adopt, amend, or repeal a regulation.
§ 11.19
What is a special condition?
A special condition is a regulation that applies to a particular aircraft design. The FAA issues special conditions when we find that the airworthiness regulations for an aircraft, aircraft engine, or propeller design do not contain adequate or appropriate safety standards, because of a novel or unusual design feature.

# General
§ 11.21
What are the most common kinds of rulemaking actions for which FAA follows the Administrative Procedure Act?
FAA follows the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) procedures for these common types of rules:
(a) Rules found in the Code of Federal Regulations;
(b) Airworthiness directives issued under part 39 of this chapter; and
(c) Airspace Designations issued under various parts of this chapter.
§ 11.23
Does FAA follow the same procedures in issuing all types of rules?
Yes, in general, FAA follows the same procedures for all rule types. There are some differences as to which FAA official has authority to issue each type, and where you send petitions for FAA to adopt, amend, or repeal each type. Assume that the procedures in this subpart apply to all rules, except where we specify otherwise.
§ 11.25
How does FAA issue rules?
(a) The FAA uses APA rulemaking procedures to adopt, amend, or repeal regulations. To propose or adopt a new regulation, or to change a current regulation, FAA will issue one or more of the following documents. We publish these rulemaking documents in the
Federal Register
unless we name and personally serve a copy of a rule on every person subject to it. We also make all documents available to the public by posting them in the Federal Docket Management System at
http://www.regulations.gov.
(1) An advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM).
(2) A notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM).
(3) A supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking (SNPRM).
(4) A final rule.
(5) A final rule with request for comments.
(6) A direct final rule.
(b) Each of the rulemaking documents in paragraph (a) of this section generally contains the following information:
(1) The topic involved in the rulemaking document.
(2) FAA's legal authority for issuing the rulemaking document.
(3) How interested persons may participate in the rulemaking proceeding (for example, by filing written comments or making oral presentations at a public meeting).
(4) Whom to call if you have questions about the rulemaking document.
(5) The date, time, and place of any public meetings FAA will hold to discuss the rulemaking document.
(6) The docket number and regulation identifier number (RIN) for the rulemaking proceeding.
[Doc. No. 1999-6622, 65 FR 50863, Aug. 21, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 68474, Dec. 5, 2007]
§ 11.27
Are there other ways FAA collects specific rulemaking recommendations before we issue an NPRM?
Yes, the FAA obtains advice and recommendations from rulemaking advisory committees. One of these committees is the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC), which is a formal standing committee comprised of representatives of aviation associations and industry, consumer groups, and interested individuals. In conducting its activities, ARAC complies with the Federal Advisory Committee Act and the direction of FAA. We task ARAC with providing us with recommended rulemaking actions dealing with specific areas and problems. If we accept an ARAC recommendation to change an FAA rule, we ordinarily publish an NPRM using the procedures in
this part. The FAA may establish other rulemaking advisory committees as needed to focus on specific issues for a limited period of time.
§ 11.29
May FAA change its regulations without first issuing an ANPRM or NPRM?
The FAA normally adds or changes a regulation by issuing a final rule after an NPRM. However, FAA may adopt, amend, or repeal regulations without first issuing an ANPRM or NPRM in the following situations:
(a) We may issue a final rule without first requesting public comment if, for good cause, we find that an NPRM is impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest. We place that finding and a brief statement of the reasons for it in the final rule. For example, we may issue a final rule in response to a safety emergency.
(b) If an NPRM would be unnecessary because we do not expect to receive adverse comment, we may issue a direct final rule.
§ 11.31
How does FAA process direct final rules?
(a) A direct final rule will take effect on a specified date unless FAA receives an adverse comment within the comment period—generally 60 days after the direct final rule is published in the
Federal Register.
An adverse comment explains why a rule would be inappropriate, or would be ineffective or unacceptable without a change. It may challenge the rule's underlying premise or approach. Under the direct final rule process, we do not consider the following types of comments to be adverse:
(1) A comment recommending another rule change, in addition to the change in the direct final rule at issue. We consider the comment adverse, however, if the commenter states why the direct final rule would be ineffective without the change.
(2) A frivolous or insubstantial comment.
(b) If FAA has not received an adverse comment, we will publish a confirmation document in the
Federal Register,
generally within 15 days after the comment period closes. The confirmation document tells the public the effective date of the rule.
(c) If we receive an adverse comment, we will advise the public by publishing a document in the
Federal Register
before the effective date of the direct final rule. This document may withdraw the direct final rule in whole or in part. If we withdraw a direct final rule because of an adverse comment, we may incorporate the commenter's recommendation into another direct final rule or may publish a notice of proposed rulemaking.
[Docket No. FAA-1999-6622, 65 FR 50863, Aug. 21, 2000, as amended at 84 FR 71717, Dec. 27, 2019]
§ 11.33
How can I track FAA's rulemaking activities?
The best ways to track FAA's rulemaking activities are with the docket number or the regulation identifier number.
(a)
Docket ID.
We assign a docket ID to each rulemaking document proceeding. Each rulemaking document FAA issues in a particular rulemaking proceeding, as well as public comments on the proceeding, will display the same docket ID. This ID allows you to search the Federal Docket Management System (FDMS) for information on most rulemaking proceedings. You can view and copy docket materials during regular business hours at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Docket Operations, West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590. Or you can view and download docketed materials through the Internet at
http://www.regulations.gov.
If you can't find the material in the electronic docket, contact the person listed under
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT
in the document you are interested in.
(b)
Regulation identifier number.
DOT publishes a semiannual agenda of all current and projected DOT rulemakings, reviews of existing regulations, and completed actions. This semiannual agenda appears in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations, published in the
Federal Register
in April and October of each year. The semiannual agenda tells the public
about DOT's—including FAA's—regulatory activities. DOT assigns a regulation identifier number (RIN) to each individual rulemaking proceeding in the semiannual agenda. This number appears on all rulemaking documents published in the
Federal Register
and makes it easy for you to track those rulemaking proceedings in both the
Federal Register
and the semiannual regulatory agenda.
[Doc. No. 1999-6622, 65 FR 50863, Aug. 21, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 68474, Dec. 5, 2007]
§ 11.35
Does FAA include sensitive security information and proprietary information in the Federal Docket Management System (FDMS)?
(a)
Sensitive security information.
You should not submit sensitive security information to the rulemaking docket, unless you are invited to do so in our request for comments. If we ask for this information, we will tell you in the specific document how to submit this information, and we will provide a separate non-public docket for it. For all proposed rule changes involving civil aviation security, we review comments as we receive them, before they are placed in the docket. If we find that a comment contains sensitive security information, we remove that information before placing the comment in the general docket.
(b)
Proprietary information.
When we are aware of proprietary information filed with a comment, we do not place it in the docket. We hold it in a separate file to which the public does not have access, and place a note in the docket that we have received it. If we receive a request to examine or copy this information, we treat it as any other request under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). We process such a request under the DOT procedures found in 49 CFR part 7.
[Doc. No. 1999-6622, 65 FR 50863, Aug. 21, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 68474, Dec. 5, 2007]
§ 11.37
Where can I find information about an Airworthiness Directive, an airspace designation, or a petition handled in a region?
The FAA includes most documents concerning Airworthiness Directives, airspace designations, or petitions handled in a region in the electronic docket. If the information isn't in the docket, contact the person listed under
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT
in the
Federal Register
document about the action.
§ 11.38
What public comment procedures does the FAA follow for Special Conditions?
Even though the Administrative Procedure Act does not require notice and comment for rules of particular applicability, FAA does publish proposed special conditions for comment. In the following circumstances we may not invite comment before we issue a special condition. If we don't, we will invite comment when we publish the final special condition.
(a) The FAA considers prior notice to be impracticable if issuing a design approval would significantly delay delivery of the affected aircraft. We consider such a delay to be contrary to the public interest.
(b) The FAA considers prior notice to be unnecessary if we have provided previous opportunities to comment on substantially identical proposed special conditions, and we are satisfied that new comments are unlikely.
§ 11.39
How may I participate in FAA's rulemaking process?
You may participate in FAA's rulemaking process by doing any of the following:
(a) File written comments on any rulemaking document that asks for comments, including an ANPRM, NPRM, SNPRM, a final rule with request for comments, or a direct final rule. Follow the directions for commenting found in each rulemaking document.
(b) Ask that we hold a public meeting on any rulemaking, and participate in any public meeting that we hold.
(c) File a petition for rulemaking that asks us to adopt, amend, or repeal a regulation.
§ 11.40
Can I get more information about a rulemaking?
You can contact the person listed under
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT
in the preamble of a rule. That person can explain the meaning
and intent of a proposed rule, the technical aspects of a document, the terminology in a document, and can tell you our published schedule for the rulemaking process. We cannot give you information that is not already available to other members of the public.The Department of Transportation policy regarding public contacts during rulemaking appears at 49 CFR 5.19.
[Docket No. FAA-1999-6622, 65 FR 50863, Aug. 21, 2000, as amended at 84 FR 71717, Dec. 27, 2019]

# Written Comments
§ 11.41
Who may file comments?
Anyone may file written comments about proposals and final rules that request public comments.
§ 11.43
What information must I put in my written comments?
(a) Your written comments must be in English and must contain the following:
(1) The docket number of the rulemaking document you are commenting on, clearly set out at the beginning of your comments.
(2) Your name and mailing address, and, if you wish, other contact information, such as a fax number, telephone number, or e-mail address.
(3) Your information, views, or arguments, following the instructions for participation in the rulemaking document on which you are commenting.
(b) You should also include all material relevant to any statement of fact or argument in your comments, to the extent that the material is available to you and reasonable for you to submit. Include a copy of the title page of the document. Whether or not you submit a copy of the material to which you refer, you should indicate specific places in the material that support your position.
§ 11.45
Where and when do I file my comments?
(a) Send your comments to the location specified in the rulemaking document on which you are commenting. If you are asked to send your comments to the Federal Document Management System, you may send them in either of the following ways:
(1) By mail to: U.S. Department of Transportation, Docket Operations, West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590.
(2) Through the Internet to
http://www.regulations.gov.
(3) In any other manner designated by FAA.
(b) Make sure that your comments reach us by the deadline set out in the rulemaking document on which you are commenting. We will consider late-filed comments to the extent possible only if they do not significantly delay the rulemaking process.
(c) We may reject your paper or electronic comments if they are frivolous, abusive, or repetitious. We may reject comments you file electronically if you do not follow the electronic filing instructions at the Federal Docket Management System Web site.
[Doc. No. 1999-6622, 65 FR 50863, Aug. 21, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 68474, Dec. 5, 2007]
§ 11.47
May I ask for more time to file my comments?
Yes, if FAA grants your request for more time to file comments, we grant all persons the same amount of time. We will notify the public of the extension by a document in the
Federal Register.
If FAA denies your request, we will notify you of the denial. To ask for more time, you must file a written or electronic request for extension at least 10 days before the end of the comment period. Your letter or message must—
(a) Show the docket number of the rule at the top of the first page;
(b) State, at the beginning, that you are requesting an extension of the comment period;
(c) Show that you have good cause for the extension and that an extension is in the public interest;
(d) Be sent to the address specified for comments in the rulemaking document on which you are commenting.

# Public Meetings and Other Proceedings
§ 11.51
May I request that FAA hold a public meeting on a rulemaking action?
Yes, you may request that we hold a public meeting. FAA holds a public meeting when we need more than written comments to make a fully informed decision. Submit your written request to the address specified in the rulemaking document on which you are commenting. Specify at the top of your letter or message that you are requesting that the agency hold a public meeting. Submit your request no later than 30 days after our rulemaking notice. If we find good cause for a meeting, we will notify you and publish a notice of the meeting in the
Federal Register.
§ 11.53
What takes place at a public meeting?
A public meeting is a non-adversarial, fact-finding proceeding conducted by an FAA representative. Public meetings are announced in the
Federal Register.
We invite interested persons to attend and to present their views to the agency on specific issues. There are no formal pleadings and no adverse parties, and any regulation issued afterward is not necessarily based exclusively on the record of the meeting.

# Petitions for Rulemaking and for Exemption
§ 11.61
May I ask FAA to adopt, amend, or repeal a regulation, or grant relief from the requirements of a current regulation?
(a) Using a petition for rulemaking, you may ask FAA to add a new regulation to title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations (14 CFR) or ask FAA to amend or repeal a current regulation in 14 CFR.
(b) Using a petition for exemption, you may ask FAA to grant you relief from current regulations in 14 CFR.
§ 11.63
How and to whom do I submit my petition for rulemaking or petition for exemption?
(a) To submit a petition for rulemaking or exemption—
(1) By electronic submission, submit your petition for rulemaking or exemption to the FAA through the internet at
http://www.regulations.gov,
the Federal Docket Management System website. For additional instructions, you may visit
http://www.faa.gov,
and navigate to the Rulemaking home page.
(2) By paper submission, send the original signed copy of your petition for rulemaking or exemption to this address: U.S. Department of Transportation, Docket Operations, West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590.
(b) Submit a petition for rulemaking or exemption from part 139 of this chapter—
(1) To the appropriate FAA airport field office in whose area your airport is, or will be, established; and
(2) To the U.S. Department of Transportation, Docket Operations, West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590 or by electronic submission to this Internet address:
http://www.regulations.gov.
(c) The FAA may designate other means by which you can submit petitions in the future.
(d) Submit your petition for exemption 120 days before you need the exemption to take effect.
[Amdt. 11-50, 69 FR 22386, Apr. 26, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 68474, Dec. 5, 2007; Amdt. 11-55, 74 FR 202, Jan. 5, 2009; FAA-2016-6761, Amdt. No. 11-62, 83 FR 28534, June 20, 2016]
§ 11.71
What information must I include in my petition for rulemaking?
(a) You must include the following information in your petition for rulemaking:
(1) Your name and mailing address and, if you wish, other contact information such as a fax number, telephone number, or e-mail address.
(2) An explanation of your proposed action and its purpose.
(3) The language you propose for a new or amended rule, or the language you would remove from a current rule.
(4) An explanation of why your proposed action would be in the public interest.
(5) Information and arguments that support your proposed action, including relevant technical and scientific data available to you.
(6) Any specific facts or circumstances that support or demonstrate the need for the action you propose.
(b) In the process of considering your petition, we may ask that you provide information or data available to you about the following:
(1) The costs and benefits of your proposed action to society in general, and identifiable groups within society in particular.
(2) The regulatory burden of your proposed action on small businesses, small organizations, small governmental jurisdictions, and Indian tribes.
(3) The recordkeeping and reporting burdens of your proposed action and whom the burdens would affect.
(4) The effect of your proposed action on the quality of the natural and social environments.
§ 11.73
How does FAA process petitions for rulemaking?
After we have determined the disposition of your petition, we will contact you in writing about our decision. The FAA may respond to your petition for rulemaking in one of the following ways:
(a) If we determine that your petition justifies our taking the action you suggest, we may issue an NPRM or ANPRM. We will do so no later than 6 months after the date we receive your petition. In making our decision, we consider:
(1) The immediacy of the safety or security concerns you raise;
(2) The priority of other issues the FAA must deal with; and
(3) The resources we have available to address these issues.
(b) If we have issued an ANPRM or NPRM on the subject matter of your petition, we will consider your arguments for a rule change as a comment in connection with the rulemaking proceeding. We will not treat your petition as a separate action.
(c) If we have begun a rulemaking project in the subject area of your petition, we will consider your comments and arguments for a rule change as part of that project. We will not treat your petition as a separate action.
(d) If we have tasked ARAC to study the general subject area of your petition, we will ask ARAC to review and evaluate your proposed action. We will not treat your petition as a separate action.
(e) If we determine that the issues you identify in your petition may have merit, but do not address an immediate safety concern or cannot be addressed because of other priorities and resource constraints, we may dismiss your petition. Your comments and arguments for a rule change will be placed in a database, which we will examine when we consider future rulemaking.
§ 11.75
Does FAA invite public comment on petitions for rulemaking?
Generally, FAA does not invite public comment on petitions for rulemaking.
§ 11.77
Is there any additional information I must include in my petition for designating airspace?
In petitions asking FAA to establish, amend, or repeal a designation of airspace, including special use airspace, you must include all the information specified by § 11.71 and also:
(a) The location and a description of the airspace you want assigned or designated;
(b) A complete description of the activity or use to be made of that airspace, including a detailed description of the type, volume, duration, time, and place of the operations to be conducted in the area;
(c) A description of the air navigation, air traffic control, surveillance, and communication facilities available and to be provided if we grant the designation; and
(d) The name and location of the agency, office, facility, or person who would have authority to permit the use of the airspace when it was not in use for the purpose to which you want it assigned.
§ 11.81
What information must I include in my petition for an exemption?
You must include the following information in your petition for an exemption and submit it to FAA as soon as you know you need an exemption.
(a) Your name and mailing address and, if you wish, other contact information such as a fax number, telephone number, or e-mail address;
(b) The specific section or sections of 14 CFR from which you seek an exemption;
(c) The extent of relief you seek, and the reason you seek the relief;
(d) The reasons why granting your request would be in the public interest; that is, how it would benefit the public as a whole;
(e) The reasons why granting the exemption would not adversely affect safety, or how the exemption would provide a level of safety at least equal to that provided by the rule from which you seek the exemption;
(f) A summary we can publish in the
Federal Register,
stating:
(1) The rule from which you seek the exemption; and
(2) A brief description of the nature of the exemption you seek;
(g) Any additional information, views or arguments available to support your request; and
(h) If you want to exercise the privileges of your exemption outside the United States, the reason why you need to do so.
§ 11.83
How can I operate under an exemption outside the United States?
If you want to be able to operate under your exemption outside the United States, you must request this when you petition for relief and give us the reason for this use. If you do not provide your reason or we determine that it does not justify this relief, we will limit your exemption to use within the United States. Before we extend your exemption for use outside the United States, we will verify that the exemption would be in compliance with the Standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). If it would not, but we still believe it would be in the public interest to allow you to do so, we will file a difference with ICAO. However, a foreign country still may not allow you to operate in that country without meeting the ICAO standard.
§ 11.85
Does FAA invite public comment on petitions for exemption?
Yes, FAA publishes information about petitions for exemption in the
Federal Register.
The information includes—
(a) The docket number of the petition;
(b) The citation to the rule or rules from which the petitioner requested relief;
(c) The name of the petitioner;
(d) The petitioner's summary of the action requested and the reasons for requesting it; and
(e) A request for comments to assist FAA in evaluating the petition.
§ 11.87
Are there circumstances in which FAA may decide not to publish a summary of my petition for exemption?
The FAA may not publish a summary of your petition for exemption and request comments if you present or we find good cause why we should not delay action on your petition. The factors we consider in deciding not to request comment include:
(a) Whether granting your petition would set a precedent.
(b) Whether the relief requested is identical to exemptions granted previously.
(c) Whether our delaying action on your petition would affect you adversely.
(d) Whether you filed your petition in a timely manner.
§ 11.89
How much time do I have to submit comments to FAA on a petition for exemption?
The FAA states the specific time allowed for comments in the
Federal Register
notice about the petition. We usually allow 20 days to comment on a petition for exemption.
§ 11.91
How does FAA inform me of its decision on my petition for exemption?
The FAA will notify you in writing about its decision on your petition. A copy of this decision is also placed in
the public docket. We will include the docket number associated with your petition in our letter to you.
[Doc. No. FAA-2005-22982, 71 FR 1485, Jan. 10, 2006]
§ 11.101
May I ask FAA to reconsider my petition for rulemaking or petition for exemption if it is denied?
Yes, you may petition FAA to reconsider your petition denial. You must submit your request to the address to which you sent your original petition, and FAA must receive it within 60 days after we issued the denial. For us to accept your petition, show the following:
(a) That you have a significant additional fact and why you did not present it in your original petition;
(b) That we made an important factual error in our denial of your original petition; or
(c) That we did not correctly interpret a law, regulation, or precedent.
§ 11.103
What exemption relief may be available to federal, state, and local governments when operating aircraft that are not public aircraft?
The Federal Aviation Administration may grant a federal, state, or local government an exemption from part A of subtitle VII of title 49 United States Code, and any regulation issued under that authority that is applicable to an aircraft as a result of the Independent Safety Board Act Amendments of 1994, Public Law 103-411, if—
(a) The Administrator finds that granting the exemption is necessary to prevent an undue economic burden on the unit of government; and
(b) The Administrator certifies that the aviation safety program of the unit of government is effective and appropriate to ensure safe operations of the type of aircraft operated by the unit of government.
[68 FR 25488, May 13, 2003]

# Subpart B—Paperwork Reduction Act Control Numbers
§ 11.201
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control numbers assigned under the Paperwork Reduction Act.
(a) The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501-3520) requires FAA to get approval from OMB for our information collection activities, and to list a record of those approvals in the
Federal Register.
This subpart lists the control numbers OMB assigned to FAA's information collection activities.
(b) The table listing OMB control numbers assigned to FAA's information collection activities follows:
14 CFR part or
section identified and described
Current OMB control number
Part 13.5
2120-0795
Part 14
2120-0539
Part 17
2120-0632
Part 21
2120-0018, 2120-0552
Part 34
2120-0508
Part 39
2120-0056
Part 43
2120-0020
Part 45
2120-0508
Part 47
2120-0024, 2120-0042
Part 48
2120-0765
Part 49
2120-0043
Part 60
2120-0680
Part 61
2120-0021, 2120-0034, 2120-0543, 2120-0571, 2120-0816
Part 63
2120-0007
Part 65
2120-0022, 2120-0535, 2120-0571, 2120-0648
Part 67
2120-0034, 2120-0543
Part 77
2120-0001
Part 89
2120-0781, 2120-0782, 2120-0783, 2120-0785.
Part 91
2120-0005, 2120-0026, 2120-0027, 2120-0573, 2120-0606, 2120-0620, 2120-0631, 2120-0651, 2120-0819, 2120-0820.
Part 93
2120-0524, 2120-0606, 2120-0639
Part 101
2120-0027
Part 105
2120-0027, 2120-0641
Part 107
2120-0005, 2120-0021, 2120-0027, 2120-0767, 2120-0768, 2120-0775.
Part 111
2120-0607
Part 119
2120-0593
Part 121
2120-0008, 2120-0028, 2120-0535, 2120-0571, 2120-0600, 2120-0606, 2120-0614, 2120-0616, 2120-0631, 2120-0651, 2120-0653, 2120-0691, 2120-0739, 2120-0760, 2120-0766.
Part 125
2120-0028, 2120-0085, 2120-0616, 2120-0651
Part 129
2120-0028, 2120-0536, 2120-0616, 2120-0638
Part 133
2120-0044
Part 135
2120-0003, 2120-0028, 2120-0039, 2120-0535, 2120-0571, 2120-0600, 2120-0606, 2120-0614, 2120-0616, 2120-0620, 2120-0631, 2120-0653, 2120-0766.
Part 137
2120-0049
Part 139
2120-0045, 2120-0063
Part 141
2120-0009
Part 142
2120-0570
Part 145
2120-0003, 2120-0010, 2120-0571
Part 147
2120-0040
Part 150
2120-0517
Part 157
2120-0036
Part 158
2120-0557
Part 161
2120-0563
Part 171
2120-0014
Part 183
2120-0033, 2120-0604
Part 193
2120-0646
Part 198
2120-0514
Part 400
2120-0643, 2120-0644, 0649
Part 401
2120-0608
Part 440
2120-0601
SFAR 36
2120-0507
SFAR 71
2120-0620
[Doc. No. 1999-6622, 65 FR 50863, Aug. 21, 2000, as amended by Amdt. 11-47, 67 FR 9553, Mar. 1, 2002; Amdt. 11-49, 68 FR 61321, Oct. 27, 2003; Amdt. 11-49, 68 FR 70132, Dec. 17, 2003; 70 FR 40163, July 12, 2005; 71 FR 63426, Oct. 30, 2006; 72 FR 59599, Oct. 22, 2007; Amdt. 11-56, 79 FR 12937, Mar. 7, 2014; Amdt. 11-57, 80 FR 58586, Sept. 30, 2015; Doc. FAA-2015-7396, Amdt. 11-58, 80 FR 79255, Dec. 21, 2015; Doc. FAA-2011-1136, Amdt. 11-59, 81 FR 13969, Mar. 16, 2016; Doc. FAA-2014-0554, Amdt. 11-60, 81 FR 33117, May 24, 2016; 81 FR 38573, June 14, 2016; Doc. FAA-2016-9064, Amdt. 11-61, 81 FR 59129, Aug. 29, 2016; FAA-2018-1087, Amdt. 11-64, 86 FR 4381, Jan. 15, 2021; Docket No. FAA-2019-1100, Amdt. 11-63, 86 FR 4503, Jan. 15, 2021; FAA-2020-0246, Amdt. 11-65, 86 FR 31060, June 10, 2021; FAA-2018-1051, Amdt. 13-40A, 87 FR 61233, Oct. 11, 2022; FAA-2023-2250, Amdt. 11-66, 89 FR 67849, Aug. 22, 2024; FAA-2023-0825; Amdt. No. 11-67, 89 FR 80049, Oct. 1, 2024; FAA-2023-1351; Amdt. No. 11-68, 89 FR 80339, Oct. 2, 2024]

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 90577, Nov. 18, 2024, § 11.201(b) table was revised; however, the amendment could not be incorporated due to an inaccurate amendatory instruction.
§ 11.201, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 92483, Nov. 21, 2024, § 11.201 was amended by adding the entry “Part 194” in numerical order to the table in paragraph (b), effective Jan. 21, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added text is set forth as follows:
§ 11.201
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control numbers assigned under the Paperwork Reduction Act.
(b) * * *
14 CFR part or section identified and described
Current OMB control No.
* * * * * * *
Part 194
2120-0009, 2120-0021, 2120-0039, 2120-0600, 2120-0607, 2120-0663, 2120-0701.
* * * * * * *
Pt. 13

# PART 13—INVESTIGATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES

# Subpart A—General Authority to Re-Delegate and Investigative Procedures
Sec.
13.1
Re-delegation.
13.2
Reports of violations.
13.3
Investigations (general).
13.5
Formal complaints.
13.7
Records, documents, and reports.

# Subpart B—Administrative Actions
13.11
Administrative disposition of certain violations.

# Subpart C—Legal Enforcement Actions
13.13
Consent orders.
13.14
[Reserved]
13.15
Civil penalties: Other than by administrative assessment.
13.16
Civil penalties: Administrative assessment against a person other than an individual acting as a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman; administrative assessment against all persons for hazardous materials violations.
13.17
Seizure of aircraft.
13.18
Civil penalties: Administrative assessment against an individual acting as a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman.
13.19
Certificate actions appealable to the National Transportation Safety Board.
13.20
Orders of compliance, cease and desist orders, orders of denial, and other orders.
13.21-13.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Rules of Practice for FAA Hearings
13.31
Applicability.
13.33
Parties, representatives, and notice of appearance.
13.35
Request for hearing, complaint, and answer.
13.37
Hearing officer: Assignment and powers.
13.39
Disqualification of hearing officer.
13.41
Separation of functions and prohibition on ex parte communications.
13.43
Service and filing of pleadings, motions, and documents.
13.44
[Reserved]
13.45
Computation of time and extension of time.
13.47
Withdrawal or amendment of the complaint, answer, or other filings.
13.49
Motions.
13.51
Intervention.
13.53
Discovery.
13.55
Notice of hearing.
13.57
Subpoenas and witness fees.
13.59
Evidence.
13.61
Argument and submittals.
13.63
Record, decision, and aircraft registration proceedings.
13.65
Appeal to the Administrator, reconsideration, and judicial review.
13.67
Procedures for expedited proceedings.
13.69
Other matters: Alternative dispute resolution, standing orders, and forms.

# Subpart E—Orders of Compliance Under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act
13.70
Delegation of authority.
13.71
Applicability.
13.73
Notice of proposed order of compliance.
13.75
Reply or request for hearing.
13.77
Consent order of compliance.
13.79
[Reserved]
13.81
Emergency orders.
13.83-13.87
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Formal Fact-Finding Investigation Under an Order of Investigation
13.101
Applicability.
13.103
Order of investigation.
13.105
Notification.
13.107
Designation of additional parties.
13.109
Convening the investigation.
13.111
Subpoenas.
13.113
Noncompliance with the investigative process.
13.115
Public proceedings.
13.117
Conduct of investigative proceeding or deposition.
13.119
Immunity and orders requiring testimony or other information.
13.121
Witness fees.
13.123
Submission by party to the investigation.
13.125
Depositions.
13.127
Reports, decisions, and orders.
13.129
Post-investigation action.
13.131
Other procedures.

# Subpart G—Rules of Practice In FAA Civil Penalty Actions
13.201
Applicability.
13.202
Definitions.
13.203
Separation of functions.
13.204
Appearances and rights of parties.
13.205
Administrative law judges.
13.206
Intervention.
13.207
Certification of documents.
13.208
Complaint.
13.209
Answer.
13.210
Filing of documents.
13.211
Service of documents.
13.212
Computation of time.
13.213
Extension of time.
13.214
Amendment of pleadings.
13.215
Withdrawal of complaint or request for hearing.
13.216
Waivers.
13.217
Joint procedural or discovery schedule.
13.218
Motions.
13.219
Interlocutory appeals.
13.220
Discovery.
13.221
Notice of hearing.
13.222
Evidence.
13.223
Standard of proof.
13.224
Burden of proof.
13.225
Offer of proof.
13.226
Public disclosure of information.
13.227
Expert or opinion witnesses.
13.228
Subpoenas.
13.229
Witness fees.
13.230
Record.
13.231
Argument before the administrative law judge.
13.232
Initial decision.
13.233
Appeal from initial decision.
13.234
Petition to reconsider or modify a final decision and order of the FAA decisionmaker on appeal.
13.235
Judicial review of a final decision and order.
13.236
Alternative dispute resolution.

# Subpart H—Civil Monetary Penalty Inflation Adjustment
13.301
Inflation adjustments of civil monetary penalties.

# Subpart I—Flight Operational Quality Assurance Programs
13.401
Flight Operational Quality Assurance program: Prohibition against use of data for enforcement purposes.

# Authority:
18 U.S.C. 6002; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note; 49 U.S.C. 106(g), 5121-5124, 40113-40114, 44103-44106, 44701-44704, 44709-44710, 44713, 44725, 44742, 44802 (note), 46101-46111, 46301, 46302 (for a violation of 49 U.S.C. 46504), 46304-46316, 46318-46320, 46501-46502, 46504, 46507, 47106, 47107, 47111, 47122, 47306, 47531-47532; 49 CFR 1.83.

# Source:
Docket No. 18884, 44 FR 63723, Nov. 5, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Authority to Re-Delegate and Investigative Procedures

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2018-1051; Amdt. No. 13-40, 86 FR 54526, Oct. 1, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 13.1
Re-delegation.
Unless otherwise specified, the Chief Counsel, each Deputy Chief Counsel, and the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement may re-delegate the authority delegated to them under this part.
§ 13.2
Reports of violations.
(a) Any person who knows of any violation of 49 U.S.C. subtitle VII, 49 U.S.C. chapter 51, or any rule, regulation, or order issued under those statutes, should report the violation to FAA personnel.
(b) FAA personnel will review each report made under this section to determine whether any additional investigation or action is warranted.
§ 13.3
Investigations (general).
(a) The Administrator may conduct investigations; hold hearings; issue subpoenas; require the production of relevant documents, records, and property; and take evidence and depositions.
(b) The Administrator has delegated the authority to conduct investigations to the various services and offices for matters within their respective areas.
(c) The Administrator delegates to the Chief Counsel, each Deputy Chief Counsel, and the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement the authority to:
(1) Issue orders;
(2) Conduct formal investigations;
(3) Subpoena witnesses and records in conducting a hearing or investigation;
(4) Order depositions and production of records in a proceeding or investigation; and
(5) Petition a court of the United States to enforce a subpoena or order described in paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section.
(d) A complaint against the sponsor, proprietor, or operator of a federally assisted airport involving violations of the legal authorities listed in § 16.1 of this chapter must be filed in accordance with the provisions of part 16 of this chapter.
§ 13.5
Formal complaints.
(a) Any person may file a complaint with the Administrator with respect to a violation by a person of any requirement under 49 U.S.C. subtitle VII, 49 U.S.C. chapter 51, or any rule, regulation, or order issued under those statutes, as to matters within the jurisdiction of the Administrator. This section does not apply to complaints against the Administrator or employees of the FAA acting within the scope of their employment.
(b) Complaints filed under this section must—
(1) Be submitted in writing and identified as a complaint seeking an appropriate order or other enforcement action;
(2) Be submitted to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of the Chief Counsel, Attention: Formal Complaint Clerk (AGC-300), 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591;
(3) Set forth the name and address, if known, of each person who is the subject of the complaint and, with respect to each person, the specific provisions of the statute, rule, regulation, or order that the complainant believes were violated;
(4) Contain a concise but complete statement of the facts relied upon to substantiate each allegation;
(5) State the name, address, telephone number, and email of the person filing the complaint; and
(6) Be signed by the person filing the complaint or an authorized representative.
(c) A complaint that does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section will be considered a report under § 13.2.
(d) The FAA will send a copy of a complaint that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section to the subject(s) of the complaint by certified mail.
(e) A subject of the complaint may serve a written answer to the complaint to the Formal Complaint Clerk at the address specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section no later than 20 days after service of a copy of the complaint. For purposes of this paragraph (e), the date of service is the date on which the FAA mailed a copy of the complaint to the subject of the complaint.
(f) After the subject(s) of the complaint have served a written answer or after the allotted time to serve an answer has expired, the Administrator
will determine if there are reasonable grounds for investigating the complaint, and—
(1) If the Administrator determines that a complaint does not state facts that warrant an investigation or action, the complaint may be dismissed without a hearing and the reason for the dismissal will be given, in writing, to the person who filed the complaint and the subject(s) of the complaint; or
(2) If the Administrator determines that reasonable grounds exist, an informal investigation may be initiated or an order of investigation may be issued in accordance with subpart F of this part, or both. The subject(s) of a complaint will be advised which official has been delegated the responsibility under § 13.3(b) or (c), as applicable, for conducting the investigation.
(g) If the investigation substantiates the allegations set forth in the complaint, the Administrator may take action in accordance with applicable law and FAA policy.
(h) The complaint and other records relating to the disposition of the complaint are maintained in the Formal Complaint Docket (AGC-300), Office of the Chief Counsel, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591. Any interested person may examine any docketed material at that office at any time after the docket is established, except material that is required to be withheld from the public under applicable law, and may obtain a copy upon paying the cost of the copy.
§ 13.7
Records, documents, and reports.
Each record, document, and report that FAA regulations require to be maintained, exhibited, or submitted to the Administrator may be used in any investigation conducted by the Administrator; and, except to the extent the use may be specifically limited or prohibited by the section which imposes the requirement, the records, documents, and reports may be used in any civil penalty action, certificate action, or other legal proceeding.

# Subpart B—Administrative Actions

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2018-1051; Amdt. No. 13-40, 86 FR 54527, Oct. 1, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 13.11
Administrative disposition of certain violations.
(a) If, after an investigation, FAA personnel determine that an apparent violation of 49 U.S.C. subtitle VII, 49 U.S.C. chapter 51, or any rule, regulation, or order issued under those statutes, does not require legal enforcement action, an appropriate FAA official may take administrative action to address the apparent violation.
(b) An administrative action under this section does not constitute a formal adjudication of the matter, and may take the form of—
(1) A Warning Notice that recites available facts and information about the incident or condition and indicates that it may have been a violation; or
(2) A Letter of Correction that states the corrective action the apparent violator has taken or agrees to take. If the apparent violator does not complete the agreed corrective action, the FAA may take legal enforcement action.

# Subpart C—Legal Enforcement Actions

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2018-1051; Amdt. No. 13-40, 86 FR 54527, Oct. 1, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 13.13
Consent orders.
(a) The Chief Counsel, each Deputy Chief Counsel, and the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement may issue a consent order to resolve any matter with a person that may be subject to legal enforcement action.
(b) A person that may be subject to legal enforcement action may propose a consent order. The proposed consent order must include—
(1) An admission of all jurisdictional facts;
(2) An express waiver of the right to further procedural steps and of all rights to legal review in any forum;
(3) An express waiver of attorney's fees and costs;
(4) If a notice or order has been issued prior to the proposed consent order, an incorporation by reference of the notice or order and an acknowledgment that the notice or order may be used to construe the terms of the consent order; and
(5) If a request for hearing or appeal is pending in any forum, a provision that the person will withdraw the request for hearing or notice of appeal.
§ 13.14
[Reserved]
§ 13.15
Civil penalties: Other than by administrative assessment.
(a) The FAA uses the procedures in this section when it seeks a civil penalty other than by the administrative assessment procedures in § 13.16 or § 13.18.
(b) The authority of the Administrator to seek a civil penalty, and the ability to refer cases to the United States Attorney General, or the delegate of the Attorney General, for prosecution of civil penalty actions sought by the Administrator is delegated to the Chief Counsel, each Deputy Chief Counsel, and the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement. This delegation applies to cases involving one or more of the following:
(1) An amount in controversy in excess of:
(i) $400,000, if the violation was committed by a person other than an individual or small business concern; or
(ii) $50,000, if the violation was committed by an individual or small business concern.
(2) An in rem action, seizure of aircraft subject to lien, suit for injunctive relief, or for collection of an assessed civil penalty.
(c) The Administrator may compromise any civil penalty proposed under this section, before referral to the United States Attorney General, or the delegate of the Attorney General, for prosecution.
(1) The Administrator, through the Chief Counsel, a Deputy Chief Counsel, or the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement sends a civil penalty letter to the person charged with a violation. The civil penalty letter contains a statement of the charges; the applicable law, rule, regulation, or order; and the amount of civil penalty that the Administrator will accept in full settlement of the action or an offer to compromise the civil penalty.
(2) Not later than 30 days after receipt of the civil penalty letter, the person cited with an alleged violation may respond to the civil penalty letter by—
(i) Submitting electronic payment, a certified check, or money order in the amount offered by the Administrator in the civil penalty letter. The agency attorney will send a letter to the person charged with the violation stating that payment is accepted in full settlement of the civil penalty action; or
(ii) Submitting one of the following to the agency attorney:
(A) Written material or information that may explain, mitigate, or deny the violation or that may show extenuating circumstances; or
(B) A written request for an informal conference to discuss the matter with the agency attorney and to submit any relevant information or documents that may explain, mitigate, or deny the violation; or that may show extenuating circumstances.
(3) The documents, material, or information submitted under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section may include support for any claim of inability to pay the civil penalty in whole or in part, or for any claim of small business status as defined in 49 U.S.C. 46301(i).
(4) The Administrator will consider any material or information submitted under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section to determine whether the person is subject to a civil penalty or to determine the amount for which the Administrator will compromise the action.
(5) If the parties cannot agree to compromise the civil penalty, the Administrator may refer the civil penalty action to the United States Attorney General, or the delegate of the Attorney General, to begin proceedings in a U.S. district court to prosecute and collect a civil penalty.
§ 13.16
Civil penalties: Administrative assessment against a person other than an individual acting as a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman; administrative assessment against all persons for hazardous materials violations.
(a)
General.
The FAA uses the procedures in this section when it assesses a civil penalty against a person other than an individual acting as a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman for a violation cited in the first sentence of 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(2), or in 49 U.S.C. 47531, or any implementing rule, regulation, or order, except when the U.S. district courts have exclusive jurisdiction.
(b)
District court jurisdiction.
The U.S. district courts have exclusive jurisdiction of any civil penalty action initiated by the FAA for violations described in paragraph (a) of this section if—
(1) The amount in controversy is more than $400,000 for a violation committed by a person other than an individual or small business concern;
(2) The amount in controversy is more than $50,000 for a violation committed by an individual or a small business concern;
(3) The action is in rem or another action in rem based on the same violation has been brought;
(4) The action involves an aircraft subject to a lien that has been seized by the Government; or
(5) Another action has been brought for an injunction based on the same violation.
(c)
Hazardous materials violations.
An order assessing a civil penalty for a violation under 49 U.S.C. chapter 51, or a rule, regulation, or order issued under 49 U.S.C. chapter 51, is issued only after the following factors have been considered:
(1) The nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation;
(2) With respect to the violator, the degree of culpability, any history of prior violations, the ability to pay, and any effect on the ability to continue to do business; and
(3) Other matters that justice requires.
(d)
Delegation of authority.
The authority of the Administrator is delegated to each Deputy Chief Counsel and the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement, as follows:
(1) Under 49 U.S.C. 46301(d), 47531, and 5123, and 49 CFR 1.83, to initiate and assess civil penalties for a violation of those statutes or a rule, regulation, or order issued under those provisions;
(2) Under 49 U.S.C. 5123, 49 CFR 1.83, 49 U.S.C. 46301(d), and 49 U.S.C. 46305, to refer cases to the Attorney General of the United States or a delegate of the Attorney General for collection of civil penalties;
(3) Under 49 U.S.C. 46301(f), to compromise the amount of a civil penalty imposed; and
(4) Under 49 U.S.C. 5123(e) and (f) and 49 CFR 1.83, to compromise the amount of a civil penalty imposed.
(e)
Order assessing civil penalty.
(1) An order assessing civil penalty may be issued for a violation described in paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, or as otherwise provided by statute, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, when:
(i) A person charged with a violation agrees to pay a civil penalty for a violation; or
(ii) A person charged with a violation does not request a hearing under paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section within 15 days after receipt of a final notice of proposed civil penalty.
(2) The following also serve as an order assessing civil penalty:
(i) An initial decision or order issued by an administrative law judge as described in § 13.232(e).
(ii) A decision or order issued by the FAA decisionmaker as described in § 13.233(j).
(f)
Notice of proposed civil penalty.
A civil penalty action is initiated by sending a notice of proposed civil penalty to the person charged with a violation, the designated agent for the person, or if there is no such designated agent, the president of the company charged with a violation. In response to a notice of proposed civil penalty, a company may designate in writing another person to receive documents in that civil penalty action. The notice of proposed civil penalty contains a statement of the charges and the amount of the proposed civil penalty. Not later than 30 days after receipt of the notice
of proposed civil penalty, the person charged with a violation may—
(1) Submit the amount of the proposed civil penalty or an agreed-upon amount, in which case either an order assessing civil penalty or compromise order under paragraph (n) of this section may be issued in that amount;
(2) Submit to the agency attorney one of the following:
(i) Written information, including documents and witness statements, demonstrating that a violation of the regulations did not occur or that a penalty or the amount of the penalty is not warranted by the circumstances.
(ii) A written request to reduce the proposed civil penalty, stating the amount of reduction and the reasons and providing any documents supporting a reduction of the proposed civil penalty, including records indicating a financial inability to pay or records showing that payment of the proposed civil penalty would prevent the person from continuing in business.
(iii) A written request for an informal conference to discuss the matter with the agency attorney and to submit relevant information or documents; or
(3) Request a hearing conducted in accordance with subpart G of this part.
(g)
Final notice of proposed civil penalty.
A final notice of proposed civil penalty will be sent to the person charged with a violation, the designated agent for the person, the designated agent named in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, or the president of the company charged with a violation. The final notice of proposed civil penalty contains a statement of the charges and the amount of the proposed civil penalty and, as a result of information submitted to the agency attorney during informal procedures, may modify an allegation or a proposed civil penalty contained in a notice of proposed civil penalty.
(1) A final notice of proposed civil penalty may be issued—
(i) If the person charged with a violation fails to respond to the notice of proposed civil penalty within 30 days after receipt of that notice; or
(ii) If the parties participated in any procedures under paragraph (f)(2) of this section and the parties have not agreed to compromise the action or the agency attorney has not agreed to withdraw the notice of proposed civil penalty.
(2) Not later than 15 days after receipt of the final notice of proposed civil penalty, the person charged with a violation may do one of the following:
(i) Submit the amount of the proposed civil penalty or an agreed-upon amount, in which case either an order assessing civil penalty or a compromise order under paragraph (n) of this section may be issued in that amount; or
(ii) Request a hearing conducted in accordance with subpart G of this part.
(h)
Request for a hearing.
Any person requesting a hearing, under paragraph (f)(3) or (g)(2)(ii) of this section must file the request with the FAA Hearing Docket Clerk and serve the request on the agency attorney in accordance with the requirements in subpart G of this part.
(i)
Hearing.
The procedural rules in subpart G of this part apply to the hearing.
(j)
Appeal.
Either party may appeal the administrative law judge's initial decision to the FAA decisionmaker under the procedures in subpart G of this part. The procedural rules in subpart G of this part apply to the appeal.
(k)
Judicial review.
A person may seek judicial review only of a final decision and order of the FAA decisionmaker in accordance with § 13.235.
(l)
Payment.
(1) A person must pay a civil penalty by:
(i) Sending a certified check or money order, payable to the Federal Aviation Administration, to the FAA office identified in the notice of proposed civil penalty, the final notice of proposed civil penalty, or the order assessing civil penalty; or
(ii) Making an electronic payment according to the directions specified in the notice of proposed civil penalty, the final notice of proposed civil penalty, or the order assessing civil penalty.
(2) The civil penalty must be paid within 30 days after service of the order assessing civil penalty, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties. In cases where a hearing is requested, an appeal
to the FAA decisionmaker is filed, or a petition for review of the FAA decisionmaker's decision is filed in a U.S. court of appeals, the civil penalty must be paid within 30 days after all litigation in the matter is completed and the civil penalty is affirmed in whole or in part.
(m)
Collection of civil penalties.
If an individual does not pay a civil penalty imposed by an order assessing civil penalty or other final order, the Administrator may take action to collect the penalty.
(n)
Compromise.
The FAA may compromise the amount of any civil penalty imposed under this section under 49 U.S.C. 5123(e), 46301(f), or 46318 at any time before referring the action to the United States Attorney General, or the delegate of the Attorney General, for collection.
(1) When a civil penalty is compromised with a finding of violation, an agency attorney issues an order assessing civil penalty.
(2) When a civil penalty is compromised without a finding of violation, the agency attorney issues a compromise order that states the following:
(i) The person has paid a civil penalty or has signed a promissory note providing for installment payments.
(ii) The FAA makes no finding of a violation.
(iii) The compromise order will not be used as evidence of a prior violation in any subsequent civil penalty proceeding or certificate action proceeding.
§ 13.17
Seizure of aircraft.
(a) The Chief Counsel, or a Regional Administrator for an aircraft within the region, may issue an order authorizing a State or Federal law enforcement officer or a Federal Aviation Administration safety inspector to seize an aircraft that is involved in a violation for which a civil penalty may be imposed on its owner or the individual commanding the aircraft.
(b) Each person seizing an aircraft under this section places it in the nearest available and adequate public storage facility in the judicial district in which it was seized.
(c) The Regional Administrator or Chief Counsel, without delay, sends a written notice and a copy of this section to the registered owner of the seized aircraft and to each other person shown by FAA records to have an interest in it, stating the—
(1) Time, date, and place of seizure;
(2) Name and address of the custodian of the aircraft;
(3) Reasons for the seizure, including the violations alleged or proven to have been committed; and
(4) Amount that may be tendered as—
(i) A compromise of a civil penalty for the alleged violation; or
(ii) Payment for a civil penalty imposed for a proven violation.
(d) The Chief Counsel or Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement immediately sends a report to the United States Attorney for the judicial district in which it was seized, requesting the United States Attorney to institute proceedings to enforce a lien against the aircraft.
(e) The Regional Administrator or Chief Counsel directs the release of a seized aircraft when—
(1) The alleged violator pays a civil penalty or an amount agreed upon in compromise, and the costs of seizing, storing, and maintaining the aircraft;
(2) The aircraft is seized under an order of a court of the United States in proceedings in rem initiated under 49 U.S.C. 46305 to enforce a lien against the aircraft;
(3) The United States Attorney General, or the delegate of the Attorney General, notifies the FAA that the United States Attorney General, or the delegate of the Attorney General, refuses to institute proceedings in rem under 49 U.S.C. 46305 to enforce a lien against the aircraft; or
(4) A bond in the amount and with the sureties prescribed by the Chief Counsel or the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement is deposited, conditioned on payment of the penalty or the compromise amount, and the costs of seizing, storing, and maintaining the aircraft.
§ 13.18
Civil penalties: Administrative assessment against an individual acting as a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman.
(a)
General.
(1) This section applies to each action in which the FAA seeks to assess a civil penalty by administrative procedures against an individual acting as a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman under 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(5) for a violation listed in 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(2). This section does not apply to a civil penalty assessed for a violation of 49 U.S.C. chapter 51, or a rule, regulation, or order issued thereunder.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the U.S. district courts have exclusive jurisdiction of any civil penalty action involving an individual acting as a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman for violations described in paragraph (a)(1), or under 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(4), if:
(i) The amount in controversy is more than $50,000;
(ii) The action involves an aircraft subject to a lien that has been seized by the government; or
(iii) Another action has been brought for an injunction based on the same violation.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Flight engineer
means an individual who holds a flight engineer certificate issued under part 63 of this chapter.
(2)
Individual acting as a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman
means an individual acting in such capacity, whether or not that individual holds the respective airman certificate issued by the FAA.
(3)
Mechanic
means an individual who holds a mechanic certificate issued under part 65 of this chapter.
(4)
Pilot
means an individual who holds a pilot certificate issued under part 61 of this chapter.
(5)
Repairman
means an individual who holds a repairman certificate issued under part 65 of this chapter.
(c)
Delegation of authority.
The authority of the Administrator is delegated to the Chief Counsel and each Deputy Chief Counsel, and the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement, as follows:
(1) To initiate and assess civil penalties under 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(5);
(2) To refer cases to the Attorney General of the United States, or the delegate of the Attorney General, for collection of civil penalties; and
(3) To compromise the amount of a civil penalty under 49 U.S.C. 46301(f).
(d)
Notice of proposed assessment.
A civil penalty action is initiated by sending a notice of proposed assessment to the individual charged with a violation specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The notice of proposed assessment contains a statement of the charges and the amount of the proposed civil penalty. The individual charged with a violation may do the following:
(1) Submit the amount of the proposed civil penalty or an agreed-upon amount, in which case either an order of assessment or a compromise order will be issued in that amount.
(2) Answer the charges in writing by submitting information, including documents and witness statements, demonstrating that a violation of the regulations did not occur or that a penalty, or the amount of the penalty, is not warranted by the circumstances.
(3) Submit a written request to reduce the proposed civil penalty, stating the amount of reduction and the reasons, and providing any documents supporting a reduction of the proposed civil penalty, including records indicating a financial inability to pay.
(4) Submit a written request for an informal conference to discuss the matter with an agency attorney and submit relevant information or documents.
(5) Request that an order of assessment be issued so that the individual charged may appeal to the National Transportation Safety Board.
(e)
Failure to respond to notice of proposed assessment.
An order of assessment may be issued if the individual charged with a violation fails to respond to the notice of proposed assessment within 15 days after receipt of that notice.
(f)
Order of assessment.
An order of assessment, which imposes a civil penalty, may be issued for a violation described in paragraph (a) of this section
after notice and an opportunity to answer any charges and be heard as to why such order should not be issued.
(g)
Appeal.
Any individual who receives an order of assessment issued under this section may appeal the order to the National Transportation Safety Board. The appeal stays the effectiveness of the Administrator's order.
(h)
Judicial review.
A party may seek judicial review only of a final decision and order of the National Transportation Safety Board under 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(6) and 46110. Neither an initial decision, nor an order issued by an administrative law judge that has not been appealed to the National Transportation Safety Board, nor an order compromising a civil penalty action, may be appealed under any of those sections.
(i)
Compromise.
The FAA may compromise any civil penalty imposed under this section at any time before referring the action to the United States Attorney General, or the delegate of the Attorney General, for collection.
(1) When a civil penalty is compromised with a finding of violation, an agency attorney issues an order of assessment.
(2) When a civil penalty is compromised without a finding of violation, the agency attorney issues a compromise order of assessment that states the following:
(i) The individual has paid a civil penalty or has signed a promissory note providing for installment payments;
(ii) The FAA makes no finding of violation; and
(iii) The compromise order will not be used as evidence of a prior violation in any subsequent civil penalty proceeding or certificate action proceeding.
(j)
Payment.
(1) An individual must pay a civil penalty by:
(i) Sending a certified check or money order, payable to the Federal Aviation Administration, to the FAA office identified in the order of assessment; or
(ii) Making an electronic payment according to the directions specified in the order of assessment.
(2) The civil penalty must be paid within 30 days after service of the order of assessment, unless an appeal is filed with the National Transportation Safety Board. In cases where an appeal is filed with the National Transportation Safety Board, or a petition for review is filed with a U.S. court of appeals, the civil penalty must be paid within 30 days after all litigation in the matter is completed and the civil penalty is affirmed in whole or in part.
(k)
Collection of civil penalties.
If an individual does not pay a civil penalty imposed by an order of assessment or other final order, the Administrator may take action provided under the law to collect the penalty.
§ 13.19
Certificate actions appealable to the National Transportation Safety Board.
(a) This section applies to certificate actions by the Administrator that are appealable to the National Transportation Safety Board.
(1) Under 49 U.S.C. 44709(b) the Administrator may issue an order amending, modifying, suspending, or revoking all or part of any type certificate, production certificate, airworthiness certificate, airman certificate, air carrier operating certificate, air navigation facility certificate, or air agency certificate if as a result of a reinspection, reexamination, or other investigation, the Administrator determines that the public interest and safety in air commerce requires it, if a certificate holder has violated an aircraft noise or sonic boom standard or regulation prescribed under 49 U.S.C. 44715(a), or if the holder of the certificate is convicted of violating 16 U.S.C. 742j-1(a).
(2) The authority of the Administrator to issue orders under 49 U.S.C. 44709(b)(1)(A) and (b)(2) is delegated to the Chief Counsel, each Deputy Chief Counsel, and the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement.
(b) The agency attorney will issue a notice before issuing a non-immediately effective order to amend, modify, suspend, or revoke a type certificate, production certificate, airworthiness certificate, airman certificate, air carrier operating certificate, air navigation facility certificate, air agency certificate, or to revoke an aircraft
certificate of registration because the aircraft was used to carry out or facilitate an activity punishable under a law of the United States or a State related to a controlled substance (except a law related to simple possession of a controlled substance), by death or imprisonment for more than one year, and the owner of the aircraft permitted the use of the aircraft knowing that the aircraft was to be used for the activity.
(1) A notice of proposed certificate action will advise the certificate holder or aircraft owner of the charges or other reasons upon which the Administrator bases the proposed action, and allows the holder to answer any charges and to be heard as to why the certificate should not be amended, suspended, modified, or revoked.
(2) In response to a notice of proposed certificate action described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the certificate holder or aircraft owner, within 15 days of the date of receipt of the notice, may—
(i) Surrender the certificate and waive any right to contest or appeal the charged violations and sanction, in which case the Administrator will issue an order;
(ii) Answer the charges in writing by submitting information, including documents and witness statements, demonstrating that a violation of the regulations did not occur or that the proposed sanction is not warranted by the circumstances;
(iii) Submit a written request for an informal conference to discuss the matter with an agency attorney and submit relevant information or documents; or
(iv) Request that an order be issued in accordance with the notice of proposed certificate action so that the certificate holder or aircraft owner may appeal to the National Transportation Safety Board.
(c) In the case of an emergency order amending, modifying, suspending, or revoking a type certificate, production certificate, airworthiness certificate, airman certificate, air carrier operating certificate, air navigation facility certificate, or air agency certificate, a person affected by the immediate effectiveness of the Administrator's order may petition the National Transportation Safety Board for a review of the Administrator's determination that an emergency exists.
(d) A person may not petition the National Transportation Safety Board for a review of the Administrator's determination that safety in air transportation or air commerce requires the immediate effectiveness of an order where the action is based on the circumstances described in paragraph (d)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
(1) The revocation of an individual's airman certificates for the reasons stated in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section:
(i) A conviction under a law of the United States or a State related to a controlled substance (except a law related to simple possession of a controlled substance), of an offense punishable by death or imprisonment for more than one year if the Administrator finds that—
(A) An aircraft was used to commit, or facilitate the commission of the offense; and
(B) The individual served as an airman, or was on the aircraft, in connection with committing, or facilitating the commission of, the offense.
(ii) Knowingly carrying out an activity punishable, under a law of the United States or a State related to a controlled substance (except a law related to simple possession of a controlled substance), by death or imprisonment for more than one year; and—
(A) An aircraft was used to carry out or facilitate the activity; and
(B) The individual served as an airman, or was on the aircraft, in connection with carrying out, or facilitating the carrying out of, the activity.
(2) The revocation of a certificate of registration for an aircraft, and any other aircraft the owner of that aircraft holds, if the Administrator finds that—
(i) The aircraft was used to carry out or facilitate an activity punishable, under a law of the United States or a State related to a controlled substance (except a law related to simple possession of a controlled substance), by death or imprisonment for more than one year; and
(ii) The owner of the aircraft permitted the use of the aircraft knowing
that the aircraft was to be used for the activity described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) The revocation of an airman certificate, design organization certificate, type certificate, production certificate, airworthiness certificate, air carrier operating certificate, airport operating certificate, air agency certificate, or air navigation facility certificate if the Administrator finds that the holder of the certificate or an individual who has a controlling or ownership interest in the holder—
(i) Was convicted in a court of law of a violation of a law of the United States relating to the installation, production, repair, or sale of a counterfeit or fraudulently-represented aviation part or material; or
(ii) Knowingly, and with the intent to defraud, carried out or facilitated an activity described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section.
[Docket FAA-2018-1051, Amdt. 13-40, 86 FR 54527, Oct. 1, 2021, as amended by Docket FAA-2018-1051, Amdt. 13-40A, 87 FR 61233, Oct. 11, 2022]
§ 13.20
Orders of compliance, cease and desist orders, orders of denial, and other orders.
(a)
General.
This section applies to all of the following:
(1) Orders of compliance;
(2) Cease and desist orders;
(3) Orders of denial;
(4) Orders suspending or revoking a certificate of registration (but not revocation of a certificate of registration because the aircraft was used to carry out or facilitate an activity punishable, under a law of the United States or a State related to a controlled substance (except a law related to simple possession of a controlled substance), by death or imprisonment for more than one year and the owner of the aircraft permitted the use of the aircraft knowing that the aircraft was to be used for the activity); and
(5) Other orders issued by the Administrator to carry out the provisions of the Federal aviation statute codified at 49 U.S.C. subtitle VII that apply this section by statute, rule, regulation, or order, or for which there is no specific administrative process provided by statute, rule, regulation, or order.
(b)
Applicability of procedures.
(1) Prior to the issuance of a non-immediately effective order covered by this section, the Administrator will provide the person who would be subject to the order with notice, advising the person of the charges or other reasons upon which the proposed action is based, and the provisions in paragraph (c) of this section apply.
(2) If the Administrator is of the opinion that an emergency exists related to safety in air commerce and requires immediate action and issues an order covered by this section that is immediately effective, the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section apply.
(c)
Non-emergency procedures.
(1) Within 30 days after service of the notice, the person subject to the notice may:
(i) Submit a written reply;
(ii) Agree to the issuance of the order as proposed in the notice of proposed action, waiving any right to contest or appeal the agreed-upon order issued under this option in any administrative or judicial forum;
(iii) Submit a written request for an informal conference to discuss the matter with an agency attorney; or
(iv) Request a hearing in accordance with the non-emergency procedures of subpart D of this part.
(2) After an informal conference is held or a reply is filed, if the agency attorney notifies the person that some or all of the proposed agency action will not be withdrawn, the person may, within 10 days after receiving the agency attorney's notification, request a hearing on the parts of the proposed agency action not withdrawn, in accordance with the non-emergency procedures of subpart D of this part.
(3) If a hearing is requested in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(iv) or (c)(2) of this section, the non-emergency procedures of subpart D of this part apply.
(4) Failure to request a hearing within the periods provided in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) or (c)(2) of this section:
(i) Constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing and appeal; and
(ii) Authorizes the agency to make appropriate findings of fact and to issue an appropriate order without further notice or proceedings.
(d)
Emergency procedures.
(1) If the Administrator is of the opinion that an emergency exists related to safety in air commerce and requires immediate action, the Administrator issues simultaneously:
(i) An immediately effective order that expires 80 days after the date of issuance and sets forth the charges or other reasons upon which the order is based; and
(ii) A notice of proposed action that:
(A) Sets forth the charges or other reasons upon which the notice of proposed action is based; and
(B) Advises that within 10 days after service of the notice, the person may appeal the notice by requesting an expedited hearing in accordance with the emergency procedures of subpart D of this part.
(2) The Administrator will serve the immediately effective order and the notice of proposed action together by personal or overnight delivery and by certified or registered mail to the person subject to the order and notice of proposed action.
(3) Failure to request a hearing challenging the notice of proposed action under the expedited procedures in subpart D of this part within 10 days after service of the notice:
(i) Constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing and appeal under subpart D of this part; and
(ii) Authorizes the Administrator, without further notice or proceedings, to make appropriate findings of fact, issue an immediately effective order without expiration, and withdraw the 80-day immediately effective order.
(4) The filing of a request for hearing under subpart D of this part does not stay the effectiveness of the 80-day immediately effective order issued under this section.
(e)
Delegation of authority.
The authority of the Administrator under this section is delegated to the Chief Counsel, each Deputy Chief Counsel, and the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement.
§§ 13.21 -13.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Rules of Practice for FAA Hearings

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2018-1051; Amdt. No. 13-40, 86 FR 54532, Oct. 1, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 13.31
Applicability.
This subpart applies to proceedings in which a hearing has been requested in accordance with § 13.20 or § 13.75. Hearings under this subpart are considered informal and are provided through the Office of Adjudication.
§ 13.33
Parties, representatives, and notice of appearance.
(a)
Parties.
Parties to proceedings under this subpart include the following: Complainant, respondent, and where applicable, intervenor.
(1) Complainant is the FAA Office that issued the notice of proposed action under the authorities listed in § 13.31.
(2) Respondent is the party filing a request for hearing.
(3) Intervenor is a person permitted to participate as a party under § 13.51.
(b)
Representatives.
Any party to a proceeding under this subpart may appear and be heard in person or by a representative. A representative is an attorney, or another representative designated by the party.
(c)
Notice of appearance
—(1)
Content.
The representative of a party must file a notice of appearance that includes the representative's name, address, telephone number, and, if available, fax number, and email address.
(2)
Filing.
A notice of appearance may be incorporated into an initial filing in a proceeding. A notice of appearance by additional representatives or substitutes after an initial filing in a proceeding must be filed independently.
§ 13.35
Request for hearing, complaint, and answer.
(a)
Initial filing and service.
A request for hearing must be filed with the FAA Hearing Docket, and a copy must be served on the official who issued the notice of proposed action, in accordance with the requirements in § 13.43 for filing and service of documents.
The request for hearing must be in writing and describe the action proposed by the FAA, and must contain a statement that a hearing is requested under this subpart.
(b)
Complaint.
Within 20 days after service of the copy of the request for hearing, the official who issued the notice of proposed action must forward a copy of that notice, which serves as the complaint, to the FAA Hearing Docket.
(c)
Answer.
Within 30 days after service of the copy of the complaint, the Respondent must file an answer to the complaint. All allegations in the complaint not specifically denied in the answer are deemed admitted.
§ 13.37
Hearing officer: Assignment and powers.
As soon as practicable after the filing of the complaint, the Director of the Office of Adjudication will assign a hearing officer to preside over the matter. The hearing officer may—
(a) Give notice concerning, and hold, prehearing conferences and hearings;
(b) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(c) Examine witnesses;
(d) Adopt procedures for the submission of evidence in written form;
(e) Issue subpoenas;
(f) Rule on offers of proof;
(g) Receive evidence;
(h) Regulate the course of proceedings, including but not limited to discovery, motions practice, imposition of sanctions, and the hearing;
(i) Hold conferences, before and during the hearing, to settle and simplify issues by consent of the parties;
(j) Dispose of procedural requests and similar matters;
(k) Issue protective orders governing the exchange and safekeeping of information otherwise protected by law, except that national security information may not be disclosed under such an order;
(l) Issue orders and decisions, and make findings of fact, as appropriate; and
(m) Take any other action authorized by this subpart.
§ 13.39
Disqualification of hearing officer.
(a)
Motion and supporting affidavit.
Any party may file a motion for disqualification under § 13.49(g). A party must state the grounds for disqualification, including, but not limited to, a financial or other personal interest that would be affected by the outcome of the enforcement action, personal animus against a party to the action or against a group to which a party belongs, prejudgment of the adjudicative facts at issue in the proceeding, or any other prohibited conflict of interest. A party must submit an affidavit with the motion for disqualification that sets forth, in detail, the matters alleged to constitute grounds for disqualification.
(b)
Timing.
A motion for disqualification must be filed prior to the issuance of the hearing officer's decision under § 13.63(b). Any party may file a response to a motion for disqualification, but must do so no later than 5 days after service of the motion for disqualification.
(c)
Decision on motion for disqualification.
The hearing officer must render a decision on the motion for disqualification no later than 15 days after the motion has been filed. If the hearing officer finds that the motion for disqualification and supporting affidavit show a basis for disqualification, the hearing officer must withdraw from the proceedings immediately. If the hearing officer finds that disqualification is not warranted, the hearing officer must deny the motion and state the grounds for the denial on the record. If the hearing officer fails to rule on a party's motion for disqualification within 15 days after the motion has been filed, the motion is deemed granted.
(d)
Self-disqualification.
A hearing officer may disqualify himself or herself at any time.
§ 13.41
Separation of functions and prohibition on ex parte communications.
(a)
Separation of powers.
The hearing officer independently exercises the powers under this subpart in a manner conducive to justice and the proper dispatch of business. The hearing officer
must not participate in any appeal to the Administrator.
(b)
Ex parte communications.
(1) No substantive ex parte communications between the hearing officer and any party are permitted.
(2) A hearing, conference, or other event scheduled with prior notice will not constitute ex parte communication prohibited by this section. A hearing, conference, or other event scheduled with prior notice, may proceed in the hearing officer's sole discretion if a party fails to appear, respond, or otherwise participate, and will not constitute an ex parte communication prohibited by this section.
(3) For an appeal to the Administrator under this subpart, FAA attorneys representing the complainant must not advise the Administrator or engage in any ex parte communications with the Administrator or his advisors.
§ 13.43
Service and filing of pleadings, motions, and documents.
(a)
General rule.
A party must file all requests for hearing, pleadings, motions, and documents with the FAA Hearing Docket, and must serve a copy upon all parties to the proceedings.
(b)
Methods of filing.
Filing must be by email, personal delivery, expedited or overnight courier express service, mail, or fax.
(c)
Address for filing.
A person filing a document with the FAA Hearing Docket must use the address identified for the method of filing as follows:
(1)
If delivery is in person, or by expedited or overnight express courier service.
Federal Aviation Administration, 600 Independence Avenue SW, Wilbur Wright Building—Suite 2W100, Washington, DC 20597; Attention: FAA Hearing Docket, AGC-70.
(2)
If delivery is via U.S. mail, or U.S. certified or registered mail.
Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591; Attention: FAA Hearing Docket, AGC-70, Wilbur Wright Building—Suite 2W100.
(3)
Contact information.
The FAA Office of Adjudication will make available on its website an email address and fax number for the FAA Hearing Docket, as well as other contact information.
(d)
Requirement to file an original document and number of copies.
A party must file an original document and one copy when filing by personal delivery or by mail. Only one copy must be filed if filing is accomplished by email or fax.
(e)
Filing by email.
A document that is filed by email must be attached as a Portable Document Format (PDF) file to an email. The document must be signed in accordance with § 13.207. The email message does not constitute a submission, but serves only to deliver the attached PDF file to the FAA Hearing Docket.
(f)
Methods of service
—(1)
General.
A person may serve any document by email, personal delivery, expedited or overnight courier express service, mail, or fax.
(2)
Service by email.
Service of documents by email is voluntary and requires the prior consent of the person to be served by email. A person may retract consent to be served by email by filing and serving a written retraction. A document that is served by email must be attached as a PDF file to an email message.
(g)
Certificate of service.
A certificate of service must accompany all documents filed with the FAA Hearing Docket. The certificate of service must be signed, describe the method of service, and state the date of service.
(h)
Date of filing and service.
If a document is sent by fax or email, the date of filing and service is the date the email or fax is sent. If a document is sent by personal delivery or by expedited or overnight express courier service, the date of filing and service is the date that delivery is accomplished. If a document is mailed, the date of filing and service is the date shown on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service, or the mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark.
§ 13.44
[Reserved]
§ 13.45
Computation of time and extension of time.
(a) In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this subpart, the date of the act, event, default, notice, or order is not to be included in
the computation. The last day of the period so computed is to be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday.
(b) Whenever a party must respond within a prescribed period after service by mail, 5 days are added to the prescribed period.
(c) The parties may agree to extend the time for filing any document required by this subpart with the consent of—
(1) The Director of the Office of Adjudication prior to the designation of a hearing officer;
(2) The hearing officer prior to the filing of a notice of appeal; or
(3) The Director of the Office of Adjudication after the filing of a notice of appeal.
(d) If the parties do not agree, a party may make a written request to extend the time for filing to the appropriate official identified in paragraph (c) of this section. The appropriate official may grant the request for good cause shown.
§ 13.47
Withdrawal or amendment of the complaint, answer, or other filings.
(a)
Withdrawal.
At any time before the hearing, the complainant may withdraw the complaint, and the respondent may withdraw the request for hearing.
(b)
Amendments.
At any time more than 10 days before the date of hearing, any party may amend its complaint, answer, or other pleading, by filing the amendment with the FAA Hearing Docket and serving a copy of it on every other party. After that time, amendment requires approval of the hearing officer. If an initial pleading is amended, the hearing officer must allow the other parties a reasonable opportunity to respond.
§ 13.49
Motions.
(a)
Motions in lieu of an answer.
A respondent may file a motion to dismiss or a motion for a more definite statement in place of an answer. If the hearing officer denies the motion, the respondent must file an answer within 10 days.
(1)
Motion to dismiss.
The respondent may file a motion asserting that the allegations in the complaint fail to state a violation of Federal aviation statutes, a violation of regulations in this chapter, lack of qualification of the respondent, or other appropriate grounds.
(2)
Motion for more definite statement.
The respondent may file a motion that the allegations in the notice be made more definite and certain.
(b)
Motion to dismiss request for hearing.
The FAA may file a motion to dismiss a request for hearing based on jurisdiction, timeliness, or other appropriate grounds.
(c)
Motion for decision on the pleadings or for summary decision.
After the complaint and answer are filed, either party may move for a decision on the pleadings or for a summary decision, in the manner provided by Rules 12 and 56, respectively, of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(d)
Motion to strike.
Upon motion of either party, the hearing officer may order stricken, from any pleadings, any insufficient allegation or defense, or any redundant, immaterial, impertinent, or scandalous matter.
(e)
Motion to compel.
Any party may file a motion asking the hearing officer to order any other party to produce discovery requested in accordance with § 13.53 if—
(1) The other party has failed to timely produce the requested discovery; and
(2) The moving party certifies it has in good faith conferred with the other party in an attempt to obtain the requested discovery prior to filing the motion to compel.
(f)
Motion for protective order.
The hearing officer may order information contained in anything filed, or in any testimony given pursuant to this subpart withheld from public disclosure when, in the judgment of the hearing officer, disclosure would be detrimental to aviation safety; disclosure would not be in the public interest; or the information is not otherwise required to be made available to the public. Any person may make written objection to the public disclosure of any
information, stating the ground for such objection.
(g)
Other motions.
Any application for an order or ruling not otherwise provided for in this subpart must be made by motion.
(h)
Responses to motions.
Any party may file a response to any motion under this subpart within 10 days after service of the motion.
§ 13.51
Intervention.
Any person may move for leave to intervene in a proceeding and may become a party thereto, if the hearing officer, after the case is sent to the hearing officer for hearing, finds that the person may be bound by the order to be issued in the proceedings or has a property or financial interest that may not be adequately represented by existing parties, and that the intervention will not unduly broaden the issues or delay the proceedings. Except for good cause shown, a motion for leave to intervene may not be considered if it is filed less than 10 days before the hearing.
§ 13.53
Discovery.
(a)
Filing.
Discovery requests and responses are not filed with the FAA Hearing Docket unless in support of a motion, offered for impeachment, or other permissible circumstances as approved by the hearing officer.
(b)
Scope of discovery.
Any party may discover any matter that is not privileged and is relevant to any party's claim or defense.
(c)
Time for response to written discovery requests.
(1) Written discovery includes interrogatories, requests for admission or stipulations, and requests for production of documents.
(2) Unless otherwise directed by the hearing officer, a party must serve its response to a discovery request no later than 30 days after service of the discovery request.
(d)
Depositions.
After the respondent has filed a request for hearing and an answer, either party may take testimony by deposition.
(e)
Limits on discovery.
The hearing officer may limit the frequency and extent of discovery upon a showing by a party that—
(1) The discovery requested is cumulative or repetitious;
(2) The discovery requested can be obtained from another less burdensome and more convenient source;
(3) The party requesting the information has had ample opportunity to obtain the information through other discovery methods permitted under this section; or
(4) The method or scope of discovery requested by the party is unduly burdensome or expensive.
§ 13.55
Notice of hearing.
The hearing officer must set a reasonable date, time, and location for the hearing, and must give the parties adequate notice thereof, and of the nature of the hearing. Due regard must be given to the convenience of the parties with respect to the location of the hearing.
§ 13.57
Subpoenas and witness fees.
(a)
Application.
The hearing officer, upon application by any party to the proceeding, may issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses or the production of documents or tangible things at a hearing or for the purpose of taking depositions, as permitted by law. The application for producing evidence must show its general relevance and reasonable scope. Absent good cause shown, a party must file a request for a subpoena at least:
(1) 15 days before a scheduled deposition under the subpoena; or
(2) 30 days before a scheduled hearing where attendance at the hearing is sought.
(b)
Procedure.
A party seeking the production of a document in the custody of an FAA employee must use the discovery procedure found in § 13.53, and if necessary, a motion to compel under § 13.49. A party that applies for the attendance of an FAA employee at a hearing must send the application, in writing, to the hearing officer. The application must set forth the need for that employee's attendance.
(c)
Fees.
Except for an employee of the agency who appears at the direction of the agency, a witness who appears at a deposition or hearing is entitled to the same fees and allowances as provided for under 28 U.S.C. 1821. The party who applies for a subpoena to compel the attendance of a witness at
a deposition or hearing, or the party at whose request a witness appears at a deposition or hearing, must pay the witness fees and allowances described in this section.
(d)
Service of subpoenas.
Any person who is at least 18 years old and not a party may serve a subpoena. Serving a subpoena requires delivering a copy to the named person. Except for the complainant, the party that requested the subpoena must tender at the time of service the fees for 1 day's attendance and the allowances allowed by law if the subpoena requires that person's attendance. Proving service, if necessary, requires the filing with the FAA Hearing Docket of a statement showing the date and manner of service and the names of the persons served. The server must certify the statement.
(e)
Motion to quash or modify the subpoena.
A party, or any person served with a subpoena, may file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena with the hearing officer at or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance. The movant must describe, in detail, the basis for the application to quash or modify the subpoena including, but not limited to, a statement that the testimony, document, or tangible thing is not relevant to the proceeding, that the subpoena is not reasonably tailored to the scope of the proceeding, or that the subpoena is unreasonable and oppressive. A motion to quash or modify the subpoena will stay the effect of the subpoena pending a decision by the hearing officer on the motion.
(f)
Enforcement of subpoena.
If a person disobeys a subpoena, a party may apply to a U.S. district court to seek judicial enforcement of the subpoena.
§ 13.59
Evidence.
(a) Each party to a hearing may present the party's case or defense by oral or documentary evidence, submit evidence in rebuttal, and conduct such cross-examination as may be needed for a full disclosure of the facts.
(b) Except with respect to affirmative defenses and notices of proposed denial, the burden of proof is upon the complainant.
§ 13.61
Argument and submittals.
The hearing officer must give the parties adequate opportunity to present arguments in support of motions, objections, and the final order. The hearing officer may determine whether arguments are to be oral or written. At the end of the hearing, the hearing officer may allow each party to submit written proposed findings and conclusions and supporting reasons for them.
§ 13.63
Record, decision, and aircraft registration proceedings.
(a)
The record.
(1) The testimony and exhibits admitted at a hearing, together with all papers, requests, and rulings filed in the proceedings, are the exclusive basis for the issuance of the hearing officer's decision.
(2) On appeal to the Administrator, the record shall include all of the information identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and evidence proffered but not admitted at the hearing.
(3) Any party may obtain a transcript of the hearing from the official reporter upon payment of the required fees.
(b)
Hearing officer's decision.
The decision by the hearing officer must include findings of fact based on the record, conclusions of law, and an appropriate order.
(c)
Certain aircraft registration proceedings.
If the hearing officer determines that an aircraft is ineligible for a certificate of aircraft registration in proceedings relating to aircraft registration orders suspending or revoking a certificate of registration under § 13.20, the hearing officer may suspend or revoke the aircraft registration certificate.
§ 13.65
Appeal to the Administrator, reconsideration, and judicial review.
(a) Any party to a hearing may appeal from the order of the hearing officer by filing with the FAA Hearing Docket a notice of appeal to the Administrator within 20 days after the date of issuance of the order. Filing and service of the notice of appeal, and any other papers, are accomplished according to the procedures in § 13.43.
(b) If a notice of appeal is not filed from the order issued by a hearing officer, such order is final with respect to the parties. Such order is not binding precedent and is not subject to judicial review.
(c) Any person filing an appeal authorized by paragraph (a) of this section must file an appeal brief with the Administrator within 40 days after the date of issuance of the order, and serve a copy on the other party. A reply brief must be filed within 40 days after service of the appeal brief and a copy served on the appellant.
(d) On appeal, the Administrator reviews the record of the proceeding and issues an order dismissing, reversing, modifying or affirming the order. The Administrator's order includes the reasons for the Administrator's action. The Administrator considers only whether:
(1) Each finding of fact is supported by a preponderance of the reliable, probative, and substantial evidence;
(2) Each conclusion is made in accordance with law, precedent, and policy; and
(3) The hearing officer committed any prejudicial error.
(e) The Director and legal personnel of the Office of Adjudication serve as the advisors to the Administrator for appeals under this section.
(1) The Director has the authority to:
(i) Manage all or portions of individual appeals; and to prepare written decisions and proposed final orders in such appeals;
(ii) Issue procedural and other interlocutory orders aimed at proper and efficient appeal management, including, without limitation, scheduling and sanctions orders;
(iii) Grant or deny motions to dismiss appeals;
(iv) Dismiss appeals upon request of the appellant or by agreement of the parties;
(v) Stay decisions and orders of the Administrator, pending judicial review or reconsideration by the Administrator;
(vi) Summarily dismiss repetitious or frivolous petitions to reconsider or modify orders;
(vii) Correct typographical, grammatical, and similar errors in the Administrator's decisions and orders, and to make non-substantive editorial changes; and
(viii) Take all other reasonable steps deemed necessary and proper for the management of the appeals process, in accordance with this part and applicable law.
(2) The Director's authority in paragraph (e)(1) of this section may be re-delegated, as necessary, except to hearing officers and others materially involved in the hearing that is the subject of the appeal.
(f) Motions to reconsider the final order of the Administrator must be filed with the FAA Hearing Docket within thirty days of service of the Administrator's order.
(g) Judicial review of the Administrator's final order under this section is provided in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5127 or 46110, as applicable.
§ 13.67
Procedures for expedited proceedings.
(a) When an expedited administrative hearing is requested in accordance with § 13.20(d), the procedures in this subpart will apply except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) Service and filing of pleadings, motions, and documents must be by overnight delivery, and fax or email. Responses to motions must be filed within 7 days after service of the motion.
(2) Within 3 days after receipt of the request for hearing, the agency must file a copy of the notice of proposed action, which serves as the complaint, to the FAA Hearing Docket.
(3) Within 3 days after receipt of the complaint, the person that requested the hearing must file an answer to the complaint. All allegations in the complaint not specifically denied in the answer are deemed admitted. Failure to file a timely answer, absent a showing of good cause, constitutes withdrawal of the request for hearing.
(4) Within 3 days of the filing of the complaint, the Director of the Office of Adjudication will assign a hearing officer to preside over the matter.
(5) The parties must serve discovery as soon as possible and set time limits for compliance with discovery requests
that accommodate the accelerated adjudication schedule set forth in this subpart. The hearing officer will resolve any failure of the parties to agree to a discovery schedule.
(6) The expedited hearing must commence within 40 days after the notice of proposed action was issued.
(7) The hearing officer must issue an oral decision and order dismissing, reversing, modifying, or affirming the notice of proposed action at the close of the hearing. If a notice of appeal is not filed, such order is final with respect to the parties and is not subject to judicial review.
(b) Any party to the expedited hearing may appeal from the initial decision of the hearing officer to the Administrator by filing a notice of appeal within 3 days after the date on which the decision was issued. The time limitations for the filing of documents for appeals under this section will not be extended by reason of the unavailability of the hearing transcript.
(1) Any appeal to the Administrator under this section must be perfected within 7 days after the date the notice of appeal was filed by filing a brief in support of the appeal. Any reply to the appeal brief must be filed within 7 days after the date the appeal brief was served on that party. The Administrator must issue an order deciding the appeal no later than 80 days after the date the notice of proposed action was issued.
(2) The Administrator's order is immediately effective and constitutes the final agency decision. The Administrator's order may be appealed pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 46110. The filing of an appeal under 49 U.S.C. 46110 does not stay the effectiveness of the Administrator's order.
(c) At any time after an immediately effective order is issued, the FAA may request the United States Attorney General, or the delegate of the Attorney General, to bring an action for appropriate relief.
§ 13.69
Other matters: Alternative dispute resolution, standing orders, and forms.
(a) Parties may use mediation to achieve resolution of issues in controversy addressed by this subpart. Parties seeking alternative dispute resolution services may engage the services of a mutually acceptable mediator. The mediator must not participate in the adjudication under this subpart of any matter in which the mediator has provided mediation services. Mediation discussions and submissions will remain confidential consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act, the principles of Federal Rule of Evidence 408, and other applicable Federal laws.
(b) The Director of the Office of Adjudication may issue standing orders and forms needed for the proper dispatch of business under this subpart.

# Subpart E—Orders of Compliance Under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2018-1051; Amdt. No. 13-40, 86 FR 54536, Oct. 1, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 13.70
Delegation of authority.
The authority of the Administrator under 49 U.S.C. 5121(a) and (d) is delegated to the Chief Counsel, each Deputy Chief Counsel, and the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement.
[Docket FAA-2018-1051, Amdt. 13-40A, 87 FR 61233, Oct. 11, 2022]
§ 13.71
Applicability.
(a) An order of compliance may be issued after notice and an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with §§ 13.73 through 13.77 whenever the Chief Counsel, a Deputy Chief Counsel, or the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement has reason to believe that a person is engaging in the transportation or shipment by air of hazardous materials in violation of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, as amended and codified at 49 U.S.C. chapter 51, or any rule, regulation, or order issued under 49 U.S.C. chapter 51, for which the FAA exercises enforcement responsibility, and the circumstances do not require the issuance of an emergency order under 49 U.S.C. 5121(d).
(b) If circumstances require the issuance of an emergency order under 49 U.S.C. 5121(d), the Chief Counsel, a Deputy Chief Counsel, or the Assistant
Chief Counsel for Enforcement will issue an emergency order of compliance as described in § 13.81.
§ 13.73
Notice of proposed order of compliance.
The Chief Counsel, a Deputy Chief Counsel, or the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement may issue to an alleged violator a notice of proposed order of compliance advising the alleged violator of the charges and setting forth the remedial action sought in the form of a proposed order of compliance.
§ 13.75
Reply or request for hearing.
(a) Within 30 days after service upon the alleged violator of a notice of proposed order of compliance, the alleged violator may—
(1) Submit a written reply;
(2) Submit a written request for an informal conference to discuss the matter with an agency attorney; or
(3) Request a hearing in accordance with subpart D of this part.
(b) If, after an informal conference is held or a reply is filed, the agency attorney notifies the person named in the notice that some or all of the proposed agency action will not be withdrawn or will not be subject to a consent order of compliance, the alleged violator may, within 10 days after receiving the agency attorney's notification, request a hearing in accordance with subpart D of this part.
(c) Failure of the alleged violator to file a reply or request a hearing within the period provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable—
(1) Constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing under subpart D of this part and the right to petition for judicial review; and
(2) Authorizes the Administrator to make any appropriate findings of fact and to issue an appropriate order of compliance, without further notice or proceedings.
§ 13.77
Consent order of compliance.
(a) At any time before the issuance of an order of compliance, an agency attorney and the alleged violator may agree to dispose of the case by the issuance of a consent order of compliance.
(b) The alleged violator may submit a proposed consent order to an agency attorney. The proposed consent order must include—
(1) An admission of all jurisdictional facts;
(2) An express waiver of the right to further procedural steps and of all rights to legal review in any forum;
(3) An express waiver of attorney's fees and costs;
(4) If a notice has been issued prior to the proposed consent order of compliance, an incorporation by reference of the notice and an acknowledgement that the notice may be used to construe the terms of the consent order of compliance; and
(5) If a request for hearing is pending in any forum, a provision that the alleged violator will withdraw the request for a hearing and request that the case be dismissed.
§ 13.79
[Reserved]
§ 13.81
Emergency orders.
(a) Notwithstanding §§ 13.73 through 13.77, the Chief Counsel, each Deputy Chief Counsel, or the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement may issue an emergency order of compliance, which is effective upon issuance, in accordance with the procedures in subpart C of 49 CFR part 109, if the person who issues the order finds that there is an “imminent hazard” as defined in 49 CFR 109.1.
(b) The FAA official who issued the emergency order of compliance may rescind or suspend the order if the criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this section are no longer satisfied, and, when appropriate, may issue a notice of proposed order of compliance under § 13.73.
(c) If at any time in the course of a proceeding commenced in accordance with § 13.73 the criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this section are satisfied, the official who issued the notice may issue an emergency order of compliance, even if the period for filing a reply or requesting a hearing specified in § 13.75 has not expired.
13.83-13.87
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Formal Fact-Finding Investigation Under an Order of Investigation

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2018-1051; Amdt. No. 13-40, 86 FR 54536, Oct. 1, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 13.101
Applicability.
(a) This subpart applies to fact-finding investigations in which an investigation has been ordered under § 13.3(c) or § 13.5(f)(2).
(b) This subpart does not limit the authority of any person to issue subpoenas, administer oaths, examine witnesses, and receive evidence in any informal investigation as otherwise provided by law.
§ 13.103
Order of investigation.
The order of investigation—
(a) Defines the scope of the investigation by describing the information sought in terms of its subject matter or its relevancy to specified FAA functions;
(b) Sets forth the form of the investigation which may be either by individual deposition or investigative proceeding or both; and
(c) Names the official who is authorized to conduct the investigation and serve as the presiding officer.
§ 13.105
Notification.
Any person under investigation and any person required to testify and produce documentary or physical evidence during the investigation will be advised of the purpose of the investigation, and of the place where the investigative proceeding or deposition will be convened. This may be accomplished by a notice of investigation or by a subpoena. A copy of the order of investigation may be sent to such persons when appropriate.
§ 13.107
Designation of additional parties.
(a) The presiding officer may designate additional persons as parties to the investigation, if in the discretion of the presiding officer, it will aid in the conduct of the investigation.
(b) The presiding officer may designate any person as a party to the investigation if—
(1) The person petitions the presiding officer to participate as a party;
(2) The disposition of the investigation may as a practical matter impair the ability to protect the person's interest unless allowed to participate as a party; and
(3) The person's interest is not adequately represented by existing parties.
§ 13.109
Convening the investigation.
The presiding officer will conduct the investigation at a location convenient to the parties involved and as expeditious and efficient as handling of the investigation permits.
§ 13.111
Subpoenas.
(a) At the discretion of the presiding officer, or at the request of a party to the investigation, the presiding officer may issue a subpoena directing any person to appear at a designated time and place to testify or to produce documentary or physical evidence relating to any matter under investigation.
(b) Subpoenas must be served by personal service on the person or an agent designated in writing for the purpose, or by registered or certified mail addressed to the person or agent. Whenever service is made by registered or certified mail, the date of mailing will be considered the time when service is made.
(c) Subpoenas extend in jurisdiction throughout the United States and any territory or possession thereof.
§ 13.113
Noncompliance with the investigative process.
(a) If a person disobeys a subpoena, the Administrator or a party to the investigation may petition a court of the United States to enforce the subpoena in accordance with applicable statutes.
(b) If a party to the investigation fails to comply with the provisions of this subpart or an order issued by the presiding officer, the Administrator may bring a civil action to enforce the requirements of this subpart or any order issued under this subpart in a court of the United States in accordance with applicable statutes.
§ 13.115
Public proceedings.
(a) All investigative proceedings and depositions must be public unless the presiding officer determines that the public interest requires otherwise.
(b) The presiding officer may order information contained in any report or document filed or in any testimony given pursuant to this subpart withheld from public disclosure when, in the judgment of the presiding officer, disclosure would adversely affect the interests of any person and is not required in the public interest or is not otherwise required by statute to be made available to the public. Any person may make written objection to the public disclosure of information, stating the grounds for such objection.
§ 13.117
Conduct of investigative proceeding or deposition.
(a) The presiding officer may question witnesses.
(b) Any witness may be accompanied by counsel.
(c) Any party may be accompanied by counsel and either the party or counsel may—
(1) Question witnesses, provided the questions are relevant and material to the matters under investigation and would not unduly impede the progress of the investigation; and
(2) Make objections on the record and argue the basis for such objections.
(d) Copies of all notices or written communications sent to a party or witness must, upon request, be sent to that person's attorney of record.
§ 13.119
Immunity and orders requiring testimony or other information.
(a) Whenever a person refuses, on the basis of a privilege against self-incrimination, to testify or provide other information during the course of any investigation conducted under this subpart, the presiding officer may, with the approval of the United States Attorney General, or the delegate of the Attorney General, issue an order requiring the person to give testimony or provide other information. However, no testimony or other information so compelled (or any information directly or indirectly derived from such testimony or other information) may be used against the person in any criminal case, except in a prosecution for perjury, giving a false statement, or otherwise failing to comply with the order.
(b) The presiding officer may issue an order under this section if—
(1) The testimony or other information from the witness may be necessary to the public interest; and
(2) The witness has refused or is likely to refuse to testify or provide other information on the basis of a privilege against self-incrimination.
(c) Immunity provided by this section will not become effective until the person has refused to testify or provide other information on the basis of a privilege against self-incrimination, and an order under this section has been issued. An order, however, may be issued prospectively to become effective in the event of a claim of the privilege.
§ 13.121
Witness fees.
All witnesses appearing, other than employees of the Federal Aviation Administration, are entitled to the same fees and allowances as provided for under 28 U.S.C. 1821.
§ 13.123
Submission by party to the investigation.
(a) During an investigation conducted under this subpart, a party may submit to the presiding officer—
(1) A list of witnesses to be called, specifying the subject matter of the expected testimony of each witness; and
(2) A list of exhibits to be considered for inclusion in the record.
(b) If the presiding officer determines that the testimony of a witness or the receipt of an exhibit in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section will be relevant, competent, and material to the investigation, the presiding officer may subpoena the witness or use the exhibit during the investigation.
§ 13.125
Depositions.
Depositions for investigative purposes may be taken at the discretion of the presiding officer with reasonable notice to the party under investigation. Depositions must be taken before the presiding officer or other person authorized to administer oaths and designated by the presiding officer. The
testimony must be reduced to writing by the person taking the deposition, or under the direction of that person, and where possible must then be subscribed by the deponent. Any person may be compelled to appear and testify and to produce physical and documentary evidence.
§ 13.127
Reports, decisions, and orders.
The presiding officer must issue a written report based on the record developed during the formal investigation, including a summary of principal conclusions. A summary of principal conclusions must be prepared by the official who issued the order of investigation in every case that results in no action, or no action as to a particular party to the investigation. All such reports must be furnished to the parties to the investigation and made available to the public on request.
§ 13.129
Post-investigation action.
A decision on whether to initiate subsequent action must be made on the basis of the record developed during the formal investigation and any other information in the possession of the Administrator.
§ 13.131
Other procedures.
Any question concerning the scope or conduct of a formal investigation not covered in this subpart may be ruled on by the presiding officer on his or her own initiative, or on the motion of a party or a person testifying or producing evidence.

# Subpart G—Rules of Practice In FAA Civil Penalty Actions

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2018-1051; Amdt. No. 13-40, 86 FR 54538, Oct. 1, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 13.201
Applicability.
This subpart applies to all civil penalty actions initiated under § 13.16 in which a hearing has been requested.
§ 13.202
Definitions.
For this subpart only, the following definitions apply:
Administrative law judge
means an administrative law judge appointed pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3105.
Agency attorney
means the Deputy Chief Counsel or the Assistant Chief Counsel responsible for the prosecution of enforcement-related matters under this subpart, or attorneys who are supervised by those officials or are assigned to prosecute a particular enforcement-related matter under this subpart. Agency attorney does not include the Chief Counsel or anyone from the Office of Adjudication.
Complaint
means a document issued by an agency attorney alleging a violation of a provision of the Federal aviation statute listed in the first sentence of 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(2) or in 49 U.S.C. 47531, or of the Federal hazardous materials transportation statute, 49 U.S.C. 5121-5128, or a rule, regulation, or order issued under those statutes, that has been filed with the FAA Hearing Docket after a hearing has been requested under § 13.16(f)(3) or (g)(2)(ii).
Complainant
means the FAA office that issued the notice of proposed civil penalty under § 13.16.
FAA decisionmaker
means the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, acting in the capacity of the decisionmaker on appeal, or any person to whom the Administrator has delegated the Administrator's decisionmaking authority in a civil penalty action. As used in this subpart, the FAA decisionmaker is the official authorized to issue a final decision and order of the Administrator in a civil penalty action.
Mail
includes U.S. mail, U.S. certified mail, U.S. registered mail, or use of an expedited or overnight express courier service, but does not include email.
Office of Adjudication
means the Federal Aviation Administration Office of Adjudication, including the FAA Hearing Docket, the Director of the Office of Adjudication and legal personnel, or any subsequently designated office (including its head and any legal personnel) that advises the FAA decisionmaker regarding appeals of initial decisions and orders to the FAA decisionmaker.
Order assessing civil penalty
means a document that contains a finding of a violation of a provision of the Federal
aviation statute listed in the first sentence of 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(2) or in 49 U.S.C. 47531, or of the Federal hazardous materials transportation statute, 49 U.S.C. 5121-5128, or a rule, regulation, or order issued under those statutes, and may direct payment of a civil penalty. Unless an appeal is filed with the FAA decisionmaker in a timely manner, an initial decision or order of an administrative law judge is considered an order assessing civil penalty if an administrative law judge finds that an alleged violation occurred and determines that a civil penalty, in an amount found appropriate by the administrative law judge, is warranted. Unless a petition for review is filed with a U.S. Court of Appeals in a timely manner, a final decision and order of the Administrator is considered an order assessing civil penalty if the FAA decisionmaker finds that an alleged violation occurred and a civil penalty is warranted.
Party
means the Respondent, the complainant and any intervenor.
Personal delivery
includes hand-delivery or use of a contract or express messenger service. “Personal delivery” does not include the use of Federal Government interoffice mail service.
Pleading
means a complaint, an answer, and any amendment of these documents permitted under this subpart.
Properly addressed
means a document that shows an address contained in agency records; a residential, business, or other address submitted by a person on any document provided under this subpart; or any other address shown by other reasonable and available means.
Respondent
means a person named in a complaint.
Writing or written
includes paper or electronic documents that are filed or served by email, mail, personal delivery, or fax.
§ 13.203
Separation of functions.
(a) Civil penalty proceedings, including hearings, are prosecuted by an agency attorney.
(b) An agency employee who has engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecutorial functions in a civil penalty action must not participate in deciding or advising the administrative law judge or the FAA decisionmaker in that case, or a factually-related case, but may participate as counsel for the complainant or as a witness in the public proceedings.
(c) The Chief Counsel and the Director and legal personnel of the Office of Adjudication will advise the FAA decisionmaker regarding any appeal of an initial decision or order in a civil penalty action to the FAA decisionmaker.
§ 13.204
Appearances and rights of parties.
(a) Any party may appear and be heard in person.
(b) Any party may be accompanied, represented, or advised by an attorney or representative designated by the party, and may be examined by that attorney or representative in any proceeding governed by this subpart. An attorney or representative who represents a party must file a notice of appearance in the action, in the manner provided in § 13.210, and must serve a copy of the notice of appearance on each party, and on the administrative law judge, if assigned, in the manner provided in § 13.211, before participating in any proceeding governed by this subpart. The attorney or representative must include the name, address, and telephone number, and, if available, fax number and email address, of the attorney or representative in the notice of appearance.
(c) Any person may request a copy of a document in the record upon payment of reasonable costs. A person may keep an original document, data, or evidence, with the consent of the administrative law judge, by substituting a legible copy of the document for the record.
§ 13.205
Administrative law judges.
(a)
Powers of an administrative law judge.
In accordance with the rules of this subpart, an administrative law judge may:
(1) Give notice of, and hold, prehearing conferences and hearings;
(2) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(3) Issue subpoenas as authorized by law;
(4) Rule on offers of proof;
(5) Receive relevant and material evidence;
(6) Regulate the course of the hearing in accordance with the rules of this subpart;
(7) Hold conferences to settle or to simplify the issues by consent of the parties;
(8) Dispose of procedural motions and requests;
(9) Make findings of fact and conclusions of law, and issue an initial decision;
(10) Bar a person from a specific proceeding based on a finding of obstreperous or disruptive behavior in that specific proceeding; and
(11) Take any other action authorized by this subpart.
(b)
Limitations.
The administrative law judge must not issue an order of contempt, award costs to any party, or impose any sanction not specified in this subpart. If the administrative law judge imposes any sanction not specified in this subpart, a party may file an interlocutory appeal of right under § 13.219(c).
(c)
Disqualification.
The administrative law judge may disqualify himself or herself at any time. A party may file a motion for disqualification under § 13.218.
§ 13.206
Intervention.
(a) A person may submit a motion for leave to intervene as a party in a civil penalty action. Except for good cause shown, a motion for leave to intervene must be submitted not later than 10 days before the hearing.
(b) The administrative law judge may grant a motion for leave to intervene if the administrative law judge finds that intervention will not unduly broaden the issues or delay the proceedings and—
(1) The person seeking to intervene will be bound by any order or decision entered in the action; or
(2) The person seeking to intervene has a property, financial, or other legitimate interest that may not be addressed adequately by the parties.
(c) The administrative law judge may determine the extent to which an intervenor may participate in the proceedings.
§ 13.207
Certification of documents.
(a)
Signature required.
The attorney of record, the party, or the party's representative must sign, by hand, electronically, or by other method acceptable to the administrative law judge, or, if the matter is on appeal, to the FAA decisionmaker, each document tendered for filing with the FAA Hearing Docket or served on the administrative law judge and on each other party.
(b)
Effect of signing a document.
By signing a document, the attorney of record, the party, or the party's representative certifies that the attorney, the party, or the party's representative has read the document and, based on reasonable inquiry and to the best of that person's knowledge, information, and belief, the document is—
(1) Consistent with the rules in this subpart;
(2) Warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for extension, modification, or reversal of existing law; and
(3) Not unreasonable or unduly burdensome or expensive, not made to harass any person, not made to cause unnecessary delay, and not made to cause needless increase in the cost of the proceedings or for any other improper purpose.
(c)
Sanctions.
If the attorney of record, the party, or the party's representative signs a document in violation of this section, the administrative law judge or the FAA decisionmaker must:
(1) Strike the pleading signed in violation of this section;
(2) Strike the request for discovery or the discovery response signed in violation of this section and preclude further discovery by the party;
(3) Deny the motion or request signed in violation of this section;
(4) Exclude the document signed in violation of this section from the record;
(5) Dismiss the interlocutory appeal and preclude further appeal on that issue by the party who filed the appeal until an initial decision has been entered on the record; or
(6) Dismiss the appeal of the administrative law judge's initial decision to the FAA decisionmaker.
§ 13.208
Complaint.
(a)
Filing.
The agency attorney must file the complaint with the FAA Hearing Docket, or may file a written motion to dismiss a request for hearing under § 13.218 instead of filing a complaint, not later than 20 days after receipt by the agency attorney of a request for hearing. When filing the complaint, the agency attorney must follow the filing instructions in § 13.210. The agency attorney may suggest a location for the hearing when filing the complaint.
(b)
Service.
An agency attorney must serve a copy of the complaint on the respondent, the president of the corporation or company named as a respondent, or a person designated by the respondent to accept service of documents in the civil penalty action. When serving the complaint, the agency attorney must follow the service instructions in § 13.211.
(c)
Contents.
A complaint must set forth the facts alleged, any regulation allegedly violated by the respondent, and the proposed civil penalty in sufficient detail to provide notice of any factual or legal allegation and proposed civil penalty.
(d)
Motion to dismiss stale allegations or complaint.
Instead of filing an answer to the complaint, a respondent may move to dismiss the complaint, or that part of the complaint, alleging a violation that occurred more than 2 years before an agency attorney issued a notice of proposed civil penalty to the respondent.
(1) An administrative law judge may not grant the motion and dismiss the complaint or part of the complaint if the administrative law judge finds that the agency has shown good cause for any delay in issuing the notice of proposed civil penalty.
(2) If the agency fails to show good cause for any delay, an administrative law judge may dismiss the complaint, or that part of the complaint, alleging a violation that occurred more than 2 years before an agency attorney issued the notice of proposed civil penalty to the respondent.
(3) A party may appeal the administrative law judge's ruling on the motion to dismiss the complaint or any part of the complaint in accordance with § 13.219(b).
§ 13.209
Answer.
(a)
Writing required.
A respondent must file in the FAA Hearing Docket a written answer to the complaint, or may file a written motion pursuant to § 13.208 or § 13.218 instead of filing an answer, not later than 30 days after service of the complaint. The answer must be dated and signed by the person responding to the complaint. An answer must be typewritten or legibly handwritten.
(b)
Filing.
A person filing an answer or motion under paragraph (a) of this section must follow the filing instructions in § 13.210.
(c)
Service.
A person filing an answer or a motion under paragraph (a) of this section must serve a copy of the answer or motion in accordance with the service instructions in § 13.211.
(d)
Contents.
An answer must specifically state any affirmative defense that the respondent intends to assert at the hearing. A person filing an answer may include a brief statement of any relief requested in the answer. The person filing an answer may recommend a location for the hearing when filing the answer.
(e)
Specific denial of allegations required.
A person filing an answer must admit, deny, or state that the person is without sufficient knowledge or information to admit or deny, each allegation in the complaint. All allegations in the complaint not specifically denied in the answer are deemed admitted. A general denial of the complaint is deemed a failure to file an answer.
(f)
Failure to file answer.
A person's failure to file an answer without good cause will be deemed an admission of the truth of each allegation contained in the complaint.
§ 13.210
Filing of documents.
(a)
General rule.
Unless provided otherwise in this subpart, all documents in proceedings under this subpart must be tendered for filing with the FAA Hearing Docket.
(b)
Methods of filing.
Filing must be by email, personal delivery, mail, or fax.
(c)
Address for filing.
A person filing a document with the FAA Hearing Docket must use the address identified for the method of filing as follows:
(1)
If delivery is in person, or by expedited or overnight express courier service.
Federal Aviation Administration, 600 Independence Avenue SW, Wilbur Wright Building—Suite 2W100, Washington, DC 20597; Attention: FAA Hearing Docket, AGC-70.
(2)
If delivery is via U.S. mail, or U.S. certified or registered mail.
Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591; Attention: FAA Hearing Docket, AGC-70, Wilbur Wright Building—Suite 2W100.
(3)
If delivery is via email or fax.
The email address and fax number for the FAA Hearing Docket, made available on the FAA Office of Adjudication website.
(d)
Date of filing.
If a document is filed by fax or email, the date of filing is the date the email or fax is sent. If a document is filed by personal delivery, the date of filing is the date that personal delivery is accomplished. If a document is filed by mail, the date of filing is the date shown on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service, or the mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark.
(e)
Form.
Each document must be typewritten or legibly handwritten.
(f)
Contents.
Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, each document must contain a short, plain statement of the facts on which the person's case rests and a brief statement of the action requested.
(g)
Requirement to file an original document and number of copies.
A party must file an original document and one copy when filing by personal delivery or by mail. Only one copy must be filed if filing is accomplished by email or fax.
(h)
Filing by email.
A document that is filed by email must be attached as a PDF file to an email. The document must be signed in accordance with § 13.207. The email message does not constitute a submission, but serves only to deliver the attached PDF file to the FAA Hearing Docket.
§ 13.211
Service of documents.
(a)
General.
A person must serve a copy of all documents on each party and the administrative law judge, if assigned, at the time of filing with the FAA Hearing Docket except as provided otherwise in this subpart.
(b)
Service by the FAA Hearing Docket, the administrative law judge, and the FAA decisionmaker.
The FAA Hearing Docket, the administrative law judge, and the FAA decisionmaker must send documents to a party by personal delivery, mail, fax, or email as provided in this section.
(c)
Methods of service
—(1)
General.
A person may serve any document by email, personal delivery, mail, or fax.
(2)
Service by email.
Service of documents by email is voluntary and requires the prior consent of the person to be served by email. A person may retract consent to be served by email by filing a written retraction with the FAA Hearing Docket and serving it on the other party and the administrative law judge. A document that is served by email must be attached as a PDF file to an email message.
(d)
Certificate of service.
A certificate of service must accompany all documents filed with the FAA Hearing Docket. The certificate of service must be signed, describe the method of service, and state the date of service.
(e)
Date of service.
If a document is served by fax or served by email, the date of service is the date the email or fax is sent. If a document is served by personal delivery, the date of service is the date that personal delivery is accomplished. If a document is mailed, the date of service is the date shown on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service, or the mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark.
(f)
Valid service.
A document served by mail or personal delivery that was properly addressed, was sent in accordance with this subpart, and that was returned as unclaimed, or that was refused or not accepted, is deemed to have been served in accordance with this subpart.
(g)
Additional time after service by mail.
Whenever a party must respond within a prescribed period after service by
mail, 5 days are added to the prescribed period.
(h)
Presumption of service.
There is a presumption of service where a party or a person, who customarily receives mail, or receives it in the ordinary course of business, at either the person's residence or the person's principal place of business, acknowledges receipt of the document.
§ 13.212
Computation of time.
(a) This section applies to any period of time prescribed or allowed by this subpart, by notice or order of the administrative law judge, or by any applicable statute.
(b) The date of an act, event, or default is not included in a computation of time under this subpart.
(c) The last day of a time period is included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday. If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the time period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday.
§ 13.213
Extension of time.
(a) The parties may agree to extend for a reasonable period the time for filing a document under this subpart. The party seeking the extension of time must submit a draft order to the administrative law judge to be signed by the administrative law judge and filed with the FAA Hearing Docket. The administrative law judge must sign and issue the order if the extension agreed to by the parties is reasonable.
(b) A party may file a written motion for an extension of time. A written motion for an extension of time must be filed with the FAA Hearing Docket in accordance with § 13.210. The motion must be filed no later than seven days before the document is due unless good cause for the late filing is shown. The party filing the motion must serve a copy of the motion in accordance with § 13.211. The administrative law judge may grant the extension of time if good cause for the extension is shown.
(c) If the administrative law judge fails to rule on a motion for an extension of time by the date the document was due, the motion for an extension of time is deemed granted for no more than 20 days after the original date the document was to be filed.
§ 13.214
Amendment of pleadings.
(a)
Filing and service.
A party must file the amendment with the FAA Hearing Docket and must serve a copy of the amendment on the administrative law judge, if assigned, and on all parties to the proceeding.
(b)
Time.
(1) Not later than 15 days before the scheduled date of a hearing, a party may amend a complaint or an answer without the consent of the administrative law judge.
(2) Less than 15 days before the scheduled date of a hearing, the administrative law judge may allow amendment of a complaint or an answer only for good cause shown in a motion to amend.
(c)
Responses.
The administrative law judge must allow a reasonable time, but not more than 20 days from the date of filing, for other parties to respond if an amendment to a complaint, answer, or other pleading has been filed with the FAA Hearing Docket and served on the administrative law judge and other parties.
§ 13.215
Withdrawal of complaint or request for hearing.
At any time before or during a hearing, an agency attorney may withdraw a complaint or a party may withdraw a request for a hearing without the consent of the administrative law judge. If an agency attorney withdraws the complaint or a party withdraws the request for a hearing and the answer, the administrative law judge must dismiss the proceedings under this subpart with prejudice.
§ 13.216
Waivers.
Waivers of any rights provided by statute or regulation must be in writing or by stipulation made at a hearing and entered into the record. The parties must set forth the precise terms of the waiver and any conditions.
§ 13.217
Joint procedural or discovery schedule.
(a)
General.
The parties may agree to submit a schedule for filing all prehearing motions, conducting discovery in the proceedings, or both.
(b)
Form and content of schedule.
If the parties agree to a joint procedural or discovery schedule, one of the parties must file the joint schedule setting forth the dates to which the parties have agreed, in accordance with § 13.210, and must also serve a copy of the joint schedule in accordance with § 13.211. The filing of the joint schedule must include a draft order establishing a joint schedule to be signed by the administrative law judge.
(1) The joint schedule may include, but need not be limited to, requests for discovery, objections to discovery requests, responses to discovery requests to which there are no objections, submission of prehearing motions, responses to prehearing motions, exchange of exhibits to be introduced at the hearing, and a list of witnesses that may be called at the hearing.
(2) Each party must sign the joint schedule.
(c)
Time.
The parties may agree to submit all prehearing motions and responses and may agree to close discovery in the proceedings under the joint schedule within a reasonable time before the date of the hearing, but not later than 15 days before the hearing.
(d)
Joint scheduling order.
The joint schedule filed by the parties is a proposed schedule that requires approval of the administrative law judge to become the joint scheduling order.
(e)
Disputes.
The administrative law judge must resolve disputes regarding discovery or disputes regarding compliance with the joint scheduling order as soon as possible so that the parties may continue to comply with the joint scheduling order.
(f)
Sanctions for failure to comply with joint schedule.
If a party fails to comply with a joint scheduling order, the administrative law judge may impose any of the following sanctions, proportional to the party's failure to comply with the order:
(1) Strike the relevant portion of a party's pleadings;
(2) Preclude prehearing or discovery motions by that party;
(3) Preclude admission of the relevant portion of a party's evidence at the hearing; or
(4) Preclude the relevant portion of the testimony of that party's witnesses at the hearing.
§ 13.218
Motions.
(a)
General.
A party applying for an order or ruling not specifically provided in this subpart must do so by filing a motion in accordance with § 13.210. A party must serve a copy of each motion in accordance with § 13.211.
(b)
Form and contents.
A party must state the relief sought by the motion and the particular grounds supporting that relief. If a party has evidence in support of a motion, the party must attach any supporting evidence, including affidavits, to the motion.
(c)
Filing of motions.
A motion made prior to the hearing must be in writing. Unless otherwise agreed by the parties or for good cause shown, a party must file any prehearing motion not later than 30 days before the hearing in the FAA Hearing Docket in accordance with § 13.210, and must serve a copy on the administrative law judge, if assigned, and on each party in accordance with § 13.211. Motions introduced during a hearing may be made orally on the record unless the administrative law judge directs otherwise.
(d)
Responses to motions.
Any party may file a response, with affidavits or other evidence in support of the response, not later than 10 days after service of a written motion on that party. When a motion is made during a hearing, the response may be made at the hearing on the record, orally or in writing, within a reasonable time determined by the administrative law judge.
(e)
Rulings on motions.
The administrative law judge must rule on all motions as follows:
(1)
Discovery motions.
The administrative law judge must resolve all pending discovery motions not later than 10 days before the hearing.
(2)
Prehearing motions.
The administrative law judge must resolve all pending prehearing motions not later than 7 days before the hearing. If the administrative law judge issues a ruling or order orally, the administrative law judge must serve a written copy of the ruling or order, within 3 days, on
each party. In all other cases, the administrative law judge must issue rulings and orders in writing and must serve a copy of the ruling or order on each party.
(3)
Motions made during the hearing.
The administrative law judge must issue rulings and orders on oral motions. Oral rulings or orders on motions must be made on the record.
(f)
Specific motions.
The motions that a party may file include but are not limited to the following:
(1)
Motion to dismiss for insufficiency.
A respondent may file a motion to dismiss the complaint for insufficiency instead of filing an answer. If the administrative law judge denies the motion to dismiss the complaint for insufficiency, the respondent must file an answer not later than 10 days after service of the administrative law judge's denial of the motion. A motion to dismiss the complaint for insufficiency must show that the complaint fails to state a violation of a provision of the Federal aviation statute listed in the first sentence in 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(2) or in 49 U.S.C. 47531, or any implementing rule, regulation, or order, or a violation of the Federal hazardous materials transportation statute, 49 U.S.C. 5121-5128, or any implementing rule, regulation, or order.
(2)
Motion to dismiss.
A party may file a motion to dismiss, specifying the grounds for dismissal. If an administrative law judge grants a motion to dismiss in part, a party may appeal the administrative law judge's ruling on the motion to dismiss under § 13.219(b).
(i)
Motion to dismiss a request for a hearing.
An agency attorney may file a motion to dismiss a request for a hearing instead of filing a complaint. If the motion to dismiss is not granted, the agency attorney must file the complaint in the FAA Hearing Docket and must serve a copy of the complaint on the administrative law judge and on each party not later than 10 days after service of the administrative law judge's ruling or order on the motion to dismiss. If the motion to dismiss is granted and the proceedings are terminated without a hearing, the respondent may appeal to the FAA decisionmaker under § 13.233. If required by the decision on appeal, the agency attorney must file a complaint in the FAA Hearing Docket and must serve a copy of the complaint on the administrative law judge and each party not later than 10 days after service of the FAA decisionmaker's decision on appeal.
(ii)
Motion to dismiss a complaint.
A respondent may file a motion to dismiss a complaint instead of filing an answer, including a motion to dismiss a stale complaint or allegations as provided in § 13.208. If the motion to dismiss is not granted, the respondent must file an answer in the FAA Hearing Docket and must serve a copy of the answer on the administrative law judge and on each party not later than 10 days after service of the administrative law judge's ruling or order on the motion to dismiss. If the motion to dismiss is granted and the proceedings are terminated without a hearing, the agency attorney may file an appeal in the FAA Hearing Docket under § 13.233 and must serve each other party. If required by the FAA decisionmaker's decision on appeal, the respondent must file an answer in the FAA Hearing Docket, and must serve a copy of the answer on the administrative law judge and on each party not later than 10 days after service of the decision on appeal.
(3)
Motion for a more definite statement.
A party may file a motion for a more definite statement of any pleading which requires a response under this subpart. A party must set forth, in detail, the indefinite or uncertain allegations contained in a complaint or response to any pleading and must submit the details that the party believes would make the allegation or response definite and certain.
(i)
Complaint.
A respondent may file a motion requesting a more definite statement of the allegations contained in the complaint instead of filing an answer. If the administrative law judge grants the motion, the agency attorney must supply a more definite statement not later than 15 days after service of the ruling granting the motion. If the agency attorney fails to supply a more definite statement, the administrative law judge may strike the allegations in the complaint to which the motion is directed. If the administrative law judge denies the motion, the respondent must file an answer in the FAA
Hearing Docket and must serve a copy of the answer on the administrative law judge and on each party not later than 10 days after service of the order of denial.
(ii)
Answer.
An agency attorney may file a motion requesting a more definite statement if an answer fails to respond clearly to the allegations in the complaint. If the administrative law judge grants the motion, the respondent must supply a more definite statement not later than 15 days after service of the ruling on the motion. If the respondent fails to supply a more definite statement, the administrative law judge may strike those statements in the answer to which the motion is directed. The respondent's failure to supply a more definite statement may be deemed an admission of unanswered allegations in the complaint.
(4)
Motion to strike.
Any party may make a motion to strike any insufficient allegation or defense, or any redundant, immaterial, impertinent, or scandalous matter in a pleading. A party must file a motion to strike before a response is required under this subpart or, if a response is not required, not later than 10 days after service of the pleading. A motion to strike must be filed in the FAA Hearing Docket and served on the administrative law judge, if assigned, and on each other party.
(5)
Motion for decision.
A party may make a motion for decision, regarding all or any part of the proceedings, at any time before the administrative law judge has issued an initial decision in the proceedings. The administrative law judge must grant a party's motion for decision if the pleadings, depositions, answers to interrogatories, admissions, matters that the administrative law judge has officially noticed, or evidence introduced during the hearing shows that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that the party making the motion is entitled to a decision as a matter of law. The party making the motion for decision has the burden of showing that there is no genuine issue of material fact disputed by the parties.
(6)
Motion for disqualification.
A party may file a motion for disqualification in the FAA Hearing Docket and must serve a copy on the administrative law judge and on each party. A party may file the motion at any time after the administrative law judge has been assigned to the proceedings but must make the motion before the administrative law judge files an initial decision in the proceedings.
(i)
Motion and supporting affidavit.
A party must state the grounds for disqualification in a motion for disqualification, including, but not limited to, a financial or other personal interest that would be affected by the outcome of the enforcement action, personal animus against a party to the action or against a group to which a party belongs, prejudgment of the adjudicative facts at issue in the proceeding, or any other prohibited conflict of interest. A party must submit an affidavit with the motion for disqualification that sets forth, in detail, the matters alleged to constitute grounds for disqualification.
(ii)
Response.
A party must respond to the motion for disqualification not later than 5 days after service of the motion for disqualification.
(iii)
Decision on motion for disqualification.
The administrative law judge must render a decision on the motion for disqualification not later than 15 days after the motion has been filed. If the administrative law judge finds that the motion for disqualification and supporting affidavit show a basis for disqualification, the administrative law judge must withdraw from the proceedings immediately. If the administrative law judge finds that disqualification is not warranted, the administrative law judge must deny the motion and state the grounds for the denial on the record. If the administrative law judge fails to rule on a party's motion for disqualification within 15 days after the motion has been filed, the motion is deemed granted.
(iv)
Appeal.
A party may appeal the administrative law judge's denial of the motion for disqualification in accordance with § 13.219(b).
(7)
Motions for reconsideration of an initial decision, order dismissing a complaint, order dismissing a request for hearing or order dismissing a request for
hearing and answer.
The FAA decisionmaker may treat motions for reconsideration of an initial decision, order dismissing a complaint, order dismissing a request for hearing, or order dismissing a request for hearing and answer as a notice of appeal under § 13.233, and if the motion was filed within the time allowed for the filing of a notice of appeal, the FAA decisionmaker will issue a briefing schedule.
§ 13.219
Interlocutory appeals.
(a)
General.
Unless otherwise provided in this subpart, a party may not appeal a ruling or decision of the administrative law judge to the FAA decisionmaker until the initial decision has been entered on the record. A decision or order of the FAA decisionmaker on the interlocutory appeal does not constitute a final order of the Administrator for the purposes of judicial appellate review as provided in § 13.235.
(b)
Interlocutory appeal for cause.
If a party orally requests or files a written request for an interlocutory appeal for cause, the proceedings are stayed until the administrative law judge issues a decision on the request. Any written request for interlocutory appeal for cause must be filed in the FAA Hearing Docket and served on each party and on the administrative law judge. If the administrative law judge grants the request, the proceedings are stayed until the FAA decisionmaker issues a decision on the interlocutory appeal. The administrative law judge must grant the request if a party shows that delay of the appeal would be detrimental to the public interest or would result in undue prejudice to any party.
(c)
Interlocutory appeals of right.
If a party notifies the administrative law judge of an interlocutory appeal of right, the proceedings are stayed until the FAA decisionmaker issues a decision on the interlocutory appeal. A party may file an interlocutory appeal of right, without the consent of the administrative law judge, before an initial decision has been entered in the case of:
(1) A ruling or order by the administrative law judge barring a person from the proceedings;
(2) Failure of the administrative law judge to dismiss the proceedings in accordance with § 13.215; or
(3) A ruling or order by the administrative law judge in violation of § 13.205(b).
(d)
Procedure.
A party must file a notice of interlocutory appeal, with supporting documents, with the FAA Hearing Docket, and must serve a copy of the notice and supporting documents on each party and the administrative law judge not later than 10 days after the administrative law judge's decision forming the basis of an interlocutory appeal of right, or not later than 10 days after the administrative law judge's decision granting an interlocutory appeal for cause, as appropriate. A party must file a reply, if any, with the FAA Hearing Docket, and serve a copy on each party and the administrative law judge not later than 10 days after service of the appeal. The FAA decisionmaker must render a decision on the interlocutory appeal on the record and as a part of the decision in the proceedings, within a reasonable time after receipt of the interlocutory appeal.
(e)
Summary rejection.
The FAA decisionmaker may reject frivolous, repetitive, or dilatory appeals, and may issue an order precluding one or more parties from making further interlocutory appeals in a proceeding in which there have been frivolous, repetitive, or dilatory interlocutory appeals.
§ 13.220
Discovery.
(a)
Initiation of discovery.
Any party may initiate discovery described in this section without the consent or approval of the administrative law judge at any time after a complaint has been filed in the proceedings.
(b)
Methods of discovery.
The following methods of discovery are permitted under this section: Depositions on oral examination or written questions of any person; written interrogatories directed to a party; requests for production of documents or tangible items to any person; and requests for admission by a party. A party must not file written interrogatories and responses, requests for production of documents or tangible items and responses, and requests for admission and
response with the FAA Hearing Docket or serve them on the administrative law judge. In the event of a discovery dispute, a party must attach a copy of the relevant documents in support of a motion made under this section.
(c)
Service on the agency.
A party must serve each discovery request directed to the agency or any agency employee on the agency attorney of record.
(d)
Time for response to discovery requests.
Unless otherwise directed by this subpart or agreed by the parties, a party must respond to a request for discovery, including filing objections to a request for discovery, not later than 30 days after service of the request.
(e)
Scope of discovery.
Subject to the limits on discovery set forth in paragraph (f) of this section, a party may discover any matter that is not privileged and that is relevant to any party's claim or defense, including the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any document or other tangible item and the identity and location of any person having knowledge of discoverable matter. A party may discover facts known, or opinions held, by an expert who any other party expects to call to testify at the hearing. A party has no ground to object to a discovery request on the basis that the information sought would not be admissible at the hearing.
(f)
Limiting discovery.
The administrative law judge must limit the frequency and extent of discovery permitted by this section if a party shows that—
(1) The information requested is cumulative or repetitious;
(2) The information requested can be obtained from another less burdensome and more convenient source;
(3) The party requesting the information has had ample opportunity to obtain the information through other discovery methods permitted under this section; or
(4) The method or scope of discovery requested by the party is unduly burdensome or expensive.
(g)
Confidential orders.
A party or person who has received a discovery request for information that is related to a trade secret, confidential or sensitive material, competitive or commercial information, proprietary data, or information on research and development, may file a motion for a confidential order in the FAA Hearing Docket in accordance with § 13.210, and must serve a copy of the motion for a confidential order on each party and on the administrative law judge in accordance with § 13.211.
(1) The party or person making the motion must show that the confidential order is necessary to protect the information from disclosure to the public.
(2) If the administrative law judge determines that the requested material is not necessary to decide the case, the administrative law judge must preclude any inquiry into the matter by any party.
(3) If the administrative law judge determines that the requested material may be disclosed during discovery, the administrative law judge may order that the material may be discovered and disclosed under limited conditions or may be used only under certain terms and conditions.
(4) If the administrative law judge determines that the requested material is necessary to decide the case and that a confidential order is warranted, the administrative law judge must provide:
(i) An opportunity for review of the document by the parties off the record;
(ii) Procedures for excluding the information from the record; and
(iii) Order that the parties must not disclose the information in any manner and the parties must not use the information in any other proceeding.
(h)
Protective orders.
A party or a person who has received a request for discovery may file a motion for protective order in the FAA Hearing Docket and must serve a copy of the motion for protective order on the administrative law judge and each other party. The party or person making the motion must show that the protective order is necessary to protect the party or the person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense. As part of the protective order, the administrative law judge may:
(1) Deny the discovery request;
(2) Order that discovery be conducted only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place for discovery or a determination of the method of discovery; or
(3) Limit the scope of discovery or preclude any inquiry into certain matters during discovery.
(i)
Duty to supplement or amend responses.
A party who has responded to a discovery request has a duty to supplement or amend the response, as soon as the information is known, as follows:
(1) A party must supplement or amend any response to a question requesting the identity and location of any person having knowledge of discoverable matters.
(2) A party must supplement or amend any response to a question requesting the identity of each person who will be called to testify at the hearing as an expert witness and the subject matter and substance of that witness's testimony.
(3) A party must supplement or amend any response that was incorrect when made or any response that was correct when made but is no longer correct, accurate, or complete.
(j)
Depositions
—(1)
Form.
A deposition must be taken on the record and reduced to writing. The person being deposed must sign the deposition unless the parties agree to waive the requirement of a signature.
(2)
Administration of oaths.
Within the United States, or a territory or possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, a party must take a deposition before a person authorized to administer oaths by the laws of the United States or authorized by the law of the place where the examination is held. In foreign countries, a party must take a deposition in any manner allowed by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(3)
Notice of deposition.
A party must serve a notice of deposition, stating the time and place of the deposition and the name and address of each person to be examined, on the person to be deposed, the administrative law judge, and each party not later than 7 days before the deposition. The notice must be filed in the FAA Hearing Docket simultaneously. A party may serve a notice of deposition less than 7 days before the deposition only with consent of the administrative law judge. The party noticing a deposition must attach a copy of any subpoena
duces tecum
requesting that materials be produced at the deposition to the notice of deposition.
(4)
Use of depositions.
A party may use any part or all of a deposition at a hearing authorized under this subpart only upon a showing of good cause. The deposition may be used against any party who was present or represented at the deposition or who had reasonable notice of the deposition.
(k)
Interrogatories.
A party, the party's attorney, or the party's representative may sign the party's responses to interrogatories. A party must answer each interrogatory separately and completely in writing. If a party objects to an interrogatory, the party must state the objection and the reasons for the objection. An opposing party may use any part or all of a party's responses to interrogatories at a hearing authorized under this subpart to the extent that the response is relevant, material, and not repetitious.
(1) A party must not serve more than 30 interrogatories to each other party. Each subpart of an interrogatory must be counted as a separate interrogatory.
(2) A party must file a motion for leave to serve additional interrogatories on a party with the administrative law judge before serving additional interrogatories on a party. The administrative law judge may grant the motion only if the party shows good cause.
(l)
Requests for admission.
A party may serve a written request for admission of the truth of any matter within the scope of discovery under this section or the authenticity of any document described in the request. A party must set forth each request for admission separately. A party must serve copies of documents referenced in the request for admission unless the documents have been provided or are reasonably available for inspection and copying.
(1)
Time.
A party's failure to respond to a request for admission, in writing and signed by the attorney or the
party, not later than 30 days after service of the request, is deemed an admission of the truth of the statement or statements contained in the request for admission. The administrative law judge may determine that a failure to respond to a request for admission is not deemed an admission of the truth if a party shows that the failure was due to circumstances beyond the control of the party or the party's attorney.
(2)
Response.
A party may object to a request for admission and must state the reasons for objection. A party may specifically deny the truth of the matter or describe the reasons why the party is unable to truthfully deny or admit the matter. If a party is unable to deny or admit the truth of the matter, the party must show that the party has made reasonable inquiry into the matter or that the information known to, or readily obtainable by, the party is insufficient to enable the party to admit or deny the matter. A party may admit or deny any part of the request for admission. If the administrative law judge determines that a response does not comply with the requirements of this paragraph (l)(2) or that the response is insufficient, the matter is deemed admitted.
(3)
Effect of admission.
Any matter admitted or deemed admitted under this section is conclusively established for the purpose of the hearing and appeal.
(m)
Motion to compel discovery.
A party may make a motion to compel discovery if a person refuses to answer a question during a deposition, a party fails or refuses to answer an interrogatory, if a person gives an evasive or incomplete answer during a deposition or when responding to an interrogatory, or a party fails or refuses to produce documents or tangible items. During a deposition, the proponent of a question may complete the deposition or may adjourn the examination before making a motion to compel if a person refuses to answer. Any motion to compel must be filed with the FAA Hearing Docket and served on the administrative law judge and other parties in accordance with §§ 13.210 and 13.211, respectively.
(n)
Failure to comply with a discovery order.
If a party fails to comply with a discovery order, the administrative law judge may impose any of the following sanctions proportional to the party's failure to comply with the order:
(1) Strike the relevant portion of a party's pleadings;
(2) Preclude prehearing or discovery motions by that party;
(3) Preclude admission of the relevant portion of a party's evidence at the hearing; or
(4) Preclude the relevant portion of the testimony of that party's witnesses at the hearing.
§ 13.221
Notice of hearing.
(a)
Notice.
The administrative law judge must provide each party with notice of the date, time, and location of the hearing at least 60 days before the hearing date.
(b)
Date, time, and location of the hearing.
The administrative law judge to whom the proceedings have been assigned must set a reasonable date, time, and location for the hearing. The administrative law judge must consider the need for discovery and any joint procedural or discovery schedule submitted by the parties when determining the hearing date. The administrative law judge must give due regard to the convenience of the parties, the location where the majority of the witnesses reside or work, and whether the location is served by a scheduled air carrier.
(c)
Earlier hearing.
With the consent of the administrative law judge, the parties may agree to hold the hearing on an earlier date than the date specified in the notice of hearing.
§ 13.222
Evidence.
(a)
General.
A party is entitled to present the party's case or defense by oral, documentary, or demonstrative evidence, to submit rebuttal evidence, and to conduct any cross-examination that may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(b)
Admissibility.
A party may introduce any oral, documentary, or demonstrative evidence in support of the party's case or defense. The administrative law judge must admit any relevant oral, documentary, or demonstrative evidence introduced by a party, but must exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence.
(c)
Hearsay evidence.
Hearsay evidence is admissible in proceedings governed by this subpart. The fact that evidence submitted by a party is hearsay goes only to the weight of the evidence and does not affect its admissibility.
§ 13.223
Standard of proof.
The administrative law judge must issue an initial decision or must rule in a party's favor only if the decision or ruling is supported by, and in accordance with, the reliable, probative, and substantial evidence contained in the record. In order to prevail, the party with the burden of proof must prove the party's case or defense by a preponderance of reliable, probative, and substantial evidence.
§ 13.224
Burden of proof.
(a) Except in the case of an affirmative defense, the burden of proof is on the agency.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by statute or rule, the proponent of a motion, request, or order has the burden of proof.
(c) A party who has asserted an affirmative defense has the burden of proving the affirmative defense.
§ 13.225
Offer of proof.
A party whose evidence has been excluded by a ruling of the administrative law judge may offer the evidence for the record on appeal.
§ 13.226
Public disclosure of information.
(a) The administrative law judge may order that any information contained in the record be withheld from public disclosure. Any party or interested person may object to disclosure of information in the record by filing and serving a written motion to withhold specific information in accordance with §§ 13.210 and 13.211 respectively. A party may file a motion seeking to protect from public disclosure information contained in a document that the party is filing at the same time it files the document. The person or party must state the specific grounds for nondisclosure in the motion.
(b) The administrative law judge must grant the motion to withhold if, based on the motion and any response to the motion, the administrative law judge determines that: Disclosure would be detrimental to aviation safety; disclosure would not be in the public interest; or the information is not otherwise required to be made available to the public.
§ 13.227
Expert or opinion witnesses.
An employee of the agency may not be called as an expert or opinion witness for any party other than the FAA in any proceeding governed by this subpart. An employee of a respondent may not be called by an agency attorney as an expert or opinion witness for the FAA in any proceeding governed by this subpart to which the respondent is a party.
§ 13.228
Subpoenas.
(a)
Request for subpoena.
The administrative law judge, upon application by any party to the proceeding, may issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses or the production of documents or tangible things at a hearing or for the purpose of taking depositions, as permitted by law. A request for a subpoena must show its general relevance and reasonable scope. The party must serve the subpoena on the witness or the holder of the documents or tangible items as permitted by applicable statute. A request for a subpoena must be filed and served in accordance with §§ 13.210 and 13.211, respectively. Absent good cause shown, the filing and service must be completed as follows:
(1) Not later than 15 days before a scheduled deposition under the subpoena; or
(2) Not later than 30 days before a scheduled hearing where attendance at the hearing is sought.
(b)
Motion to quash or modify the subpoena.
A party, or any person upon whom a subpoena has been served, may file in the FAA Hearing Docket a motion to quash or modify the subpoena and must serve a copy on the administrative law judge and each party at or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance. The movant must describe, in detail, the basis for the motion to quash or modify the subpoena including, but not limited to, a
statement that the testimony, document, or tangible evidence is not relevant to the proceeding, that the subpoena is not reasonably tailored to the scope of the proceeding, or that the subpoena is unreasonable and oppressive. A motion to quash or modify the subpoena will stay the effect of the subpoena pending a decision by the administrative law judge on the motion.
(c)
Enforcement of subpoena.
Upon a showing that a person has failed or refused to comply with a subpoena, a party may apply to the appropriate U.S. district court to seek judicial enforcement of the subpoena.
§ 13.229
Witness fees.
(a)
General.
The party who applies for a subpoena to compel the attendance of a witness at a deposition or hearing, or the party at whose request a witness appears at a deposition or hearing, must pay the witness fees described in this section.
(b)
Amount.
Except for an employee of the agency who appears at the direction of the agency, a witness who appears at a deposition or hearing is entitled to the same fees and allowances provided for under 28 U.S.C. 1821.
§ 13.230
Record.
(a)
Exclusive record.
The pleadings, transcripts of the hearing and prehearing conferences, exhibits admitted into evidence, rulings, motions, applications, requests, briefs, and responses thereto, constitute the exclusive record for decision of the proceedings and the basis for the issuance of any orders in the proceeding. Any proceedings regarding the disqualification of an administrative law judge must be included in the record. Though only exhibits admitted into evidence are part of the record before an administrative law judge, evidence proffered but not admitted is also part of the record on appeal, as provided by § 13.225.
(b)
Examination and copying of record.
The parties may examine the record at the FAA Hearing Docket and may obtain copies of the record upon payment of applicable fees. Any other person may obtain copies of the releasable portions of the record in accordance with applicable law.
§ 13.231
Argument before the administrative law judge.
(a)
Arguments during the hearing.
During the hearing, the administrative law judge must give the parties a reasonable opportunity to present arguments on the record supporting or opposing motions, objections, and rulings if the parties request an opportunity for argument. The administrative law judge may request written arguments during the hearing if the administrative law judge finds that submission of written arguments would be reasonable.
(b)
Final oral argument.
At the conclusion of the hearing and before the administrative law judge issues an initial decision in the proceedings, the administrative law judge must allow the parties to submit oral proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law, exceptions to rulings of the administrative law judge, and supporting arguments for the findings, conclusions, or exceptions. At the conclusion of the hearing, a party may waive final oral argument.
(c)
Post-hearing briefs.
The administrative law judge may request written post-hearing briefs before the administrative law judge issues an initial decision in the proceedings if the administrative law judge finds that submission of written arguments would be reasonable. If a party files a written post-hearing brief, the party must include proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law, exceptions to rulings of the administrative law judge, and supporting arguments for the findings, conclusions, or exceptions. The administrative law judge must give the parties a reasonable opportunity, but not more than 30 days after receipt of the transcript, to prepare and submit the briefs. A party must file and serve any post-hearing brief in in accordance with §§ 13.210 and 13.211, respectively.
§ 13.232
Initial decision.
(a)
Contents.
The administrative law judge must issue an initial decision at the conclusion of the hearing. In each oral or written decision, the administrative law judge must include findings of fact and conclusions of law, as well as the grounds supporting those findings and conclusions, for all material issues of fact, the credibility of witnesses, the applicable law, any exercise
of the administrative law judge's discretion, and the amount of any civil penalty found appropriate by the administrative law judge. The administrative law judge must also include a discussion of the basis for any order issued in the proceedings. The administrative law judge is not required to provide a written explanation for rulings on objections, procedural motions, and other matters not directly relevant to the substance of the initial decision. If the administrative law judge refers to any previous unreported or unpublished initial decision, the administrative law judge must make copies of that initial decision available to all parties and the FAA decisionmaker.
(b)
Oral decision.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, at the conclusion of the hearing, the administrative law judge's oral initial decision and order must be on the record.
(c)
Written decision.
The administrative law judge may issue a written initial decision not later than 30 days after the conclusion of the hearing or submission of the last post-hearing brief if the administrative law judge finds that issuing a written initial decision is reasonable. The administrative law judge must serve a copy of any written initial decision on each party.
(d)
Reconsideration of an initial decision.
The FAA decisionmaker may treat a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision as a notice of appeal under § 13.233, and if the motion was filed within the time allowed for the filing of a notice of appeal, the FAA decisionmaker will issue a briefing schedule, as provided in § 13.218.
(e)
Order assessing civil penalty.
Unless appealed pursuant to § 13.233, the initial decision issued by the administrative law judge is considered an order assessing civil penalty if the administrative law judge finds that an alleged violation occurred and determines that a civil penalty, in an amount found appropriate by the administrative law judge, is warranted. The administrative law judge may not assess a civil penalty exceeding the amount sought in the complaint.
§ 13.233
Appeal from initial decision.
(a)
Notice of appeal.
A party may appeal the administrative law judge's initial decision, and any decision not previously appealed to the FAA decisionmaker on interlocutory appeal pursuant to § 13.219, by filing a notice of appeal in accordance with § 13.210 no later than 10 days after entry of the oral initial decision on the record or service of the written initial decision on the parties. The party must serve a copy of the notice of appeal on each party in accordance with § 13.211. A party is not required to serve any documents under § 13.233 on the administrative law judge.
(b)
Issues on appeal.
In any appeal from a decision of an administrative law judge, the FAA decisionmaker considers only the following issues:
(1) Whether each finding of fact is supported by a preponderance of reliable, probative, and substantial evidence;
(2) Whether each conclusion of law is made in accordance with applicable law, precedent, and public policy; and
(3) Whether the administrative law judge committed any prejudicial errors.
(c)
Perfecting an appeal.
Except as follows in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, a party must perfect an appeal to the FAA decisionmaker no later than 50 days after entry of the oral initial decision on the record or service of the written initial decision on the parties by filing an appeal brief in accordance with § 13.210 and serving a copy on every other party in accordance with § 13.211.
(1)
Extension of time by agreement of the parties.
The parties may agree to extend the time for perfecting the appeal with the consent of the FAA decisionmaker. If the FAA decisionmaker grants an extension of time to perfect the appeal, the FAA decisionmaker must serve a letter confirming the extension of time on each party.
(2)
Written motion for extension.
If the parties do not agree to an extension of time for perfecting an appeal, a party desiring an extension of time may file a written motion for an extension in accordance with § 13.210 and must serve a copy of the motion on each party under § 13.211. Any party may file a written response to the motion for extension no later than 10 days after
service of the motion. The FAA decisionmaker may grant an extension if good cause for the extension is shown in the motion.
(d)
Appeal briefs.
A party must file the appeal brief in accordance with § 13.210 and must serve a copy of the appeal brief on each party in accordance with § 13.211.
(1) A party must set forth, in detail, the party's specific objections to the initial decision or rulings in the appeal brief. A party also must set forth, in detail, the basis for the appeal, the reasons supporting the appeal, and the relief requested in the appeal. If the party relies on evidence contained in the record for the appeal, the party must specifically refer to the pertinent evidence contained in the transcript in the appeal brief.
(2) The FAA decisionmaker may dismiss an appeal, on the FAA decisionmaker's own initiative or upon motion of any other party, where a party has filed a notice of appeal but fails to perfect the appeal by timely filing an appeal brief with the FAA decisionmaker.
(e)
Reply brief.
Except as follows in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, any party may file a reply brief in accordance with § 13.210 not later than 35 days after the appeal brief has been served on that party. The party filing the reply brief must serve a copy of the reply brief on each party in accordance with § 13.211. If the party relies on evidence contained in the record for the reply, the party must specifically refer to the pertinent evidence contained in the transcript in the reply brief.
(1)
Extension of time by agreement of the parties.
The parties may agree to extend the time for filing a reply brief with the consent of the FAA decisionmaker. If the FAA decisionmaker grants an extension of time to file the reply brief, the FAA decisionmaker must serve a letter confirming the extension of time on each party.
(2)
Written motion for extension.
If the parties do not agree to an extension of time for filing a reply brief, a party desiring an extension of time may file a written motion for an extension in accordance with § 13.210 and must serve a copy of the motion on each party in accordance with § 13.211. Any party choosing to respond to the motion must file and serve a written response to the motion no later than 10 days after service of the motion The FAA decisionmaker may grant an extension if good cause for the extension is shown in the motion.
(f)
Other briefs.
The FAA decisionmaker may allow any person to submit an
amicus curiae
brief in an appeal of an initial decision. A party may not file more than one brief unless permitted by the FAA decisionmaker. A party may petition the FAA decisionmaker, in writing, for leave to file an additional brief and must serve a copy of the petition on each party. The party may not file the additional brief with the petition. The FAA decisionmaker may grant leave to file an additional brief if the party demonstrates good cause for allowing additional argument on the appeal. The FAA decisionmaker will allow a reasonable time for the party to file the additional brief.
(g)
Number of copies.
A party must file the original plus one copy of the appeal brief or reply brief, but only one copy if filing by email or fax, as provided in § 13.210.
(h)
Oral argument.
The FAA decisionmaker may permit oral argument on the appeal. On the FAA decisionmaker's own initiative, or upon written motion by any party, the FAA decisionmaker may find that oral argument will contribute substantially to the development of the issues on appeal and may grant the parties an opportunity for oral argument.
(i)
Waiver of objections on appeal.
If a party fails to object to any alleged error regarding the proceedings in an appeal or a reply brief, the party waives any objection to the alleged error. The FAA decisionmaker is not required to consider any objection in an appeal brief, or any argument in the reply brief, if a party's objection or argument is based on evidence contained on the record and the party does not specifically refer to the pertinent evidence from the record in the brief.
(j)
FAA decisionmaker's decision on appeal.
The FAA decisionmaker will review the record, the briefs on appeal, and the oral argument, if any, when considering the issues on appeal. The FAA decisionmaker may affirm, modify, or reverse the initial decision,
make any necessary findings, or remand the case for any proceedings that the FAA decisionmaker determines may be necessary. The FAA decisionmaker may assess a civil penalty but must not assess a civil penalty in an amount greater than that sought in the complaint.
(1) The FAA decisionmaker may raise any issue, on the FAA decisionmaker's own initiative, that is required for proper disposition of the proceedings. The FAA decisionmaker will give the parties a reasonable opportunity to submit arguments on the new issues before making a decision on appeal. If an issue raised by the FAA decisionmaker requires the consideration of additional testimony or evidence, the FAA decisionmaker will remand the case to the administrative law judge for further proceedings and an initial decision related to that issue. If an issue raised by the FAA decisionmaker is solely an issue of law, or the issue was addressed at the hearing but was not raised by a party in the briefs on appeal, a remand of the case to the administrative law judge for further proceedings is not required but may be provided in the discretion of the FAA decisionmaker.
(2) The FAA decisionmaker will issue the final decision and order of the Administrator on appeal in writing and will serve a copy of the decision and order on each party. Unless a petition for review is filed pursuant to § 13.235, a final decision and order of the Administrator will be considered an order assessing civil penalty if the FAA decisionmaker finds that an alleged violation occurred and a civil penalty is warranted.
(3) A final decision and order of the Administrator after appeal is precedent in any other civil penalty action. Any issue, finding or conclusion, order, ruling, or initial decision of an administrative law judge that has not been appealed to the FAA decisionmaker is not precedent in any other civil penalty action.
§ 13.234
Petition to reconsider or modify a final decision and order of the FAA decisionmaker on appeal.
(a)
General.
Any party may petition the FAA decisionmaker to reconsider or modify a final decision and order issued by the FAA decisionmaker on appeal from an initial decision. A party must file a petition to reconsider or modify in accordance with § 13.210 not later than 30 days after service of the FAA decisionmaker's final decision and order on appeal and must serve a copy of the petition on each party in accordance with § 13.211. A party is not required to serve any documents under this section on the administrative law judge. The FAA decisionmaker will not reconsider or modify an initial decision and order issued by an administrative law judge that has not been appealed by any party to the FAA decisionmaker.
(b)
Number of copies.
The parties must file the original plus one copy of the petition or the reply to the petition, but only one copy if filing by email or fax, as provided in § 13.210.
(c)
Contents.
A party must state briefly and specifically the alleged errors in the final decision and order on appeal, the relief sought by the party, and the grounds that support the petition to reconsider or modify.
(1) If the petition is based, in whole or in part, on allegations regarding the consequences of the FAA decisionmaker's decision, the party must describe these allegations and must describe, and support, the basis for the allegations.
(2) If the petition is based, in whole or in part, on new material not previously raised in the proceedings, the party must set forth the new material and include affidavits of prospective witnesses and authenticated documents that would be introduced in support of the new material. The party must explain, in detail, why the new material was not discovered through due diligence prior to the hearing.
(d)
Repetitious and frivolous petitions.
The FAA decisionmaker will not consider repetitious or frivolous petitions. The FAA decisionmaker may summarily dismiss repetitious or frivolous petitions to reconsider or modify.
(e)
Reply petitions.
Any party replying to a petition to reconsider or modify must file the reply in accordance with § 13.210 no later than 10 days after service of the petition on that party, and
must also serve a copy of the reply on each party in accordance with § 13.211.
(f)
Effect of filing petition.
The filing of a timely petition under this section will stay the effective date of the FAA decisionmaker's decision and order on appeal until final disposition of the petition by the FAA decisionmaker.
(g)
FAA decisionmaker's decision on petition.
The FAA decisionmaker has discretion to grant or deny a petition to reconsider. The FAA decisionmaker will grant or deny a petition to reconsider within a reasonable time after receipt of the petition or receipt of the reply petition, if any. The FAA decisionmaker may affirm, modify, or reverse the final decision and order on appeal, or may remand the case for any proceedings that the FAA decisionmaker determines may be necessary.
§ 13.235
Judicial review of a final decision and order.
(a) In cases under the Federal aviation statute, a party may seek judicial review of a final decision and order of the Administrator, as provided in 49 U.S.C. 46110(a), and, as applicable, in 49 U.S.C. 46301(d)(7)(D)(iii), 46301(g), or 47532.
(b) In cases under the Federal hazardous materials transportation statute, a party may seek judicial review of a final decision and order of the Administrator, as provided in 49 U.S.C. 5127.
(c) A party seeking judicial review of a final order issued by the Administrator may file a petition for review in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit or in the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the party resides or has its principal place of business.
(d) The party must file the petition for review no later than 60 days after service of the Administrator's final decision and order.
§ 13.236
Alternative dispute resolution.
Parties may use mediation to achieve resolution of issues in controversy addressed by this subpart. Parties seeking alternative dispute resolution services may engage the services of a mutually acceptable mediator. The mediator must not participate in the adjudication under this subpart of any matter in which the mediator has provided mediation services. Mediation discussions and submissions will remain confidential consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act and other applicable Federal laws.

# Subpart H—Civil Monetary Penalty Inflation Adjustment

# Source:
Docket No. 28762, 61 FR 67445, Dec. 20, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 13.301
Inflation adjustments of civil monetary penalties.
(a) This subpart provides the maximum civil monetary penalties or range of minimum and maximum civil monetary penalties for each statutory civil penalty subject to FAA jurisdiction, as adjusted for inflation.
(b) Each adjustment to a maximum civil monetary penalty or to minimum and maximum civil monetary penalties that establish a civil monetary penalty range applies to actions initiated under this part for violations occurring on or after December 30, 2024, notwithstanding references to specific civil penalty amounts elsewhere in this part.
(c) Minimum and maximum civil monetary penalties are as follows:
Table 1 to § 13.301(
c
)—Minimum and Maximum Civil Monetary Penalty Amounts for Certain Violations
United States Code
citation
Civil monetary penalty description
2024
minimum
penalty
amount
New adjusted
minimum
penalty
amount
for violations
occurring on
or after
December 30,
2024
2024
maximum penalty
amount
New adjusted maximum
penalty amount for
violations occurring on or
after December 30, 2024
49 U.S.C. 5123(a)(1)
Violation of hazardous materials transportation law
N/A
N/A
$99,756
$102,348.
49 U.S.C. 5123(a)(2)
Violation of hazardous materials transportation law resulting in death, serious illness, severe injury, or substantial property destruction
N/A
N/A
$232,762
$238,809.
49 U.S.C. 5123(a)(3)
Violation of hazardous materials transportation law relating to training
$601
$617
$99,756
$102,348.
49 U.S.C. 44704(d)(3)
Knowing presentation of a nonconforming aircraft for issuance of an initial airworthiness certificate by a production certificate holder
N/A
N/A
$1,181,581
$1,212, 278.
49 U.S.C. 44704(e)(4)
Knowing failure by an applicant for or holder of a type certificate to submit safety critical information or include certain such information in an airplane flight manual or flight crew operating manual
N/A
N/A
$1,181,581
$1,212,278.
49 U.S.C. 44704(e)(5)
Knowing false statement by an airline transport pilot (ATP) certificate holder with respect to the submission of certain safety critical information
N/A
N/A
See entries for 49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(1) and (a)(5)
See entries for 49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(1) and (a)(5).
49 U.S.C. 44742
Interference by a supervisory employee of an organization designation authorization (ODA) holder that manufactures a transport category airplane with an ODA unit member's performance of authorized functions
N/A
N/A
See entries for 49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(1)
See entries for 49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(1).
49 U.S.C. 44802 note
Operation of an unmanned aircraft or unmanned aircraft system equipped or armed with a dangerous weapon
N/A
N/A
$30,417
$31,207.
49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(1)
Violation by a person other than an individual or small business concern under 49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(1)(A) or (B)
N/A
N/A
$41,577
$75,000.
49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(1)
Violation by an airman serving as an airman under 49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(1)(A) or (B) (but not covered by 46301(a)(5)(A) or (B))
N/A
N/A
$1,828
$1,875.
49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(1)
Violation by an individual or small business concern under 49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(1)(A) or (B) (but not covered in 49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(5))
N/A
N/A
$1,828
$1,875.
49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(3)
Violation of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) (or any assurance made under such section) or 49 U.S.C. 47133
N/A
N/A
Increase above otherwise applicable maximum amount not to exceed 3 times the amount of revenues used in violation of such section
No change.
49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(5)(A)
Violation by an individual or small business concern (except an airman serving as an airman) under 49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(5)(A)(i) or (ii)
N/A
N/A
$16,630
$17,062.
49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(5)(B)(i)
Violation by an individual or small business concern related to the transportation of hazardous materials
N/A
N/A
$16,630
$17,062.
49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(5)(B)(ii)
Violation by an individual or small business concern related to the registration or recordation under 49 U.S.C. chapter 441, of an aircraft not used to provide air transportation
N/A
N/A
$16,630
$17,062.
49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(5)(B)(iii)
Violation by an individual or small business concern of 49 U.S.C. 44718(d), relating to limitation on construction or establishment of landfills
N/A
N/A
$16,630
$17,062.
49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(5)(B)(iv)
Violation by an individual or small business concern of 49 U.S.C. 44725, relating to the safe disposal of life-limited aircraft parts
N/A
N/A
$16,630
$17,062.
49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(8)
Violation of 49 U.S.C. 41707(a)(22), including any grant assurances made under that section
N/A
N/A
N/A
$5,000.
49 U.S.C. 46301 note
Individual who aims the beam of a laser pointer at an aircraft in the airspace jurisdiction of the United States, or at the flight path of such an aircraft
N/A
N/A
$31,819
$32,646.
49 U.S.C. 46301(b)
Tampering with a smoke alarm device
N/A
N/A
$5,339
$5,478.
49 U.S.C. 46302
Knowingly providing false information about alleged violation involving the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States
N/A
N/A
$28,995
$29,748.
49 U.S.C. 46318
Physical or sexual assault or threat to physically or sexually assault crewmember or other individual on an aircraft, or action that poses an imminent threat to the safety of the aircraft or individuals on board
N/A
N/A
$43,658
$44,792.
49 U.S.C. 46319
Permanent closure of an airport without providing sufficient notice
N/A
N/A
$16,630
$17,062.
49 U.S.C. 46320
Operating an unmanned aircraft and in so doing knowingly or recklessly interfering with a wildfire suppression, law enforcement, or emergency response effort
N/A
N/A
$25,455
$26,116.
49 U.S.C. 47531
Violation of 49 U.S.C. 47528-47530 or 47534, relating to the prohibition of operating certain aircraft not complying with stage 3 noise levels
N/A
N/A
See entries for 49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(1) and (a)(5)
See entries for 49 U.S.C. 46301(a)(1) and (a)(5).
[84 FR 37068, July 31, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 1753, Jan. 11, 2021; 86 FR 23249, May 3, 2021; 87 FR 15863, Mar. 21, 2022; 88 FR 1122, Jan. 6, 2023; 88 FR 6971, Feb. 2, 2023; 88 FR 89557, Dec. 28, 2023; 89 FR 106291, Dec. 30, 2024]

# Subpart I—Flight Operational Quality Assurance Programs
§ 13.401
Flight Operational Quality Assurance Program: Prohibition against use of data for enforcement purposes.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to any operator of an aircraft who operates such aircraft under an approved Flight Operational Quality Assurance (FOQA) program.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the terms—
(1)
Flight Operational Quality Assurance (FOQA) program
means an FAA-approved program for the routine collection and analysis of digital flight data gathered during aircraft operations, including data currently collected pursuant to existing regulatory provisions, when such data is included in an approved FOQA program.
(2)
FOQA data
means any digital flight data that has been collected from an individual aircraft pursuant to an FAA-approved FOQA program, regardless of the electronic format of that data.
(3)
Aggregate FOQA data
means the summary statistical indices that are associated with FOQA event categories, based on an analysis of FOQA data from multiple aircraft operations.
(c)
Requirements.
In order for paragraph (e) of this section to apply, the operator must submit, maintain, and adhere to a FOQA Implementation and Operation Plan that is approved by the Administrator and which contains the following elements:
(1) A description of the operator's plan for collecting and analyzing flight recorded data from line operations on a routine basis, including identification of the data to be collected;
(2) Procedures for taking corrective action that analysis of the data indicates is necessary in the interest of safety;
(3) Procedures for providing the FAA with aggregate FOQA data;
(4) Procedures for informing the FAA as to any corrective action being undertaken pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(d)
Submission of aggregate data.
The operator will provide the FAA with aggregate FOQA data in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator.
(e)
Enforcement.
Except for criminal or deliberate acts, the Administrator will not use an operator's FOQA data or aggregate FOQA data in an enforcement action against that operator or its employees when such FOQA data or aggregate FOQA data is obtained from a FOQA program that is approved by the Administrator.
(f)
Disclosure.
FOQA data and aggregate FOQA data, if submitted in accordance with an order designating the information as protected under part 193 of this chapter, will be afforded the nondisclosure protections of part 193 of this chapter.
(g)
Withdrawal of program approval.
The Administrator may withdraw approval of a previously approved FOQA program for failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter. Grounds for withdrawal of approval may include, but are not limited to—
(1) Failure to implement corrective action that analysis of available FOQA data indicates is necessary in the interest of safety; or
(2) Failure to correct a continuing pattern of violations following notice by the agency; or also
(3) Willful misconduct or willful violation of the FAA regulations in this chapter.
[Doc. No. FAA-2000-7554, 66 FR 55048, Oct. 31, 2001; Amdt. 13-30, 67 FR 31401, May 9, 2002]
Pt. 14

# PART 14—RULES IMPLEMENTING THE EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT OF 1980

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
14.01
Purpose of these rules.
14.02
Proceedings covered.
14.03
Eligibility of applicants.
14.04
Standards for awards.
14.05
Allowance fees and expenses.

# Subpart B—Information Required From Applicants
14.10
Contents of application.
14.11
Net worth exhibit.
14.12
Documentation of fees and expenses.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications
14.20
When an application may be filed.
14.21
Filing and service of documents.
14.22
Answer to application.
14.23
Reply.
14.24
Comments by other parties.
14.25
Settlement.
14.26
Further proceedings.
14.27
Decision.
14.28
Review by FAA decisionmaker.
14.29
Judicial review.
14.30
Payment of award.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 504; 49 U.S.C. 106(f), 40113, 46104 and 47122.

# Source:
Docket No. 25958, 54 FR 46199, Nov. 1, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 14.01
Purpose of these rules.
The Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504 (the Act), provides for the award of attorney fees and other expenses to eligible individuals and entities who are parties to certain administrative proceedings (adversary adjudications) before the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). An eligible party may receive an award when it prevails over the FAA, unless the agency's position in the proceeding was substantially justified or special circumstances make an award unjust. The rules in this part describe the parties eligible for awards and the proceedings that are covered. They also explain how to apply for awards, and the procedures and standards that the FAA Decisionmaker will use to make them. As used hereinafter, the term “agency” applies to the FAA.
§ 14.02
Proceedings covered.
(a) The Act applies to certain adversary adjudications conducted by the FAA under 49 CFR part 17 and the Acquisition Management System (AMS). These are adjudications under 5 U.S.C. 554, in which the position of the FAA is represented by an attorney or other representative who enters an appearance and participates in the proceeding. This subpart applies to proceedings under 49 U.S.C. 46301, 46302, and 46303 and to the Default Adjudicative Process under part 17 of this chapter and the AMS.
(b) If a proceeding includes both matters covered by the Act and matters specifically excluded from coverage, any award made will include only fees and expenses related to covered issues.
(c) Fees and other expenses may not be awarded to a party for any portion of the adversary adjudication in which such party has unreasonably protracted the proceedings.
[54 FR 46199, Nov. 1, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 14-03, 64 FR 32935, June 18, 1999]
§ 14.03
Eligibility of applicants.
(a) To be eligible for an award of attorney fees and other expenses under the Act, the applicant must be a party to the adversary adjudication for which it seeks an award. The term “party” is defined in 5 U.S.C. 504(b)(1)(B) and 5 U.S.C. 551(3). The applicant must show that it meets all conditions or eligibility set out in this subpart.
(b) The types of eligible applicants are as follows:
(1) An individual with a net worth of not more than $2 million at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated;
(2) The sole owner of an unincorporated business who has a net worth of not more than $7 million, including both personal and business interests, and not more than 500 employees at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated;
(3) A charitable or other tax-exempt organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) with not more than 500 employees at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated; and
(4) A cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)) with not more than 500 employees at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated; and
(5) Any other partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization with a net worth of not more than $7 million and not more than 500 employees at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated.
(c) For the purpose of eligibility, the net worth and number of employees of
an applicant shall be determined as of the date the proceeding was initiated.
(d) An applicant who owns an unincorporated business will be considered an “individual” rather than a “sole owner of an unincorporated business” if the issues on which the applicant prevails are related primarily to personal interests rather than to business interest.
(e) The employees of an applicant include all persons who regularly perform services for remuneration for the applicant, under the applicant's direction and control. Part-time employees shall be included on a proportional basis.
(f) The net worth and number of employees of the applicant and all of its affiliates shall be aggregated to determine eligibility. Any individual, corporation, or other entity that directly or indirectly controls or owns a majority of the voting shares or other interest of the applicant, or any corporation or other entity of which the applicant directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares or other interest, will be considered an affiliate for purposes of this part, unless the ALJ or adjudicative officer determines that such treatment would be unjust and contrary to the purposes of the Act in light of the actual relationship between the affiliated entities. In addition, the ALJ or adjudicative officer may determine that financial relationships of the applicant, other than those described in this paragraph, constitute special circumstances that would make an award unjust.
(g) An applicant that participates in a proceeding primarily on behalf of one or more other persons or entities that would be ineligible if not itself eligible for an award.
[54 FR 46199, Nov. 1, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 14-03, 64 FR 32935, June 18, 1999]
§ 14.04
Standards for awards.
(a) A prevailing applicant may receive an award for attorney fees and other expenses incurred in connection with a proceeding, or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, unless the position of the agency over which the applicant has prevailed was substantially justified. Whether or not the position of the FAA was substantially justified shall be determined on the basis of the record (including the record with respect to the action or failure to act by the agency upon which the civil action is based) which was made in the civil action for which fees and other expenses are sought. The burden of proof that an award should not be made to an eligible prevailing applicant is on the agency counsel, who may avoid an award by showing that the agency's position was reasonable in law and fact.
(b) An award will be reduced or denied if the applicant has unduly or unreasonably protracted the proceeding or if special circumstances make the award sought unjust.
§ 14.05
Allowance fees and expenses.
(a) Awards will be based on rates customarily charged by persons engaged in the business of acting as attorneys, agents, and expert witnesses, even if the services were made available without charge or at a reduced rate to the applicant.
(b) No award for the fee of an attorney or agent under this part may exceed $125 per hour, or such rate as prescribed by 5 U.S.C. 504. No award to compensate an expert witness may exceed the highest rate at which the agency pays expert witnesses. However, an award may also include the reasonable expenses of the attorney, agent, or witness as a separate item, if the attorney, agent, or witness ordinarily charges clients separately for such expenses.
(c) In determining the reasonableness of the fee sought for an attorney, agent, or expert witness, the ALJ or adjudicative officer shall consider the following:
(1) If the attorney, agent, or witness is in private practice, his or her customary fee for similar services, or if an employee of the applicant, the fully allocated cost of the services;
(2) The prevailing rate for similar services in the community in which the attorney, agent, or witness ordinarily performs services;
(3) The time actually spent in the representation of the applicant;
(4) The time reasonably spent in light of the difficulty or complexity of the issues in the proceeding; and
(5) Such other factors as may bear on the value of the services provided.
(d) The reasonable cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, project, or similar matter prepared on behalf of a party may be awarded, to the extent that the charge for the service does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar services, and the study or other matter was necessary for preparation of the applicant's case.
(e) Fees may be awarded only for work performed after the issuance of a complaint, or in the Default Adjudicative Process for a protest or contract dispute under part 17 of this chapter and the AMS.
[Amdt. 13-18, 53 FR 34655, Sept. 7, 1988, as amended by Amdt. 14-1, 55 FR 15131, Apr. 20, 1990; Amdt. 14-03, 64 FR 32935, June 18, 1999]

# Subpart B—Information Required From Applicants
§ 14.10
Contents of application.
(a) An application for an award of fees and expenses under the Act shall identify the applicant and the proceeding for which an award is sought. The application shall show that the applicant has prevailed and identify the position of the agency in the proceeding that the applicant alleges was not substantially justified. Unless the applicant is an individual, the application shall also state the number of employees of the applicant and describe briefly the type and purpose of its organization or business.
(b) The application shall also include a statement that the applicant's net worth does not exceed $2 million (if an individual) or $7 million (for all other applicants, including their affiliates) at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated. However, an applicant may omit this statement if:
(1) It attaches a copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)), or in the case of a tax-exempt organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status, a statement that describes the basis for the applicant's belief that it qualifies under such section; or
(2) It states that it is a cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)).
(c) The application shall state the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought.
(d) The application may also include any other matters that the applicant wishes this agency to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made.
(e) The application shall be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney for the applicant. It shall also contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application is true and correct.
(f) If the applicant is a partnership, corporation, association, organization, or sole owner of an unincorporated business, the application shall state that the applicant did not have more than 500 employees at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated, giving the number of its employees and describing briefly the type and purpose of its organization or business.
§ 14.11
Net worth exhibit.
(a) Each applicant except a qualified tax-exempt organization or cooperative association must provide with its application a detailed exhibit showing the net worth of the applicant and any affiliates when the proceeding was initiated. If any individual, corporation, or other entity directly or indirectly controls or owns a majority of the voting shares or other interest of the applicant, or if the applicant directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares or other interest of any corporation or other entity, the exhibit must include a showing of the net worth of all such affiliates or of the applicant including the affiliates. The exhibit may be in any form convenient to the applicant that provides full disclosure of the applicant's and its affiliates' assets and liabilities and is sufficient to determine whether the applicant qualifies under the standards in this part. The administrative law judge may require an applicant to file additional information to determine the eligibility for an award.
(b) The net worth exhibit shall describe any transfers of assets from, or obligations incurred by, the applicant or any affiliate, occurring in the one-year period prior to the date on which the proceeding was initiated, that reduced the net worth of the applicant and its affiliates below the applicable net worth ceiling. If there were no such transactions, the applicant shall so state.
(c) Ordinarily, the net worth exhibit will be included in the public record of the proceeding. However, an applicant that objects to public disclosure of the net worth exhibit, or any part of it, may submit that portion of the exhibit directly to the ALJ or adjudicative officer in a sealed envelope labeled “Confidential Financial Information,” accompanied by a motion to withhold the information.
(1) The motion shall describe the information sought to be withheld and explain, in detail, why it should be exempt under applicable law or regulation, why public disclosure would adversely affect the applicant, and why disclosure is not required in the public interest.
(2) The net worth exhibit shall be served on the FAA counsel, but need not be served on any other party to the proceeding.
(3) If the ALJ or adjudicative officer finds that the net worth exhibit, or any part of it, should not be withheld from disclosure, it shall be placed in the public record of the proceeding. Otherwise, any request to inspect or copy the exhibit shall be disposed of in accordance with the FAA's established procedures.
[54 FR 46199, Nov. 1, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 14-03, 64 FR 32935, June 18, 1999]
§ 14.12
Documentation of fees and expenses.
The application shall be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses, including the cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, project or similar matter, for which an award is sought. A separate itemized statement shall be submitted for each professional firm or individual whose services are covered by the application, showing the hours spent in connection with the proceedings by each individual, a description of the specific services performed, the rate at which each fee has been computed, any expenses for which reimbursement is sought, the total amount claimed, and the total amount paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided. The administrative law judge may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, or other substantiation for any expenses claimed.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications
§ 14.20
When an application may be filed.
(a) An application may be filed whenever the applicant has prevailed in the proceeding, but in no case later than 30 days after the FAA Decisionmaker's final disposition of the proceeding, or service of the order of the Administrator in a proceeding under the AMS.
(b) If review or reconsideration is sought or taken of a decision to which an applicant believes it has prevailed, proceedings for the award of fees shall be stayed pending final disposition of the underlying controversy.
(c) For purposes of this part, final disposition means the later of:
(1) Under part 17 of this chapter and the AMS, the date on which the order of the Administrator is served;
(2) The date on which an unappealed initial decision becomes administratively final;
(3) Issuance of an order disposing of any petitions for reconsideration of the FAA Decisionmaker's final order in the proceeding;
(4) If no petition for reconsideration is filed, the last date on which such a petition could have been filed; or
(5) Issuance of a final order or any other final resolution of a proceeding, such as a settlement or voluntary dismissal, which is not subject to a petition for reconsideration.
[54 FR 46199, Nov. 1, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 14-03, 64 FR 32936, June 18, 1999]
§ 14.21
Filing and service of documents.
Any application for an award or other pleading or document related to an application shall be filed and served
on all parties to the proceeding in the same manner as other pleadings in the proceeding, except as provided in § 14.11(b) for confidential financial information. Where the proceeding was held under part 17 of this chapter and the AMS, the application shall be filed with the FAA's attorney and with the Office of Dispute Resolution for Acquisition.
[Doc. No. FAA-1998-4379, 64 FR 32936, June 18, 1999]
§ 14.22
Answer to application.
(a) Within 30 days after service of an application, counsel representing the agency against which an award is sought may file an answer to the application. Unless agency counsel requests an extension of time for filing or files a statement of intent to negotiate under paragraph (b) of the section, failure to file an answer within the 30-day period may be treated as a consent to the award requested.
(b) If the FAA's counsel and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate a settlement. The filing of this statement shall extend the time for filing an answer for an additional 30 days, and further extensions may be granted by the ALJ or adjudicative officer upon request by the FAA's counsel and the applicant.
(c) The answer shall explain in detail any objections to the award requested and identify the facts relied on in support of agency counsel's position. If the answer is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, agency counsel shall include with the answer either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 14.26.
[54 FR 46199, Nov. 1, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 14-03, 64 FR 32936, June 18, 1999]
§ 14.23
Reply.
Within 15 days after service of an answer, the applicant may file a reply. If the reply is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, the applicant shall include with the reply either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 14.26.
§ 14.24
Comments by other parties.
Any party to a proceeding other than the applicant and the FAA's counsel may file comments on an application within 30 days after it is served, or on an answer within 15 days after it is served. A commenting party may not participate further in proceedings on the application unless the ALJ or adjudicative officer determines that the public interest requires such participation in order to permit full exploration of matters raised in the comments.
[Doc. No. FAA-1998-4379, 64 FR 32936, June 18, 1999]
§ 14.25
Settlement.
The applicant and agency counsel may agree on a proposed settlement of the award before final action on the application, either in connection with a settlement of the underlying proceeding, or after the underlying proceeding has been concluded. If a prevailing party and agency counsel agree on a proposed settlement of an award before an application has been filed, the application shall be filed with the proposed settlement.
§ 14.26
Further proceedings.
(a) Ordinarily the determination of an award will be made on the basis of the written record; however, on request of either the applicant or agency counsel, or on his or her own initiative, the ALJ or adjudicative officer assigned to the matter may order further proceedings, such as an informal conference, oral argument, additional written submissions, or an evidentiary hearing. Such further proceedings shall be held only when necessary for full and fair resolution of the issues arising from the application and shall be conducted as promptly as possible.
(b) A request that the administrative law judge order further proceedings under this section shall specifically identify the information sought or the disputed issues and shall explain why the additional proceedings are necessary to resolve the issues.
[54 FR 46199, Nov. 1, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 14-03, 64 FR 32936, June 18, 1999]
§ 14.27
Decision.
(a) The ALJ shall issue an initial decision on the application within 60 days after completion of proceedings on the application.
(b) An adjudicative officer in a proceeding under part 17 of this chapter and the AMS shall prepare a findings and recommendations for the Office of Dispute Resolution for Acquisition.
(c) A decision under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall include written findings and conclusions on the applicant's eligibility and status as prevailing party and an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount awarded. The decision shall also include, if at issue, findings on whether the FAA's position was substantially justified, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust.
[Doc. No. FAA-1998-4379, 64 FR 32936, June 18, 1999]
§ 14.28
Review by FAA decisionmaker.
(a) In proceedings other than those under part 17 of this chapter and the AMS, either the applicant or the FAA counsel may seek review of the initial decision on the fee application in accordance with subpart G of part 13 of this chapter, specifically § 13.233. Additionally, the FAA Decisionmaker may decide to review the decision on his/her own initiative. If neither the applicant nor the FAA's counsel seeks review within 30 days after the decision is issued, it shall become final. Whether to review a decision is a matter within the discretion of the FAA Decisionmaker. If review is taken, the FAA Decisionmaker will issue a final decision on the application or remand the application to the ALJ who issue the initial fee award determination for further proceedings.
(b) In proceedings under part 17 of this chapter and the AMS, the adjudicative officer shall prepare findings and recommendations for the Office of Dispute Resolution for Acquisition with recommendations as to whether or not an award should be made, the amount of the award, and the reasons therefor. The Office of Dispute Resolution for Acquisition shall submit a recommended order to the Administrator after the completion of all submissions related to the EAJA application. Upon the Administrator's action, the order shall become final, and may be reviewed under 49 U.S.C. 46110.
[Doc. No. FAA-1998-4379, 64 FR 32936, June 18, 1999, as amended at 70 FR 8238, Feb. 18, 2005]
§ 14.29
Judicial review.
If an applicant is dissatisfied with the determination of fees and other expenses made under this subsection, pursuant 5 U.S.C. 504(c)(2), that applicant may, within thirty (30) days after the determination is made, appeal the determination to the court of the United States having jurisdiction to review the merits of the underlying decision of the FAA adversary adjudication. The court's determination on any appeal heard under this paragraph shall be based solely on the factual record made before the FAA. The court may modify the determination of fees and other expenses only if the court finds that the failure to make an award of fees and other expenses, or the calculation of the amount of the award, was unsupported by substantial evidence.
§ 14.30
Payment of award.
An applicant seeking payment of an award shall submit to the disbursing official of the FAA a copy of the FAA Decisionmaker's final decision granting the award, accompanied by a statement that the applicant will not seek review of the decision in the United States courts. Applications for award grants in cases involving the FAA shall be sent to: The Office of Accounting and Audit, AAA-1, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591. The agency will pay the amount awarded to the applicant within 60 days, unless judicial review of the award or of the underlying decision of the adversary adjudication has been sought by the applicant or any other party to the proceeding.
Pt. 15

# PART 15—ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT

# Subpart A—General Procedures
Sec.
15.1
Scope of regulations.
15.3
Administrative claim, when presented; appropriate office.
15.5
Administrative claim, who may file.
15.7
Administrative claims; evidence and information to be submitted.
15.9
Investigation and examination.

# Subpart B—Indemnification Under Section 1118 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958
15.101
Applicability.
15.103
Exclusions.
15.105
Filing of requests for indemnification.
15.107
Notification requirements.
15.109
Settlements.
15.111
Conduct of litigation.
15.113
Indemnification agreements.
15.115
Payment.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 28 U.S.C. 2672, 2675; 49 U.S.C. 106(g), 40113, 44721.

# Subpart A—General Procedures

# Source:
Docket No. 25264, 52 FR 18171, May 13, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 15.1
Scope of regulations.
(a) These regulations apply to claims asserted under the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended, for money damages against the United States for injury to, or loss of property, or for personal injury or death, caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the FAA acting within the scope of office or employment. The regulations in this part supplement the Attorney General's regulations in 28 CFR part 14, as amended. The regulations in 28 CFR part 14, as amended, and the regulations in this part apply to consideration by the FAA of administrative claims under the Federal Tort Claims Act.
§ 15.3
Administrative claim, when presented; appropriate office.
(a) A claim is deemed to have been presented when the FAA receives, at a place designated in paragraph (b) of this section, an executed Standard Form 95 or other written notification of an incident, accompanied by a claim for money damages in a sum certain for injury to, or loss of, property or for personal injury or death, alleged to have occurred by reason of the incident. A claim which should have been presented to the FAA but which was mistakenly filed with another Federal agency, is deemed presented to the FAA on the date the claim is received by the FAA at a place designated in paragraph (b) of this section. A claim addressed to, or filed with, the FAA by mistake will be transferred to the appropriate Federal agency, if that agency can be determined, or returned to the claimant.
(b) Claims shall be delivered or mailed to the Assistant Chief Counsel, Litigation Division, AGC-400, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, or alternatively, may be mailed or delivered to the Regional Counsel in any of the FAA Regional Offices or the Assistant Chief Counsel, Europe, Africa, and Middle East Area Office.
(c) Claim forms are available at each location listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) A claim presented in accordance with this section may be amended by the claimant at any time prior to final FAA action or prior to the exercise of the claimant's option, under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a), to deem the agency's failure to make a final disposition of his or her claim within 6 months after it was filed as a final denial. Each amendment to a claim shall be submitted in writing and signed by the claimant or the claimant's duly authorized agent or legal representative. Upon the timely filing of an amendment to a pending claim, the FAA has 6 months thereafter in which to make a final disposition of the claim as amended, and the claimant's option under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a) does not accrue until 6 months after the filing of the amendment.
[Doc. No. 18884, 44 FR 63723, Nov. 5, 1979, as amended by Amdt. 15-1, 54 FR 39290, Sept. 25, 1989; Amdt. 15-4, 62 FR 46866, Sept. 4, 1997]
§ 15.5
Administrative claim, who may file.
(a) A claim for injury to, or loss of, property may be presented by the owner of the property interest which is
the subject of the claim or by the owner's duly authorized agent or legal representative.
(b) A claim for personal injury may be presented by the injured person or that person's duly authorized agent or legal representative.
(c) A claim based on death may be presented by the executor or administrator of the decedent's estate or by any other person legally entitled to assert such a claim under applicable State law.
(d) A claim for loss wholly compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer. A claim for loss partially compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer or the insured individually, as their respective interest appear, or jointly. Whenever an insurer presents a claim asserting the rights of a subrogee, it shall present with its claim appropriate evidence that it has the rights of a subrogee.
(e) A claim presented by an agent or legal representative shall be presented in the name of the claimant, be signed by the agent or legal representative, show the title or legal capacity of the person signing, and be accompanied by evidence of authority to present a claim on behalf of the claimant as agent, executor, administrator, parent, guardian, or other representative.
§ 15.7
Administrative claims; evidence and information to be submitted.
(a)
Death.
In support of a claim based on death, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:
(1) An authenticated death certificate or other competent evidence showing cause of death, date of death, and age of the decedent.
(2) The decedent's employment or occupation at time of death, including monthly or yearly salary or earnings (if any), and the duration of last employment or occupation.
(3) Full names, addresses, birth dates, kinship, and marital status of the decedent's survivors, including identification of those survivors who were dependent for support upon the decedent at the time of death.
(4) Degree of support afforded by the decedent to each survivor dependent upon decedent for support at the time of death.
(5) Decedent's general, physical, and mental conditions before death.
(6) Itemized bills for medical and burial expenses incurred by reason of the incident causing death or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.
(7) If damages for pain and suffering prior to death are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, any drugs administered for pain, and the decedent's physical condition in the interval between injury and death.
(8) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the death or the amount of damages claimed.
(b)
Personal injury.
In support of a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:
(1) A written report by the attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injuries, nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability, the prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity.
(2) In addition to the report required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the claimant may be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed by the FAA or another Federal agency. A copy of the report of the examining physician is made available to the claimant upon the claimant's written request if the claimant has, upon request, furnished the report required by paragraph (b)(1), and has made or agrees to make available to the FAA any other physician's reports previously or thereafter made on the physical or mental condition which is the subject matter of the claim.
(3) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.
(4) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement
of expected expenses for such treatment.
(5) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from the claimant's employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether the claimant is a full or part-time employee, and wages or salary actually lost.
(6) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings actually lost.
(7) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
(c)
Property damage.
In support of a claim for injury to or loss of property, real or personal, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:
(1) Proof of ownership of the property interest which is the subject of the claim.
(2) A detailed statement of the amount claimed with respect to each item of property.
(3) An itemized receipt of payment for necessary repairs or itemized written estimates of the cost of such repairs.
(4) A statement listing date of purchase, purchase price, and salvage value, where repair is not economical.
(5) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the injury to or loss of property or the damages claimed.
§ 15.9
Investigation and examination.
The FAA may investigate a claim or conduct a physical examination of a claimant. The FAA may request any other Federal agency to investigate a claim or conduct a physical examination of a claimant and provide a report of the investigation or examination to the FAA.

# Subpart B—Indemnification Under Section 1118 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958

# Source:
Amdt. 15-2, 55 FR 18710, May 3, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 15.101
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes procedural requirements for the indemnification of a publisher of aeronautical charts or maps under section 1118 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended, when the publisher incurs liability as a result of publishing—
(a) A chart or map accurately depicting a defective or deficient flight procedure or airway that was promulgated by the FAA; or
(b) Aeronautical data that—
(1) Is visually displayed in the cockpit of an aircraft; and
(2) When visually displayed, accurately depicts a defective or deficient flight procedure or airway promulgated by the FAA.
§ 15.103
Exclusions.
A publisher that requests indemnification under this part will not be indemnified if—
(a) The complaint filed against the publisher, or demand for payment against the publisher, first occurred before December 19, 1985;
(b) The publisher does not negotiate a good faith settlement;
(c) The publisher does not conduct a good faith defense;
(d) The defective or deficient flight procedure or airway—
(1) Was not promulgated by the FAA;
(2) Was not accurately depicted on the publisher's chart or map;
(3) Was not accurately displayed on a visual display in the cockpit, or
(4) Was obviously defective or deficient;
(e) The publisher does not give notice as required by § 15.107 of this part and that failure is prejudicial to the Government; or
(f) The publisher does not appeal a lower court's decision pursuant to a request by the Administrator under § 15.111(d)(2) of this part.
§ 15.105
Filing of requests for indemnification.
A request for indemnification under this part—
(a) May be filed by—
(1) A publisher described in § 15.101 of this part; or
(2) The publisher's duly authorized agent or legal representative;
(b) Shall be filed with the Chief Counsel, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591; and
(c) Shall state the basis for the publisher's assertion that indemnification under this part is required.
§ 15.107
Notification requirements.
A request for indemnification will not be considered by the FAA unless the following conditions are met:
(a) The publisher must notify the Chief Counsel of the FAA, within the time limits prescribed in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, of the publisher's first receipt of a demand for payment, or service of a complaint in any proceeding, federal or state, in which it appears that indemnification under this part may be required.
(b) For each complaint filed, or demand for payment made, on or after December 19, 1985, and before June 4, 1990, the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section must be received by the FAA on or before July 2, 1990.
(c) For each complaint filed, or demand for payment made, on or after June 4, 1990, the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section must be received by the FAA within 60 days after the day the publisher first receives the demand for payment or service of the complaint.
(d) Within 5 days after the day a judgment is rendered against the publisher in any proceeding, or within 30 days of the denial of an appeal, whichever is later, the publisher must notify the FAA Chief Counsel that—
(1) There is an adverse judgment against the publisher; and
(2) The publisher has a claim for indemnification against the FAA arising out of that judgment.
§ 15.109
Settlements.
(a) A publisher may not settle a claim with another party, for which the publisher has sought, or intends to seek, indemnification under this part, unless—
(1) The publisher submits a copy of the proposed settlement, and a statement justifying the settlement, to the Chief Counsel of the FAA; and
(2) The Administrator and where necessary, the appropriate official of the Department of Justice, approves the proposed settlement.
(3) The publisher submits a signed release that clearly releases the United States from any further liability to the publisher and the claimant.
(b) If the Administrator does not approve the proposed settlement, the Administrator will—
(1) So notify the publisher by registered mail within 60 days of receipt of the proposed settlement; and
(2) Explain why the request for indemnification was not approved.
(c) If the Administrator approves the proposed settlement, the Administrator will so notify the publisher by registered mail within 60 days after the FAA's receipt of the proposed settlement.
(d) If the Administrator does not have sufficient information to approve or disapprove the proposed settlement, the Administrator will request, within 60 days after receipt of the proposed settlement, the additional information needed to make a determination.
§ 15.111
Conduct of litigation.
(a) If a lawsuit is filed against the publisher and the publisher has sought, or intends to seek, indemnification under this part, the publisher shall—
(1) Give notice as required by § 15.107 of this part;
(2) If requested by the United States—
(i) Implead the United States as a third-party defendant in the action; and
(ii) Arrange for the removal of the action to Federal Court;
(3) Promptly provide any additional information requested by the United States; and
(4) Cooperate with the United States in the defense of the lawsuit.
(b) If the lawsuit filed against the publisher results in a proposed settlement, the publisher shall submit that proposed settlement to the FAA for approval in accordance with § 15.109 of this part.
(c) If the lawsuit filed against the publisher results in a judgment against the publisher and the publisher has sought, or intends to seek, indemnification under this part as a result of
the adverse judgment, the publisher shall—
(1) Give notice to the FAA as required by § 15.107(d) of this part;
(2) Submit a copy of the trial court's decision to the FAA Chief Counsel not more than 5 business days after the adverse judgment is rendered; and
(3) If an appeal is taken from the adverse judgment, submit a copy of the appellate decision to the FAA Chief Counsel not more than 30 days after that decision is rendered.
(d) Within 60 days after receipt of the trial court's decision, the Administrator by registered mail will—
(1) Notify the publisher that indemnification is required under this part;
(2) Request that the publisher appeal the trial court's adverse decision; or
(3) Notify the publisher that it is not entitled to indemnification under this part and briefly state the basis for the denial.
§ 15.113
Indemnification agreements.
(a) Upon a finding of the Administrator that indemnification is required under this part, and after obtaining the concurrence of the United States Department of Justice, the FAA will promptly enter into an indemnification agreement providing for the payment of the costs specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) The indemnification agreement will be signed by the Chief Counsel and the publisher.
(c) The FAA will indemnify the publisher for—
(1) Compensatory damages awarded by the court against the publisher;
(2) Reasonable costs and fees, including reasonable attorney fees at a rate not to exceed that permitted under the Equal Access to Justice Act (5 U.S.C. 504), and any postjudgment interest, if the publisher conducts a good faith defense, or pursues a good faith appeal, at the request, or with the concurrence, of the FAA.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the FAA will not indemnify the publisher for—
(1) Punitive or exemplary damages;
(2) Civil or criminal fines or any other litigation sanctions;
(3) Postjudgment interest;
(4) Costs;
(5) Attorney fees; or
(6) Other incidental expenses.
(e) The indemnification agreement must provide that the Government will be subrogated to all claims or rights of the publisher, including third-party claims, cross-claims, and counterclaims.
§ 15.115
Payment.
After execution of the indemnification agreement, the FAA will submit the agreement to the United States Department of Justice and request payment, in accordance with the agreement, from the Judgment Fund.
Pt. 16

# PART 16—RULES OF PRACTICE FOR FEDERALLY-ASSISTED AIRPORT ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
16.1
Applicability and description of part.
16.3
Definitions.
16.5
Separation of functions.

# Subpart B—General Rules Applicable to Complaints, Proceedings Initiated by the FAA, and Appeals
16.11
General processes.
16.13
Filing of documents.
16.15
Service of documents on the parties and the agency.
16.17
Computation of time.
16.19
Motions.

# Subpart C—Special Rules Applicable to Complaints
16.21
Pre-complaint resolution.
16.23
Pleadings.
16.25
Dismissals.
16.26
Motions to dismiss and motions for summary judgment.
16.27
Incomplete complaints.
16.29
Investigations.
16.31
Director's determinations after investigations.
16.33
Final decisions without hearing.
16.34
Consent orders.

# Subpart D—Special Rules Applicable to Proceedings Initiated by the FAA
16.101
Basis for the initiation of agency action.
16.103
Notice of investigation.
16.105
Failure to resolve informally.

# Subpart E—Proposed Orders of Compliance
16.109
Orders terminating eligibility for grants, cease and desist orders, and other compliance orders.

# Subpart F—Hearings
16.201
Notice and order of hearing.
16.202
Powers of a hearing officer.
16.203
Appearances, parties, and rights of parties.
16.207
Intervention and other participation.
16.209
Extension of time.
16.211
Prehearing conference.
16.213
Discovery.
16.215
Depositions.
16.217
Witnesses.
16.219
Subpoenas.
16.221
Witness fees.
16.223
Evidence.
16.225
Public disclosure of evidence.
16.227
Standard of proof.
16.229
Burden of proof.
16.231
Offer of proof.
16.233
Record.
16.235
Argument before the hearing officer.
16.237
Waiver of procedures.
16.241
Initial decisions, orders, and appeals.
16.243
Consent orders.
16.245
Associate Administrator review after a hearing.

# Subpart G—Judicial Review
16.247
Judicial review of a final decision and order.

# Subpart H—Ex Parte Communications
16.301
Prohibited ex parte communications.
16.303
Procedures for handling ex parte communications.
16.305
Requirement to show cause and imposition of sanction.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(g), 322, 1110, 1111, 1115, 1116, 1718(a) and (b), 1719, 1723, 1726, 1727, 40103(e), 40113, 40116, 44502(b), 46101, 46104, 46110, 47104, 47106(e), 47107, 47108, 47111(d), 47122, 47123-47125, 47133, 47151-47153, 48103.

# Source:
Docket No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 16.1
Applicability and description of part.
(a)
General.
The provisions of this part govern all Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) proceedings involving Federally-assisted airports, except for complaints or requests for determination filed with the Secretary under 14 CFR part 302, whether the proceedings are instituted by order of the FAA or by filing a complaint with the FAA under the following authorities:
(1) 49 U.S.C. 40103(e), prohibiting the grant of exclusive rights for the use of any landing area or air navigation facility on which Federal funds have been expended (formerly section 308 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended).
(2) Requirements of the Anti-Head Tax Act, 49 U.S.C. 40116.
(3) The assurances and other Federal obligations contained in grant-in-aid agreements issued under the Federal Airport Act of 1946, 49 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.
(repealed 1970).
(4) The assurances and other Federal obligations contained in grant-in-aid agreements issued under the Airport and Airway Development Act of 1970, as amended, 49 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
(5) The assurances and other Federal obligations contained in grant-in-aid agreements issued under the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 (AAIA), as amended and recodified, 49 U.S.C. 47101
et seq.,
specifically section 511(a), 49 U.S.C. 47107, and 49 U.S.C. 47133.
(6) Section 505(d) of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982, and the requirements concerning civil rights and/or Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) issues contained in 49 U.S.C. 47107(e) and 49 U.S.C. 47113; 49 U.S.C. 47123; 49 U.S.C. 322, as amended; 49 CFR parts 23 and/or 26; and/or grant assurance 30 and/or grant assurance 37.
(7) Obligations contained in property deeds for property transferred pursuant to section 16 of the Federal Airport Act (49 U.S.C. 1115), section 23 of the Airport and Airway Development Act (49 U.S.C. 1723), or section 516 of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act (49 U.S.C. 47125).
(8) Obligations contained in property deeds for property transferred under the Surplus Property Act (49 U.S.C. 47151-47153).
(b)
Other agencies.
Where a grant assurance concerns a statute, executive order, regulation, or other authority that provides an administrative process for the investigation or adjudication of complaints by a Federal agency other than the FAA, persons shall use the administrative process established
by those authorities. Where a grant assurance concerns a statute, executive order, regulation, or other authority that enables a Federal agency other than the FAA to investigate, adjudicate, and enforce compliance under those authorities on its own initiative, the FAA may defer to that Federal agency.
(c)
Other enforcement.
If a complaint or action initiated by the FAA involves a violation of the 49 U.S.C. subtitle VII or FAA regulations, except as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, the FAA may take investigative and enforcement action under 14 CFR part 13, “Investigative and Enforcement Procedures.”
(d)
Effective date.
This part applies to a complaint filed with the FAA and to an investigation initiated by the FAA on or after December 16, 1996.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56141, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.3
Definitions.
Terms defined in the Acts are used as so defined. As used in this part:
Act
means a statute listed in § 16.1 and any regulation, agreement, or document of conveyance issued or made under that statute.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the FAA.
Agency
means the FAA.
Agency attorney
means the Deputy Chief Counsel; the Assistant Chief Counsel and attorneys in the Airports/Environmental Law Division of the Office of the Chief Counsel; the Assistant Chief Counsel and attorneys in an FAA region or center who represent the FAA during the investigation of a complaint or at a hearing on a complaint, and who prosecute on behalf of the FAA, as appropriate. An agency attorney shall not include the Chief Counsel; the Assistant Chief Counsel for Litigation, or any attorney on the staff of the Assistant Chief Counsel for Litigation, who advises the Associate Administrator regarding an initial decision of the hearing officer or any appeal to the Associate Administrator or who is supervised in that action by a person who provides such advice in an action covered by this part.
Agency employee
means any employee of the FAA.
Associate Administrator
means the FAA Associate Administrator for Airports or a designee. For the purposes of this part only, Associate Administrator also means the Assistant Administrator for Civil Rights or a designee for complaints that the FAA Associate Administrator for Airports transfers to the Assistant Administrator for Civil Rights.
Complainant
means the person submitting a complaint.
Complaint
means a written document meeting the requirements of this part and filed under this part:
(1) By a person directly and substantially affected by anything allegedly done or omitted to be done by any person in contravention of any provision of any Act, as defined in this section, as to matters within the jurisdiction of the Administrator, or
(2) By a person under 49 CFR 26.105(c) against a recipient of FAA funds alleged to have violated a provision of 49 CFR parts 23 and/or 26.
Decisional employee
means the Administrator, Deputy Administrator, Associate Administrator, Director, hearing officer, or other FAA employee who is or who may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the proceeding.
Director
means the Director of the FAA Office of Airport Compliance and Management Analysis, or a designee. For the purposes of this part only, Director also means the Deputy Assistant Administrator for Civil Rights for complaints that the Director of the FAA Office of Airport Compliance and Management Analysis transfers to the Deputy Assistant Administrator for Civil Rights or designee.
Electronic filing
means the process of sending electronic mail (email) to the FAA Part 16 Docket Clerk, with scanned documents attached, as a Portable Document Format (PDF) file.
Ex parte communication
means an oral or written communication not on the public record with respect to which reasonable prior notice to all parties is not given, but it shall not include requests for status reports on any matter or proceeding covered by this part, or
communications between FAA employees who participate as parties to a hearing pursuant to 16.203(b) of this part and other parties to a hearing.
Hearing officer
means an attorney designated by the Deputy Chief Counsel in a hearing order to serve as a hearing officer in a hearing under this part. The following are not designated as hearing officers: the Chief Counsel and Deputy Chief Counsel; the Regional or Center Counsel and attorneys in the FAA region or center in which the noncompliance has allegedly occurred or is occurring; the Assistant Chief Counsel and attorneys in the Airports and Environmental Law Division of the FAA Office of the Chief Counsel; and the Assistant Chief Counsel and attorneys in the Litigation Division of the FAA Office of Chief Counsel.
Initial decision
means a decision made by the hearing officer in a hearing under subpart F of this part.
Mail
means U.S. first class mail; U.S. certified mail; and U.S. express mail. Unless otherwise noted, mail also means electronic mail containing PDF copies of pleadings or documents required herein.
Noncompliance
means anything done or omitted to be done by any person in contravention of any provision of any Act, as defined in this section, as to matters within the jurisdiction of the Administrator.
Party
means the complainant(s) and the respondent(s) named in the complaint and, after an initial determination providing an opportunity for hearing is issued under § 16.31 and subpart E of this part, the agency.
Person
in addition to its meaning under 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(33), includes a public agency as defined in 49 U.S.C. 47102(a)(15).
Personal delivery
means same-day hand delivery or overnight express delivery service.
Respondent
means any person named in a complaint as a person responsible for noncompliance.
Sponsor
means:
(1) Any public agency which, either individually or jointly with one or more other public agencies, has received Federal financial assistance for airport development or planning under the Federal Airport Act, Airport and Airway Development Act or Airport and Airway Improvement Act;
(2) Any private owner of a public-use airport that has received financial assistance from the FAA for such airport; and
(3) Any person to whom the Federal Government has conveyed property for airport purposes under section 13(g) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended.
Writing or written
includes paper documents that are filed and/or served by mail, personal delivery, facsimile, or email (as attached PDF files).
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56141, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.5
Separation of functions.
(a) Proceedings under this part, including hearings under subpart F of this part, will be prosecuted by an agency attorney.
(b) After issuance of an initial determination in which the FAA provides the opportunity for a hearing, an agency employee engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecutorial functions in a proceeding under this part will not, in that case or a factually related case, participate or give advice in an initial decision by the hearing officer, or a final decision by the Associate Administrator or designee on written appeal, and will not, except as counsel or as witness in the public proceedings, engage in any substantive communication regarding that case or a related case with the hearing officer, the Associate Administrator on written appeal, or agency employees advising those officials in that capacity.
(c) The Chief Counsel, the Assistant Chief Counsel for Litigation, or an attorney on the staff of the Assistant Chief Counsel for Litigation advises the Associate Administrator regarding an initial decision, an appeal, or a final decision regarding any case brought under this part.

# Subpart B—General Rules Applicable to Complaints, Proceedings Initiated by the FAA, and Appeals
§ 16.11
General processes.
(a) Under the authority of 49 U.S.C. 40113 and 47121, the Director may conduct investigations, issue orders, and take such other actions as are necessary to fulfill the purposes of this part. This includes the extension of any time period prescribed, where necessary or appropriate for a fair and complete consideration of matters before the agency, prior to issuance of the Director's Determination.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, upon finding that circumstances require expedited handling of a particular case or controversy, the Director may issue an order directing any of the following prior to the issuance of the Director's Determination:
(1) Shortening the time period for any action under this part consistent with due process;
(2) If other adequate opportunity to respond to pleadings is available, eliminating the reply, rebuttal, or other actions prescribed by this part;
(3) Designating alternative methods of service; or
(4) Directing such other measures as may be required.
(c) Other than those matters concerning a Corrective Action Plan, the jurisdiction of the Director terminates upon the issuance of the Director's Determination. All matters arising during the appeal period, such as requests for extension of time to make an appeal, will be addressed by the Associate Administrator.
(d) The Director may transfer to the FAA Deputy Assistant Administrator for Civil Rights or Office of Civil Rights designee the authority to prepare and issue Director's Determinations pursuant to § 16.31 for complaints alleging violations of section 505(d) of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982, and the requirements concerning civil rights and/or Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) issues contained in 49 U.S.C. 47107(e) and 49 U.S.C. 47113; 49 U.S.C. 47123; 49 U.S.C. 322, as amended; 49 CFR parts 23 and/or 26; and/or grant assurance 30 and/or grant assurance 37.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56142, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.13
Filing of documents.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, documents shall be filed with the FAA during a proceeding under this part as follows:
(a)
Filing address.
Documents filed under this Part shall be filed with the Office of the Chief Counsel, Attention: FAA Part 16 Docket Clerk, AGC-600, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591. Documents to be filed with a hearing officer shall be filed at the address and in the manner stated in the hearing order.
(b)
Date and method of filing.
Filing of any document shall be by personal delivery or mail as defined in this part, by facsimile (when confirmed by filing on the same date by one of the foregoing methods), or electronically as set forth in paragraph (h) of this section. Unless the date is shown to be inaccurate, documents filed with the FAA shall be deemed to be filed on the date of personal delivery, on the mailing date shown on the certificate of service, on the date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service, on the send date shown on the facsimile (provided filing has been confirmed through one of the foregoing methods), or on the mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service and no postmark. Unless the date is shown to be inaccurate, documents filed electronically shall be deemed to be filed on the date shown on the certificate of service or, if none, the date of electronic transmission to the last party required to be served.
(c)
Number of copies.
With the exception of electronic filing or unless otherwise specified, an executed original and three copies of each document shall be filed with the FAA Part 16 Docket Clerk. One of the three copies shall not be stapled, bound or hole-punched. Copies need not be signed, but the name of the person signing the original shall be shown. If a hearing order has been issued in the case, one of the three copies shall be filed with
the hearing officer unless otherwise prescribed by the hearing officer.
(d)
Form.
Documents filed under this part shall:
(1) Be typewritten or legibly printed;
(2) Include, in the case of docketed proceedings, the docket number of the proceeding on the front page; and
(3) Be marked to identify personal, privileged or proprietary information. Decisions for the publication and release of these documents will be made in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552 and 49 CFR part 7.
(e)
Signing of documents and other papers.
The original of every document filed shall be signed by the person filing it or the person's duly authorized representative. The signature shall serve as a certification that the signer has read the document and, based on reasonable inquiry and to the best of the signer's knowledge, information, and belief, the document is—
(1) Consistent with this part;
(2) Warranted by existing law or that a good faith argument exists for extension, modification, or reversal of existing law; and
(3) Not interposed for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of the administrative process.
(f)
Designation of person to receive service.
The initial document filed by any person shall state on the first page the name, physical address, telephone number, facsimile number, if any, and email address, if filing electronically, of the person(s) to be served with documents in the proceeding. If any of these items change during the proceeding, the person shall promptly file notice of the change with the FAA Part 16 Docket Clerk and the hearing officer and shall serve the notice on all parties.
(g)
Docket numbers.
Each submission identified as a complaint under this part by the submitting person will be assigned a docket number.
(h)
Electronic filing.
(1) The initial complaint may be served electronically upon the respondent only if the respondent has previously agreed with the complainant in writing to participate in electronic filing. Documents may be filed under this Part electronically by sending an email containing (an) attachment(s) of (a) PDF file(s) of the required pleading to the FAA Docket Clerk, and the person designated in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(2) The subject line of the email must contain the names of the complainant and respondent, and must contain the FAA docket number (if assigned). The size of each email must be less than 10 MB. Email attachments containing executable files (e.g., .exe and .vbs files) will not be accepted.
(3) The email address at which the parties may file the documents described in this section is
9-AWA-AGC-Part-16@faa.gov.
No acknowledgement or receipt will be provided by the FAA to parties using this method. A party filing electronically as described in this section must provide to the FAA Part 16 Docket Clerk and the opposing party an email address of the person designated by the party to receive pleadings.
(4) By filing a pleading or document electronically as described in this section, a party waives the rights under this part for service by the opposing party and the FAA by methods other than email. If a party subsequently decides to “opt-out” of electronic filing, that party must so notify the FAA Part 16 Docket Clerk and the other party in writing, from which time the FAA and the parties will begin serving the opting-out party in accordance with §§ 16.13 and 16.15. This subsection only exempts the parties from the filing and service requirements in § 16.13(a) (with the exception that “Documents to be filed with a hearing officer shall be filed at the address and in the manner stated in the hearing order.”), the method of filing requirements in § 16.13(b), and the number of documents requirements in § 16.13(c).
(i)
Internet accessibility of documents filed in the Hearing Docket.
(1) Unless protected from public disclosure, all documents filed in the Hearing Docket are accessible through the Federal Docket Management System (FDMS):
http://www.regulations.gov.
To access a particular case file, use the FDMS number assigned to the case.
(2) Determinations issued by the Director and Associate Administrator in
Part 16 cases, indexes of decisions, contact information for the FAA Hearing Docket, the rules of practice, and other information are available on the FAA Office of Airports' Web site at:
http://part16.airports.faa.gov/index.cfm.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56142, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.15
Service of documents on the parties and the agency.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, documents shall be served as follows:
(a)
Whom must be served.
Copies of all documents filed with the FAA Part 16 Docket Clerk shall be served by the persons filing them on all parties to the proceeding. A certificate of service shall accompany all documents when they are tendered for filing and shall certify concurrent service on the FAA and all parties. Certificates of service shall be in substantially the following form:
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing [name of document] on the following persons at the following addresses, facsimile numbers (if also served by facsimile), or email address (if served electronically in accordance with § 16.13(h)), by [specify method of service]:
[list persons, addresses, facsimile numbers, email addresses (as applicable)]
Dated this _day of _, 20_.
[signature], for [party]
(b) Method of service. Except as otherwise agreed by the parties and, if applicable, the hearing officer, the method of service is the same as set forth in § 16.13(b) for filing documents.
(c)
Where service shall be made.
Service shall be made to the persons identified in accordance with § 16.13(f). If no such person has been designated, service shall be made on the party.
(d)
Presumption of service.
There shall be a presumption of lawful service—
(1) When acknowledgment of receipt is by a person who customarily or in the ordinary course of business receives mail at the address of the party or of the person designated under § 16.13(f);
(2) When a properly addressed envelope, sent to the most current address submitted under § 16.13(f), has been returned as undeliverable, unclaimed, or refused; or
(3) When the party serving the document electronically has a confirmation statement demonstrating that the email was properly sent to a party correctly addressed.
(e)
Date of service.
The date of service shall be determined in the same manner as the filing date under § 16.13(b).
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56143, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.17
Computation of time.
This section applies to any period of time prescribed or allowed by this part, by notice or order of the hearing officer, or by an applicable statute.
(a) The date of an act, event, or default, after which a designated time period begins to run, is not included in a computation of time under this part.
(b) The last day of a time period is included in a computation of time unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday for the FAA, in which case, the time period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
(c) Whenever a party has the right or is required to do some act within a prescribed period after service of a document upon the party, and the document is served on the party by first class mail or certified mail, 5 days shall be added to the prescribed period.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56143, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.19
Motions.
(a)
General.
An application for an order or ruling not otherwise specifically provided for in this part shall be by motion. Unless otherwise ordered by the agency, the filing of a motion will not stay the date that any action is permitted or required by this part.
(b)
Form and contents.
Unless made during a hearing, motions shall be made in writing, shall state with particularity the relief sought and the grounds for the relief sought, and shall be accompanied by affidavits or other evidence relied upon. Motions introduced during hearings may be made orally on the record, unless the hearing officer directs otherwise.
(c)
Answers to motions.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, or except when a motion is made during a hearing, any party may file an answer in support of or in opposition to a motion, accompanied by affidavits or other evidence relied upon, provided that the answer to the motion is filed within 10 days after the motion has been served upon the person answering, or any other period set by the hearing officer. Where a motion is made during a hearing, the answer and the ruling thereon may be made at the hearing, or orally or in writing within the time set by the hearing officer.
(d)
Deferred actions on motions.
A ruling on a motion made before the time set for the issuance of the Director's Determination may be deferred to and included with the Director's Determination.
(e)
Extension by motion.
A party shall file a written motion for an extension of time not later than 3 business days before the document is due unless good cause for the late filing is shown. A party filing a motion for extension should attempt to obtain the concurrence of the opposing party. A party filing a written motion for an extension of time shall file the motion as required under § 16.13, and serve a copy of the motion on all parties and the docket clerk as required under § 16.15.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56143, Sept. 12, 2013]

# Subpart C—Special Rules Applicable to Complaints
§ 16.21
Pre-complaint resolution.
(a) Except for those persons filing under 49 CFR 26.105(c), prior to filing a complaint under this part, a person directly and substantially affected by the alleged noncompliance shall initiate and engage in good faith efforts to resolve the disputed matter informally with those individuals or entities believed responsible for the noncompliance. These efforts at informal resolution may include, without limitation, at the parties' expense, mediation, arbitration, or the use of a dispute resolution board, or other form of third party assistance. The FAA Airports District Office, FAA Airports Field Office, FAA Regional Airports Division responsible for administering financial assistance to the sponsor, or the FAA Office of Civil Rights will be available upon request to assist the parties with informal resolution.
(b) Except for complaints filed under 49 CFR 26.105(c), a complaint will be dismissed under § 16.27 unless the person or authorized representative filing the complaint certifies that:
(1) The complainant has made substantial and reasonable good faith efforts to resolve the disputed matter informally prior to filing the complaint; and
(2) There is no reasonable prospect for practical and timely resolution of the dispute.
(c) The certification required under paragraph (b) of this section, shall include a brief description of the party's efforts to obtain informal resolution but shall not include information on monetary or other settlement offers made but not agreed upon in writing by all parties. Such efforts to resolve informally should be relatively recent and be demonstrated by pertinent documentation. There is no required form or process for informal resolution, but in each case the requirements to resolve the matter informally must meet the requirements of this paragraph.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56143, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.23
Pleadings.
(a) A person directly and substantially affected by any alleged noncompliance or a person qualified under 49 CFR 26.105(c) may file a complaint under this part. A person doing business with an airport and paying fees or rentals to the airport shall be considered directly and substantially affected by alleged revenue diversion as defined in 49 U.S.C. 47107(b).
(b) Complaints filed under this part shall—
(1) State the name and address of each person who is the subject of the complaint and, with respect to each person, the specific provisions of each Act that the complainant believes were violated;
(2) Include all documents then available in the exercise of reasonable diligence, to be offered in support of the complaint, and to be served upon all persons named in the complaint as persons responsible for the alleged action(s) or omission(s) upon which the complaint is based;
(3) Provide a concise but complete statement of the facts relied upon to substantiate each allegation; and
(4) Except for complaints filed under 49 CFR 26.105(c), describe how the complainant was directly and substantially affected by the things done or omitted to be done by the respondents.
(c) Unless the complaint is dismissed pursuant to § 16.25 or § 16.27, the FAA notifies the complainant and respondent in writing within 20 days after the date the FAA receives the complaint that the complaint has been docketed.
(d) The respondent shall file an answer within 20 days of the date of service of the FAA notification or, if a motion is filed under § 16.26, within 20 days of the date of service of an FAA order denying all or part of that motion.
(e) The complainant may file a reply within 10 days of the date of service of the answer.
(f) The respondent may file a rebuttal within 10 days of the date of service of the complainant's reply.
(g) The answer, reply, and rebuttal shall, like the complaint, be accompanied by supporting documentation upon which the parties rely.
(h) The answer shall deny or admit the allegations made in the complaint or state that the person filing the document is without sufficient knowledge or information to admit or deny an allegation, and shall assert any affirmative defense.
(i) The answer, reply, and rebuttal shall each contain a concise but complete statement of the facts relied upon to substantiate the answers, admissions, denials, or averments made.
(j) Amendments or supplements to the pleadings described in this section will not be allowed without showing good cause through a motion and supporting documents.
(k)
Burden of proof.
Except as used in subpart F of this part,
(1) The burden of proof is on the complainant to show noncompliance with an Act or any regulation, order, agreement or document of conveyance issued under the authority of an Act.
(2) Except as otherwise provided by statute or rule, the proponent of a motion, request, or order has the burden of proof.
(3) A party who has asserted an affirmative defense has the burden of proving the affirmative defense.
(l) Except for good cause shown through motion and supporting documents, discovery is not permitted except as provided in §§ 16.213 and 16.215.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56143, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.25
Dismissals.
(a) Within 20 days after the receipt of the complaint, unless a motion has been filed under § 16.26, the Director will dismiss a complaint, or any claim made in a complaint, with prejudice if:
(1) It appears on its face to be outside the jurisdiction of the Administrator under the Acts listed in § 16.1;
(2) On its face it does not state a claim that warrants an investigation or further action by the FAA; or
(3) The complainant lacks standing to file a complaint under §§ 16.3 and 16.23.
(b) A dismissal under this section will include the reasons for the dismissal.
[Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56144, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.26
Motions to dismiss and motions for summary judgment.
(a) In lieu of an answer, the respondent may file a motion to dismiss the complaint or a motion for summary judgment on the complaint. The respondent may move for dismissal of the entire complaint or move for dismissal of particular issues from adjudication. The motion must be filed within 20 days after the date of service of the FAA notification of docketing.
(b)
Motions to dismiss.
(1) A motion to dismiss shall be accompanied by a concise statement of the reasons for seeking dismissal. The respondent must show that the complaint should be dismissed, with prejudice, if:
(i) It appears on its face to be outside the jurisdiction of the Administrator under the Acts listed in § 16.1;
(ii) On its face it does not state a claim that warrants an investigation or further action by the FAA; or
(iii) The complainant lacks standing to file a complaint under §§ 16.3 and 16.23.
(2) A motion to dismiss may seek dismissal of the entire complaint or the dismissal of specified claims in the complaint. A motion to dismiss shall be accompanied by a supporting memorandum of points and authorities.
(3) A complainant may file an answer to the motion to dismiss within 10 days of the date the motion is served on the complainant, or within any other period set by the Director. The answer shall be accompanied by a concise statement of reasons for opposing dismissal, and may be accompanied by affidavits and other documentary evidence in support of that contention.
(4) Within 30 days of the date an answer to a motion to dismiss is due under this section, the Director may issue an order disposing of the motion. If the Director denies the motion to dismiss in whole or in part, or grants the motion in part, then within 20 days of when the order is served on the respondent, the respondent shall file an answer to the complaint.
(5) If the Director does not act on the motion to dismiss within 30 days of the date an answer to a motion is due under this section, the respondent shall file an answer to the complaint within the next 20 days.
(c)
Motions for summary judgment.
(1) A motion for summary judgment may be based upon the ground that there is no genuine issue of material fact for adjudication and that the complaint, when viewed in the light most favorable to the complainant, should be summarily adjudicated in favor of the respondent as a matter of law. A motion for summary judgment may seek dismissal of the entire complaint or dismissal of specified claims or issues in the complaint.
(2) The motion for summary judgment shall be accompanied by a concise statement of the material facts as to which the respondent contends there is no genuine issue of material fact. The motion may include affidavits and documentary evidence in support of the contention that there is no genuine issue of material fact in dispute.
(3) A complainant may file an answer to the motion for summary judgment within 10 days of the date the motion is served on the complainant, or within any other period set by the Director. The answer shall be accompanied by a concise statement of the material facts as to which the complainant contends there is a genuine issue, and may be accompanied by affidavits and other documentary evidence in support of that contention.
(4) Within 30 days of the date an answer to a motion for summary judgment is due under this section, the Director may issue an order disposing of the motion. If the Director denies the motion in whole or in part, or grants the motion in part, then within 20 days of when the order is served on the respondent, the respondent shall file an answer to the complaint.
(5) If the Director does not act on the motion for summary judgment within 30 days of the date an answer to a motion is due under this section, the respondent shall file an answer to the complaint within the next 20 days.
[Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56144, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.27
Incomplete complaints.
(a) If a complaint is not dismissed pursuant to § 16.25, but is deficient as to one or more of the requirements set forth in § 16.21 or § 16.23(b), the Director will dismiss the complaint within 20 days after receiving it. Dismissal will be without prejudice to the refiling of the complaint after amendment to correct the deficiencies. The Director's dismissal will include the reasons for the dismissal.
(b) Dismissals under this section are not initial determinations, and appeals from decisions under this section will not be permitted.
[Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56144, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.29
Investigations.
(a) If, based on the pleadings, there appears to be a reasonable basis for further investigation, the FAA investigates the subject matter of the complaint.
(b) The investigation may include one or more of the following, at the sole discretion of the FAA:
(1) A review of the written submissions or pleadings of the parties, as supplemented by any informal investigation the FAA considers necessary and by additional information furnished by the parties at FAA request. In rendering its initial determination, the FAA may rely entirely on the complaint and the responsive pleadings provided under this subpart. Each party shall file documents that it considers sufficient to present all relevant facts and argument necessary for the FAA to determine whether the sponsor is in compliance.
(2) Obtaining additional oral and documentary evidence by use of the agency's authority to compel production of such evidence under 49 U.S.C. 40113 and 46104, and 49 U.S.C. 47122. The Administrator's statutory authority to issue compulsory process has been delegated to the Chief Counsel, the Deputy Chief Counsel, the Assistant Chief Counsel for Airports and Environmental Law, and each Assistant Chief Counsel for a region or center.
(3) Conducting or requiring that a sponsor conduct an audit of airport financial records and transactions as provided in 49 U.S.C. 47107 and 47121.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1 78 FR 56145, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.31
Director's Determinations after investigations.
(a) After consideration of the pleadings and other information obtained by the FAA after investigation, the Director will render an initial determination and serve it upon each party within 120 days of the date the last pleading specified in § 16.23 was due.
(b)(1) The Director's Determination shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law, accompanied by explanations and based upon all material issues of fact, credibility of the evidence, law and discretion presented on the record, together with a statement of the reasons therefor.
(2) The Director shall issue a determination or rule in a party's favor only if the determination or ruling is in accordance with law and supported by a preponderance of the reliable, probative, and substantial evidence contained in the record.
(c) A party adversely affected by the Director's Determination may appeal the initial determination as provided in § 16.33. However, if the Director's Determination that is appealed contains a Corrective Action Plan, the Director has the discretion to suspend the Corrective Action Plan until the appeal is resolved.
(d) If the Director's Determination finds the respondent in noncompliance and proposes the issuance of a compliance order, the initial determination will include notice of opportunity for a hearing under subpart F of this part if a hearing is required by statute or otherwise provided by the FAA. A hearing may be required by statute if the FAA determination would terminate eligibility for grants under 49 U.S.C. 47114(c) or (e), or terminate payments on a grant agreement under 49 U.S.C. subchapter 471. The respondent may elect or waive a hearing, as provided in subpart E of this part.
(e) The Director will not consider requests for rehearing, reargument, reconsideration, or modification of a Director's Determination without a finding of good cause.
[Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56145, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.33
Final decisions without hearing.
(a) The Associate Administrator may transfer to the FAA Assistant Administrator for Civil Rights the responsibility to prepare and issue Final Agency Decisions pursuant to this section for appeals with issues concerning civil rights.
(b) The Associate Administrator will issue a final decision on appeal from the Director's Determination, without a hearing, where—
(1) The complaint is dismissed after investigation;
(2) A hearing is not required by statute and is not otherwise made available by the FAA; or
(3) The FAA provides opportunity for a hearing to the respondent and the respondent waives the opportunity for a hearing as provided in subpart E of this part.
(c) In the cases described in paragraph (b) of this section, within 30 days after the date of service of the initial determination, a party adversely affected by the Director's Determination may file in accordance with § 16.13 and serve in accordance with § 16.15 a simultaneous Notice of Appeal and Brief.
(d) A reply to an appeal brief may be filed within 20 days after the date of service of the appeal.
(e) On appeal, the Associate Administrator will consider the issues addressed in any order on a motion to dismiss or motion for summary judgment and any issues accepted in the Director's Determination using the following analysis:
(1) Are the findings of fact each supported by a preponderance of reliable, probative, and substantial evidence contained in the record?
(2) Are conclusions made in accordance with law, precedent and policy?
(3) Are the questions on appeal substantial?
(4) Have any prejudicial errors occurred?
(f) Any new issues or evidence presented in an appeal or reply will not be considered unless accompanied by a petition and good cause found as to why the new issue or evidence was not presented to the Director. Such a petition must:
(1) Set forth the new matter;
(2) Contain affidavits of prospective witnesses, authenticated documents, or both, or an explanation of why such substantiation is unavailable; and
(3) Contain a statement explaining why such new issue or evidence could not have been discovered in the exercise of due diligence prior to the date on which the evidentiary record closed.
(g) The Associate Administrator will issue a final decision and order within 60 days after the due date of the reply.
(h) If no appeal is filed within the time period specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the Director's Determination becomes the final decision and order of the FAA without further action. A Director's Determination that becomes final, because there is no administrative appeal, is not judicially reviewable.
(i) No requests for rehearing, reargument, reconsideration, or modification of a final order will be considered without a finding of good cause.
[Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56145, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.34
Consent orders.
(a) The parties may agree at any time before the issuance of a final agency decision to dispose of the case by proposing a consent order. Good faith efforts to resolve a complaint through issuance of a consent order may continue throughout the administrative process. However, except as provided in § 16.11(a), such efforts may not serve as the basis for extensions of the times set forth in this part.
(b) A proposal for a consent order, specified in paragraph (a) of this section, shall include:
(1) A proposed consent order;
(2) An admission of all jurisdictional facts; and
(3) An express waiver of the right to further procedural steps and of all rights of judicial review.
(c) If the parties agree to dispose of a case by issuance of a consent order before the FAA issues a Director's Determination, the proposal for a consent order is submitted jointly by the parties to the Director, together with a request to adopt the consent order and dismiss the case. The Director may issue the consent order as an order of the FAA and terminate the proceeding.
[Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56145, Sept. 12, 2013]

# Subpart D—Special Rules Applicable to Proceedings Initiated by the FAA
§ 16.101
Basis for the initiation of agency action.
The FAA may initiate its own investigation of any matter within the applicability of this part without having received a complaint. The investigation may include, without limitation, any of the actions described in § 16.29(b).
§ 16.103
Notice of investigation.
Following the initiation of an investigation under § 16.101, the FAA sends a notice to the person(s) subject to investigation. The notice will set forth the areas of the agency's concern and the reasons therefor; request a response to
the notice within 30 days of the date of service; and inform the respondent that the FAA will, in its discretion, invite good faith efforts to resolve the matter.
§ 16.105
Failure to resolve informally.
If the matters addressed in the FAA notices are not resolved informally, the FAA may issue a Director's Determination under § 16.31.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56146, Sept. 12, 2013]

# Subpart E—Proposed Orders of Compliance
§ 16.109
Orders terminating eligibility for grants, cease and desist orders, and other compliance orders.
(a) The agency will provide the opportunity for a hearing if, in the Director's determination, the agency issues or proposes to issue an order terminating eligibility for grants pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 47106(d), an order suspending the payment of grant funds pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 47111(d); an order withholding approval of any new application to impose a passenger facility charge pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 47111(e); a cease and desist order; an order directing the refund of fees unlawfully collected; or any other compliance order issued by the Administrator to carry out the provisions of the Acts, and required to be issued after notice and opportunity for a hearing. In cases in which a hearing is not required by statute, the FAA may provide opportunity for a hearing at its discretion.
(b) In a case in which the agency provides the opportunity for a hearing, the Director's Determination issued under § 16.31 will include a statement of the availability of a hearing under subpart F of this part.
(1) Within 20 days after service of a Director's Determination under § 16.31 that provides an opportunity for a hearing a person subject to the proposed compliance order may—
(i) Request a hearing under subpart F of this part;
(ii) Waive hearing and appeal the Director's Determination in writing, as provided in § 16.33;
(iii) File, jointly with a complainant, a motion to withdraw the complaint and to dismiss the proposed compliance action; or
(iv) Submit, jointly with the agency, a proposed consent order under § 16.34(c).
(2) If the respondent fails to file an appeal in writing within the time periods provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the Director's Determination becomes final.
(c) The Director may either direct the respondent to submit a Corrective Action Plan or initiate proceedings to revoke and/or deny the respondent's application for Airport Improvement Program discretionary grants under 49 U.S.C. 47115 and general aviation airport grants under 49 U.S.C. 47114(d) when a Director's Determination finds a respondent in noncompliance and does not provide for a hearing.
(d) In the event that the respondent fails to submit, in accordance with a Director's Determination, a Corrective Action Plan acceptable to the FAA within the time provided, unless extended by the FAA for good cause, and/or if the respondent fails to complete the Corrective Action Plan as specified therein, the Director may initiate action to revoke and/or deny applications for Airport Improvement Program discretionary grants under 49 U.S.C. 47115 and general aviation airport grants under 49 U.S.C. 47114(d).
(e) For those violations that cannot be remedied through corrective action, the Director may initiate action to revoke and/or deny the respondent's applications for Airport Improvement Program discretionary grants under 49 U.S.C. 47115 and general aviation airport grants under 49 U.S.C. 47114(d).
(f) When the Director concludes that the respondent has fully complied with the Corrective Action Plan and/or when the Director determines that the respondent has corrected the areas of noncompliance, the Director will terminate the proceeding.
(g) A complainant's standing terminates upon the issuance of a Director's Determination that finds a respondent in noncompliance on all identified issues. The complainant may not appeal the Director's Determination if
the Director finds noncompliance on all identified issues.
[Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56146, Sept. 12, 2013]

# Subpart F—Hearings
§ 16.201
Notice and order of hearing.
(a) If a respondent is provided the opportunity for hearing in an initial determination and does not waive hearing, the Deputy Chief Counsel within 10 days after the respondent elects a hearing will issue and serve on the respondent and complainant a hearing order. The hearing order will set forth:
(1) The allegations in the complaint, or notice of investigation, and the chronology and results of the investigation preliminary to the hearing;
(2) The relevant statutory, judicial, regulatory, and other authorities;
(3) The issues to be decided;
(4) Such rules of procedure as may be necessary to supplement the provisions of this part;
(5) The name and address of the person designated as hearing officer, and the assignment of authority to the hearing officer to conduct the hearing in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part; and
(6) The date by which the hearing officer is directed to issue an initial decision.
(b) Where there are no genuine issues of material fact requiring oral examination of witnesses, the hearing order may contain a direction to the hearing officer to conduct a hearing by submission of briefs and oral argument without the presentation of testimony or other evidence.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56146, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.202
Powers of a hearing officer.
In accordance with the rules of this subpart, a hearing officer may:
(a) Give notice of, and hold, prehearing conferences and hearings;
(b) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(c) Issue subpoenas authorized by law and issue notices of deposition requested by the parties;
(d) Limit the frequency and extent of discovery;
(e) Rule on offers of proof;
(f) Receive relevant and material evidence;
(g) Regulate the course of the hearing in accordance with the rules of this part to avoid unnecessary and duplicative proceedings in the interest of prompt and fair resolution of the matters at issue;
(h) Hold conferences to settle or to simplify the issues by consent of the parties;
(i) Dispose of procedural motions and requests;
(j) Examine witnesses; and
(k) Make findings of fact and conclusions of law, and issue an initial decision.
§ 16.203
Appearances, parties, and rights of parties.
(a)
Appearances.
Any party may appear and be heard in person.
(1) Any party may be accompanied, represented, or advised by an attorney licensed by a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory of the United States to practice law or appear before the courts of that State or territory, or by another person authorized by the hearing officer to be the party's representative.
(2) An attorney, or other duly authorized representative, who represents a party shall file a notice of appearance in accordance with § 16.13.
(b)
Parties and agency participation.
(1) The parties to the hearing are the complainant(s) and respondent(s) named in the hearing order, and the agency. The style of any pleadings filed under this Subpart shall name the respondent as the Appellant, and the Federal Aviation Administration as the Agency.
(2) Unless otherwise specified in the hearing order, the agency attorney will serve as prosecutor for the agency from the date of issuance of the Director's Determination providing an opportunity for hearing.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56146, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.207
Intervention and other participation.
(a) Intervention and participation by other persons are permitted only at the hearing stage of the complaint process
and with the written approval of the hearing officer.
(b) A person may submit a written motion for leave to intervene as a party. Except for good cause shown, a motion for leave to intervene shall be submitted not later than 10 days after the notice of hearing and hearing order.
(c) If the hearing officer finds that intervention will not unduly broaden the issues or delay the proceedings and, if the person has an interest that will benefit the proceedings, the hearing officer may grant a motion for leave to intervene. The hearing officer may determine the extent to which an intervenor may participate in the proceedings.
(d) Other persons may petition the hearing officer for leave to participate in the hearing. Participation is limited to the filing of a posthearing brief and reply to the hearing officer and the Associate Administrator. Such a brief shall be filed and served on all parties in the same manner as the parties' posthearing briefs are filed.
(e) Participation under this section is at the discretion of the hearing officer, and no decision permitting participation shall be deemed to constitute an expression that the participant has such a substantial interest in the proceeding as would entitle it to judicial review of such decision.
[Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56146, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.209
Extension of time.
(a)
Extension by oral agreement.
The parties may agree to extend for a reasonable period of time for filing a document under this part. If the parties agree, the hearing officer shall grant one extension of time to each party. The party seeking the extension of time shall submit a draft order to the hearing officer to be signed by the hearing officer and filed with the hearing docket. The hearing officer may grant additional oral requests for an extension of time where the parties agree to the extension.
(b)
Extension by motion.
A party shall file a written motion for an extension of time with the hearing officer not later than 7 days before the document is due unless good cause for the late filing is shown. A party filing a written motion for an extension of time shall serve a copy of the motion on each party.
(c)
Failure to rule.
If the hearing officer fails to rule on a written motion for an extension of time by the date the document was due, the motion for an extension of time is deemed denied.
(d)
Effect on time limits.
In a hearing required by section 519(b) of the Airport and Airways Improvement Act, as amended in 1987, 49 U.S.C. 47106(e) and 47111(d), the due date for the hearing officer's initial decision and for the final agency decision are extended by the length of the extension granted by the hearing officer only if the hearing officer grants an extension of time as a result of an agreement by the parties as specified in paragraph (a) of this section or, if the hearing officer grants an extension of time as a result of the sponsor's failure to adhere to the hearing schedule. In any other hearing, an extension of time granted by the hearing officer for any reason extends the due date for the hearing officer's initial decision and for the final agency decision by the length of time of the hearing officer's decision.
§ 16.211
Prehearing conference.
(a)
Prehearing conference notice.
The hearing officer schedules a prehearing conference and serves a prehearing conference notice on the parties promptly after being designated as a hearing officer.
(1) The prehearing conference notice specifies the date, time, place, and manner (in person or by telephone) of the prehearing conference.
(2) The prehearing conference notice may direct the parties to exchange proposed witness lists, requests for evidence and the production of documents in the possession of another party, responses to interrogatories, admissions, proposed procedural schedules, and proposed stipulations before the date of the prehearing conference.
(b)
The prehearing conference.
The prehearing conference is conducted by telephone or in person, at the hearing officer's discretion. The prehearing conference addresses matters raised in the prehearing conference notice and
such other matters as the hearing officer determines will assist in a prompt, full and fair hearing of the issues.
(c)
Prehearing conference report.
At the close of the prehearing conference, the hearing officer rules on any requests for evidence and the production of documents in the possession of other parties, responses to interrogatories, and admissions; on any requests for depositions; on any proposed stipulations; and on any pending applications for subpoenas as permitted by § 16.219. In addition, the hearing officer establishes the schedule, which shall provide for the issuance of an initial decision not later than 110 days after issuance of the Director's Determination order unless otherwise provided in the hearing order.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56147, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.213
Discovery.
(a) Discovery is limited to requests for admissions, requests for production of documents, interrogatories, and depositions as authorized by § 16.215.
(b) The hearing officer shall limit the frequency and extent of discovery permitted by this section if a party shows that—
(1) The information requested is cumulative or repetitious;
(2) The information requested may be obtained from another less burdensome and more convenient source;
(3) The party requesting the information has had ample opportunity to obtain the information through other discovery methods permitted under this section; or
(4) The method or scope of discovery requested by the party is unduly burdensome or expensive.
§ 16.215
Depositions.
(a)
General.
For good cause shown, the hearing officer may order that the testimony of a witness may be taken by deposition and that the witness produce documentary evidence in connection with such testimony. Generally, an order to take the deposition of a witness is entered only if:
(1) The person whose deposition is to be taken would be unavailable at the hearing;
(2) The deposition is deemed necessary to perpetuate the testimony of the witness; or
(3) The taking of the deposition is necessary to prevent undue and excessive expense to a party and will not result in undue burden to other parties or in undue delay.
(b)
Application for deposition.
Any party desiring to take the deposition of a witness shall make application therefor to the hearing officer in writing, with a copy of the application served on each party. The application shall include:
(1) The name and residence of the witness;
(2) The time and place for the taking of the proposed deposition;
(3) The reasons why such deposition should be taken; and
(4) A general description of the matters concerning which the witness will be asked to testify.
(c)
Order authorizing deposition.
If good cause is shown, the hearing officer, in his or her discretion, issues an order authorizing the deposition and specifying the name of the witness to be deposed, the location and time of the deposition and the general scope and subject matter of the testimony to be taken.
(d)
Procedures for deposition.
(1) Witnesses whose testimony is taken by deposition shall be sworn or shall affirm before any questions are put to them. Each question propounded shall be recorded and the answers of the witness transcribed verbatim.
(2) Objections to questions or evidence shall be recorded in the transcript of the deposition. The interposing of an objection shall not relieve the witness of the obligation to answer questions, except where the answer would violate a privilege.
(3) The written transcript shall be subscribed by the witness, unless the parties by stipulation waive the signing, or the witness is ill, cannot be found, or refuses to sign. The reporter shall note the reason for failure to sign.
(e)
Depositions of agency employees.
(1) Depositions of Agency Employees will not be allowed except under the provisions of 49 CFR part 9.
(2) Such depositions will be allowed only with the specific written permission of the Chief Counsel or his or her designee.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56147, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.217
Witnesses.
(a) Each party may designate as a witness any person who is able and willing to give testimony that is relevant and material to the issues in the hearing case, subject to the limitation set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The hearing officer may exclude testimony of witnesses that would be irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious.
(c) Any witness may be accompanied by counsel. Counsel representing a nonparty witness has no right to examine the witness or otherwise participate in the development of testimony.
§ 16.219
Subpoenas.
(a)
Request for subpoena.
A party may apply to the hearing officer, within the time specified for such applications in the prehearing conference report, for a subpoena to compel testimony at a hearing or to require the production of documents only from the following persons:
(1) Another party;
(2) An officer, employee, or agent of another party;
(3) Any other person named in the complaint as participating in or benefiting from the actions of the respondent alleged to have violated any Act;
(4) An officer, employee, or agent of any other person named in the complaint as participating in or benefiting from the actions of the respondent alleged to have violated any Act.
(b)
Issuance and service of subpoena.
(1) The hearing officer issues the subpoena if the hearing officer determines that the evidence to be obtained by the subpoena is relevant and material to the resolution of the issues in the case.
(2) Subpoenas shall be served by personal service, or upon an agent designated in writing for the purpose, or by certified mail, return receipt addressed to such person or agent. Whenever service is made by registered or certified mail, the date of mailing shall be considered as the time when service is made.
(3) A subpoena issued under this part is effective throughout the United States or any territory or possession thereof.
(c)
Motions to quash or modify subpoena.
(1) A party or any person upon whom a subpoena has been served may file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena with the hearing officer at or before the time specified in the subpoena for the filing of such motions. The applicant shall describe in detail the basis for the application to quash or modify the subpoena including, but not limited to, a statement that the testimony, document, or tangible evidence is not relevant to the proceeding, that the subpoena is not reasonably tailored to the scope of the proceeding, or that the subpoena is unreasonable and oppressive.
(2) A motion to quash or modify the subpoena stays the effect of the subpoena pending a decision by the hearing officer on the motion.
§ 16.221
Witness fees.
(a) The party on whose behalf a witness appears is responsible for paying any witness fees and mileage expenses.
(b) Except for employees of the United States summoned to testify as to matters related to their public employment, witnesses summoned by subpoena shall be paid the same fees and mileage expenses as are paid to a witness in a court of the United States in comparable circumstances.
§ 16.223
Evidence.
(a)
General.
A party may submit direct and rebuttal evidence in accordance with this section.
(b)
Requirement for written testimony and evidence.
Except in the case of evidence obtained by subpoena, or in the case of a special ruling by the hearing officer to admit oral testimony, a party's direct and rebuttal evidence shall be submitted in written form in advance of the oral hearing pursuant to the schedule established in the hearing officer's prehearing conference report. Written direct and rebuttal fact testimony shall be certified by the witness as true and correct. Subject to the
same exception (for evidence obtained by subpoena or subject to a special ruling by the hearing officer), oral examination of a party's own witness is limited to certification of the accuracy of written evidence, including correction and updating, if necessary, and reexamination following cross-examination by other parties.
(c)
Subpoenaed testimony.
Testimony of witnesses appearing under subpoena may be obtained orally.
(d)
Cross-examination.
A party may conduct cross-examination that may be required for disclosure of the facts, subject to control by the hearing officer for fairness, expedition and exclusion of extraneous matters.
(e)
Hearsay evidence.
Hearsay evidence is admissible in proceedings governed by this part. The fact that evidence is hearsay goes to the weight of evidence and does not affect its admissibility.
(f)
Admission of evidence.
The hearing officer admits evidence introduced by a party in support of its case in accordance with this section, but may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence.
(g)
Expert or opinion witnesses.
An employee of the FAA or DOT may not be called as an expert or opinion witness for any party other than the agency except as provided in Department of Transportation regulations at 49 CFR part 9.
§ 16.225
Public disclosure of evidence.
(a) Except as provided in this section, the hearing shall be open to the public.
(b) The hearing officer may order that any information contained in the record be withheld from public disclosure. Any person may object to disclosure of information in the record by filing a written motion to withhold specific information with the hearing officer. The person shall state specific grounds for nondisclosure in the motion.
(c) The hearing officer shall grant the motion to withhold information from public disclosure if the hearing officer determines that disclosure would be in violation of the Privacy Act, would reveal trade secrets or privileged or confidential commercial or financial information, or is otherwise prohibited by law.
§ 16.227
Standard of proof.
The hearing officer shall issue an initial decision or rule in a party's favor only if the decision or ruling is in accordance with law and supported by a preponderance of the reliable, probative, and substantial evidence contained in the record.
[Amdt. 16-1, as amended at 78 FR 56147, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.229
Burden of proof.
As used in this subpart, the burden of proof is as follows:
(a) The burden of proof of noncompliance with an Act or any regulation, order, agreement or document of conveyance issued under the authority of an Act is on the agency.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by statute or rule, the proponent of a motion, request, or order has the burden of proof.
(c) A party who has asserted an affirmative defense has the burden of proving the affirmative defense.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56147, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.231
Offer of proof.
A party whose evidence has been excluded by a ruling of the hearing officer may offer the evidence on the record when filing an appeal.
§ 16.233
Record.
(a)
Exclusive record.
The transcript of all testimony in the hearing, all exhibits received into evidence, all motions, applications requests and rulings, all documents included in the hearing record and the Director's Determination shall constitute the exclusive record for decision in the proceedings and the basis for the issuance of any orders.
(b)
Examination and copy of record.
A copy of the record will be filed by the FAA Part 16 Docket Clerk in the Federal Docket Management System (FDMS). Any person desiring to review the record may then do so at
http://www.regulations.gov.
[Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56147, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.235
Argument before the hearing officer.
(a)
Argument during the hearing.
During the hearing, the hearing officer shall give the parties reasonable opportunity to present oral argument on the record supporting or opposing motions, objections, and rulings if the parties request an opportunity for argument. The hearing officer may direct written argument during the hearing if the hearing officer finds that submission of written arguments would not delay the hearing.
(b)
Posthearing briefs.
The hearing officer may request or permit the parties to submit posthearing briefs. The hearing officer may provide for the filing of simultaneous reply briefs as well, if such filing will not unduly delay the issuance of the hearing officer's initial decision. Posthearing briefs shall include proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law; exceptions to rulings of the hearing officer; references to the record in support of the findings of fact; and supporting arguments for the proposed findings, proposed conclusions, and exceptions.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56147, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.237
Waiver of procedures.
(a) The hearing officer shall waive such procedural steps as all parties to the hearing agree to waive before issuance of an initial decision.
(b) Consent to a waiver of any procedural step bars the raising of this issue on appeal.
(c) The parties may not by consent waive the obligation of the hearing officer to enter an initial decision on the record.
§ 16.241
Initial decisions, order, and appeals.
(a) The hearing officer shall issue an initial decision based on the record developed during the proceeding and shall send the initial decision to the parties not later than 110 days after the Director's Determination unless otherwise provided in the hearing order.
(b) Each party adversely affected by the hearing officer's initial decision may file an appeal with the Associate Administrator within 15 days of the date the initial decision is issued. Each party may file a reply to an appeal within 10 days after it is served on the party. Filing and service of appeals and replies shall be by personal delivery.
(c) If an appeal is filed, the Associate Administrator reviews the entire record and issues a final agency decision and order within 60 days of the due date of the reply. If no appeal is filed, the Associate Administrator may take review of the case on his or her own motion. If the Associate Administrator finds that the respondent is not in compliance with any Act or any regulation, agreement, or document of conveyance issued or made under such Act, the final agency order includes, in accordance with § 16.245(d), a statement of corrective action, if appropriate, and identifies sanctions for continued noncompliance.
(d) If no appeal is filed, and the Associate Administrator does not take review of the initial decision on the Associate Administrator's own motion, the initial decision shall take effect as the final agency decision and order on the sixteenth day after the actual date the initial decision is issued.
(e) The failure to file an appeal is deemed a waiver of any rights to seek judicial review of an initial decision that becomes a final agency decision by operation of paragraph (d) of this section.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56147, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.243
Consent orders.
(a) The agency attorney and the respondents may agree at any time before the issuance of a final decision and order to dispose of the case by issuance of a consent order. Good faith efforts to resolve a complaint through issuance of a consent order may continue throughout the administrative process. Except as provided in § 16.209, such efforts may not serve as the basis for extensions of the times set forth in this part.
(b) A proposal for a consent order, specified in paragraph (a) of this section, shall include:
(1) A proposed consent order;
(2) An admission of all jurisdictional facts;
(3) An express waiver of the right to further procedural steps and of all rights of judicial review; and
(4) The hearing order, if issued, and an acknowledgment that the hearing order may be used to construe the terms of the consent order.
(c) If the issuance of a consent order has been agreed upon by all parties to the hearing, the proposed consent order shall be filed with the hearing officer, along with a draft order adopting the consent decree and dismissing the case, for the hearing officer's adoption.
(d) The deadline for the hearing officer's initial decision and the final agency decision is extended by the amount of days elapsed between the filing of the proposed consent order with the hearing officer and the issuance of the hearing officer's order continuing the hearing.
(e) If the agency attorney and sponsor agree to dispose of a case by issuance of a consent order before the FAA issues a hearing order, the proposal for a consent order is submitted jointly to the official authorized to issue a hearing order, together with a request to adopt the consent order and dismiss the case. The official authorized to issue the hearing order issues the consent order as an order of the FAA and terminates the proceeding.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56147, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.245
Associate Administrator review after a hearing.
(a) The Associate Administrator may transfer to the FAA Assistant Administrator for Civil Rights the authority to prepare and issue Final Agency Decisions pursuant to § 16.241 for appeals from a hearing concerning civil rights issues.
(b) After a hearing is held, and, after considering the issues as set forth in § 16.245(e), if the Associate Administrator determines that the hearing officer's initial decision or order should be changed, the Associate Administrator may:
(1) Make any necessary findings and issue an order in lieu of the hearing officer's initial decision or order, or
(2) Remand the proceeding for any such purpose as the Associate Administrator may deem necessary.
(c) If the Associate Administrator takes review of the hearing officer's initial decision on the Associate Administrator's own motion, the Associate Administrator will issue a notice of review within 20 days of the actual date the initial decision is issued.
(1) The notice sets forth the specific findings of fact and conclusions of law in the initial decision that are subject to review by the Associate Administrator.
(2) Parties may file one brief on review to the Associate Administrator or rely on their posthearing brief to the hearing officer. A brief on review shall be filed not later than 10 days after service of the notice of review. Filing and service of a brief on review shall be by personal delivery.
(3) The Associate Administrator issues a final agency decision and order within 30 days of the due date of the brief. If the Associate Administrator finds that the respondent is not in compliance with any Act or any regulation, agreement or document of conveyance issued under such Act, the final agency order includes a statement of corrective action, if appropriate.
(d) When the final agency decision finds a respondent in noncompliance, and where a respondent fails to properly seek judicial review of the final agency decision as set forth in subpart G of this part, the Associate Administrator will issue an order remanding the case to the Director for the following action:
(1) In the event that the respondent fails to submit, in accordance with the final agency decision, a Corrective Action Plan acceptable to the FAA within the time provided, unless extended by the FAA for good cause, and/or if the respondent fails to complete the Corrective Action Plan as specified therein, the Director may initiate action to revoke and/or deny applications for Airport Improvement Program grants issued under 49 U.S.C. 47114(c)-(e) and 47115. When the Director concludes that the respondent has fully complied with the Corrective Action Plan, the Director will issue an Order terminating the proceeding.
(2) For those violations that cannot be remedied through corrective action, the Director may initiate action to revoke and/or deny the respondent's applications for Airport Improvement Program grants issued under 49 U.S.C. 47114(c)-(e) and 47115.
(e) On appeal from a hearing officer's initial decision, the Associate Administrator will consider the following questions:
(1) Are the findings of fact each supported by a preponderance of reliable, probative and substantial evidence?
(2) Are conclusions made in accordance with law, precedent and policy?
(3) Are the questions on appeal substantial?
(4) Have any prejudicial errors occurred?
(f) Any new issues or evidence presented in an appeal or reply will not be allowed unless accompanied by a certified petition and good cause found as to why the new matter was not presented to the Director. Such a petition must:
(1) Set forth the new issues or evidence;
(2) Contain affidavits of prospective witnesses, authenticated documents, or both, or an explanation of why such substantiation is unavailable; and
(3) Contain a statement explaining why such new matter could not have been discovered in the exercise of due diligence prior to the date on which the evidentiary record closed.
(g) A Final Agency Decision may be appealed in accordance with subpart G of this part.
[Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56147, Sept. 12, 2013]

# Subpart G—Judicial Review

# Source:
Docket No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated by Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56148, Sept. 12, 2013.
§ 16.247
Judicial review of a final decision and order.
(a) A person may seek judicial review, in a United States Court of Appeals, of a final decision and order of the Associate Administrator, and of an order of dismissal with prejudice issued by the Director, as provided in 49 U.S.C. 46110 or 49 U.S.C. 47106(d) and 47111(d). A party seeking judicial review shall file a petition for review with the Court not later than 60 days after the order has been served on the party or within 60 days after the entry of an order under 49 U.S.C. 46110.
(b) The following do not constitute final decisions and orders subject to judicial review:
(1) An FAA decision to dismiss a complaint without prejudice, as set forth in § 16.27;
(2) A Director's Determination;
(3) An initial decision issued by a hearing officer at the conclusion of a hearing;
(4) A Director's Determination or an initial decision of a hearing officer becomes the final decision of the Associate Administrator because it was not appealed within the applicable time periods provided under §§ 16.33(c) and 16.241(b).
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996. Redesignated and amended by Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56148, Sept. 12, 2013]

# Subpart H—Ex Parte Communications

# Source:
Docket No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 78 FR 56148, Sept. 12, 2013.
§ 16.301
Prohibited ex parte communications.
(a) The prohibitions of this section shall apply from the time a proceeding is noticed for hearing unless the person responsible for the communication has knowledge that it will be noticed, in which case the prohibitions shall apply at the time of the acquisition of such knowledge.
(b) Except to the extent required for the disposition of ex parte matters as authorized by law:
(1) No interested person outside the FAA and no FAA employee participating as a party shall make or knowingly cause to be made to any decisional employee an ex parte communication relevant to the merits of the proceeding;
(2) No FAA employee shall make or knowingly cause to be made to any interested person outside the FAA an ex parte communication relevant to the merits of the proceeding; or
(3) Ex parte communications regarding solely matters of agency procedure or practice are not prohibited by this section.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996. Redesignated at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56148, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.303
Procedures for handling ex parte communications.
A decisional employee who receives or who makes or knowingly causes to be made a communication prohibited by § 16.303 shall place in the public record of the proceeding:
(a) All such written communications;
(b) Memoranda stating the substance of all such oral communications; and
(c) All written responses, and memoranda stating the substance of all oral responses, to the materials described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996. Redesignated at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56148, Sept. 12, 2013]
§ 16.305
Requirement to show cause and imposition of sanction.
(a) Upon receipt of a communication knowingly made or knowingly caused to be made by a party in violation of § 16.303, the Associate Administrator or his designee or the hearing officer may, to the extent consistent with the interests of justice and the policy of the underlying statutes, require the party to show cause why his or her claim or interest in the proceeding should not be dismissed, denied, disregarded, or otherwise adversely affected on account of such violation.
(b) The Associate Administrator may, to the extent consistent with the interests of justice and the policy of the underlying statutes administered by the FAA, consider a violation of this subpart sufficient grounds for a decision adverse to a party who has knowingly committed such violation or knowingly caused such violation to occur.
[Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996. Redesignated at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56148, Sept. 12, 2013]
Pt. 17

# PART 17—PROCEDURES FOR PROTESTS AND CONTRACT DISPUTES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
17.1
Applicability.
17.3
Definitions.
17.5
Delegation of authority.
17.7
Filing and computation of time.
17.9
Protective orders.

# Subpart B—Protests
17.11
Matters not subject to protest.
17.13
Dispute resolution process for protests.
17.15
Filing a protest.
17.17
Initial protest procedures.
17.19
Motions practice and dismissal or summary decision of protests.
17.21
Adjudicative Process for protests.
17.23
Protest remedies.

# Subpart C—Contract Disputes
17.25
Dispute resolution process for contract disputes.
17.27
Filing a contract dispute.
17.29
Informal resolution period.
17.31
Dismissal or summary decision of contract disputes.
17.33
Adjudicative Process for contract disputes.

# Subpart D—Alternative Dispute Resolution
17.35
Use of alternative dispute resolution.
17.37
Election of alternative dispute resolution process.
17.39
Confidentiality of ADR.

# Subpart E—Finality and Review
17.41
Final orders.
17.43
Judicial review.
17.45
Conforming amendments.
17.47
Reconsideration.

# Subpart F—Other Matters
17.49
Sanctions.
17.51
Decorum and professional conduct.
17.53
Orders and subpoenas for testimony and document production.
17.55
Standing orders of the ODRA director.

# Subpart G—Pre-Disputes
17.57
Dispute resolution process for Pre-disputes.
17.59
Filing a Pre-dispute.
17.61
Use of alternative dispute resolution.
Appendix A to Part 17—Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 570-581, 49 U.S.C. 106(f)(2), 40110, 40111, 40112, 46102, 46014, 46105, 46109, and 46110.

# Source:
76 FR 55221, Sept. 7, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 17.1
Applicability.
This part applies to all Acquisition Management System (AMS) bid protests and contract disputes involving the FAA that are filed at the Office of Dispute Resolution for Acquisition (ODRA) on or after October 7, 2011, with the exception of those contract disputes arising under or related to FAA contracts entered into prior to April 1, 1996, where such contracts have not been modified to be made subject to the FAA AMS. This part also applies to pre-disputes as described in subpart G of this part.
§ 17.3
Definitions.
(a)
Accrual
means to come into existence as a legally enforceable claim.
(b)
Accrual of a contract claim
means that all events relating to a claim have occurred, which fix liability of either the government or the contractor and permit assertion of the claim, regardless of when the claimant actually discovered those events. For liability to be fixed, some injury must have occurred. Monetary damages need not have been incurred, but if the claim is for money, such damages must be capable of reasonable estimation. The accrual of a claim or the running of the limitations period may be tolled on equitable grounds, including but not limited to active concealment, fraud, or if the facts were inherently unknowable.
(c)
Acquisition Management System
(AMS) establishes the policies, guiding principles, and internal procedures for the FAA's acquisition system.
(d)
Adjudicative Process
is an administrative adjudicatory process used to decide protests and contract disputes where the parties have not achieved resolution through informal communication or the use of ADR. The Adjudicative Process is conducted by a Dispute Resolution Officer (DRO) or Special Master selected by the ODRA Director to preside over the case in accordance with Public Law 108-176, Section 224, Codified at 49 U.S.C. 40110(d)(4).
(e)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.
(f)
Alternative Dispute Resolution
(ADR) is the primary means of voluntary dispute resolution that is employed by the ODRA. See Appendix A of this part.
(g)
Compensated Neutral
refers to an impartial third party chosen by the parties to act as a facilitator, mediator, or arbitrator functioning to resolve the protest or contract dispute under the auspices of the ODRA. The parties pay equally for the services of a compensated neutral, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties. An ODRA DRO or neutral cannot be a compensated neutral.
(h)
Contract Dispute
, as used in this part, means a written request to the ODRA seeking, as a matter of right under an FAA contract subject to the AMS, the payment of money in a sum certain, the adjustment or interpretation of contract terms, or for other relief arising under, relating to, or involving an alleged breach of that contract. A contract dispute does not require, as a prerequisite, the issuance of a Contracting Officer final decision. Contract disputes, for purposes of ADR only, may also involve contracts not subject to the AMS.
(i)
Counsel
refers to a Legal Representative who is an attorney licensed by a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory of the United States to practice law or appear before the courts of that State or territory.
(j)
Contractor
is a party in contractual privity with the FAA and responsible for performance of a contract's requirements.
(k)
Discovery
is the procedure whereby opposing parties in a protest or contract dispute may, either voluntarily or to the extent ordered by the ODRA, obtain testimony from, or documents and information held by, other parties or non-parties.
(l)
Dispute Resolution Officer
(DRO) is an attorney and member of the ODRA staff. The term DRO can include the Director of the ODRA.
(m)
Interested party
, in the context of a bid protest, is one whose direct economic interest has been or would be affected by the award or failure to award an FAA contract. Proposed subcontractors are not “interested parties” within this definition and are not eligible to submit protests to the ODRA. Subcontractors not in privity with the FAA are not interested parties in the context of a contract dispute.
(n)
Intervenor
is an interested party other than the protester whose participation in a protest is allowed by the ODRA. For a post-award protest, the awardee of the contract that is the subject of the protest will be allowed, upon timely request, to participate as an intervenor in the protest. In such a protest, no other interested parties will be allowed to participate as intervenors.
(o)
Legal Representative
is an individual(s) designated to act on behalf of a party in matters before the ODRA. Unless otherwise provided under §§ 17.15(c)(2), 17.27(a)(1), or 17.59(a)(6), a Notice of Appearance must be filed with the ODRA containing the name, address, telephone and facsimile (Fax) numbers of a party's legal representative.
(p)
Neutral
refers to an impartial third party in the ADR process chosen by the parties to act as a facilitator, mediator, arbitrator, or otherwise to aid the parties in resolving a protest or contract dispute. A neutral can be a DRO or a person not an employee of the ODRA.
(q)
ODRA
is the FAA's exclusive forum acting on behalf of the Administrator, pursuant to the statutory authority granted by Public Law 108-176, Section 224, to provide dispute resolution services and to adjudicate matters within its jurisdiction. The ODRA may also provide non-binding dispute resolution services in matters outside of its jurisdiction where mutually requested to do so by the parties involved.
(r)
Parties
include the protester(s) or the contractor, the FAA, and any intervenor(s).
(s)
Pre-Disputes
mean an issue(s) in controversy concerning an FAA contract or solicitation that, by mutual agreement of the parties, is filed with the ODRA. See subpart G of this part.
(t)
Product Team,
as used in these rules, refers to the FAA organization(s) responsible for the procurement or contracting activity, without regard to funding source, and includes the Contracting Officer (CO). The Product Team, acting through assigned FAA counsel, is responsible for all communications with and submissions to the ODRA in pending matters.
(u)
Screening Information Request
(SIR or Solicitation) means a request by the FAA for documentation, information, presentations, proposals, or binding offers concerning an approach to meeting potential acquisition requirements established by the FAA.
(v) A
Special Master
is a non-FAA attorney or judge who has been assigned by the ODRA to act as its finder of fact, and to make findings and recommendations based upon AMS policy and applicable law and authorities in the Adjudicative Process.
§ 17.5
Delegation of authority.
(a) The authority of the Administrator to conduct dispute resolution and adjudicative proceedings concerning acquisition matters is delegated to the Director of the ODRA.
(b) The Director of the ODRA may redelegate to Special Masters and DROs such delegated authority in paragraph (a) of this section as deemed necessary by the Director for efficient resolution of an assigned protest or contract dispute, including the imposition of sanctions for the filing of frivolous pleadings, making false statements, or other disciplinary actions. See subpart F of this part.
§ 17.7
Filing and computation of time.
(a) Filing of a protest or contract dispute may be accomplished by overnight delivery, by hand delivery, by Fax, or, if permitted by Order of the ODRA, by electronic filing. A protest or contract dispute is considered to be filed on the date it is received by the ODRA during normal business hours. The ODRA's normal business hours are from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Eastern Time. A protest or contract dispute received after the time period prescribed for filing shall not be considered timely filed. Service shall also be made on the Contracting
Officer (CO) pursuant to §§ 17.15(e) and 17.27(d).
(b) Submissions to the ODRA after the initial filing of a protest or contract dispute may be accomplished by any means available in paragraph (a) of this section. Copies of all such submissions shall be served on the opposing party or parties.
(c) The time limits stated in this part are calculated in business days, which exclude weekends, Federal holidays and other days on which Federal Government offices in Washington, DC are not open. In computing time, the day of the event beginning a period of time shall not be included. If the last day of a period falls on a weekend or a Federal holiday, the first business day following the weekend or holiday shall be considered the last day of the period.
(d) Electronic Filing—Procedures for electronic filing may be utilized where permitted by Order of the ODRA on a case-by-case basis or pursuant to a Standing Order of the ODRA permitting electronic filing.
§ 17.9
Protective orders.
(a) The ODRA may issue protective orders addressing the treatment of protected information, including protected information in electronic form, either at the request of a party or upon its own initiative. Such information may include proprietary, confidential, or source-selection-sensitive material, or other information the release of which could result in a competitive advantage to one or more firms.
(b) The terms of the ODRA's standard protective order may be altered to suit particular circumstances, by negotiation of the parties, subject to the approval of the ODRA. The protective order establishes procedures for application for access to protected information, identification and safeguarding of that information, and submission of redacted copies of documents omitting protected information.
(c) After a protective order has been issued, counsel or consultants retained by counsel appearing on behalf of a party may apply for access to the material under the order by submitting an application to the ODRA, with copies furnished simultaneously to all parties. The application shall establish that the applicant is not involved in competitive decision-making for any firm that could gain a competitive advantage from access to the protected information and that the applicant will diligently protect any protected information received from inadvertent disclosure. Objections to an applicant's admission shall be raised within two (2) days of the application, although the ODRA may consider objections raised after that time for good cause.
(d) Any violation of the terms of a protective order may result in the imposition of sanctions, including but not limited to removal of the violator from the protective order and reporting of the violator to his or her bar association(s), and the taking of other actions as the ODRA deems appropriate. Additional civil or criminal penalties may apply.

# Subpart B—Protests
§ 17.11
Matters not subject to protest.
The following matters may not be protested before the ODRA, except for review of compliance with the AMS:
(a) FAA purchases from or through, State, local, and tribal governments and public authorities;
(b) FAA purchases from or through other Federal agencies;
(c) Grants;
(d) Cooperative agreements;
(e) Other transactions.
§ 17.13
Dispute resolution process for protests.
(a) Protests concerning FAA SIRs, solicitations, or contract awards shall be resolved pursuant to this part.
(b) Potential protestors should, where possible, attempt to resolve any issues concerning potential protests with the CO. Such attempts are not a prerequisite to filing a protest with the ODRA.
(c) Offerors or prospective offerors shall file a protest with the ODRA in accordance with § 17.15. The protest time limitations set forth in § 17.15 will not be extended by attempts to resolve a potential protest with the CO. Other than the time limitations specified in § 17.15 for the filing of protests, the ODRA retains the discretion to modify
any timeframes established herein in connection with protests.
(d) In accordance with § 17.17(b), the ODRA shall convene an initial status conference for the purpose of scheduling proceedings in the protest and to encourage the parties to consider using the ODRA's ADR process to attempt to resolve the protest, pursuant to subpart D of this part. It is the Agency's policy to use voluntary ADR to the maximum extent practicable. If the parties elect not to attempt ADR, or if ADR efforts do not completely resolve the protest, the protest will proceed under the ODRA Adjudicative Process set forth in subpart E of this part. Informal ADR techniques may be utilized simultaneously with ongoing adjudication.
(e) The ODRA Director shall designate DROs, outside neutrals or Special Masters as potential neutrals for the resolution of protests through ADR. The ultimate choice of an ADR neutral is made by the parties participating in the ADR. The ODRA Director also shall, at his or her sole discretion, designate an adjudicating DRO or Special Master for each matter. A person serving as a neutral in an ADR effort in a matter, shall not serve as an adjudicating DRO or Special Master for that matter.
(f) Multiple protests concerning the same SIR, solicitation, or contract award may be consolidated at the discretion of the ODRA Director, and assigned to a single DRO or Special Master for adjudication.
(g) Procurement activities, and, where applicable, contractor performance pending resolution of a protest, shall continue during the pendency of a protest, unless there is a compelling reason to suspend all or part of the procurement activities or contractor performance. Pursuant to §§ 17.15(d) and 17.17(a), the ODRA may impose a temporary suspension and recommend suspension of award or contract performance, in whole or in part, for a compelling reason. A decision to suspend procurement activities or contractor performance is made in writing by the Administrator or the Administrator's delegee upon recommendation of the ODRA.
§ 17.15
Filing a protest.
(a) An interested party may initiate a protest by filing with the ODRA in accordance with § 17.7(a) within the timeframes set forth in this Section. Protests that are not timely filed shall be dismissed. The timeframes applicable to the filing of protests are as follows:
(1) Protests based upon alleged SIR or solicitation improprieties that are apparent prior to bid opening or the time set for receipt of initial proposals shall be filed prior to bid opening or the time set for the receipt of initial proposals.
(2) In procurements where proposals are requested, alleged improprieties that do not exist in the initial solicitation, but which are subsequently incorporated into the solicitation, must be protested not later than the next closing time for receipt of proposals following the incorporation.
(3) For protests other than those related to alleged solicitation improprieties, the protest must be filed on the later of the following two dates:
(i) Not later than seven (7) business days after the date the protester knew or should have known of the grounds for the protest; or
(ii) If the protester has requested a post-award debriefing from the FAA Product Team, not later than five (5) business days after the date on which the Product Team holds that debriefing.
(b) Protests shall be filed with the ODRA, AGC-70, Federal Aviation Administration, telephone (202) 267-3290 as follows:
(1) 600 Independence Avenue SW., Room 2W100, Washington, DC 20591 for filing by hand delivery, courier or other form of in-person delivery;
(2) 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591 [Attention: AGC-70, Wilbur Wright Bldg., Room 2W100] for filing by U.S. Mail; or
(3) Numbers (202) 267-3720 or alternate (202) 267-1293 for filing by facsimile.
(c) A protest shall be in writing, and set forth:
(1) The protester's name, address, telephone number, and FAX number;
(2) The name, address, telephone number, and FAX number of the protester's legal representative, and who
shall be duly authorized to represent the protester, to be the point of contact;
(3) The SIR number or, if available, the contract number and the name of the CO;
(4) The basis for the protester's status as an interested party;
(5) The facts supporting the timeliness of the protest;
(6) Whether the protester requests a protective order, the material to be protected, and attach a redacted copy of that material;
(7) A detailed statement of both the legal and factual grounds of the protest, and one (1) copy of each relevant document;
(8) The remedy or remedies sought by the protester, as set forth in § 17.23;
(9) The signature of the legal representative, or another person duly authorized to represent the protester.
(d) If the protester wishes to request a suspension of the procurement or contract performance, in whole or in part, and believes that a compelling reason(s) exists to suspend the procurement or contract performance because of the protested action, the protester shall, in its initial filing:
(1) Set forth such compelling reason(s), supply all facts and documents supporting the protester's position; and
(2) Demonstrate—
(i) The protester has alleged a substantial case;
(ii) The lack of a suspension would be likely to cause irreparable injury;
(iii) The relative hardships on the parties favor a suspension; and
(iv) That a suspension is in the public interest.
(3) Failure of a protester to provide information or documents in support of a requested suspension or failure to address the elements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section may result in the summary rejection of the request for suspension, or a requirement that the protester supplement its request prior to the scheduling of a Product Team response to the request under § 17.17(a).
(e) Concurrent with the filing of a protest with the ODRA, the protester shall serve a copy of the protest on the CO and any other official designated in the SIR for receipt of protests, by means reasonably calculated to be received by the CO on the same day as it is to be received by the ODRA. The protest shall include a signed statement from the protester, certifying to the ODRA the manner of service, date, and time when a copy of the protest was served on the CO and other designated official(s).
(f) Upon receipt of the protest, the CO shall notify the awardee of a challenged contract award in writing of the existence of the protest. The awardee and/or interested parties shall notify the ODRA in writing, of their interest in participating in the protest as intervenors within two (2) business days of receipt of the CO's notification, and shall, in such notice, designate a person as the point of contact for the ODRA.
(g) The ODRA has discretion to designate the parties who shall participate in the protest as intervenors. In protests of awarded contracts, only the awardee may participate as an intervenor as a matter of right.
[76 FR 55221, Sept. 7, 2011, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2017-0075, 82 FR 14429, Mar. 21, 2017]
§ 17.17
Initial protest procedures.
(a) If, as part of its initial protest filing, the protester requests a suspension of procurement activities or contractor performance in whole or in part, in accordance with § 17.15(d), the Product Team shall submit a response to the request to the ODRA by no later than the close of business on the date of the initial scheduling conference or on such other date as is established by the ODRA. Copies of the response shall be furnished to the protester and any intervenor(s) so as to be received within the same timeframe. The protester and any intervenor(s) shall have the opportunity of providing additional comments on the response within two (2) business days of receiving it. Based on its review of such submissions, the ODRA, in its discretion, may—
(1) Decline the suspension request; or
(2) Recommend such suspension to the Administrator or the Administrator's designee. The ODRA also may impose a temporary suspension of no more than ten (10) business days, where it is recommending that the Administrator impose a suspension.
(b) Within five (5) business days of the filing of a protest, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the ODRA shall convene an initial status conference for purposes of:
(1) Reviewing the ODRA's ADR and adjudication procedures and establishing a preliminary schedule;
(2) Identifying legal or other preliminary or potentially dispositive issues and answering the parties' questions regarding the ODRA process;
(3) Dealing with issues related to protected information and the issuance of any needed protective order;
(4) Encouraging the parties to consider using ADR;
(5) Appointing a DRO as a potential ADR neutral to assist the parties in considering ADR options and developing an ADR agreement; and
(6) For any other reason deemed appropriate by the DRO or by the ODRA.
(c) The Product Team and protester will have five (5) business days from the date of the initial status conference to decide whether they will attempt to use an ADR process in the case. With the agreement of the ODRA, ADR may be used concurrently with the adjudication of a protest. See § 17.37(e).
(d) If the Product Team and protester elect to use ADR proceedings to resolve the protest, they will agree upon the neutral to conduct the ADR proceedings (either an ODRA DRO or a compensated neutral of their own choosing) pursuant to § 17.37, and shall execute and file with the ODRA a written ADR agreement. Agreement of any intervenor(s) to the use of ADR or the resolution of a dispute through ADR shall not be required.
(e) If the Product Team or protester indicate that ADR proceedings will not be used, or if ADR is not successful in resolving the entire protest, the ODRA Director upon being informed of the situation, will schedule an adjudication of the protest.
§ 17.19
Motions practice and dismissal or summary decision of protests.
(a) Separate motions generally are discouraged in ODRA bid protests. Counsel and parties are encouraged to incorporate any such motions in their respective agency responses or comments. Parties and counsel are encouraged to attempt to resolve typical motions issues through the ODRA ADR process. The ODRA may rule on any non-dispositive motion, where appropriate and necessary, after providing an opportunity for briefing on the motion by all affected parties. Unjustifiable, inappropriate use of motions may result in the imposition of sanctions. Where appropriate, a party may request by dispositive motion to the ODRA, or the ODRA may recommend or order, that:
(1) The protest, or any count or portion of a protest, be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction, timeliness, or standing to pursue the protest;
(2) The protest, or any count or portion of a protest, be dismissed, if frivolous or without basis in fact or law, or for failure to state a claim upon which relief may be had;
(3) A summary decision be issued with respect to the protest, or any count or portion of a protest, if there are no material facts in dispute and a party is entitled to summary decision as a matter of law.
(b) In connection with consideration of possible dismissal or summary decision, the ODRA shall consider any material facts in dispute, in a light most favorable to the party against whom the dismissal or summary decision would operate and draw all factual inferences in favor of the non-moving party.
(c) Either upon motion by a party or on its own initiative, the ODRA may, at any time, exercise its discretion to:
(1) Recommend to the Administrator dismissal or the issuance of a summary decision with respect to the entire protest;
(2) Dismiss the entire protest or issue a summary decision with respect to the entire protest, if delegated that authority by the Administrator; or
(3) Dismiss or issue a summary decision with respect to any count or portion of a protest.
(d) A dismissal or summary decision regarding the entire protest by either the Administrator, or the ODRA by delegation, shall be construed as a final agency order. A dismissal or summary decision that does not resolve all counts or portions of a protest shall
not constitute a final agency order, unless and until such dismissal or decision is incorporated or otherwise adopted in a decision by the Administrator (or the ODRA, by delegation) regarding the entire protest.
(e) Prior to recommending or entering either a dismissal or a summary decision, either in whole or in part, the ODRA shall afford all parties against whom the dismissal or summary decision is to be entered the opportunity to respond to the proposed dismissal or summary decision.
§ 17.21
Adjudicative Process for protests.
(a) Other than for the resolution of preliminary or dispositive matters, the Adjudicative Process for protests will be commenced by the ODRA Director pursuant to § 17.17(e).
(b) The Director of the ODRA shall appoint a DRO or a Special Master to conduct the adjudication proceedings, develop the administrative record, and prepare findings and recommendations for review of the ODRA Director.
(c) The DRO or Special Master may conduct such proceedings and prepare procedural orders for the proceedings as deemed appropriate; and may require additional submissions from the parties.
(d) The Product Team response to the protest will be due to be filed and served ten (10) business days from the commencement of the ODRA Adjudication process. The Product Team response shall consist of a written chronological, supported statement of proposed facts, and a written presentation of applicable legal or other defenses. The Product Team response shall cite to and be accompanied by all relevant documents, which shall be chronologically indexed, individually tabbed, and certified as authentic and complete. A copy of the response shall be furnished so as to be received by the protester and any intervenor(s) on the same date it is filed with the ODRA. In all cases, the Product Team shall indicate the method of service used.
(e) Comments of the protester and the intervenor on the Product Team response will be due to be filed and served five (5) business days after their receipt of the response. Copies of such comments shall be provided to the other participating parties by the same means and on the same date as they are furnished to the ODRA. Comments may include any supplemental relevant documents.
(f) The ODRA may alter the schedule for filing of the Product Team response and the comments for good cause or to accommodate the circumstances of a particular protest.
(g) The DRO or Special Master may convene the parties and/or their representatives, as needed for the Adjudicative Process.
(h) If, in the sole judgment of the DRO or Special Master, the parties have presented written material sufficient to allow the protest to be decided on the record presented, the DRO or Special Master shall have the discretion to decide the protest on that basis.
(i) The parties may engage in limited, focused discovery with one another and, if justified, with non-parties, so as to obtain information relevant to the allegations of the protest.
(1) The DRO or Special Master shall manage the discovery process, including limiting its length and availability, and shall establish schedules and deadlines for discovery, which are consistent with timeframes established in this part and with the FAA policy of providing fair and expeditious dispute resolution.
(2) The DRO or Special Master may also direct the parties to exchange, in an expedited manner, relevant, non-privileged documents.
(3) Where justified, the DRO or Special Master may direct the taking of deposition testimony, however, the FAA dispute resolution process does not contemplate extensive discovery.
(4) The use of interrogatories and requests for admission is not permitted in ODRA bid protests.
(5) Where parties cannot voluntarily reach agreement on a discovery-related issue, they may timely seek assistance from an ODRA ADR neutral or may file an appropriate motion with the ODRA. Parties may request a subpoena.
(6) Discovery requests and responses are not part of the record and will not be filed with the ODRA, except in connection with a motion or other permissible filing.
(7) Unless timely objection is made, documents properly filed with the ODRA will be deemed admitted into the administrative record.
(j) Hearings are not typically held in bid protests. The DRO or Special Master may conduct hearings, and may limit the hearings to the testimony of specific witnesses and/or presentations regarding specific issues. The DRO or Special Master shall control the nature and conduct of all hearings, including the sequence and extent of any testimony. Hearings will be conducted:
(1) Where the DRO or Special Master determines that there are complex factual issues in dispute that cannot adequately or efficiently be developed solely by means of written presentations and/or that resolution of the controversy will be dependent on his/her assessment of the credibility of statements provided by individuals with first-hand knowledge of the facts; or
(2) Upon request of any party to the protest, unless the DRO or Special Master finds specifically that a hearing is unnecessary and that no party will be prejudiced by limiting the record in the adjudication to the parties' written submissions. All witnesses at any such hearing shall be subject to cross-examination by the opposing party and to questioning by the DRO or Special Master.
(k) The Director of the ODRA may review the status of any protest in the Adjudicative Process with the DRO or Special Master.
(l) After the closing of the administrative record, the DRO or Special Master will prepare and submit findings and recommendations to the ODRA that shall contain the following:
(1) Findings of fact;
(2) Application of the principles of the AMS, and any applicable law or authority to the findings of fact;
(3) A recommendation for a final FAA order; and
(4) If appropriate, suggestions for future FAA action.
(m) In preparing findings and recommendations in protests, the DRO or Special Master, using the preponderance of the evidence standard, shall consider whether the Product Team actions in question were consistent with the requirements of the AMS, had a rational basis, and whether the Product Team decision was arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion. Notwithstanding the above, allegations that government officials acted with bias or in bad faith must be established by clear and convincing evidence.
(n) The DRO or Special Master has broad discretion to recommend a remedy that is consistent with § 17.23.
(o) A DRO or Special Master shall submit findings and recommendations only to the Director of the ODRA or the Director's designee. The findings and recommendations will be released to the parties and to the public upon issuance of the final FAA order in the case. If an ODRA protective order was issued in connection with the protest, or if a protest involves proprietary or competition-sensitive information, a redacted version of the findings and recommendations, omitting any protected information, shall be prepared wherever possible and released to the public, as soon as is practicable, along with a copy of the final FAA order. Only persons admitted by the ODRA under the protective order and Government personnel shall be provided copies of the unredacted findings and recommendations that contain proprietary or competition-sensitive information.
(p) Other than communications regarding purely procedural matters or ADR, there shall be no substantive
ex parte
communication between ODRA personnel and any principal or representative of a party concerning a pending or potentially pending matter. A potential or serving ADR neutral may communicate on an
ex parte
basis to establish or conduct the ADR.
§ 17.23
Protest remedies.
(a) The ODRA has broad discretion to recommend and impose protest remedies that are consistent with the AMS and applicable law. Such remedies may include, but are not limited to one or a combination of, the following:
(1) Amend the SIR;
(2) Refrain from exercising options under the contract;
(3) Issue a new SIR;
(4) Require a recompetition or revaluation;
(5) Terminate an existing contract for the FAA's convenience;
(6) Direct an award to the protester;
(7) Award bid and proposal costs; or
(8) Any other remedy consistent with the AMS that is appropriate under the circumstances.
(b) In determining the appropriate recommendation, the ODRA may consider the circumstances surrounding the procurement or proposed procurement including, but not limited to: the nature of the procurement deficiency; the degree of prejudice to other parties or to the integrity of the acquisition system; the good faith of the parties; the extent of performance completed; the feasibility of any proposed remedy; the urgency of the procurement; the cost and impact of the recommended remedy; and the impact on the Agency's mission.
(c) Attorney's fees of a prevailing protester are allowable to the extent permitted by the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504(a)(1) (EAJA) and 14 CFR part 14.

# Subpart C—Contract Disputes
§ 17.25
Dispute resolution process for contract disputes.
(a) All contract disputes arising under contracts subject to the AMS shall be resolved under this subpart.
(b) Contract disputes shall be filed with the ODRA pursuant to § 17.27.
(c) The ODRA has broad discretion to recommend remedies for a contract dispute that are consistent with the AMS and applicable law, including such equitable remedies or other remedies as it deems appropriate.
§ 17.27
Filing a contract dispute.
(a) Contract disputes must be in writing and should contain:
(1) The contractor's name, address, telephone and Fax numbers and the name, address, telephone and Fax numbers of the contractor's legal representative(s) (if any) for the contract dispute;
(2) The contract number and the name of the Contracting Officer;
(3) A detailed chronological statement of the facts and of the legal grounds underlying the contract dispute, broken down by individual claim item, citing to relevant contract provisions and attaching copies of the contract and other relevant documents;
(4) Information establishing the ODRA's jurisdiction and the timeliness of the contract dispute;
(5) A request for a specific remedy, and the amount, if known, of any monetary remedy requested, together with pertinent cost information and documentation (
e.g.
, invoices and cancelled checks). Supporting documentation should be broken down by individual claim item and summarized; and
(6) The signature of a duly authorized representative of the initiating party.
(b) Contract Disputes shall be filed with the ODRA, AGC-70, Federal Aviation Administration, telephone (202) 267-3290 as follows:
(1) 600 Independence Avenue SW., Room 2W100, Washington, DC 20591 for filing by hand delivery, courier or other form of in-person delivery;
(2) 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591 [Attention: AGC-70, Wilbur Wright Bldg., Room 2W100] for filing by U.S. Mail; or
(3) Numbers (202) 267-3720 or alternate (202) 267-1293 for filing by facsimile.
(c) A contract dispute against the FAA shall be filed with the ODRA within two (2) years of the accrual of the contract claim involved. A contract dispute by the FAA against a contractor (excluding contract disputes alleging warranty issues, fraud or latent defects) likewise shall be filed within two (2) years of the accrual of the contract claim. If an underlying contract entered into prior to the effective date of this part provides for time limitations for filing of contract disputes with the ODRA, which differ from the aforesaid two (2) year period, the limitation periods in the contract shall control over the limitation period of this section. In no event will either party be permitted to file with the ODRA a contract dispute seeking an equitable adjustment or other damages after the contractor has accepted final contract payment, with the exception of FAA contract disputes related to warranty issues, gross mistakes amounting to fraud or latent defects. FAA contract disputes against the contractor based on warranty issues must be filed within the time specified under
applicable contract warranty provisions. Any FAA contract disputes against the contractor based on gross mistakes amounting to fraud or latent defects shall be filed with the ODRA within two (2) years of the date on which the FAA knew or should have known of the presence of the fraud or latent defect.
(d) A party shall serve a copy of the contract dispute upon the other party, by means reasonably calculated to be received on the same day as the filing is received by the ODRA.
(e) With the exception of the time limitations established herein for the filing of contract disputes, the ODRA retains the discretion to modify any timeframe established herein in connection with contract disputes.
[76 FR 55221, Sept. 7, 2011, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2017-0075, 82 FR 14429, Mar. 21, 2017]
§ 17.29
Informal resolution period.
(a) The ODRA process for contract disputes includes an informal resolution period of twenty (20) business days from the date of filing in order for the parties to attempt to informally resolve the contract dispute either through direct negotiation or with the assistance of the ODRA. The CO, with the advice of FAA legal counsel, has full discretion to settle contract disputes, except where the matter involves fraud.
(b) During the informal resolution period, if the parties request it, the ODRA will appoint a DRO for ADR who will discuss ADR options with the parties, offer his or her services as a potential neutral, and assist the parties to enter into an agreement for a formal ADR process. A person serving as a neutral in an ADR effort in a matter shall not serve as an adjudicating DRO or Special Master for that matter.
(c) The informal resolution period may be extended at the request of the parties for good cause.
(d) If the matter has not been resolved informally, the parties shall file joint or separate statements with the ODRA no later than twenty (20) business days after the filing of the contract dispute. The ODRA may extend this time, pursuant to § 17.27(e). The statement(s) shall include either:
(1) A joint request for ADR, or an executed ADR agreement, pursuant to § 17.37(d), specifying which ADR techniques will be employed; or
(2) Written explanation(s) as to why ADR proceedings will not be used and why the Adjudicative Process will be needed.
(e) If the contract dispute is not completely resolved during the informal resolution period, the ODRA's Adjudicative Process will commence unless the parties have reached an agreement to attempt a formal ADR effort. As part of such an ADR agreement the parties, with the concurrence of the ODRA, may agree to defer commencement of the adjudication process pending completion of the ADR or that the ADR and adjudication process will run concurrently. If a formal ADR is attempted but does not completely resolve the contract dispute, the Adjudicative Process will commence.
(f) The ODRA shall hold a status conference with the parties within ten (10) business days, or as soon thereafter as is practicable, of the ODRA's receipt of a written notification that ADR proceedings will not be used, or have not fully resolved the Contract Dispute. The purpose of the status conference will be to commence the Adjudicative Process and establish the schedule for adjudication.
(g) The submission of a statement which indicates that ADR will not be utilized will not in any way preclude the parties from engaging in non-binding ADR techniques during the Adjudicative Process, pursuant to subpart D of this part.
§ 17.31
Dismissal or summary decision of contract disputes.
(a) Any party may request by motion, or the ODRA on its own initiative may recommend or direct, that a contract dispute be dismissed, or that a count or portion thereof be stricken, if:
(1) It was not timely filed;
(2) It was filed by a subcontractor or other person or entity lacking standing;
(3) It fails to state a matter upon which relief may be had; or
(4) It involves a matter not subject to the jurisdiction of the ODRA.
(b) Any party may request by motion, or the ODRA on its own initiative may recommend or direct, that a summary decision be issued with respect to a contract dispute, or any count or portion thereof if there are no material facts in dispute and a party is entitled to a summary decision as a matter of law.
(c) In connection with any potential dismissal of a contract dispute, or summary decision, the ODRA will consider any material facts in dispute in a light most favorable to the party against whom the dismissal or summary decision would be entered, and draw all factual inferences in favor of that party.
(d) At any time, whether pursuant to a motion or on its own initiative and at its discretion, the ODRA may:
(1) Dismiss or strike a count or portion of a contract dispute or enter a partial summary decision;
(2) Recommend to the Administrator that the entire contract dispute be dismissed or that a summary decision be entered; or
(3) With a delegation from the Administrator, dismiss the entire contract dispute or enter a summary decision with respect to the entire contract dispute.
(e) An order of dismissal of the entire contract dispute or summary decision with respect to the entire contract dispute, issued either by the Administrator or by the ODRA, on the grounds set forth in this section, shall constitute a final agency order. An ODRA order dismissing or striking a count or portion of a contract dispute or entering a partial summary judgment shall not constitute a final agency order, unless and until such ODRA order is incorporated or otherwise adopted in a final agency decision of the Administrator or the Administrator's delegee regarding the remainder of the dispute.
(f) Prior to recommending or entering either a dismissal or a summary decision, either in whole or in part, the ODRA shall afford all parties against whom the dismissal or summary decision would be entered the opportunity to respond to a proposed dismissal or summary decision.
§ 17.33
Adjudicative Process for contract disputes.
(a) The Adjudicative Process for contract disputes will be commenced by the ODRA Director upon being notified by the ADR neutral or by any party that either—
(1) The parties will not be attempting ADR; or
(2) The parties have not settled all of the dispute issues via ADR, and it is unlikely that they can do so within the time period allotted and/or any reasonable extension.
(b) In cases initiated by a contractor against the FAA, within twenty (20) business days of the commencement of the Adjudicative Process or as scheduled by the ODRA, the Product Team shall prepare and submit to the ODRA, with a copy to the contractor, a chronologically arranged and indexed substantive response, containing a legal and factual position regarding the dispute and all documents relevant to the facts and issues in dispute. The contractor will be entitled, at a specified time, to supplement the record with additional documents.
(c) In cases initiated by the FAA against a contractor, within twenty (20) business days of the commencement of the Adjudicative Process or as scheduled by the ODRA, the contractor shall prepare and submit to the ODRA, with a copy to the Product Team counsel, a chronologically arranged and indexed substantive response, containing a legal and factual position regarding the dispute and all documents relevant to the facts and issues in dispute. The Product Team will be entitled, at a specified time, to supplement the record with additional documents.
(d) Unless timely objection is made, documents properly filed with the ODRA will be deemed admitted into the administrative record. Discovery requests and responses are not part of the record and will not be filed with the ODRA, except in connection with a motion or other permissible filing. Designated, relevant portions of such documents may be filed, with the permission of the ODRA.
(e) The Director of the ODRA shall assign a DRO or a Special Master to conduct adjudicatory proceedings, develop the administrative adjudication
record and prepare findings and recommendations for the review of the ODRA Director or the Director's designee.
(f) The DRO or Special Master may conduct a status conference(s) as necessary and issue such orders or decisions as are necessary to promote the efficient resolution of the contract dispute.
(g) At any such status conference, or as necessary during the Adjudicative Process, the DRO or Special Master will:
(1) Determine the appropriate amount of discovery required;
(2) Review the need for a protective order, and if one is needed, prepare a protective order pursuant to § 17.9;
(3) Determine whether any issue can be stricken; and
(4) Prepare necessary procedural orders for the proceedings.
(h) Unless otherwise provided by the DRO or Special Master, or by agreement of the parties with the concurrence of the DRO or Special Master, responses to written discovery shall be due within thirty (30) business days from the date received.
(i) At a time or at times determined by the DRO or Special Master, and in advance of the decision of the case, the parties shall make individual final submissions to the ODRA and to the DRO or Special Master, which submissions shall include the following:
(1) A statement of the issues;
(2) A proposed statement of undisputed facts related to each issue together with citations to the administrative record or other supporting materials;
(3) Separate statements of disputed facts related to each issue, with appropriate citations to documents in the Dispute File, to pages of transcripts of any hearing or deposition, or to any affidavit or exhibit which a party may wish to submit with its statement;
(4) Separate legal analyses in support of the parties' respective positions on disputed issues.
(j) Each party shall serve a copy of its final submission on the other party by means reasonably calculated so that the other party receives such submissions on the same day it is received by the ODRA.
(k) The DRO or Special Master may decide the contract dispute on the basis of the administrative record and the submissions referenced in this section, or may, in the DRO or Special Master's discretion, direct the parties to make additional presentations in writing. The DRO or Special Master may conduct hearings, and may limit the hearings to the testimony of specific witnesses and/or presentations regarding specific issues. The DRO or Special Master shall control the nature and conduct of all hearings, including the sequence and extent of any testimony. Evidentiary hearings on the record shall be conducted by the ODRA:
(1) Where the DRO or Special Master determines that there are complex factual issues in dispute that cannot adequately or efficiently be developed solely by means of written presentations and/or that resolution of the controversy will be dependent on his/her assessment of the credibility of statements provided by individuals with first-hand knowledge of the facts; or
(2) Upon request of any party to the contract dispute, unless the DRO or Special Master finds specifically that a hearing is unnecessary and that no party will be prejudiced by limiting the record in the adjudication to the parties' written submissions. All witnesses at any such hearing shall be subject to cross-examination by the opposing party and to questioning by the DRO or Special Master.
(l) The DRO or Special Master shall prepare findings and recommendations, which will contain findings of fact, application of the principles of the AMS and other law or authority applicable to the findings of fact, and a recommendation for a final FAA order.
(m) The DRO or Special Master shall conduct a de novo review using the preponderance of the evidence standard, unless a different standard is prescribed for a particular issue. Notwithstanding the above, allegations that government officials acted with bias or in bad faith must be established by clear and convincing evidence.
(n) The Director of the ODRA may review the status of any contract dispute in the Adjudicative Process with the DRO or Special Master.
(o) A DRO or Special Master shall submit findings and recommendations to the Director of the ODRA or the Director's designee. The findings and recommendations will be released to the parties and to the public, upon issuance of the final FAA order in the case. Should an ODRA protective order be issued in connection with the contract dispute, or should the matter involve proprietary or competition-sensitive information, a redacted version of the findings and recommendations omitting any protected information, shall be prepared wherever possible and released to the public, as soon as is practicable, along with a copy of the final FAA order. Only persons admitted by the ODRA under the protective order and Government personnel shall be provided copies of the unredacted findings and recommendations.
(p) Attorneys' fees of a qualified prevailing contractor are allowable to the extent permitted by the EAJA, 5 U.S.C. 504(a)(1).
See
14 CFR part 14.
(q) Other than communications regarding purely procedural matters or ADR, there shall be no substantive
ex parte
communication between ODRA personnel and any principal or representative of a party concerning a pending or potentially pending matter. A potential or serving ADR neutral may communicate on an ex parte basis to establish or conduct the ADR.

# Subpart D—Alternative Dispute Resolution
§ 17.35
Use of alternative dispute resolution.
(a) By statutory mandate, it is the policy of the FAA to use voluntary ADR to the maximum extent practicable to resolve matters pending at the ODRA. The ODRA therefore uses voluntary ADR as its primary means of resolving all factual, legal, and procedural controversies.
(b) The parties are encouraged to make a good faith effort to explore ADR possibilities in all cases and to employ ADR in every appropriate case. The ODRA uses ADR techniques such as mediation, neutral evaluation, binding arbitration or variations of these techniques as agreed by the parties and approved by the ODRA. At the beginning of each case, the ODRA assigns a DRO as a potential neutral to explore ADR options with the parties and to convene an ADR process. See § 17.35(b).
(c) The ODRA Adjudicative Process will be used where the parties cannot achieve agreement on the use of ADR; where ADR has been employed but has not resolved all pending issues in dispute; or where the ODRA concludes that ADR will not provide an expeditious means of resolving a particular dispute. Even where the Adjudicative Process is to be used, the ODRA, with the parties' consent, may employ informal ADR techniques concurrently with the adjudication.
§ 17.37
Election of alternative dispute resolution process.
(a) The ODRA will make its personnel available to serve as Neutrals in ADR proceedings and, upon request by the parties, will attempt to make qualified non-FAA personnel available to serve as Neutrals through neutral-sharing programs and other similar arrangements. The parties may elect to employ a mutually acceptable compensated neutral at their expense.
(b) The parties using an ADR process to resolve a protest shall submit an executed ADR agreement containing the information outlined in paragraph (d) of this section to the ODRA pursuant to § 17.17(c). The ODRA may extend this time for good cause.
(c) The parties using an ADR process to resolve a contract dispute shall submit an executed ADR agreement containing the information outlined in paragraph (d) of this section to the ODRA pursuant to § 17.29.
(d) The parties to a protest or contract dispute who elect to use ADR must submit to the ODRA an ADR agreement setting forth:
(1) The agreed ADR procedures to be used; and
(2) The name of the neutral. If a compensated neutral is to be used, the agreement must address how the cost of the neutral's services will be reimbursed.
(e) Non-binding ADR techniques are not mutually exclusive, and may be used in combination if the parties agree that a combination is most appropriate to the dispute. The techniques to be employed must be determined in advance by the parties and shall be expressly described in their ADR agreement. The agreement may provide for the use of any fair and reasonable ADR technique that is designed to achieve a prompt resolution of the matter. An ADR agreement for non-binding ADR shall provide for a termination of ADR proceedings and the commencement of adjudication under the Adjudicative Process, upon the election of any party. Notwithstanding such termination, the parties may still engage with the ODRA in ADR techniques (neutral evaluation and/or informal mediation) concurrently with adjudication.
(f) Binding arbitration is available through the ODRA, subject to the provisions of applicable law and the ODRA Binding Arbitration Guidance dated October 2001 as developed in consultation with the Department of Justice.
(g) The parties may, where appropriate in a given case, submit to the ODRA a negotiated protective order for use in ADR in accordance with the requirements of § 17.9.
§ 17.39
Confidentiality of ADR.
(a) The provisions of the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act of 1996, 5 U.S.C. 571,
et seq.,
shall apply to ODRA ADR proceedings.
(b) The ODRA looks to the principles of Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence in deciding admissibility issues related to ADR communications.
(c) ADR communications are not part of the administrative record unless otherwise agreed by the parties.

# Subpart E—Finality and Review
§ 17.41
Final orders.
All final FAA orders regarding protests or contract disputes under this part are to be issued by the FAA Administrator or by a delegee of the Administrator.
§ 17.43
Judicial review.
(a) A protester or contractor may seek review of a final FAA order, pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 46110, only after the administrative remedies of this part have been exhausted.
(b) A copy of the petition for review shall be filed with the ODRA and the FAA Chief Counsel on the date that the petition for review is filed with the appropriate circuit court of appeals.
§ 17.45
Conforming amendments.
The FAA shall amend pertinent provisions of the AMS, standard contract forms and clauses, and any guidance to contracting officials, so as to conform to the provisions of this part.
§ 17.47
Reconsideration.
The ODRA will not entertain requests for reconsideration as a routine matter, or where such requests evidence mere disagreement with a decision or restatements of previous arguments. A party seeking reconsideration must demonstrate either clear errors of fact or law in the underlying decision or previously unavailable evidence that warrants reversal or modification of the decision. In order to be considered, requests for reconsideration must be filed within ten (10) business days of the date of issuance of the public version of the subject decision or order.

# Subpart F—Other Matters
§ 17.49
Sanctions.
If any party or its representative fails to comply with an Order or Directive of the ODRA, the ODRA may enter such orders and take such other actions as it deems necessary and in the interest of justice.
§ 17.51
Decorum and professional conduct.
Legal representatives are expected to conduct themselves at all times in a civil and respectful manner appropriate to an administrative forum. Additionally, counsel are expected to conduct themselves at all times in a professional manner and in accordance with all applicable rules of professional conduct.
§ 17.53
Orders and subpoenas for testimony and document production.
(a) Parties are encouraged to seek cooperative and voluntary production of documents and witnesses prior to requesting a subpoena or an order under this section.
(b) Upon request by a party, or on his or her own initiative, a DRO or Special Master may, for good cause shown, order a person to give testimony by deposition and to produce records. Section 46104(c) of Title 49 of the United States Code governs the conduct of depositions or document production.
(c) Upon request by a party, or on his or her own initiative, a DRO or Special Master may, for good cause shown, subpoena witnesses or records related to a hearing from any place in the United States to the designated place of a hearing.
(d) A subpoena or order under this section may be served by a United States marshal or deputy marshal, or by any other person who is not a party and not less than 18 years of age. Service upon a person named therein shall be made by personally delivering a copy to that person and tendering the fees for one day's attendance and the mileage provided by 28 U.S.C. 1821 or other applicable law; however, where the subpoena is issued on behalf of the Product Team, money payments need not be tendered in advance of attendance. The person serving the subpoena or order shall file a declaration of service with the ODRA, executed in the form required by 28 U.S.C. 1746. The declaration of service shall be filed promptly with the ODRA, and before the date on which the person served must respond to the subpoena or order.
(e) Upon written motion by the person subpoenaed or ordered under this section, or by a party, made within ten (10) business days after service, but in any event not later than the time specified in the subpoena or order for compliance, the DRO may—
(1) Rescind or modify the subpoena or order if it is unreasonable and oppressive or for other good cause shown, or
(2) Require the party on whose behalf the subpoena or order was issued to advance the reasonable cost of producing documentary evidence. Where circumstances require, the DRO may act upon such a motion at any time after a copy has been served upon all parties.
(f) The party that requests the DRO to issue a subpoena or order under this section shall be responsible for the payment of fees and mileage, as required by 49 U.S.C. 46104(d), for witnesses, officers who serve the order, and the officer before whom a deposition is taken.
(g) Subpoenas and orders issued under this section may be enforced in a judicial proceeding under 49 U.S.C. 46104(b).
§ 17.55
Standing orders of the ODRA Director.
The Director may issue such Standing Orders as necessary for the orderly conduct of business before the ODRA.

# Subpart G—Pre-Disputes
§ 17.57
Dispute resolution process for Pre-disputes.
(a) All potential disputes arising under contracts or solicitations with the FAA may be resolved with the consent of the parties to the dispute under this subpart.
(b) Pre-disputes shall be filed with the ODRA pursuant to § 17.59.
(c) The time limitations for the filing of Protests and Contract Disputes established in §§ 17.15(a) and 17.27(c) will not be extended by efforts to resolve the dispute under this subpart.
§ 17.59
Filing a Pre-dispute.
(a) A Pre-dispute must be in writing, affirmatively state that it is a Pre-dispute pursuant to this subpart, and shall contain:
(1) The party's name, address, telephone and Fax numbers and the name, address, telephone and Fax numbers of the contractor's legal representative(s) (if any);
(2) The contract or solicitation number and the name of the Contracting Officer;
(3) A chronological statement of the facts and of the legal grounds for the party's positions regarding the dispute citing to relevant contract or solicitation provisions and documents and attaching copies of those provisions and documents; and
(4) The signature of a duly authorized legal representative of the initiating party.
(b) Pre-disputes shall be filed with the ODRA, AGC-70, Federal Aviation Administration, telephone (202) 267-3290 as follows:
(1) 600 Independence Avenue SW., Room 2W100, Washington, DC 20591 for filing by hand delivery, courier or other form of in-person delivery;
(2) 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591 [Attention: AGC-70, Wilbur Wright Bldg., Room 2W100] for filing by U.S. Mail; or
(3) Numbers (202) 267-3720 or alternate (202) 267-1293 for filing by facsimile.
(c) Upon the filing of a Pre-dispute with the ODRA, the ODRA will contact the opposing party to offer its services pursuant to § 17.57. If the opposing party agrees, the ODRA will provide Pre-dispute services. If the opposing party does not agree, the ODRA Pre-dispute file will be closed and no service will be provided.
[76 FR 55221, Sept. 7, 2011, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2017-0075, 82 FR 14429, Mar. 21, 2017]
§ 17.61
Use of alternative dispute resolution.
(a) Only non-binding, voluntary ADR will be used to attempt to resolve a Pre-dispute pursuant to § 17.37.
(b) ADR conducted under this subpart is subject to the confidentiality requirements of § 17.39.
Pt. 17, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 17—Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)
A. The FAA dispute resolution procedures encourage the parties to protests and contract disputes to use ADR as the primary means to resolve protests and contract disputes, pursuant to the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act of 1996, Public Law 104-320, 5 U.S.C. 570-579, and Department of Transportation and FAA policies to utilize ADR to the maximum extent practicable. Under the procedures presented in this part, the ODRA encourages parties to consider ADR techniques such as case evaluation, mediation, or arbitration.
B. ADR encompasses a number of processes and techniques for resolving protests or contract disputes. The most commonly used types include:
(1)
Mediation.
The neutral or compensated neutral ascertains the needs and interests of both parties and facilitates discussions between or among the parties and an amicable resolution of their differences, seeking approaches to bridge the gaps between the parties” respective positions. The neutral or compensated neutral can meet with the parties separately, conduct joint meetings with the parties” representatives, or employ both methods in appropriate cases.
(2)
Neutral Evaluation.
At any stage during the ADR process, as the parties may agree, the neutral or compensated neutral will provide a candid assessment and opinion of the strengths and weaknesses of the parties” positions as to the facts and law, so as to facilitate further discussion and resolution.
(3)
Binding Arbitration.
The ODRA, after consultation with the United States Department of Justice in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Disputes Resolution Act offers true binding arbitration in cases within its jurisdiction. The ODRA's Guidance for the Use of Binding Arbitration may be found on its website at:
http://www.faa.gov/go/odra.

# SUBCHAPTER C—AIRCRAFT
Pt. 21

# PART 21—CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES FOR PRODUCTS AND ARTICLES
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 88

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
21.1
Applicability and definitions.
21.2
Falsification of applications, reports, or records.
21.3
Reporting of failures, malfunctions, and defects.
21.4
ETOPS reporting requirements.
21.5
Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual.
21.6
Manufacture of new aircraft, aircraft engines, and propellers.
21.7
Continued airworthiness and safety improvements for transport category airplanes.
21.8
Approval of articles.
21.9
Replacement and modification articles.

# Subpart B—Type Certificates
21.11
Applicability.
21.13
Eligibility.
21.15
Application for type certificate.
21.16
Special conditions.
21.17
Designation of applicable regulations.
21.19
Changes requiring a new type certificate.
21.20
Compliance with applicable requirements.
21.21
Issue of type certificate: normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, and transport category aircraft; manned free balloons; special classes of aircraft; aircraft engines; propellers.
21.23
[Reserved]
21.24
Issuance of type certificate: primary category aircraft.
21.25
Issue of type certificate: Restricted category aircraft.
21.27
Issue of type certificate: surplus aircraft of the Armed Forces.
21.29
Issue of type certificate: import products.
21.31
Type design.
21.33
Inspection and tests.
21.35
Flight tests.
21.37
Flight test pilot.
21.39
Flight test instrument calibration and correction report.
21.41
Type certificate.
21.43
Location of manufacturing facilities.
21.45
Privileges.
21.47
Transferability.
21.49
Availability.
21.50
Instructions for continued airworthiness and manufacturer's maintenance manuals having airworthiness limitations sections.
21.51
Duration.
21.53
Statement of conformity.
21.55
Responsibilities of type certificate holders who license the type certificate.

# Subpart C—Provisional Type Certificates
21.71
Applicability.
21.73
Eligibility.
21.75
Application.
21.77
Duration.
21.79
Transferability.
21.81
Requirements for issue and amendment of Class I provisional type certificates.
21.83
Requirements for issue and amendment of Class II provisional type certificates.
21.85
Provisional amendments to type certificates.

# Subpart D—Changes to Type Certificates
21.91
Applicability.
21.93
Classification of changes in type design.
21.95
Approval of minor changes in type design.
21.97
Approval of major changes in type design.
21.99
Required design changes.
21.101
Designation of applicable regulations.

# Subpart E—Supplemental Type Certificates
21.111
Applicability.
21.113
Requirement for supplemental type certificate.
21.115
Applicable requirements.
21.117
Issue of supplemental type certificates.
21.119
Privileges.
21.120
Responsibility of supplemental type certificate holders to provide written permission for alterations.

# Subpart F—Production Under Type Certificate
21.121
Applicability.
21.122
Location of or change to manufacturing facilities.
21.123
Production under type certificate.
21.125
[Reserved]
21.127
Tests: aircraft.
21.128
Tests: aircraft engines.
21.129
Tests: propellers.
21.130
Statement of conformity.

# Subpart G—Production Certificates
21.131
Applicability.
21.132
Eligibility.
21.133
Application.
21.135
Organization.
21.137
Quality system.
21.138
Quality manual.
21.139
Location of or change to manufacturing facilities.
21.140
Inspections and tests.
21.141
Issuance.
21.142
Production limitation record.
21.143
Duration.
21.144
Transferability.
21.145
Privileges.
21.146
Responsibility of holder.
21.147
Amendment of production certificates.
21.150
Changes in quality system.

# Subpart H—Airworthiness Certificates
21.171
Applicability.
21.173
Eligibility.
21.175
Airworthiness certificates: classification.
21.177
Amendment or modification.
21.179
Transferability.
21.181
Duration.
21.182
Aircraft identification.
21.183
Issue of standard airworthiness certificates for normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, and transport category aircraft; manned free balloons; and special classes of aircraft.
21.184
Issue of special airworthiness certificates for primary category aircraft.
21.185
Issue of airworthiness certificates for restricted category aircraft.
21.187
Issue of multiple airworthiness certification.
21.189
Issue of airworthiness certificate for limited category aircraft.
21.190
Issue of a special airworthiness certificate for a light-sport category aircraft.
21.191
Experimental certificates.
21.193
Experimental certificates: general.
21.195
Experimental certificates: Aircraft to be used for market surveys, sales demonstrations, and customer crew training.
21.197
Special flight permits.
21.199
Issue of special flight permits.

# Subpart I—Provisional Airworthiness Certificates
21.211
Applicability.
21.213
Eligibility.
21.215
Application.
21.217
Duration.
21.219
Transferability.
21.221
Class I provisional airworthiness certificates.
21.223
Class II provisional airworthiness certificates.
21.225
Provisional airworthiness certificates corresponding with provisional amendments to type certificates.
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Parts Manufacturer Approvals
21.301
Applicability.
21.303
Application.
21.305
Organization.
21.307
Quality system.
21.308
Quality manual.
21.309
Location of or change to manufacturing facilities.
21.310
Inspections and tests.
21.311
Issuance.
21.313
Duration.
21.314
Transferability.
21.316
Responsibility of holder.
21.319
Design changes.
21.320
Changes in quality system.

# Subpart L—Export Airworthiness Approvals
21.321
Applicability.
21.325
Export airworthiness approvals.
21.327
Application.
21.329
Issuance of export certificates of airworthiness.
21.331
Issuance of export airworthiness approvals for aircraft engines, propellers, and articles.
21.335
Responsibilities of exporters.
Subpart M [Reserved]

# Subpart N—Acceptance of Aircraft Engines, Propellers, and Articles for Import
21.500
Acceptance of aircraft engines and propellers.
21.502
Acceptance of articles.

# Subpart O—Technical Standard Order Approvals
21.601
Applicability and definitions.
21.603
Application.
21.605
Organization.
21.607
Quality system.
21.608
Quality manual.
21.609
Location of or change to manufacturing facilities.
21.610
Inspections and tests.
21.611
Issuance.
21.613
Duration.
21.614
Transferability.
21.616
Responsibility of holder.
21.618
Approval for deviation.
21.619
Design changes.
21.620
Changes in quality system.
21.621
Issue of letters of TSO design approval: Import articles.

# Subpart P—Special Federal Aviation Regulations
21.700
SFAR No. 111—Lavatory oxygen systems.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7572; 49 U.S.C. 106(f), 106(g), 40105, 40113, 44701-44702, 44704, 44707, 44709, 44711, 44713, 44715, 45303; Sec. 102, Pub. L. 116-260, 134 Stat. 2309.

# Editorial Notes:
1. For miscellaneous amendments to cross references in this 21 see Amdt. 21-10, 31 FR 9211, July 6, 1966.
2. Nomenclature changes to part 21 appear at 74 FR 53384, Oct. 16, 2009.
Pt. 21, SFAR No. 88

# Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 88—Fuel Tank System Fault Tolerance Evaluation Requirements
1.
Applicability.
This SFAR applies to the holders of type certificates, and supplemental type certificates that may affect the airplane fuel tank system, for turbine-powered transport category airplanes, provided the type certificate was issued after January 1, 1958, and the airplane has either a maximum type certificated passenger capacity of 30 or more, or a maximum type certificated payload capacity of 7,500 pounds or more. This SFAR also applies to applicants for type certificates, amendments to a type certificate, and supplemental type certificates affecting the fuel tank systems for those airplanes identified above, if the application was filed before June 6, 2001, the effective date of this SFAR, and the certificate was not issued before June 6, 2001.
2.
Compliance:
Each type certificate holder, and each supplemental type certificate holder of a modification affecting the airplane fuel tank system, must accomplish the following within the compliance times specified in paragraph (e) of this section:
(a) Conduct a safety review of the airplane fuel tank system to determine that the design meets the requirements of §§ 25.901 and 25.981(a) and (b) of this chapter. If the current design does not meet these requirements, develop all design changes to the fuel tank system that are necessary to meet these requirements. The responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for the affected airplane may grant an extension of the 18-month compliance time for development of design changes if:
(1) The safety review is completed within the compliance time;
(2) Necessary design changes are identified within the compliance time; and
(3) Additional time can be justified, based on the holder's demonstrated aggressiveness in performing the safety review, the complexity of the necessary design changes, the availability of interim actions to provide an acceptable level of safety, and the resulting level of safety.
(b) Develop all maintenance and inspection instructions necessary to maintain the design features required to preclude the existence or development of an ignition source within the fuel tank system of the airplane.
(c) Submit a report for approval to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for the affected airplane, that:
(1) Provides substantiation that the airplane fuel tank system design, including all necessary design changes, meets the requirements of §§ 25.901 and 25.981(a) and (b) of this chapter; and
(2) Contains all maintenance and inspection instructions necessary to maintain the design features required to preclude the existence or development of an ignition source within the fuel tank system throughout the operational life of the airplane.
(d) The responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for the affected airplane, may approve a report submitted in accordance with paragraph 2(c) if it determines that any provisions of this SFAR not complied with are compensated for by factors that provide an equivalent level of safety.
(e) Each type certificate holder must comply no later than December 6, 2002, or within 18 months after the issuance of a type certificate for which application was filed before June 6, 2001, whichever is later; and each supplemental type certificate holder of a modification affecting the airplane fuel tank system must comply no later than June 6, 2003, or within 18 months after the issuance of a supplemental type certificate for which application was filed before June 6, 2001, whichever is later.
[Doc. No. 1999-6411, 66 FR 23129, May 7, 2001, as amended by Amdt. 21-82, 67 FR 57493, Sept. 10, 2002; 67 FR 70809, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 21-83, 67 FR 72833, Dec. 9, 2002; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]

# Subpart A—General
§ 21.1
Applicability and definitions.
(a) This part prescribes—
(1) Procedural requirements for issuing and changing—
(i) Design approvals;
(ii) Production approvals;
(iii) Airworthiness certificates; and
(iv) Airworthiness approvals;
(2) Rules governing applicants for, and holders of, any approval or certificate specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(3) Procedural requirements for the approval of articles.
(b) For the purposes of this part—
(1)
Airworthiness approval
means a document, issued by the FAA for an aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, or article, which certifies that the aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, or article conforms to its approved design and is in a condition for safe operation, unless otherwise specified;
(2)
Article
means a material, part, component, process, or appliance;
(3)
Commercial part
means an article that is listed on an FAA-approved Commercial Parts List included in a design approval holder's Instructions for Continued Airworthiness required by § 21.50;
(4)
Design approval
means a type certificate (including amended and supplemental type certificates) or the approved design under a PMA, TSO authorization, letter of TSO design approval, or other approved design;
(5)
Interface component
means an article that serves as a functional interface between an aircraft and an aircraft engine, an aircraft engine and a propeller, or an aircraft and a propeller. An interface component is designated by the holder of the type certificate or the supplemental type certificate who controls the approved design data for that article;
(6)
Product
means an aircraft, aircraft engine, or propeller;
(7)
Production approval
means a document issued by the FAA to a person that allows the production of a product or article in accordance with its approved design and approved quality system, and can take the form of a production certificate, a PMA, or a TSO authorization;
(8)
State of Design
means the country or jurisdiction having regulatory authority over the organization responsible for the design and continued airworthiness of a civil aeronautical product or article;
(9)
State of Manufacture
means the country or jurisdiction having regulatory authority over the organization responsible for the production and airworthiness of a civil aeronautical product or article.
(10)
Supplier
means a person at any tier in the supply chain who provides a product, article, or service that is used or consumed in the design or manufacture of, or installed on, a product or article.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53384, Oct. 16, 2009; Doc. No. FAA-2013-0933, Amdt. 21-98, 80 FR 59031, Oct. 1, 2015; Amdt. 21-98A, 80 FR 59031, Dec. 17, 2015; Docket FAA-2015-0150, Amdt. 21-99, 81 FR 42207, June 28, 2016; Docket FAA-2018-1087, Amdt. 21-105, 86 FR 4381, Jan. 15, 2021]
§ 21.2
Falsification of applications, reports, or records.
(a) A person may not make or cause to be made—
(1) Any fraudulent, intentionally false, or misleading statement on any application for a certificate or approval under this part;
(2) Any fraudulent, intentionally false, or misleading statement in any record or report that is kept, made, or used to show compliance with any requirement of this part;
(3) Any reproduction for a fraudulent purpose of any certificate or approval issued under this part.
(4) Any alteration of any certificate or approval issued under this part.
(b) The commission by any person of an act prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section is a basis for—
(1) Denying issuance of any certificate or approval under this part; and
(2) Suspending or revoking any certificate or approval issued under this part and held by that person.
[Doc. No. 23345, 57 FR 41367, Sept. 9, 1992, as amended by Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53384, Oct. 16, 2009; Amdt. 21-92A, 75 FR 9095, Mar. 1, 2010]
§ 21.3
Reporting of failures, malfunctions, and defects.
(a) The holder of a type certificate (including amended or supplemental type certificates), a PMA, or a TSO authorization, or the licensee of a type certificate must report any failure, malfunction, or defect in any product or article manufactured by it that it determines has resulted in any of the occurrences listed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) The holder of a type certificate (including amended or supplemental type certificates), a PMA, or a TSO authorization, or the licensee of a type certificate must report any defect in any product or article manufactured by it that has left its quality system and
that it determines could result in any of the occurrences listed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) The following occurrences must be reported as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(1) Fires caused by a system or equipment failure, malfunction, or defect.
(2) An engine exhaust system failure, malfunction, or defect which causes damage to the engine, adjacent aircraft structure, equipment, or components.
(3) The accumulation or circulation of toxic or noxious gases in the crew compartment or passenger cabin.
(4) A malfunction, failure, or defect of a propeller control system.
(5) A propeller or rotorcraft hub or blade structural failure.
(6) Flammable fluid leakage in areas where an ignition source normally exists.
(7) A brake system failure caused by structural or material failure during operation.
(8) A significant aircraft primary structural defect or failure caused by any autogenous condition (fatigue, understrength, corrosion, etc.).
(9) Any abnormal vibration or buffeting caused by a structural or system malfunction, defect, or failure.
(10) An engine failure.
(11) Any structural or flight control system malfunction, defect, or failure which causes an interference with normal control of the aircraft for which derogates the flying qualities.
(12) A complete loss of more than one electrical power generating system or hydraulic power system during a given operation of the aircraft.
(13) A failure or malfunction of more than one attitude, airspeed, or altitude instrument during a given operation of the aircraft.
(d) The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to—
(1) Failures, malfunctions, or defects that the holder of a type certificate (including amended or supplemental type certificates), PMA, TSO authorization, or the licensee of a type certificate determines—
(i) Were caused by improper maintenance or use;
(ii) Were reported to the FAA by another person under this chapter; or
(iii) Were reported under the accident reporting provisions of 49 CFR part 830 of the regulations of the National Transportation Safety Board.
(2) Failures, malfunctions, or defects in products or articles—
(i) Manufactured by a foreign manufacturer under a U.S. type certificate issued under § 21.29 or under an approval issued under § 21.621; or
(ii) Exported to the United States under § 21.502.
(e) Each report required by this section—
(1) Must be made to the FAA within 24 hours after it has determined that the failure, malfunction, or defect required to be reported has occurred. However, a report that is due on a Saturday or a Sunday may be delivered on the following Monday and one that is due on a holiday may be delivered on the next workday;
(2) Must be transmitted in a manner and form acceptable to the FAA and by the most expeditious method available; and
(3) Must include as much of the following information as is available and applicable:
(i) The applicable product and article identification information required by part 45 of this chapter;
(ii) Identification of the system involved; and
(iii) Nature of the failure, malfunction, or defect.
(f) If an accident investigation or service difficulty report shows that a product or article manufactured under this part is unsafe because of a manufacturing or design data defect, the holder of the production approval for that product or article must, upon request of the FAA, report to the FAA the results of its investigation and any action taken or proposed by the holder of that production approval to correct that defect. If action is required to correct the defect in an existing product
or article, the holder of that production approval must send the data necessary for issuing an appropriate airworthiness directive to the FAA.
[Amdt. 21-36, 35 FR 18187, Nov. 28, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 21-37, 35 FR 18450, Dec. 4, 1970; Amdt. 21-50, 45 FR 38346, June 9, 1980; Amdt. 21-67, 54 FR 39291, Sept. 25, 1989; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53385, Oct. 16, 2009; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 21.4
ETOPS reporting requirements.
(a)
Early ETOPS: reporting, tracking, and resolving problems.
The holder of a type certificate for an airplane-engine combination approved using the Early ETOPS method specified in part 25, Appendix K, of this chapter must use a system for reporting, tracking, and resolving each problem resulting in one of the occurrences specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
(1) The system must identify how the type certificate holder will promptly identify problems, report them to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office, and propose a solution to the FAA to resolve each problem. A proposed solution must consist of—
(i) A change in the airplane or engine type design;
(ii) A change in a manufacturing process;
(iii) A change in an operating or maintenance procedure; or
(iv) Any other solution acceptable to the FAA.
(2) For an airplane with more than two engines, the system must be in place for the first 250,000 world fleet engine-hours for the approved airplane-engine combination.
(3) For two-engine airplanes, the system must be in place for the first 250,000 world fleet engine-hours for the approved airplane-engine combination and after that until—
(i) The world fleet 12-month rolling average IFSD rate is at or below the rate required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(ii) The FAA determines that the rate is stable.
(4) For an airplane-engine combination that is a derivative of an airplane-engine combination previously approved for ETOPS, the system need only address those problems specified in the following table, provided the type certificate holder obtains prior authorization from the FAA:
If the change does not require a new airplane type certificate and . . .
Then the Problem Tracking and Resolution System must address . . .
(i) Requires a new engine type certificate
All problems applicable to the new engine installation, and for the remainder of the airplane, problems in changed systems only.
(ii) Does not require a new engine type certificate
Problems in changed systems only.
(5) The type certificate holder must identify the sources and content of data that it will use for its system. The data must be adequate to evaluate the specific cause of any in-service problem reportable under this section or § 21.3(c) that could affect the safety of ETOPS.
(6) In implementing this system, the type certificate holder must report the following occurrences:
(i) IFSDs, except planned IFSDs performed for flight training.
(ii) For two-engine airplanes, IFSD rates.
(iii) Inability to control an engine or obtain desired thrust or power.
(iv) Precautionary thrust or power reductions.
(v) Degraded ability to start an engine in flight.
(vi) Inadvertent fuel loss or unavailability, or uncorrectable fuel imbalance in flight.
(vii) Turn backs or diversions for failures, malfunctions, or defects associated with an ETOPS group 1 significant system.
(viii) Loss of any power source for an ETOPS group 1 significant system, including any power source designed to provide backup power for that system.
(ix) Any event that would jeopardize the safe flight and landing of the airplane on an ETOPS flight.
(x) Any unscheduled engine removal for a condition that could result in one
of the reportable occurrences listed in this paragraph.
(b)
Reliability of two-engine airplanes
—(1)
Reporting of two-engine airplane in-service reliability.
The holder of a type certificate for an airplane approved for ETOPS and the holder of a type certificate for an engine installed on an airplane approved for ETOPS must report monthly to their respective Aircraft Certification Service office on the reliability of the world fleet of those airplanes and engines. The report provided by both the airplane and engine type certificate holders must address each airplane-engine combination approved for ETOPS. The FAA may approve quarterly reporting if the airplane-engine combination demonstrates an IFSD rate at or below those specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for a period acceptable to the FAA. This reporting may be combined with the reporting required by § 21.3. The responsible type certificate holder must investigate any cause of an IFSD resulting from an occurrence attributable to the design of its product and report the results of that investigation to its responsible Aircraft Certification Service office. Reporting must include:
(i) Engine IFSDs, except planned IFSDs performed for flight training.
(ii) The world fleet 12-month rolling average IFSD rates for all causes, except planned IFSDs performed for flight training.
(iii) ETOPS fleet utilization, including a list of operators, their ETOPS diversion time authority, flight hours, and cycles.
(2)
World fleet IFSD rate for two-engine airplanes.
The holder of a type certificate for an airplane approved for ETOPS and the holder of a type certificate for an engine installed on an airplane approved for ETOPS must issue service information to the operators of those airplanes and engines, as appropriate, to maintain the world fleet 12-month rolling average IFSD rate at or below the following levels:
(i) A rate of 0.05 per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours for an airplane-engine combination approved for up to and including 120-minute ETOPS. When all ETOPS operators have complied with the corrective actions required in the configuration, maintenance and procedures (CMP) document as a condition for ETOPS approval, the rate to be maintained is at or below 0.02 per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours.
(ii) A rate of 0.02 per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours for an airplane-engine combination approved for up to and including 180-minute ETOPS, including airplane-engine combinations approved for 207-minute ETOPS in the North Pacific operating area under appendix P, section I, paragraph (h), of part 121 of this chapter.
(iii) A rate of 0.01 per 1,000 world-fleet engine-hours for an airplane-engine combination approved for ETOPS beyond 180 minutes, excluding airplane-engine combinations approved for 207-minute ETOPS in the North Pacific operating area under appendix P, section I, paragraph (h), of part 121 of this chapter.
[Doc. No. FAA-2002-6717, 72 FR 1872, Jan. 16, 2007, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 21.5
Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual.
(a) With each airplane or rotorcraft not type certificated with an Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual and having no flight time before March 1, 1979, the holder of a type certificate (including amended or supplemental type certificates) or the licensee of a type certificate must make available to the owner at the time of delivery of the aircraft a current approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual.
(b) The Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual required by paragraph (a) of this section must contain the following information:
(1) The operating limitations and information required to be furnished in an Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual or in manual material, markings, and placards, by the applicable regulations under which the airplane or rotorcraft was type certificated.
(2) The maximum ambient atmospheric temperature for which engine cooling was demonstrated must be stated in the performance information section of the Flight Manual, if the applicable regulations under which the aircraft was type certificated do not require ambient temperature on engine
cooling operating limitations in the Flight Manual.
(3) Documentation of compliance with part 38 of this chapter, in an FAA-approved section of any approved airplane flight manual. Such material must include the fuel efficiency metric value as calculated under § 38.11 of this chapter, and the specific paragraph of § 38.17 of this chapter with which compliance has been shown for that airplane.
[Amdt. 21-46, 43 FR 2316, Jan. 16, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53385, Oct. 16, 2009; Admt. 21-107, 89 FR 12653, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 21.6
Manufacture of new aircraft, aircraft engines, and propellers.
(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, no person may manufacture a new aircraft, aircraft engine, or propeller based on a type certificate unless the person—
(1) Is the holder of the type certificate or has a licensing agreement from the holder of the type certificate to manufacture the product; and
(2) Meets the requirements of subpart F or G of this part.
(b) A person may manufacture one new aircraft based on a type certificate without meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if that person can provide evidence acceptable to the FAA that the manufacture of the aircraft by that person began before August 5, 2004.
(c) The requirements of this section do not apply to—
(1) New aircraft imported under the provisions of §§ 21.183(c), 21.184(b), or 21.185(c); and
(2) New aircraft engines or propellers imported under the provisions of § 21.500.
[Doc. No. FAA-2003-14825, 71 FR 52258, Sept. 1, 2006]
§ 21.7
Continued airworthiness and safety improvements for transport category airplanes.
(a) On or after December 10, 2007, the holder of a design approval and an applicant for a design approval must comply with the applicable continued airworthiness and safety improvement requirements of part 26 of this subchapter.
(b) For new transport category airplanes manufactured under the authority of the FAA, the holder or licensee of a type certificate must meet the applicable continued airworthiness and safety improvement requirements specified in part 26 of this subchapter for new production airplanes. Those requirements only apply if the FAA has jurisdiction over the organization responsible for final assembly of the airplane.
[Doc. No. FAA-2004-18379, Amdt. 21-90, 72 FR 63404, Nov. 8, 2007]
§ 21.8
Approval of articles.
If an article is required to be approved under this chapter, it may be approved—
(a) Under a PMA;
(b) Under a TSO;
(c) In conjunction with type certification procedures for a product; or
(d) In any other manner approved by the FAA.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-5877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53385, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.9
Replacement and modification articles.
(a) If a person knows, or should know, that a replacement or modification article is reasonably likely to be installed on a type-certificated product, the person may not produce that article unless it is—
(1) Produced under a type certificate;
(2) Produced under an FAA production approval;
(3) A standard part (such as a nut or bolt) manufactured in compliance with a government or established industry specification;
(4) A commercial part as defined in § 21.1 of this part;
(5) Produced by an owner or operator for maintaining or altering that owner or operator's product;
(6) Fabricated by an appropriately rated certificate holder with a quality system, and consumed in the repair or alteration of a product or article in accordance with part 43 of this chapter; or
(7) Produced in any other manner approved by the FAA.
(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(2) of this section, a person who produces a replacement or
modification article for sale may not represent that part as suitable for installation on a type-certificated product.
(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(2) of this section, a person may not sell or represent an article as suitable for installation on an aircraft type-certificated under §§ 21.25(a)(2) or 21.27 unless that article—
(1) Was declared surplus by the U.S. Armed Forces, and
(2) Was intended for use on that aircraft model by the U.S. Armed Forces.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53385, Oct. 16, 2009; Amdt. 21-92A, 75 FR 9095, Mar. 1, 2010; Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 21-100, 81 FR 96688, Dec. 30, 2016]

# Subpart B—Type Certificates

# Source:
Docket No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.11
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes—
(a) Procedural requirements for the issue of type certificates for aircraft, aircraft engines, and propellers; and
(b) Rules governing the holders of those certificates.
§ 21.13
Eligibility.
Any interested person may apply for a type certificate.
[Amdt. 21-25, 34 FR 14068, Sept. 5, 1969]
§ 21.15
Application for type certificate.
(a) An application for a type certificate is made on a form and in a manner prescribed by the FAA.
(b) An application for an aircraft type certificate must be accompanied by a three-view drawing of that aircraft and available preliminary basic data.
(c) An application for an aircraft engine type certificate must be accompanied by a description of the engine design features, the engine operating characteristics, and the proposed engine operating limitations.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-40, 39 FR 35459, Oct. 1, 1974; Amdt. 21-67, 54 FR 39291, Sept. 25, 1989; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53385, Oct. 16, 2009; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 21.16
Special conditions.
If the FAA finds that the airworthiness regulations of this subchapter do not contain adequate or appropriate safety standards for an aircraft, aircraft engine, or propeller because of a novel or unusual design feature of the aircraft, aircraft engine or propeller, he prescribes special conditions and amendments thereto for the product. The special conditions are issued in accordance with Part 11 of this chapter and contain such safety standards for the aircraft, aircraft engine or propeller as the FAA finds necessary to establish a level of safety equivalent to that established in the regulations.
[Amdt. 21-19, 32 FR 17851, Dec. 13, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 21-51, 45 FR 60170, Sept. 11, 1980]
§ 21.17
Designation of applicable regulations.
(a) Except as provided in §§ 25.2, 27.2, and 29.2 of this subchapter, and in parts 26, 34, 36, and 38 of this subchapter, an applicant for a type certificate must show that the aircraft, aircraft engine, or propeller concerned meets—
(1) The applicable requirements of this subchapter that are effective on the date of application for that certificate unless—
(i) Otherwise specified by the FAA; or
(ii) Compliance with later effective amendments is elected or required under this section; and
(2) Any special conditions prescribed by the FAA.
(b) For special classes of aircraft, including the engines and propellers installed thereon (e.g., gliders, airships, and other nonconventional aircraft), for which airworthiness standards have not been issued under this subchapter, the applicable requirements will be the portions of those other airworthiness requirements contained in Parts 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, and 35 found by the FAA to be appropriate for the aircraft and
applicable to a specific type design, or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety to those parts.
(c) An application for type certification of a transport category aircraft is effective for 5 years and an application for any other type certificate is effective for 3 years, unless an applicant shows at the time of application that his product requires a longer period of time for design, development, and testing, and the FAA approves a longer period.
(d) In a case where a type certificate has not been issued, or it is clear that a type certificate will not be issued, within the time limit established under paragraph (c) of this section, the applicant may—
(1) File a new application for a type certificate and comply with all the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section applicable to an original application; or
(2) File for an extension of the original application and comply with the applicable airworthiness requirements of this subchapter that were effective on a date, to be selected by the applicant, not earlier than the date which precedes the date of issue of the type certificate by the time limit established under paragraph (c) of this section for the original application.
(e) If an applicant elects to comply with an amendment to this subchapter that is effective after the filing of the application for a type certificate, he must also comply with any other amendment that the FAA finds is directly related.
(f) For primary category aircraft, the requirements are:
(1) The applicable airworthiness requirements contained in parts 23, 27, 31, 33, and 35 of this subchapter, or such other airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find appropriate and applicable to the specific design and intended use and provide a level of safety acceptable to the FAA.
(2) The noise standards of part 36 applicable to primary category aircraft.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-19, 32 FR 17851, Dec. 13, 1967; Amdt. 21-24, 34 FR 364, Jan. 10, 1969; Amdt. 21-42, 40 FR 1033, Jan. 6, 1975; Amdt. 21-58, 50 FR 46877, Nov. 13, 1985; Amdt. 21-60, 52 FR 8042, Mar. 13, 1987; Amdt. 21-68, 55 FR 32860, Aug. 10, 1990; Amdt. 21-69, 56 FR 41051, Aug. 16, 1991; Amdt. 21-70, 57 FR 41367, Sept. 9, 1992; Amdt. 21-90, 72 FR 63404, Nov. 8, 2007; Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 21-100, 81 FR 96688, Dec. 30, 2016; Amdt. No. 21-107, 89 FR 12653, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 21.19
Changes requiring a new type certificate.
Each person who proposes to change a product must apply for a new type certificate if the FAA finds that the proposed change in design, power, thrust, or weight is so extensive that a substantially complete investigation of compliance with the applicable regulations is required.
[Doc. No. 28903, 65 FR 36265, June 7, 2000]
§ 21.20
Compliance with applicable requirements.
The applicant for a type certificate, including an amended or supplemental type certificate, must—
(a) Show compliance with all applicable requirements and must provide the FAA the means by which such compliance has been shown; and
(b) Provide a statement certifying that the applicant has complied with the applicable requirements.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53385, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.21
Issue of type certificate: normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, and transport category aircraft; manned free balloons; special classes of aircraft; aircraft engines; propellers.
An applicant is entitled to a type certificate for an aircraft in the normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, or transport category, or for a manned free balloon, special class of aircraft, or an aircraft engine or propeller, if—
(a) The product qualifies under § 21.27; or
(b) The applicant submits the type design, test reports, and computations necessary to show that the product to be certificated meets the applicable
airworthiness, aircraft noise, fuel venting, exhaust emission, and fuel efficiency requirements of this subchapter and any special conditions prescribed by the FAA, and the FAA finds—
(1) Upon examination of the type design, and after completing all tests and inspections, that the type design and the product meet the applicable noise, fuel venting, emissions, and fuel efficiency requirements of this subchapter, and further finds that they meet the applicable airworthiness requirements of this subchapter or that any airworthiness provisions not complied with are compensated for by factors that provide an equivalent level of safety; and
(2) For an aircraft, that no feature or characteristic makes it unsafe for the category in which certification is requested.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-15, 32 FR 3735, Mar. 4, 1967; Amdt. 21-27, 34 FR 18368, Nov. 18, 1969; Amdt. 21-60, 52 FR 8042, Mar. 13, 1987; Amdt. 21-68, 55 FR 32860, Aug. 10, 1990; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53385, Oct. 16, 2009; Amdt. No. 21-107, 89 FR 12653, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 21.23
[Reserved]
§ 21.24
Issuance of type certificate: primary category aircraft.
(a) The applicant is entitled to a type certificate for an aircraft in the primary category if—
(1) The aircraft—
(i) Is unpowered; is an airplane powered by a single, naturally aspirated engine with a 61-knot or less V
so
stall speed as determined under part 23 of this chapter; or is a rotorcraft with a 6-pound per square foot main rotor disc loading limitation, under sea level standard day conditions;
(ii) Weighs not more than 2,700 pounds; or, for seaplanes, not more than 3,375 pounds;
(iii) Has a maximum seating capacity of not more than four persons, including the pilot; and
(iv) Has an unpressurized cabin.
(2) The applicant has submitted—
(i) Except as provided by paragraph (c) of this section, a statement, in a form and manner acceptable to the FAA, certifying that: the applicant has completed the engineering analysis necessary to demonstrate compliance with the applicable airworthiness requirements; the applicant has conducted appropriate flight, structural, propulsion, and systems tests necessary to show that the aircraft, its components, and its equipment are reliable and function properly; the type design complies with the airworthiness standards and noise requirements established for the aircraft under § 21.17(f); and no feature or characteristic makes it unsafe for its intended use;
(ii) The flight manual required by § 21.5(b), including any information required to be furnished by the applicable airworthiness standards;
(iii) Instructions for continued airworthiness in accordance with § 21.50(b); and
(iv) A report that: summarizes how compliance with each provision of the type certification basis was determined; lists the specific documents in which the type certification data information is provided; lists all necessary drawings and documents used to define the type design; and lists all the engineering reports on tests and computations that the applicant must retain and make available under § 21.49 to substantiate compliance with the applicable airworthiness standards.
(3) The FAA finds that—
(i) The aircraft complies with those applicable airworthiness requirements approved under § 21.17(f) of this part; and
(ii) The aircraft has no feature or characteristic that makes it unsafe for its intended use.
(b) An applicant may include a special inspection and preventive maintenance program as part of the aircraft's type design or supplemental type design.
(c) For aircraft manufactured outside of the United States in a country with which the United States has a bilateral airworthiness agreement for the acceptance of these aircraft, and from which the aircraft is to be imported into the United States—
(1) The statement required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section must be made by the civil airworthiness authority of the exporting country; and
(2) The required manuals, placards, listings, instrument markings, and
documents required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be submitted in English.
[Doc. No. 23345, 57 FR 41367, Sept. 9, 1992, as amended by Amdt. 21-75, 62 FR 62808, Nov. 25, 1997; Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 21-100, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016]
§ 21.25
Issue of type certificate: Restricted category aircraft.
(a) An applicant is entitled to a type certificate for an aircraft in the restricted category for special purpose operations if he shows compliance with the applicable noise requirements of Part 36 of this chapter, and if he shows that no feature or characteristic of the aircraft makes it unsafe when it is operated under the limitations prescribed for its intended use, and that the aircraft—
(1) Meets the airworthiness requirements of an aircraft category except those requirements that the FAA finds inappropriate for the special purpose for which the aircraft is to be used; or
(2) Is of a type that has been manufactured in accordance with the requirements of and accepted for use by, an Armed Force of the United States and has been later modified for a special purpose.
(b) For the purposes of this section, “special purpose operations” includes—
(1) Agricultural (spraying, dusting, and seeding, and livestock and predatory animal control);
(2) Forest and wildlife conservation;
(3) Aerial surveying (photography, mapping, and oil and mineral exploration);
(4) Patrolling (pipelines, power lines, and canals);
(5) Weather control (cloud seeding);
(6) Aerial advertising (skywriting, banner towing, airborne signs and public address systems); and
(7) Any other operation specified by the FAA.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-42, 40 FR 1033, Jan. 6, 1975]
§ 21.27
Issue of type certificate: surplus aircraft of the Armed Forces.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section an applicant is entitled to a type certificate for an aircraft in the normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, or transport category that was designed and constructed in the United States, accepted for operational use, and declared surplus by, an Armed Force of the United States, and that is shown to comply with the applicable certification requirements in paragraph (f) of this section.
(b) An applicant is entitled to a type certificate for a surplus aircraft of the Armed Forces of the United States that is a counterpart of a previously type certificated civil aircraft, if he shows compliance with the regulations governing the original civil aircraft type certificate.
(c) Aircraft engines, propellers, and their related accessories installed in surplus Armed Forces aircraft, for which a type certificate is sought under this section, will be approved for use on those aircraft if the applicant shows that on the basis of the previous military qualifications, acceptance, and service record, the product provides substantially the same level of airworthiness as would be provided if the engines or propellers were type certificated under Part 33 or 35 of this subchapter.
(d) The FAA may relieve an applicant from strict compliance with a specific provision of the applicable requirements in paragraph (f) of this section, if the FAA finds that the method of compliance proposed by the applicant provides substantially the same level of airworthiness and that strict compliance with those regulations would impose a severe burden on the applicant. The FAA may use experience that was satisfactory to an Armed Force of the United States in making such a determination.
(e) The FAA may require an applicant to comply with special conditions and later requirements than those in paragraphs (c) and (f) of this section, if the FAA finds that compliance with the listed regulations would not ensure an adequate level of airworthiness for the aircraft.
(f) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, an applicant for a type certificate under this section must comply with the appropriate regulations listed in the following table:
Type of aircraft
Date accepted for operational use by the Armed Forces
of the United States
Regulations that apply
1
Small reciprocating-engine powered airplanes
Before May 16, 1956
After May 15, 1956
CAR Part 3, as effective May 15, 1956.
CAR Part 3, or 14 CFR Part 23.
Small turbine engine-powered airplanes
Before Oct. 2, 1959
After Oct. 1, 1959
CAR Part 3, as effective Oct. 1, 1959.
CAR Part 3 or 14 CFR Part 23.
Commuter category airplanes
After (Feb. 17, 1987)
FAR Part 23 as of (Feb. 17, 1987).
Large reciprocating-engine powered airplanes
Before Aug. 26, 1955
After Aug. 25, 1955
CAR Part 4b, as effective Aug. 25, 1955.
CAR Part 4b or 14 CFR Part 25.
Large turbine engine-powered airplanes
Before Oct. 2, 1959
After Oct. 1, 1959
CAR Part 4b, as effective Oct. 1, 1959.
CAR Part 4b or 14 CFR Part 25.
Rotorcraft with maximum certificated takeoff weight of:
6,000 pounds or less
Before Oct. 2, 1959
After Oct. 1, 1959
CAR Part 6, as effective Oct. 1, 1959.
CAR Part 6, or 14 CFR Part 27.
Over 6,000 pounds
Before Oct. 2, 1959
After Oct. 1, 1959
CAR Part 7, as effective Oct. 1, 1959.
CAR Part 7, or 14 CFR Part 29.
1
Where no specific date is listed, the applicable regulations are those in effect on the date that the first aircraft of the particular model was accepted for operational use by the Armed Forces.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-59, 52 FR 1835, Jan. 15, 1987; 52 FR 7262, Mar. 9, 1987; 70 FR 2325, Jan. 13, 2005; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53386, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.29
Issue of type certificate: import products.
(a) The FAA may issue a type certificate for a product that is manufactured in a foreign country or jurisdiction with which the United States has an agreement for the acceptance of these products for export and import and that is to be imported into the United States if—
(1) The applicable State of Design certifies that the product has been examined, tested, and found to meet—
(i) The applicable aircraft noise, fuel venting, exhaust emissions, and fuel efficiency requirements of this subchapter as designated in § 21.17, or the applicable aircraft noise, fuel venting, exhaust emissions, and fuel efficiency requirements of the State of Design, and any other requirements the FAA may prescribe to provide noise, fuel venting, exhaust emission, and fuel efficiency levels no greater than those provided by the applicable aircraft noise, fuel venting, exhaust emissions, and fuel efficiency requirements of this subchapter as designated in § 21.17; and
(ii) The applicable airworthiness requirements of this subchapter as designated in § 21.17, or the applicable airworthiness requirements of the State of Design and any other requirements the FAA may prescribe to provide a level of safety equivalent to that provided by the applicable airworthiness requirements of this subchapter as designated in § 21.17;
(2) The applicant has provided technical data to show the product meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(3) The manuals, placards, listings, and instrument markings required by the applicable airworthiness (and noise, where applicable) requirements are presented in the English language.
(b) A product type certificated under this section is determined to be compliant with the fuel venting and exhaust emission standards of part 34 of this subchapter, the noise standards of part 36 of this subchapter, and the fuel efficiency requirements of part 38 of this subchapter. Compliance with parts 34, 36, and 38 of this subchapter is certified under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and the applicable airworthiness standards of this subchapter, or an equivalent level of safety, with which compliance is certified under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
[Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53386, Oct. 16, 2009, as amended by Amdt. No. 21-107, 89 FR 12653, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 21.31
Type design.
The type design consists of—
(a) The drawings and specifications, and a listing of those drawings and specifications, necessary to define the configuration and the design features of the product shown to comply with
the requirements of that part of this subchapter applicable to the product;
(b) Information on dimensions, materials, and processes necessary to define the structural strength of the product;
(c) The Airworthiness Limitations section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness as required by parts 23, 25, 26, 27, 29, 31, 33 and 35 of this subchapter, or as otherwise required by the FAA; and as specified in the applicable airworthiness criteria for special classes of aircraft defined in § 21.17(b); and
(d) For primary category aircraft, if desired, a special inspection and preventive maintenance program designed to be accomplished by an appropriately rated and trained pilot-owner.
(e) Any other data necessary to allow, by comparison, the determination of the airworthiness, noise characteristics, fuel efficiency, fuel venting, and exhaust emissions (where applicable) of later products of the same type.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-27, 34 FR 18363, Nov. 18, 1969; Amdt. 21-51, 45 FR 60170, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 21-60, 52 FR 8042, Mar. 13, 1987; Amdt. 21-68, 55 FR 32860, Aug. 10, 1990; Amdt. 21-70, 57 FR 41368, Sept. 9, 1992; Amdt. 21-90, 72 FR 63404, Nov. 8, 2007; Amdt. No. 21-107, 89 FR 12653, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 21.33
Inspection and tests.
(a) Each applicant must allow the FAA to make any inspection and any flight and ground test necessary to determine compliance with the applicable requirements of this subchapter. However, unless otherwise authorized by the FAA—
(1) No aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, or part thereof may be presented to the FAA for test unless compliance with paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(4) of this section has been shown for that aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, or part thereof; and
(2) No change may be made to an aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, or part thereof between the time that compliance with paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(4) of this section is shown for that aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, or part thereof and the time that it is presented to the FAA for test.
(b) Each applicant must make all inspections and tests necessary to determine—
(1) Compliance with the applicable airworthiness, aircraft noise, fuel venting, and exhaust emission requirements;
(2) That materials and products conform to the specifications in the type design;
(3) That parts of the products conform to the drawings in the type design; and
(4) That the manufacturing processes, construction and assembly conform to those specified in the type design.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-17, 32 FR 14926, Oct. 28, 1967; Amdt. 21-27, 34 FR 18363, Nov. 18, 1969; Amdt. 21-44, 41 FR 55463, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 21-68, 55 FR 32860, Aug. 10, 1990; Amdt. 21-68, 55 FR 32860, Aug. 10, 1990; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53386, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.35
Flight tests.
(a) Each applicant for an aircraft type certificate (other than under §§ 21.24 through 21.29) must make the tests listed in paragraph (b) of this section. Before making the tests the applicant must show—
(1) Compliance with the applicable structural requirements of this subchapter;
(2) Completion of necessary ground inspections and tests;
(3) That the aircraft conforms with the type design; and
(4) That the FAA received a flight test report from the applicant (signed, in the case of aircraft to be certificated under Part 25 [New] of this chapter, by the applicant's test pilot) containing the results of his tests.
(b) Upon showing compliance with paragraph (a) of this section, the applicant must make all flight tests that the FAA finds necessary—
(1) To determine compliance with the applicable requirements of this subchapter; and
(2) For aircraft to be certificated under this subchapter, except gliders and low-speed, certification level 1 or 2 airplanes, as defined in part 23 of this chapter, to determine whether there is reasonable assurance that the aircraft,
its components, and its equipment are reliable and function properly.
(c) Each applicant must, if practicable, make the tests prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section upon the aircraft that was used to show compliance with—
(1) Paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(2) For rotorcraft, the rotor drive endurance tests prescribed in § 27.923 or § 29.923 of this chapter, as applicable.
(d) Each applicant must show for each flight test (except in a glider or a manned free balloon) that adequate provision is made for the flight test crew for emergency egress and the use of parachutes.
(e) Except in gliders and manned free balloons, an applicant must discontinue flight tests under this section until he shows that corrective action has been taken, whenever—
(1) The applicant's test pilot is unable or unwilling to make any of the required flight tests; or
(2) Items of noncompliance with requirements are found that may make additional test data meaningless or that would make further testing unduly hazardous.
(f) The flight tests prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section must include—
(1) For aircraft incorporating turbine engines of a type not previously used in a type certificated aircraft, at least 300 hours of operation with a full complement of engines that conform to a type certificate; and
(2) For all other aircraft, at least 150 hours of operation.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-40, 39 FR 35459, Oct. 1, 1974; Amdt. 21-51, 45 FR 60170, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 21-70, 57 FR 41368, Sept. 9, 1992; Amdt. 21-95, 76 FR 64233, Oct. 18, 2011; Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 21-100, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016]
§ 21.37
Flight test pilot.
Each applicant for a normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, or transport category aircraft type certificate must provide a person holding an appropriate pilot certificate to make the flight tests required by this part.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-59, 52 FR 1835, Jan. 15, 1987]
§ 21.39
Flight test instrument calibration and correction report.
(a) Each applicant for a normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, or transport category aircraft type certificate must submit a report to the FAA showing the computations and tests required in connection with the calibration of instruments used for test purposes and in the correction of test results to standard atmospheric conditions.
(b) Each applicant must allow the FAA to conduct any flight tests that he finds necessary to check the accuracy of the report submitted under paragraph (a) of this section.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-59, 52 FR 1835, Jan. 15, 1987]
§ 21.41
Type certificate.
Each type certificate is considered to include the type design, the operating limitations, the certificate data sheet, the applicable regulations of this subchapter with which the FAA records compliance, and any other conditions or limitations prescribed for the product in this subchapter.
§ 21.43
Location of manufacturing facilities.
Except as provided in § 21.29, the FAA does not issue a type certificate if the manufacturing facilities for the product are located outside of the United States, unless the FAA finds that the location of the manufacturer's facilities places no undue burden on the FAA in administering applicable airworthiness requirements.
§ 21.45
Privileges.
The holder or licensee of a type certificate for a product may—
(a) In the case of aircraft, upon compliance with §§ 21.173 through 21.189, obtain airworthiness certificates;
(b) In the case of aircraft engines or propellers, obtain approval for installation on certificated aircraft;
(c) In the case of any product, upon compliance with subpart G of this part,
obtain a production certificate for the type certificated product;
(d) Obtain approval of replacement parts for that product.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53386, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.47
Transferability.
(a) A holder of a type certificate may transfer it or make it available to other persons by licensing agreements.
(b) For a type certificate transfer in which the State of Design will remain the same, each transferor must, before such a transfer, notify the FAA in writing. This notification must include the applicable type certificate number, the name and address of the transferee, and the anticipated date of the transfer.
(c) For a type certificate transfer in which the State of Design is changing, a type certificate may only be transferred to or from a person subject to the authority of another State of Design if the United States has an agreement with that State of Design for the acceptance of the affected product for export and import. Each transferor must notify the FAA before such a transfer in a form and manner acceptable to the FAA. This notification must include the applicable type certificate number; the name, address, and country of residence of the transferee; and the anticipated date of the transfer.
(d) Before executing or terminating a licensing agreement that makes a type certificate available to another person, the type certificate holder must notify the FAA in writing. This notification must include the type certificate number addressed by the licensing agreement, the name and address of the licensee, the extent of authority granted the licensee, and the anticipated date of the agreement.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53386, Oct. 16, 2009; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 21.49
Availability.
The holder of a type certificate must make the certificate available for examination upon the request of the FAA or the National Transportation Safety Board.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14564, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Doc. No. 8084, 32 FR 5769, Apr. 11, 1967]
§ 21.50
Instructions for continued airworthiness and manufacturer's maintenance manuals having airworthiness limitations sections.
(a) The holder of a type certificate for a rotorcraft for which a Rotorcraft Maintenance Manual containing an “Airworthiness Limitations” section has been issued under § 27.1529 (a)(2) or § 29.1529 (a)(2) of this chapter, and who obtains approval of changes to any replacement time, inspection interval, or related procedure in that section of the manual, must make those changes available upon request to any operator of the same type of rotorcraft.
(b) The holder of a design approval, including either a type certificate or supplemental type certificate for an aircraft, aircraft engine, or propeller for which application was made after January 28, 1981, must furnish at least one set of complete Instructions for Continued Airworthiness to the owner of each type aircraft, aircraft engine, or propeller upon its delivery, or upon issuance of the first standard airworthiness certificate for the affected aircraft, whichever occurs later. The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness must be prepared in accordance with §§ 23.1529, 25.1529, 25.1729, 27.1529, 29.1529, 31.82, 33.4, 35.4, or part 26 of this subchapter, or as specified in the applicable airworthiness criteria for special classes of aircraft defined in § 21.17(b), as applicable. If the holder of a design approval chooses to designate parts as commercial, it must include in the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness a list of commercial parts submitted in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section. Thereafter, the holder of a design approval must make those instructions available to any other person required by this chapter to comply with any of the terms of those instructions. In addition, changes to the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness shall be made available to any person required by this chapter to comply with any of those instructions.
(c) To designate commercial parts, the holder of a design approval, in a manner acceptable to the FAA, must submit:
(1) A Commercial Parts List;
(2) Data for each part on the List showing that:
(i) The failure of the commercial part, as installed in the product, would not degrade the level of safety of the product; and
(ii) The part is produced only under the commercial part manufacturer's specification and marked only with the commercial part manufacturer's markings; and
(3) Any other data necessary for the FAA to approve the List.
[Amdt. 21-23, 33 FR 14105, Sept. 18, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 21-51, 45 FR 60170, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 21-60, 52 FR 8042, Mar. 13, 1987; Amdt. 21-90, 72 FR 63404, Nov. 8, 2007; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53386, Oct. 16, 2009; Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 21-100, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016]
§ 21.51
Duration.
A type certificate is effective until surrendered, suspended, revoked, or a termination date is otherwise established by the FAA.
§ 21.53
Statement of conformity.
(a) Each applicant must provide, in a form and manner acceptable to the FAA, a statement that each aircraft engine or propeller presented for type certification conforms to its type design.
(b) Each applicant must submit a statement of conformity to the FAA for each aircraft or part thereof presented to the FAA for tests. This statement of conformity must include a statement that the applicant has complied with § 21.33(a) (unless otherwise authorized under that paragraph).
[Amdt. 21-17, 32 FR 14926, Oct. 28, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53386, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.55
Responsibilities of type certificate holders who license the type certificate.
A type certificate holder who allows a person to use the type certificate to manufacture a new aircraft, aircraft engine, or propeller must meet the applicable requirements of part 5 of this chapter and provide that person with a written licensing agreement acceptable to the FAA.
[Docket No. FAA-2021-0419, Amdt. No. 21-108, 89 FR 33108, Apr. 26, 2024]

# Subpart C—Provisional Type Certificates

# Source:
Docket No. 5085, 29 FR 14566, Oct. 24, 1964, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.71
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes—
(a) Procedural requirements for the issue of provisional type certificates, amendments to provisional type certificates, and provisional amendments to type certificates; and
(b) Rules governing the holders of those certificates.
§ 21.73
Eligibility.
(a) Any manufacturer of aircraft manufactured within the United States who is a United States citizen may apply for Class I or Class II provisional type certificates, for amendments to provisional type certificates held by him, and for provisional amendments to type certificates held by him.
(b) Any manufacturer of aircraft in a State of Manufacture subject to the provisions of an agreement with the United States for the acceptance of those aircraft for export and import may apply for a Class II provisional type certificate, for amendments to provisional type certificates held by him, and for provisional amendments to type certificates held by him.
(c) An aircraft engine manufacturer who is a United States citizen and who has altered a type certificated aircraft by installing different type certificated aircraft engines manufactured by him within the United States may apply for a Class I provisional type certificate for the aircraft, and for amendments to Class I provisional type certificates held by him, if the basic aircraft, before alteration, was type certificated in the normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, or transport category.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14566, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-12, 31 FR 13380, Oct. 15, 1966; Amdt. 21-59, 52 FR 1836, Jan. 15, 1987; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53387, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.75
Application.
Each applicant for a provisional type certificate, for an amendment thereto, or for a provisional amendment to a type certificate must apply to the FAA and provide the information required by this subpart.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53387, Oct. 16, 2009; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 21.77
Duration.
(a) Unless sooner surrendered, superseded, revoked, or otherwise terminated, provisional type certificates and amendments thereto are effective for the periods specified in this section.
(b) A Class I provisional type certificate is effective for 24 months after the date of issue.
(c) A Class II provisional type certificate is effective for twelve months after the date of issue.
(d) An amendment to a Class I or Class II provisional type certificate is effective for the duration of the amended certificate.
(e) A provisional amendment to a type certificate is effective for six months after its approval or until the amendment of the type certificate is approved, whichever is first.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14566, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-7, 30 FR 14311, Nov. 16, 1965]
§ 21.79
Transferability.
Provisional type certificates are not transferable.
§ 21.81
Requirements for issue and amendment of Class I provisional type certificates.
(a) An applicant is entitled to the issue or amendment of a Class I provisional type certificate if he shows compliance with this section and the FAA finds that there is no feature, characteristic, or condition that would make the aircraft unsafe when operated in accordance with the limitations established in paragraph (e) of this section and in § 91.317 of this chapter.
(b) The applicant must apply for the issue of a type or supplemental type certificate for the aircraft.
(c) The applicant must certify that—
(1) The aircraft has been designed and constructed in accordance with the airworthiness requirements applicable to the issue of the type or supplemental type certificate applied for;
(2) The aircraft substantially meets the applicable flight characteristic requirements for the type or supplemental type certificate applied for; and
(3) The aircraft can be operated safely under the appropriate operating limitations specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) The applicant must submit a report showing that the aircraft had been flown in all maneuvers necessary to show compliance with the flight requirements for the issue of the type or supplemental type certificate applied for, and to establish that the aircraft can be operated safely in accordance with the limitations contained in this subchapter.
(e) The applicant must establish all limitations required for the issue of the type or supplemental type certificate applied for, including limitations on weights, speeds, flight maneuvers, loading, and operation of controls and equipment unless, for each limitation not so established, appropriate operating restrictions are established for the aircraft.
(f) The applicant must establish an inspection and maintenance program for the continued airworthiness of the aircraft.
(g) The applicant must show that a prototype aircraft has been flown for at least 50 hours under an experimental certificate issued under §§ 21.191 through 21.195, or under the auspices of an Armed Force of the United States. However, in the case of an amendment to a provisional type certificate, the FAA may reduce the number of required flight hours.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14566, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-66, 54 FR 34329, Aug. 18, 1989]
§ 21.83
Requirements for issue and amendment of Class II provisional type certificates.
(a) An applicant who manufactures aircraft within the United States is entitled to the issue or amendment of a Class II provisional type certificate if he shows compliance with this section
and the FAA finds that there is no feature, characteristic, or condition that would make the aircraft unsafe when operated in accordance with the limitations in paragraph (h) of this section, and §§ 91.317 and 121.207 of this chapter.
(b) An applicant who manufactures aircraft in a country with which the United States has an agreement for the acceptance of those aircraft for export and import is entitled to the issue or amendment of a Class II provisional type certificate if the country in which the aircraft was manufactured certifies that the applicant has shown compliance with this section, that the aircraft meets the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section and that there is no feature, characteristic, or condition that would make the aircraft unsafe when operated in accordance with the limitations in paragraph (h) of this section and §§ 91.317 and 121.207 of this chapter.
(c) The applicant must apply for a type certificate, in the transport category, for the aircraft.
(d) The applicant must hold a U.S. type certificate for at least one other aircraft in the same transport category as the subject aircraft.
(e) The FAA's official flight test program or the flight test program conducted by the authorities of the country in which the aircraft was manufactured, with respect to the issue of a type certificate for that aircraft, must be in progress.
(f) The applicant or, in the case of a foreign manufactured aircraft, the country in which the aircraft was manufactured, must certify that—
(1) The aircraft has been designed and constructed in accordance with the airworthiness requirements applicable to the issue of the type certificate applied for;
(2) The aircraft substantially complies with the applicable flight characteristic requirements for the type certificate applied for; and
(3) The aircraft can be operated safely under the appropriate operating limitations in this subchapter.
(g) The applicant must submit a report showing that the aircraft has been flown in all maneuvers necessary to show compliance with the flight requirements for the issue of the type certificate and to establish that the aircraft can be operated safely in accordance with the limitations in this subchapter.
(h) The applicant must prepare a provisional aircraft flight manual containing all limitations required for the issue of the type certificate applied for, including limitations on weights, speeds, flight maneuvers, loading, and operation of controls and equipment unless, for each limitation not so established, appropriate operating restrictions are established for the aircraft.
(i) The applicant must establish an inspection and maintenance program for the continued airworthiness of the aircraft.
(j) The applicant must show that a prototype aircraft has been flown for at least 100 hours. In the case of an amendment to a provisional type certificate, the FAA may reduce the number of required flight hours.
[Amdt. 21-12, 31 FR 13386, Oct. 15, 1966, as amended by Amdt. 21-66, 54 FR 34329, Aug. 18, 1989]
§ 21.85
Provisional amendments to type certificates.
(a) An applicant who manufactures aircraft within the United States is entitled to a provisional amendment to a type certificate if he shows compliance with this section and the FAA finds that there is no feature, characteristic, or condition that would make the aircraft unsafe when operated under the appropriate limitations contained in this subchapter.
(b) An applicant who manufactures aircraft in a foreign country with which the United States has an agreement for the acceptance of those aircraft for export and import is entitled to a provisional amendment to a type certificate if the country in which the aircraft was manufactured certifies that the applicant has shown compliance with this section, that the aircraft meets the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section and that there is no feature, characteristic, or condition that would make the aircraft unsafe when operated under the appropriate limitations contained in this subchapter.
(c) The applicant must apply for an amendment to the type certificate.
(d) The FAA's official flight test program or the flight test program conducted by the authorities of the country in which the aircraft was manufactured, with respect to the amendment of the type certificate, must be in progress.
(e) The applicant or, in the case of foreign manufactured aircraft, the country in which the aircraft was manufactured, must certify that—
(1) The modification involved in the amendment to the type certificate has been designed and constructed in accordance with the airworthiness requirements applicable to the issue of the type certificate for the aircraft;
(2) The aircraft substantially complies with the applicable flight characteristic requirements for the type certificate; and
(3) The aircraft can be operated safely under the appropriate operating limitations in this subchapter.
(f) The applicant must submit a report showing that the aircraft incorporating the modifications involved has been flown in all maneuvers necessary to show compliance with the flight requirements applicable to those modifications and to establish that the aircraft can be operated safely in accordance with the limitations specified in §§ 91.317 and 121.207 of this chapter.
(g) The applicant must establish and publish, in a provisional aircraft flight manual or other document and on appropriate placards, all limitations required for the issue of the type certificate applied for, including weight, speed, flight maneuvers, loading, and operation of controls and equipment, unless, for each limitation not so established, appropriate operating restrictions are established for the aircraft.
(h) The applicant must establish an inspection and maintenance program for the continued airworthiness of the aircraft.
(i) The applicant must operate a prototype aircraft modified in accordance with the corresponding amendment to the type certificate for the number of hours found necessary by the FAA.
[Amdt. 21-12, 31 FR 13388, Oct. 15, 1966, as amended by Amdt. 21-66, 54 FR 34329, Aug. 18, 1989]

# Subpart D—Changes to Type Certificates

# Source:
Docket No. 5085, 29 FR 14567, Oct. 24, 1964, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.91
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes procedural requirements for the approval of changes to type certificates.
§ 21.93
Classification of changes in type design.
(a) In addition to changes in type design specified in paragraph (b) of this section, changes in type design are classified as minor and major. A “minor change” is one that has no appreciable effect on the weight, balance, structural strength, reliability, operational characteristics, or other characteristics affecting the airworthiness of the product. All other changes are “major changes” (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section).
(b) For the purpose of complying with Part 36 of this chapter, and except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section, any voluntary change in the type design of an aircraft that may increase the noise levels of that aircraft is an “acoustical change” (in addition to being a minor or major change as classified in paragraph (a) of this section) for the following aircraft:
(1) Transport category large airplanes.
(2) Jet (Turbojet powered) airplanes (regardless of category). For airplanes to which this paragraph applies, “acoustical changes” do not include changes in type design that are limited to one of the following—
(i) Gear down flight with one or more retractable landing gear down during the entire flight, or
(ii) Spare engine and nacelle carriage external to the skin of the airplane (and return of the pylon or other external mount), or
(iii) Time-limited engine and/or nacelle changes, where the change in type
design specifies that the airplane may not be operated for a period of more than 90 days unless compliance with the applicable acoustical change provisions of Part 36 of this chapter is shown for that change in type design.
(3) Propeller driven commuter category and small airplanes in the primary, normal, utility, acrobatic, transport, and restricted categories, except for airplanes that are:
(i) Designated for “agricultural aircraft operations” (as defined in § 137.3 of this chapter, effective January 1, 1966) to which § 36.1583 of this chapter does not apply, or
(ii) Designated for dispensing fire fighting materials to which § 36.1583 of this chapter does not apply, or
(iii) U.S. registered, and that had flight time prior to January 1, 1955 or
(iv) Land configured aircraft reconfigured with floats or skis. This reconfiguration does not permit further exception from the requirements of this section upon any acoustical change not enumerated in § 21.93(b).
(4) Helicopters except:
(i) Those helicopters that are designated exclusively:
(A) For “agricultural aircraft operations”, as defined in § 137.3 of this chapter, as effective on January 1, 1966;
(B) For dispensing fire fighting materials; or
(C) For carrying external loads, as defined in § 133.1(b) of this chapter, as effective on December 20, 1976.
(ii) Those helicopters modified by installation or removal of external equipment. For purposes of this paragraph, “external equipment” means any instrument, mechanism, part, apparatus, appurtenance, or accessory that is attached to, or extends from, the helicopter exterior but is not used nor is intended to be used in operating or controlling a helicopter in flight and is not part of an airframe or engine. An “acoustical change” does not include:
(A) Addition or removal of external equipment;
(B) Changes in the airframe made to accommodate the addition or removal of external equipment, to provide for an external load attaching means, to facilitate the use of external equipment or external loads, or to facilitate the safe operation of the helicopter with external equipment mounted to, or external loads carried by, the helicopter;
(C) Reconfiguration of the helicopter by the addition or removal of floats and skis;
(D) Flight with one or more doors and/or windows removed or in an open position; or
(E) Any changes in the operational limitations placed on the helicopter as a consequence of the addition or removal of external equipment, floats, and skis, or flight operations with doors and/or windows removed or in an open position.
(5) Tiltrotors.
(c) For purposes of complying with part 34 of this chapter, any voluntary change in the type design of the airplane or engine which may increase fuel venting or exhaust emissions is an “emissions change.”
(d) For the purpose of maintaining compliance with part 38 of this chapter, any voluntary change in the type design of an airplane that may increase the fuel efficiency metric value or the MTOM of that airplane is a “fuel efficiency change”, in addition to being a minor or major change as classified in paragraph (a) of this section.
[Amdt. 21-27, 34 FR 18363, Nov. 18, 1969]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 21.93, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 21.95
Approval of minor changes in type design.
Minor changes in a type design may be approved under a method acceptable to the FAA before submitting to the FAA any substantiating or descriptive data.
§ 21.97
Approval of major changes in type design.
(a) An applicant for approval of a major change in type design must—
(1) Provide substantiating data and necessary descriptive data for inclusion in the type design;
(2) Show that the change and areas affected by the change comply with the applicable requirements of this subchapter, and provide the FAA the
means by which such compliance has been shown; and
(3) Provide a statement certifying that the applicant has complied with the applicable requirements.
(b) Approval of a major change in the type design of an aircraft engine is limited to the specific engine configuration upon which the change is made unless the applicant identifies in the necessary descriptive data for inclusion in the type design the other configurations of the same engine type for which approval is requested and shows that the change is compatible with the other configurations.
[Amdt. 21-40, 39 FR 35459, Oct. 1, 1974, as amended by Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53387, Oct. 16, 2009; Amdt. 21-96, 77 FR 71695, Dec. 4, 2012]
§ 21.99
Required design changes.
(a) When an Airworthiness Directive is issued under Part 39 the holder of the type certificate for the product concerned must—
(1) If the FAA finds that design changes are necessary to correct the unsafe condition of the product, and upon his request, submit appropriate design changes for approval; and
(2) Upon approval of the design changes, make available the descriptive data covering the changes to all operators of products previously certificated under the type certificate.
(b) In a case where there are no current unsafe conditions, but the FAA or the holder of the type certificate finds through service experience that changes in type design will contribute to the safety of the product, the holder of the type certificate may submit appropriate design changes for approval. Upon approval of the changes, the manufacturer must make information on the design changes available to all operators of the same type of product.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14567, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-3, 30 FR 8826, July 24, 1965]
§ 21.101
Designation of applicable regulations.
(a) An applicant for a change to a type certificate must show that the change and areas affected by the change comply with the airworthiness requirements applicable to the category of the product in effect on the date of the application for the change and with parts 34, 36, and 38 of this chapter. Exceptions are detailed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, if paragraphs (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section apply, an applicant may show that the change and areas affected by the change comply with an earlier amendment of a regulation required by paragraph (a) of this section, and of any other regulation the FAA finds is directly related. However, the earlier amended regulation may not precede either the corresponding regulation included by reference in the type certificate, or any regulation in §§ 25.2, 27.2, or 29.2 of this chapter that is related to the change. The applicant may show compliance with an earlier amendment of a regulation for any of the following:
(1) A change that the FAA finds not to be significant. In determining whether a specific change is significant, the FAA considers the change in context with all previous relevant design changes and all related revisions to the applicable regulations incorporated in the type certificate for the product. Changes that meet one of the following criteria are automatically considered significant:
(i) The general configuration or the principles of construction are not retained.
(ii) The assumptions used for certification of the product to be changed do not remain valid.
(2) Each area, system, component, equipment, or appliance that the FAA finds is not affected by the change.
(3) Each area, system, component, equipment, or appliance that is affected by the change, for which the FAA finds that compliance with a regulation described in paragraph (a) of this section would not contribute materially to the level of safety of the product or would be impractical.
(c) An applicant for a change to an aircraft (other than a rotorcraft) of 6,000 pounds or less maximum weight, to a non-turbine rotorcraft of 3,000 pounds or less maximum weight, to a level 1 low-speed airplane, or to a level 2 low-speed airplane may show that the change and areas affected by the
change comply with the regulations included in the type certificate. However, if the FAA finds that the change is significant in an area, the FAA may designate compliance with an amendment to the regulation incorporated by reference in the type certificate that applies to the change and any regulation that the FAA finds is directly related, unless the FAA also finds that compliance with that amendment or regulation would not contribute materially to the level of safety of the product or would be impractical.
(d) If the FAA finds that the regulations in effect on the date of the application for the change do not provide adequate standards with respect to the proposed change because of a novel or unusual design feature, the applicant must also comply with special conditions, and amendments to those special conditions, prescribed under the provisions of § 21.16, to provide a level of safety equal to that established by the regulations in effect on the date of the application for the change.
(e) An application for a change to a type certificate for a transport category aircraft is effective for 5 years, and an application for a change to any other type certificate is effective for 3 years. If the change has not been approved, or if it is clear that it will not be approved under the time limit established under this paragraph, the applicant may do either of the following:
(1) File a new application for a change to the type certificate and comply with all the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section applicable to an original application for a change.
(2) File for an extension of the original application and comply with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. The applicant must then select a new application date. The new application date may not precede the date the change is approved by more than the time period established under this paragraph (e).
(f) For aircraft certificated under §§ 21.17(b), 21.24, 21.25, and 21.27 the airworthiness requirements applicable to the category of the product in effect on the date of the application for the change include each airworthiness requirement that the FAA finds to be appropriate for the type certification of the aircraft in accordance with those sections.
(g) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, for transport category airplanes, the applicant must show compliance with each applicable provision of part 26 of this chapter, unless the applicant has elected or was required to comply with a corresponding amendment to part 25 of this chapter that was issued on or after the date of the applicable part 26 provision.
[Doc. No. 28903, 65 FR 36266, June 7, 2000, as amended by Amdt. 21-90, 72 FR 63404, Nov. 8, 2007; Amdt. 21-96, 77 FR 71695, Dec. 4, 2012; Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 21-100, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016; Doc. No. FAA-2022-0241, Amdt. No. 21-107, 89 FR 12653, Feb. 16, 2024]

# Subpart E—Supplemental Type Certificates

# Source:
Docket No. 5085, 29 FR 14568, Oct. 24, 1964, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.111
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes procedural requirements for the issue of supplemental type certificates.
§ 21.113
Requirement for supplemental type certificate.
(a) If a person holds the TC for a product and alters that product by introducing a major change in type design that does not require an application for a new TC under § 21.19, that person must apply to the FAA either for an STC, or to amend the original type certificate under subpart D of this part.
(b) If a person does not hold the TC for a product and alters that product by introducing a major change in type design that does not require an application for a new TC under § 21.19, that person must apply to the FAA for an STC.
(c) The application for an STC must be made in the form and manner prescribed by the FAA.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53387, Oct. 16, 2009; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 21.115
Applicable requirements.
(a) Each applicant for a supplemental type certificate must show that the altered product meets applicable requirements specified in § 21.101 and—
(1) In the case of an acoustical change described in § 21.93(b), show compliance with the applicable noise requirements of part 36 of this chapter;
(2) In the case of an emissions change described in § 21.93(c), show compliance with the applicable fuel venting and exhaust emissions requirements of part 34 of this chapter; and
(3) In the case of a fuel efficiency change described in § 21.93(d), show compliance with the applicable fuel efficiency requirements of part 38 of this chapter.
(b) Each applicant for a supplemental type certificate must meet §§ 21.33 and 21.53 with respect to each change in the type design.
[Amdt. 21-17, 32 FR 14927, Oct. 28, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 21-42, 40 FR 1033, Jan. 6, 1975; Amdt. 21-52A, 45 FR 79009, Nov. 28, 1980; Amdt. 21-61, 53 FR 3540, Feb. 5, 1988; Amdt. 21-68, 55 FR 32860, Aug. 10, 1990; Amdt. 21-71, 57 FR 42854, Sept. 16, 1992; Amdt. 21-77, 65 FR 36266, June 7, 2000; Amdt. No. 21-107, 89 FR 12653, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 21.117
Issue of supplemental type certificates.
(a) An applicant is entitled to a supplemental type certificate if the FAA finds that the applicant meets the requirements of §§ 21.113 and 21.115.
(b) A supplemental type certificate consists of—
(1) The approval by the FAA of a change in the type design of the product; and
(2) The type certificate previously issued for the product.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14568, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53387, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.119
Privileges.
The holder of a supplemental type certificate may—
(a) In the case of aircraft, obtain airworthiness certificates;
(b) In the case of other products, obtain approval for installation on certificated aircraft; and
(c) Obtain a production certificate in accordance with the requirements of subpart G of this part for the change in the type design approved by the supplemental type certificate.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14568, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53387, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.120
Responsibility of supplemental type certificate holders to provide written permission for alterations.
A supplemental type certificate holder who allows a person to use the supplemental type certificate to alter an aircraft, aircraft engine, or propeller must provide that person with written permission acceptable to the FAA.
[Doc. No. FAA-2003-14825, 71 FR 52258, Sept. 1, 2006]

# Subpart F—Production Under Type Certificate

# Source:
Docket No. 5085, 29 FR 14568, Oct. 24, 1964, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.121
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes rules for production under a type certificate.
§ 21.122
Location of or change to manufacturing facilities.
(a) A type certificate holder may utilize manufacturing facilities located outside of the United States if the FAA finds no undue burden in administering the applicable requirements of Title 49 U.S.C. and this subchapter.
(b) The type certificate holder must obtain FAA approval before making any changes to the location of any of its manufacturing facilities.
(c) The type certificate holder must immediately notify the FAA, in writing, of any change to the manufacturing facilities that may affect the inspection, conformity, or airworthiness of its product or article.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53387, Oct. 16, 2009; Amdt. 21-92A, 75 FR 9095, Mar. 1, 2010]
§ 21.123
Production under type certificate.
Each manufacturer of a product being manufactured under a type certificate must—
(a) Maintain at the place of manufacture all information and data specified in §§ 21.31 and 21.41;
(b) Make each product and article thereof available for inspection by the FAA;
(c) Maintain records of the completion of all inspections and tests required by §§ 21.127, 21.128, and 21.129 for at least 5 years for the products and articles thereof manufactured under the approval and at least 10 years for critical components identified under § 45.15(c) of this chapter;
(d) Allow the FAA to make any inspection or test, including any inspection or test at a supplier facility, necessary to determine compliance with this subchapter;
(e) Mark the product in accordance with part 45 of this chapter, including any critical parts;
(f) Identify any portion of that product (
e.g.,
sub-assemblies, component parts, or replacement articles) that leave the manufacturer's facility as FAA approved with the manufacturer's part number and name, trademark, symbol, or other FAA-approved manufacturer's identification; and
(g) Except as otherwise authorized by the FAA, obtain a production certificate for that product in accordance with subpart G of this part within 6 months after the date of issuance of the type certificate.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53387, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.125
[Reserved]
§ 21.127
Tests: aircraft.
(a) Each person manufacturing aircraft under a type certificate must establish an approved production flight test procedure and flight check-off form, and in accordance with that form, flight test each aircraft produced.
(b) Each production flight test procedure must include the following:
(1) An operational check of the trim, controllability, or other flight characteristics to establish that the production aircraft has the same range and degree of control as the prototype aircraft.
(2) An operational check of each part or system operated by the crew while in flight to establish that, during flight, instrument readings are within normal range.
(3) A determination that all instruments are properly marked, and that all placards and required flight manuals are installed after flight test.
(4) A check of the operational characteristics of the aircraft on the ground.
(5) A check on any other items peculiar to the aircraft being tested that can best be done during the ground or flight operation of the aircraft.
§ 21.128
Tests: aircraft engines.
(a) Each person manufacturing aircraft engines under a type certificate must subject each engine (except rocket engines for which the manufacturer must establish a sampling technique) to an acceptable test run that includes the following:
(1) Break-in runs that include a determination of fuel and oil consumption and a determination of power characteristics at rated maximum continuous power or thrust and, if applicable, at rated takeoff power or thrust.
(2) At least five hours of operation at rated maximum continuous power or thrust. For engines having a rated takeoff power or thrust higher than rated maximum continuous power or thrust, the five-hour run must include 30 minutes at rated takeoff power or thrust.
(b) The test runs required by paragraph (a) of this section may be made with the engine appropriately mounted and using current types of power and thrust measuring equipment.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14568, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-5, 32 FR 3735, Mar. 4, 1967]
§ 21.129
Tests: propellers.
Each person manufacturing propellers under a type certificate must give each variable pitch propeller an acceptable functional test to determine if it operates properly throughout the normal range of operation.
§ 21.130
Statement of conformity.
Each holder or licensee of a type certificate who manufactures a product under this subpart must provide, in a form and manner acceptable to the FAA, a statement that the product for
which the type certificate has been issued conforms to its type certificate and is in a condition for safe operation.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53387, Oct. 16, 2009]

# Subpart G—Production Certificates

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53387, Oct. 16, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.131
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes—
(a) Procedural requirements for issuing production certificates; and
(b) Rules governing holders of those certificates.
§ 21.132
Eligibility.
Any person may apply for a production certificate if that person holds, for the product concerned—
(a) A current type certificate,
(b) A supplemental type certificate, or
(c) Rights to the benefits of that type certificate or supplemental type certificate under a licensing agreement.
§ 21.133
Application.
Each applicant must apply for a production certificate in a form and manner prescribed by the FAA.
§ 21.135
Organization.
(a) Each applicant for or holder of a production certificate must provide the FAA with a document—
(1) Describing how its organization will ensure compliance with the provisions of this subpart;
(2) Describing assigned responsibilities, delegated authorities, and the functional relationship of those responsible for quality to management and other organizational components; and
(3) Identifying an accountable manager.
(b) The accountable manager specified in paragraph (a) of this section must be responsible within the applicant's or production approval holder's organization for, and have authority over, all production operations conducted under this part. The accountable manager must confirm that the procedures described in the quality manual required by § 21.138 are in place and that the production approval holder satisfies the requirements of the applicable regulations of subchapter C, Aircraft. The accountable manager must serve as the primary contact with the FAA.
(c) Each applicant for or holder of a production certificate, except those based only on a supplemental type certificate or on the rights to the benefits of a supplemental type certificate under a licensing agreement, must meet the applicable requirements of part 5 of this chapter.
[Doc. No. FAA-2013-0933, Amdt. 21-98, 80 FR 59031, Oct. 1, 2015, as amended by Docket No. FAA-2021-0419, Amdt. No. 21-108, 89 FR 33108, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 21.137
Quality system.
Each applicant for or holder of a production certificate must establish and describe in writing a quality system that ensures that each product and article conforms to its approved design and is in a condition for safe operation. This quality system must include:
(a)
Design data control.
Procedures for controlling design data and subsequent changes to ensure that only current, correct, and approved data is used.
(b)
Document control.
Procedures for controlling quality system documents and data and subsequent changes to ensure that only current, correct, and approved documents and data are used.
(c)
Supplier control.
Procedures that—
(1) Ensure that each supplier-provided product, article, or service conforms to the production approval holder's requirements; and
(2) Establish a supplier-reporting process for products, articles, or services that have been released from or provided by the supplier and subsequently found not to conform to the production approval holder's requirements.
(d)
Manufacturing process control.
Procedures for controlling manufacturing processes to ensure that each product and article conforms to its approved design.
(e)
Inspecting and testing.
Procedures for inspections and tests used to ensure that each product and article conforms
to its approved design. These procedures must include the following, as applicable:
(1) A flight test of each aircraft produced unless that aircraft will be exported as an unassembled aircraft.
(2) A functional test of each aircraft engine and each propeller produced.
(f)
Inspection, measuring, and test equipment control.
Procedures to ensure calibration and control of all inspection, measuring, and test equipment used in determining conformity of each product and article to its approved design. Each calibration standard must be traceable to a standard acceptable to the FAA.
(g)
Inspection and test status.
Procedures for documenting the inspection and test status of products and articles supplied or manufactured to the approved design.
(h)
Nonconforming product and article control.
(1) Procedures to ensure that only products or articles that conform to their approved design are installed on a type-certificated product. These procedures must provide for the identification, documentation, evaluation, segregation, and disposition of nonconforming products and articles. Only authorized individuals may make disposition determinations.
(2) Procedures to ensure that discarded articles are rendered unusable.
(i)
Corrective and preventive actions.
Procedures for implementing corrective and preventive actions to eliminate the causes of an actual or potential nonconformity to the approved design or noncompliance with the approved quality system.
(j)
Handling and storage.
Procedures to prevent damage and deterioration of each product and article during handling, storage, preservation, and packaging.
(k)
Control of quality records.
Procedures for identifying, storing, protecting, retrieving, and retaining quality records. A production approval holder must retain these records for at least 5 years for the products and articles manufactured under the approval and at least 10 years for critical components identified under § 45.15(c) of this chapter.
(l)
Internal audits.
Procedures for planning, conducting, and documenting internal audits to ensure compliance with the approved quality system. The procedures must include reporting results of internal audits to the manager responsible for implementing corrective and preventive actions.
(m)
In-service feedback.
Procedures for receiving and processing feedback on in-service failures, malfunctions, and defects. These procedures must include a process for assisting the design approval holder to—
(1) Address any in-service problem involving design changes; and
(2) Determine if any changes to the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness are necessary.
(n)
Quality escapes.
Procedures for identifying, analyzing, and initiating appropriate corrective action for products or articles that have been released from the quality system and that do not conform to the applicable design data or quality system requirements.
(o)
Issuing authorized release documents.
Procedures for issuing authorized release documents for aircraft engines, propellers, and articles if the production approval holder intends to issue those documents. These procedures must provide for the selection, appointment, training, management, and removal of individuals authorized by the production approval holder to issue authorized release documents. Authorized release documents may be issued for new aircraft engines, propellers, and articles manufactured by the production approval holder; and for used aircraft engines, propellers, and articles when rebuilt, or altered, in accordance with § 43.3(j) of this chapter. When a production approval holder issues an authorized release document for the purpose of export, the production approval holder must comply with the procedures applicable to the export of new and used aircraft engines, propellers, and articles specified in § 21.331 and the responsibilities of exporters specified in § 21.335.
[Docket No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53387, Oct. 16, 2009, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2013-0933, Amdt. 21-98, 80 FR 59031, Oct. 1, 2015; Amdt. 21-98A, 80 FR 59031, Dec. 17, 2015]
§ 21.138
Quality manual.
Each applicant for or holder of a production certificate must provide a manual describing its quality system to the FAA for approval. The manual must be in the English language and retrievable in a form acceptable to the FAA.
§ 21.139
Location of or change to manufacturing facilities.
(a) An applicant may obtain a production certificate for manufacturing facilities located outside of the United States if the FAA finds no undue burden in administering the applicable requirements of Title 49 U.S.C. and this subchapter.
(b) The production certificate holder must obtain FAA approval before making any changes to the location of any of its manufacturing facilities.
(c) The production certificate holder must immediately notify the FAA, in writing, of any change to the manufacturing facilities that may affect the inspection, conformity, or airworthiness of its product or article.
§ 21.140
Inspections and tests.
Each applicant for or holder of a production certificate must allow the FAA to inspect its quality system, facilities, technical data, and any manufactured products or articles and witness any tests, including any inspections or tests at a supplier facility, necessary to determine compliance with this subchapter.
§ 21.141
Issuance.
The FAA issues a production certificate after finding that the applicant complies with the requirements of this subpart.
§ 21.142
Production limitation record.
The FAA issues a production limitation record as part of a production certificate. The record lists the type certificate number and model of every product that the production certificate holder is authorized to manufacture, and identifies every interface component that the production certificate holder is authorized to manufacture and install under this part.
[Doc. No. FAA-2013-0933, Amdt. 21-98, 80 FR 59031, Oct. 1, 2015, as amended by Amdt. 21-98A, 80 FR 59031, Dec. 17, 2015]
§ 21.143
Duration.
A production certificate is effective until surrendered, suspended, revoked, or the FAA otherwise establishes a termination date.
§ 21.144
Transferability.
The holder of a production certificate may not transfer the production certificate.
§ 21.145
Privileges.
(a) The holder of a production certificate may—
(1) Obtain an aircraft airworthiness certificate without further showing, except that the FAA may inspect the aircraft for conformity with the type design; or
(2) In the case of other products, obtain approval from the FAA for installation on type-certificated aircraft.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 147.3 of this chapter, the holder of a production certificate for a primary category aircraft, or for a normal, utility, or acrobatic category aircraft of a type design that is eligible for a special airworthiness certificate in the primary category under § 21.184(c), may—
(1) Conduct training for persons in the performance of a special inspection and preventive maintenance program approved as a part of the aircraft's type design under § 21.24(b), provided a person holding a mechanic certificate with appropriate airframe and powerplant ratings issued under part 65 of this chapter gives the training; and
(2) Issue a certificate of competency to persons successfully completing the approved training program, provided the certificate specifies the aircraft make and model to which the certificate applies.
§ 21.146
Responsibility of holder.
The holder of a production certificate must—
(a) Amend the document required by § 21.135 as necessary to reflect changes in the organization and provide these amendments to the FAA.
(b) Maintain the quality system in compliance with the data and procedures approved for the production certificate;
(c) Ensure that each completed product or article for which a production certificate has been issued, including primary category aircraft assembled under a production certificate by another person from a kit provided by the holder of the production certificate, presented for airworthiness certification or approval conforms to its approved design and is in a condition for safe operation;
(d) Mark the product or article for which a certificate or approval has been issued. Marking must be in accordance with part 45 of this chapter, including any critical parts;
(e) Identify any portion of the product or article (e.g., sub-assemblies, component parts, or replacement articles) that leave the manufacturer's facility as FAA approved with the manufacturer's part number and name, trademark, symbol, or other FAA approved manufacturer's identification;
(f) Have access to type design data necessary to determine conformity and airworthiness for each product and article produced under the production certificate;
(g) Retain its production certificate and make it available to the FAA upon request; and
(h) Make available to the FAA information regarding all delegation of authority to suppliers.
§ 21.147
Amendment of production certificates.
(a) A holder of a production certificate must apply for an amendment to a production certificate in a form and manner prescribed by the FAA.
(b) An applicant for an amendment to a production certificate to add a type certificate or model, or both, must comply with §§ 21.135(c), 21.137, 21.138, and 21.150.
(c) An applicant may apply to amend its production limitation record to allow the manufacture and installation of an interface component, provided—
(1) The applicant owns or has a license to use the design and installation data for the interface component and makes that data available to the FAA upon request;
(2) The applicant manufactures the interface component;
(3) The applicant's product conforms to its approved type design and the interface component conforms to its approved type design;
(4) The assembled product with the installed interface component is in a condition for safe operation; and
(5) The applicant complies with any other conditions and limitations the FAA considers necessary.
[Doc. No. FAA-2013-0933, Amdt. 21-98, 80 FR 59031, Oct. 1, 2015, as amended by Amdt. 21-98A, 80 FR 59031, Dec. 17, 2015; Amdt. 21-108, 89 FR 33108, Apr. 26, 2024]
§ 21.150
Changes in quality system.
After the issuance of a production certificate—
(a) Each change to the quality system is subject to review by the FAA; and
(b) The holder of a production certificate must immediately notify the FAA, in writing, of any change that may affect the inspection, conformity, or airworthiness of its product or article.

# Subpart H—Airworthiness Certificates

# Source:
Docket No. 5085, 29 FR 14569, Oct. 24, 1964, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.171
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes procedural requirements for the issue of airworthiness certificates.
§ 21.173
Eligibility.
Any registered owner of a U.S.-registered aircraft (or the agent of the owner) may apply for an airworthiness certificate for that aircraft. An application for an airworthiness certificate must be made in a form and manner acceptable to the FAA, and may be submitted to any FAA office.
[Amdt. 21-26, 34 FR 15244, Sept. 30, 1969]
§ 21.175
Airworthiness certificates: classification.
(a) Standard airworthiness certificates are airworthiness certificates
issued for aircraft type certificated in the normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, or transport category, and for manned free balloons, and for aircraft designated by the FAA as special classes of aircraft.
(b) Special airworthiness certificates are primary, restricted, limited, light-sport, and provisional airworthiness certificates, special flight permits, and experimental certificates.
[Amdt. 21-21, 33 FR 6858, May 7, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 21-60, 52 FR 8043, Mar. 13, 1987; Amdt. 21-70, 57 FR 41368, Sept. 9, 1992; Amdt. 21-85, 69 FR 44861, July 27, 2004]
§ 21.177
Amendment or modification.
An airworthiness certificate may be amended or modified only upon application to the FAA.
§ 21.179
Transferability.
An airworthiness certificate is transferred with the aircraft.
§ 21.181
Duration.
(a) Unless sooner surrendered, suspended, revoked, or a termination date is otherwise established by the FAA, airworthiness certificates are effective as follows:
(1) Standard airworthiness certificates, special airworthiness certificates—primary category, and airworthiness certificates issued for restricted or limited category aircraft are effective as long as the maintenance, preventive maintenance, and alterations are performed in accordance with Parts 43 and 91 of this chapter and the aircraft are registered in the United States.
(2) A special flight permit is effective for the period of time specified in the permit.
(3) A special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category is effective as long as—
(i) The aircraft meets the definition of a light-sport aircraft;
(ii) The aircraft conforms to its original configuration, except for those alterations performed in accordance with an applicable consensus standard and authorized by the aircraft's manufacturer or a person acceptable to the FAA;
(iii) The aircraft has no unsafe condition and is not likely to develop an unsafe condition; and
(iv) The aircraft is registered in the United States.
(4) An experimental certificate for research and development, showing compliance with regulations, crew training, or market surveys is effective for 1 year after the date of issue or renewal unless the FAA prescribes a shorter period. The duration of an experimental certificate issued for operating amateur-built aircraft, exhibition, air-racing, operating primary kit-built aircraft, or operating light-sport aircraft is unlimited, unless the FAA establishes a specific period for good cause.
(b) The owner, operator, or bailee of the aircraft must, upon request, make it available for inspection by the FAA.
(c) Upon suspension, revocation, or termination by order of the FAA of an airworthiness certificate, the owner, operator, or bailee of an aircraft must, upon request, surrender the certificate to the FAA.
[Amdt. 21-21, 33 FR 6858, May 7, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 21-49, 44 FR 46781, Aug. 9, 1979; Amdt. 21-70, 57 FR 41368, Sept. 9, 1992; Amdt. 21-85, 69 FR 44861, July 27, 2004]
§ 21.182
Aircraft identification.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each applicant for an airworthiness certificate under this subpart must show that his aircraft is identified as prescribed in § 45.11.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to applicants for the following:
(1) A special flight permit.
(2) An experimental certificate for an aircraft not issued for the purpose of operating amateur-built aircraft, operating primary kit-built aircraft, or operating light-sport aircraft.
(3) A change from one airworthiness classification to another, for an aircraft already identified as prescribed in § 45.11.
[Amdt. 21-13, 32 FR 188, Jan. 10, 1967, as amended by Amdt. 21-51, 45 FR 60170, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 21-70, 57 FR 41368, Sept. 9, 1992; Amdt. 21-85, 69 FR 44862, July 27, 2004]
§ 21.183
Issue of standard airworthiness certificates for normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, and transport category aircraft; manned free balloons; and special classes of aircraft.
(a)
New aircraft manufactured under a production certificate.
An applicant for a standard airworthiness certificate for a new aircraft manufactured under a production certificate is entitled to a standard airworthiness certificate without further showing, except that the FAA may inspect the aircraft to determine conformity to the type design and condition for safe operation.
(b)
New aircraft manufactured under type certificate.
An applicant for a standard airworthiness certificate for a new aircraft manufactured under a type certificate is entitled to a standard airworthiness certificate upon presentation, by the holder or licensee of the type certificate, of the statement of conformity prescribed in § 21.130 if the FAA finds after inspection that the aircraft conforms to the type design and is in condition for safe operation.
(c)
Import aircraft.
An applicant for a standard airworthiness certificate for an import aircraft is entitled to that certificate if—
(1) The aircraft is type certificated in accordance with § 21.21 or § 21.29 and produced under the authority of another State of Manufacture;
(2) The State of Manufacture certifies, in accordance with the export provisions of an agreement with the United States for import of that aircraft, that the aircraft conforms to the type design and is in condition for safe operation; and
(3) The FAA finds that the aircraft conforms to the type design and is in condition for safe operation.
(d)
Used aircraft and surplus aircraft of the U.S. Armed Forces.
An applicant for a standard airworthiness certificate for a used aircraft or surplus aircraft of the U.S. Armed Forces is entitled to a standard airworthiness certificate if—
(1) The applicant presents evidence to the FAA that the aircraft conforms to a type design approved under a type certificate or a supplemental type certificate and to applicable Airworthiness Directives;
(2) The aircraft (except an experimentally certificated aircraft that previously had been issued a different airworthiness certificate under this section) has been inspected in accordance with the performance rules for 100-hour inspections set forth in § 43.15 of this chapter, or an equivalent performance standard acceptable to the FAA, and found airworthy by—
(i) The manufacturer;
(ii) The holder of a repair station certificate as provided in Part 145 of this chapter;
(iii) The holder of a mechanic certificate as authorized in Part 65 of this chapter; or
(iv) The holder of a certificate issued under part 121 of this chapter, and having a maintenance and inspection organization appropriate to the aircraft type; and
(3) The FAA finds after inspection, that the aircraft conforms to the type design, and is in condition for safe operation.
(e)
Noise requirements.
Notwithstanding all other provisions of this section, the following must be complied with for the original issuance of a standard airworthiness certificate:
(1) For transport category large airplanes and jet (turbojet powered) airplanes that have not had any flight time before the dates specified in § 36.1(d), no standard airworthiness certificate is originally issued under this section unless the FAA finds that the type design complies with the noise requirements in § 36.1(d) in addition to the applicable airworthiness requirements in this section. For import airplanes, compliance with this paragraph is shown if the country in which the airplane was manufactured certifies, and the FAA finds, that § 36.1(d) (or the applicable airplane noise requirements of the country in which the airplane was manufactured and any other requirements the FAA may prescribe to provide noise levels no greater than those provided by compliance with § 36.1(d)) and paragraph (c) of this section are complied with.
(2) For normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, or transport category propeller driven small airplanes (except for those airplanes that are designed for “agricultural aircraft operations”
(as defined in § 137.3 of this chapter, as effective on January 1, 1966) or for dispensing fire fighting materials to which § 36.1583 of this chapter does not apply) that have not had any flight time before the applicable date specified in part 36 of this chapter, no standard airworthiness certificate is originally issued under this section unless the applicant shows that the type design complies with the applicable noise requirements of part 36 of this chapter in addition to the applicable airworthiness requirements in this section. For import airplanes, compliance with this paragraph is shown if the country in which the airplane was manufactured certifies, and the FAA finds, that the applicable requirements of part of this chapter (or the applicable airplane noise requirements of the country in which the airplane was manufactured and any other requirements the FAA may prescribe to provide noise levels no greater than those provided by compliance with the applicable requirements of part 36 of this chapter) and paragraph (c) of this section are complied with.
(f)
Passenger emergency exit requirements.
Notwithstanding all other provisions of this section, each applicant for issuance of a standard airworthiness certificate for a transport category airplane manufactured after October 16, 1987, must show that the airplane meets the requirements of § 25.807(c)(7) in effect on July 24, 1989. For the purposes of this paragraph, the date of manufacture of an airplane is the date the inspection acceptance records reflect that the airplane is complete and meets the FAA-approved type design data.
(g)
Fuel venting and exhaust emission requirements.
Notwithstanding all other provisions of this section, and irrespective of the date of application, no airworthiness certificate is issued, on and after the dates specified in part 34 for the airplanes specified therein, unless the airplane complies with the applicable requirements of that part.
(h)
New aircraft manufactured under the provisions of § 21.6(b).
An applicant for a standard airworthiness certificate for a new aircraft manufactured under the provisions of § 21.6(b) is entitled to a standard airworthiness certificate if—
(1) The applicant presents evidence to the FAA that the aircraft conforms to a type design approved under a type certificate or supplemental type certificate and to applicable Airworthiness Directives;
(2) The aircraft has been inspected in accordance with the performance rules for a 100-hour inspections set forth in § 43.15 of this chapter and found airworthy by a person specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and
(3) The FAA finds after inspection, that the aircraft conforms to the type design, and is in condition for safe operation.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Fuel efficiency requirements.
No original standard airworthiness certificate may be issued under this section unless the applicant has demonstrated that the type design complies with the applicable fuel efficiency requirements of part 38 of this chapter.
[Amdt. 21-17, 32 FR 14927, Oct. 28, 1967]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 21.183, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 21.184
Issue of special airworthiness certificates for primary category aircraft.
(a)
New primary category aircraft manufactured under a production certificate.
An applicant for an original, special airworthiness certificate-primary category for a new aircraft that meets the criteria of § 21.24(a)(1), manufactured under a production certificate, including aircraft assembled by another person from a kit provided by the holder of the production certificate and under the supervision and quality control of that holder, is entitled to a special airworthiness certificate without further showing, except that the FAA may inspect the aircraft to determine conformity to the type design and condition for safe operation.
(b)
Imported aircraft.
An applicant for a special airworthiness certificate-primary category for an imported aircraft
type certificated under § 21.29 is entitled to a special airworthiness certificate if the civil airworthiness authority of the country in which the aircraft was manufactured certifies, and the FAA finds after inspection, that the aircraft conforms to an approved type design that meets the criteria of § 21.24(a)(1) and is in a condition for safe operation.
(c)
Aircraft having a current standard airworthiness certificate.
An applicant for a special airworthiness certificate-primary category, for an aircraft having a current standard airworthiness certificate that meets the criteria of § 21.24(a)(1), may obtain the primary category certificate in exchange for its standard airworthiness certificate through the supplemental type certification process. For the purposes of this paragraph, a current standard airworthiness certificate means that the aircraft conforms to its approved normal, utility, or acrobatic type design, complies with all applicable airworthiness directives, has been inspected and found airworthy within the last 12 calendar months in accordance with § 91.409(a)(1) of this chapter, and is found to be in a condition for safe operation by the FAA.
(d)
Other aircraft.
An applicant for a special airworthiness certificate-primary category for an aircraft that meets the criteria of § 21.24(a)(1), and is not covered by paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, is entitled to a special airworthiness certificate if—
(1) The applicant presents evidence to the FAA that the aircraft conforms to an approved primary, normal, utility, or acrobatic type design, including compliance with all applicable airworthiness directives;
(2) The aircraft has been inspected and found airworthy within the past 12 calendar months in accordance with § 91.409(a)(1) of this chapter and;
(3) The aircraft is found by the FAA to conform to an approved type design and to be in a condition for safe operation.
(e)
Multiple-category airworthiness certificates
in the primary category and any other category will not be issued; a primary category aircraft may hold only one airworthiness certificate.
[Doc. No. 23345, 57 FR 41368, Sept. 9, 1992, as amended by Amdt. 21-70, 57 FR 43776, Sept. 22, 1992]
§ 21.185
Issue of airworthiness certificates for restricted category aircraft.
(a)
Aircraft manufactured under a production certificate or type certificate.
An applicant for the original issue of a restricted category airworthiness certificate for an aircraft type certificated in the restricted category, that was not previously type certificated in any other category, must comply with the appropriate provisions of § 21.183.
(b)
Other aircraft.
An applicant for a restricted category airworthiness certificate for an aircraft type certificated in the restricted category, that was either a surplus aircraft of the Armed Forces or previously type certificated in another category, is entitled to an airworthiness certificate if the aircraft has been inspected by the FAA and found by him to be in a good state of preservation and repair and in a condition for safe operation.
(c)
Import aircraft.
An applicant for the original issue of a special airworthiness certificate for a restricted category import aircraft is entitled to that certificate if—
(1) The aircraft is type-certificated in accordance with § 21.25 or § 21.29 and produced under the authority of another State of Manufacture;
(2) The State of Manufacture certifies, in accordance with the export provisions of an agreement with the United States for import of that aircraft that the aircraft conforms to the type design and is in condition for safe operation; and
(3) The FAA finds that the aircraft conforms to the type design and is in condition for safe operation.
(d)
Noise requirements.
For propeller-driven small airplanes (except airplanes designed for “agricultural aircraft operations,” as defined in § 137.3 of this chapter, as effective on January 1, 1966, or for dispensing fire fighting materials) that have not had any flight time before the applicable date specified in Part 36 of this chapter, and notwithstanding the other provisions of
this section, no original restricted category airworthiness certificate is issued under this section unless the FAA finds that the type design complies with the applicable noise requirements of Part 36 of this chapter in addition to the applicable airworthiness requirements of this section. For import airplanes, compliance with this paragraph is shown if the country in which the airplane was manufactured certifies, and the FAA finds, that the applicable requirements of Part 36 of this chapter (or the applicable airplane noise requirements of the country in which the airplane was manufactured and any other requirements the FAA may prescribe to provide noise levels no greater than those provided by compliance with the applicable requirements of Part 36 of this chapter) and paragraph (c) of this section are complied with.
[Amdt. 21-10, 31 FR 9211, July 6, 1966, as amended by Amdt. 21-32, 35 FR 10202, June 23, 1970; Amdt. 21-42, 40 FR 1034, Jan. 6, 1975; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53389, Oct. 16, 2009; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53389, Oct. 16, 2009; Amdt. 21-92A, 75 FR 9095, Mar. 1, 2010]
§ 21.187
Issue of multiple airworthiness certification.
(a) An applicant for an airworthiness certificate in the restricted category, and in one or more other categories except primary category, is entitled to the certificate, if—
(1) The applicant shows compliance with the requirements for each category, when the aircraft is in the configuration for that category;
(2) The applicant shows that the aircraft can be converted from one category to another by removing or adding equipment by simple mechanical means;
(3) The aircraft complies with the applicable requirements of part 34 of this subchapter; and
(4) The airplane complies with the applicable requirements of part 38 of this subchapter.
(b) The operator of an aircraft certificated under this section must have the aircraft inspected by the FAA, or by a certificated mechanic with an appropriate airframe rating, to determine airworthiness each time the aircraft is converted from the restricted category to another category for the carriage of passengers for compensation or hire, unless the FAA finds this unnecessary for safety in a particular case.
(c) The aircraft complies with the applicable requirements of part 34.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14569, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-68, 55 FR 32860, Aug. 10, 1990; Amdt. 21-70, 57 FR 41369, Sept. 9, 1992; Amdt. No. 21-107, 89 FR 12654, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 21.189
Issue of airworthiness certificate for limited category aircraft.
(a) An applicant for an airworthiness certificate for an aircraft in the limited category is entitled to the certificate when—
(1) He shows that the aircraft has been previously issued a limited category type certificate and that the aircraft conforms to that type certificate; and
(2) The FAA finds, after inspection (including a flight check by the applicant), that the aircraft is in a good state of preservation and repair and is in a condition for safe operation.
(b) The FAA prescribes limitations and conditions necessary for safe operation.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14570, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-4, 30 FR 9437, July 29, 1965]
§ 21.190
Issue of a special airworthiness certificate for a light-sport category aircraft.
(a)
Purpose.
The FAA issues a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category to operate a light-sport aircraft, other than a gyroplane.
(b)
Eligibility.
To be eligible for a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category:
(1) An applicant must provide the FAA with—
(i) The aircraft's operating instructions;
(ii) The aircraft's maintenance and inspection procedures;
(iii) The manufacturer's statement of compliance as described in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(iv) The aircraft's flight training supplement.
(2) The aircraft must not have been previously issued a standard, primary, restricted, limited, or provisional airworthiness certificate, or an equivalent
airworthiness certificate issued by a foreign civil aviation authority.
(3) The aircraft must be inspected by the FAA and found to be in a condition for safe operation.
(c)
Manufacturer's statement of compliance for light-sport category aircraft.
The manufacturer's statement of compliance required in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section must—
(1) Identify the aircraft by make and model, serial number, class, date of manufacture, and consensus standard used;
(2) State that the aircraft meets the provisions of the identified consensus standard;
(3) State that the aircraft conforms to the manufacturer's design data, using the manufacturer's quality assurance system that meets the identified consensus standard;
(4) State that the manufacturer will make available to any interested person the following documents that meet the identified consensus standard:
(i) The aircraft's operating instructions.
(ii) The aircraft's maintenance and inspection procedures.
(iii) The aircraft's flight training supplement.
(5) State that the manufacturer will monitor and correct safety-of-flight issues through the issuance of safety directives and a continued airworthiness system that meets the identified consensus standard;
(6) State that at the request of the FAA, the manufacturer will provide unrestricted access to its facilities; and
(7) State that the manufacturer, in accordance with a production acceptance test procedure that meets an applicable consensus standard has—
(i) Ground and flight tested the aircraft;
(ii) Found the aircraft performance acceptable; and
(iii) Determined that the aircraft is in a condition for safe operation.
(d)
Light-sport aircraft manufactured outside the United States.
For aircraft manufactured outside of the United States to be eligible for a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category, an applicant must meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and provide to the FAA evidence that—
(1) The aircraft was manufactured in a country with which the United States has a Bilateral Airworthiness Agreement concerning airplanes or Bilateral Aviation Safety Agreement with associated Implementation Procedures for Airworthiness concerning airplanes, or an equivalent airworthiness agreement; and
(2) The aircraft is eligible for an airworthiness certificate, flight authorization, or other similar certification in its country of manufacture.
[Amdt. 21-85, 69 FR 44862, July 27, 2004]
§ 21.191
Experimental certificates.
Experimental certificates are issued for the following purposes:
(a)
Research and development.
Testing new aircraft design concepts, new aircraft equipment, new aircraft installations, new aircraft operating techniques, or new uses for aircraft.
(b)
Showing compliance with regulations.
Conducting flight tests and other operations to show compliance with the airworthiness regulations including flights to show compliance for issuance of type and supplemental type certificates, flights to substantiate major design changes, and flights to show compliance with the function and reliability requirements of the regulations.
(c)
Crew training.
Training of the applicant's flight crews.
(d)
Exhibition.
Exhibiting the aircraft's flight capabilities, performance, or unusual characteristics at air shows, motion picture, television, and similar productions, and the maintenance of exhibition flight proficiency, including (for persons exhibiting aircraft) flying to and from such air shows and productions.
(e)
Air racing.
Participating in air races, including (for such participants) practicing for such air races and flying to and from racing events.
(f)
Market surveys.
Use of aircraft for purposes of conducting market surveys, sales demonstrations, and customer crew training only as provided in § 21.195.
(g)
Operating amateur-built aircraft.
Operating an aircraft the major portion of which has been fabricated and
assembled by persons who undertook the construction project solely for their own education or recreation.
(h)
Operating primary kit-built aircraft.
Operating a primary category aircraft that meets the criteria of § 21.24(a)(1) that was assembled by a person from a kit manufactured by the holder of a production certificate for that kit, without the supervision and quality control of the production certificate holder under § 21.184(a).
(i)
Operating light-sport aircraft.
Operating a light-sport aircraft that—
(1) Has not been issued a U.S. or foreign airworthiness certificate and does not meet the provisions of § 103.1 of this chapter. An experimental certificate will not be issued under this paragraph for these aircraft after January 31, 2008;
(2) Has been assembled—
(i) From an aircraft kit for which the applicant can provide the information required by § 21.193(e); and
(ii) In accordance with manufacturer's assembly instructions that meet an applicable consensus standard; or
(3) Has been previously issued a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category under § 21.190.
[Amdt. 21-21, 38 FR 6858, May 7, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 21-57, 49 FR 39651, Oct. 9, 1984; Amdt. 21-70, 57 FR 41369, Sept. 9, 1992; Amdt. 21-85, 69 FR 44862, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 21-85, 69 FR 53336, Sept. 1, 2004]
§ 21.193
Experimental certificates: general.
An applicant for an experimental certificate must submit the following information:
(a) A statement, in a form and manner prescribed by the FAA setting forth the purpose for which the aircraft is to be used.
(b) Enough data (such as photographs) to identify the aircraft.
(c) Upon inspection of the aircraft, any pertinent information found necessary by the FAA to safeguard the general public.
(d) In the case of an aircraft to be used for experimental purposes—
(1) The purpose of the experiment;
(2) The estimated time or number of flights required for the experiment;
(3) The areas over which the experiment will be conducted; and
(4) Except for aircraft converted from a previously certificated type without appreciable change in the external configuration, three-view drawings or three-view dimensioned photographs of the aircraft.
(e) In the case of a light-sport aircraft assembled from a kit to be certificated in accordance with § 21.191(i)(2), an applicant must provide the following:
(1) Evidence that an aircraft of the same make and model was manufactured and assembled by the aircraft kit manufacturer and issued a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category.
(2) The aircraft's operating instructions.
(3) The aircraft's maintenance and inspection procedures.
(4) The manufacturer's statement of compliance for the aircraft kit used in the aircraft assembly that meets § 21.190(c), except that instead of meeting § 21.190(c)(7), the statement must identify assembly instructions for the aircraft that meet an applicable consensus standard.
(5) The aircraft's flight training supplement.
(6) In addition to paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(5) of this section, for an aircraft kit manufactured outside of the United States, evidence that the aircraft kit was manufactured in a country with which the United States has a Bilateral Airworthiness Agreement concerning airplanes or a Bilateral Aviation Safety Agreement with associated Implementation Procedures for Airworthiness concerning airplanes, or an equivalent airworthiness agreement.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14569, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-85, 69 FR 44862, July 27, 2004]
§ 21.195
Experimental certificates: Aircraft to be used for market surveys, sales demonstrations, and customer crew training.
(a) A manufacturer of aircraft manufactured within the United States may apply for an experimental certificate for an aircraft that is to be used for market surveys, sales demonstrations, or customer crew training.
(b) A manufacturer of aircraft engines who has altered a type certificated aircraft by installing different engines, manufactured by him within the United States, may apply for an experimental certificate for that aircraft to be used for market surveys, sales demonstrations, or customer crew training, if the basic aircraft, before alteration, was type certificated in the normal, acrobatic, commuter, or transport category.
(c) A person who has altered the design of a type certificated aircraft may apply for an experimental certificate for the altered aircraft to be used for market surveys, sales demonstrations, or customer crew training if the basic aircraft, before alteration, was type certificated in the normal, utility, acrobatic, or transport category.
(d) An applicant for an experimental certificate under this section is entitled to that certificate if, in addition to meeting the requirements of § 21.193—
(1) He has established an inspection and maintenance program for the continued airworthiness of the aircraft; and
(2) The applicant shows that the aircraft has been flown for at least 50 hours, or for at least 5 hours if it is a type certificated aircraft which has been modified. The FAA may reduce these operational requirements if the applicant provides adequate justification.
[Amdt. 21-21, 33 FR 6858, May 7, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 21-28, 35 FR 2818, Feb. 11, 1970; Amdt. 21-57, 49 FR 39651, Oct. 9, 1984; Amdt. 21-59, 52 FR 1836, Jan. 15, 1987; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53389, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.197
Special flight permits.
(a) A special flight permit may be issued for an aircraft that may not currently meet applicable airworthiness requirements but is capable of safe flight, for the following purposes:
(1) Flying the aircraft to a base where repairs, alterations, or maintenance are to be performed, or to a point of storage.
(2) Delivering or exporting the aircraft.
(3) Production flight testing new production aircraft.
(4) Evacuating aircraft from areas of impending danger.
(5) Conducting customer demonstration flights in new production aircraft that have satisfactorily completed production flight tests.
(b) A special flight permit may also be issued to authorize the operation of an aircraft at a weight in excess of its maximum certificated takeoff weight for flight beyond the normal range over water, or over land areas where adequate landing facilities or appropriate fuel is not available. The excess weight that may be authorized under this paragraph is limited to the additional fuel, fuel-carrying facilities, and navigation equipment necessary for the flight.
(c) Upon application, as prescribed in §§ 91.1017 or 119.51 of this chapter, a special flight permit with a continuing authorization may be issued for aircraft that may not meet applicable airworthiness requirements, but are capable of safe flight for the purpose of flying aircraft to a base where maintenance or alterations are to be performed. The permit issued under this paragraph is an authorization, including conditions and limitations for flight, which is set forth in the certificate holder's operations specifications. The permit issued under this paragraph may be issued to—
(1) Certificate holders authorized to conduct operations under part 119 of this chapter, that have an approved program for continuing flight authorization; or
(2) Management specification holders authorized to conduct operations under part 91, subpart K of this chapter for those aircraft they operate and maintain under a continuous airworthiness maintenance program prescribed by § 91.1411 of this chapter.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14570, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-21, 33 FR 6859, May 7, 1968; Amdt. 21-51, 45 FR 60170, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 21-54, 46 FR 37878, July 23, 1981; Amdt. 21-79, 66 FR 21066, Apr. 27, 2001; Amdt. 21-84, 68 FR 54559, Sept. 17, 2003; Amdt. 21-87, 71 FR 536, Jan. 4, 2006; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53389, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.199
Issue of special flight permits.
(a) Except as provided in § 21.197(c), an applicant for a special flight permit
must submit a statement in a form and manner prescribed by the FAA, indicating—
(1) The purpose of the flight.
(2) The proposed itinerary.
(3) The crew required to operate the aircraft and its equipment, e.g., pilot, co-pilot, navigator, etc.
(4) The ways, if any, in which the aircraft does not comply with the applicable airworthiness requirements.
(5) Any restriction the applicant considers necessary for safe operation of the aircraft.
(6) Any other information considered necessary by the FAA for the purpose of prescribing operating limitations.
(b) The FAA may make, or require the applicant to make appropriate inspections or tests necessary for safety.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14570, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-21, 33 FR 6859, May 7, 1968; Amdt. 21-22, 33 FR 11901, Aug. 22, 1968]

# Subpart I—Provisional Airworthiness Certificates

# Source:
Docket No. 5085, 29 FR 14571, Oct. 24, 1964, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.211
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes procedural requirements for the issue of provisional airworthiness certificates.
§ 21.213
Eligibility.
(a) A manufacturer who is a United States citizen may apply for a Class I or Class II provisional airworthiness certificate for aircraft manufactured by him within the U.S.
(b) Any holder of an air carrier operating certificate under Part 121 of this chapter who is a United States citizen may apply for a Class II provisional airworthiness certificate for transport category aircraft that meet either of the following:
(1) The aircraft has a current Class II provisional type certificate or an amendment thereto.
(2) The aircraft has a current provisional amendment to a type certificate that was preceded by a corresponding Class II provisional type certificate.
(c) An aircraft engine manufacturer who is a United States citizen and who has altered a type certificated aircraft by installing different type certificated engines, manufactured by him within the United States, may apply for a Class I provisional airworthiness certificate for that aircraft, if the basic aircraft, before alteration, was type certificated in the normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, or transport category.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14571, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-59, 52 FR 1836, Jan. 15, 1987; Amdt. 21-79, 66 FR 21066, Apr. 27, 2001]
§ 21.215
Application.
Applications for provisional airworthiness certificates must be submitted to the FAA. The application must be accompanied by the pertinent information specified in this subpart.
[Amdt. 21-67, 54 FR 39291, Sept. 25, 1989; 54 FR 52872, Dec. 22, 1989; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 21.217
Duration.
Unless sooner surrendered, superseded, revoked, or otherwise terminated, provisional airworthiness certificates are effective for the duration of the corresponding provisional type certificate, amendment to a provisional type certificate, or provisional amendment to the type certificate.
§ 21.219
Transferability.
Class I provisional airworthiness certificates are not transferable. Class II provisional airworthiness certificates may be transferred to an air carrier eligible to apply for a certificate under § 21.213(b).
§ 21.221
Class I provisional airworthiness certificates.
(a) Except as provided in § 21.225, an applicant is entitled to a Class I provisional airworthiness certificate for an aircraft for which a Class I provisional type certificate has been issued if—
(1) He meets the eligibility requirements of § 21.213 and he complies with this section; and
(2) The FAA finds that there is no feature, characteristic or condition of the aircraft that would make the aircraft unsafe when operated in accordance with the limitations established in §§ 21.81(e) and 91.317 of this subchapter.
(b) The manufacturer must hold a provisional type certificate for the aircraft.
(c) The manufacturer must submit a statement that the aircraft conforms to the type design corresponding to the provisional type certificate and has been found by him to be in safe operating condition under all applicable limitations.
(d) The aircraft must be flown at least five hours by the manufacturer.
(e) The aircraft must be supplied with a provisional aircraft flight manual or other document and appropriate placards containing the limitations established by §§ 21.81(e) and 91.317.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14571, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-66, 54 FR 34329, Aug. 18, 1989]
§ 21.223
Class II provisional airworthiness certificates.
(a) Except as provided in § 21.225, an applicant is entitled to a Class II provisional airworthiness certificate for an aircraft for which a Class II provisional type certificate has been issued if—
(1) He meets the eligibility requirements of § 21.213 and he complies with this section; and
(2) The FAA finds that there is no feature, characteristic, or condition of the aircraft that would make the aircraft unsafe when operated in accordance with the limitations established in §§ 21.83(h), 91.317, and 121.207 of this chapter.
(b) The applicant must show that a Class II provisional type certificate for the aircraft has been issued to the manufacturer.
(c) The applicant must submit a statement by the manufacturer that the aircraft has been manufactured under a quality system adequate to ensure that the aircraft conforms to the type design corresponding with the provisional type certificate.
(d) The applicant must submit a statement that the aircraft has been found by him to be in a safe operating condition under the applicable limitations.
(e) The aircraft must be flown at least five hours by the manufacturer.
(f) The aircraft must be supplied with a provisional aircraft flight manual containing the limitations established by §§ 21.83(h), 91.317, and 121.207 of this chapter.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14571, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-12, 31 FR 13389, Oct. 15, 1966; Amdt. 21-66, 54 FR 34329, Aug. 18, 1989; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53390, Oct. 16, 2009]
§ 21.225
Provisional airworthiness certificates corresponding with provisional amendments to type certificates.
(a) An applicant is entitled to a Class I or a Class II provisional airworthiness certificate, for an aircraft, for which a provisional amendment to the type certificate has been issued, if—
(1) He meets the eligibility requirements of § 21.213 and he complies with this section; and
(2) The FAA finds that there is no feature, characteristic, or condition of the aircraft, as modified in accordance with the provisionally amended type certificate, that would make the aircraft unsafe when operated in accordance with the applicable limitations established in §§ 21.85(g), 91.317, and 121.207 of this chapter.
(b) The applicant must show that the modification was made under a quality system adequate to ensure that the modification conforms to the provisionally amended type certificate.
(c) The applicant must submit a statement that the aircraft has been found by him to be in a safe operating condition under the applicable limitations.
(d) The aircraft must be flown at least five hours by the manufacturer.
(e) The aircraft must be supplied with a provisional aircraft flight manual or other document and appropriate placards containing the limitations required by §§ 21.85(g), 91.317, and 121.207 of this chapter.
[Doc. No. 5085, 29 FR 14571, Oct. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 21-12, 31 FR 13389, Oct. 15, 1966; Amdt. 21-66, 54 FR 34329, Aug. 18, 1989; Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53390, Oct. 16, 2009]
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Parts Manufacturer Approvals

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53390, Oct. 16, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.301
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes—
(a) Procedural requirements for issuing PMAs; and
(b) Rules governing holders of PMAs.
§ 21.303
Application.
(a) The applicant for a PMA must apply in a form and manner prescribed by the FAA, and include the following:
(1) The identity of the product on which the article is to be installed.
(2) The name and address of the manufacturing facilities at which these articles are to be manufactured.
(3) The design of the article, which consists of—
(i) Drawings and specifications necessary to show the configuration of the article; and
(ii) Information on dimensions, materials, and processes necessary to define the structural strength of the article.
(4) Test reports and computations necessary to show that the design of the article meets the airworthiness requirements of this subchapter. The test reports and computations must be applicable to the product on which the article is to be installed, unless the applicant shows that the design of the article is identical to the design of a article that is covered under a type certificate. If the design of the article was obtained by a licensing agreement, the applicant must provide evidence of that agreement.
(5) An applicant for a PMA based on test reports and computations must provide a statement certifying that the applicant has complied with the airworthiness requirements of this subchapter.
(b) Each applicant for a PMA must make all inspections and tests necessary to determine—
(1) Compliance with the applicable airworthiness requirements;
(2) That materials conform to the specifications in the design;
(3) That the article conforms to its approved design; and
(4) That the manufacturing processes, construction, and assembly conform to those specified in the design.
§ 21.305
Organization.
(a) Each applicant for or holder of a PMA must provide the FAA with a document—
(1) Describing how its organization will ensure compliance with the provisions of this subpart;
(2) Describing assigned responsibilities, delegated authorities, and the functional relationship of those responsible for quality to management and other organizational components; and
(3) Identifying an accountable manager.
(b) The accountable manager specified in paragraph (a) of this section must be responsible within the applicant's or production approval holder's organization for, and have authority over, all production operations conducted under this part. The accountable manager must confirm that the procedures described in the quality manual required by § 21.308 are in place and that the production approval holder satisfies the requirements of the applicable regulations of subchapter C, Aircraft. The accountable manager must serve as the primary contact with the FAA.
[Doc. No. FAA-2013-0933, Amdt. 21-98, 80 FR 59031, Oct. 1, 2015]
§ 21.307
Quality system.
Each applicant for or holder of a PMA must establish a quality system that meets the requirements of § 21.137.
§ 21.308
Quality manual.
Each applicant for or holder of a PMA must provide a manual describing its quality system to the FAA for approval. The manual must be in the English language and retrievable in a form acceptable to the FAA.
§ 21.309
Location of or change to manufacturing facilities.
(a) An applicant may obtain a PMA for manufacturing facilities located outside of the United States if the FAA finds no undue burden in administering the applicable requirements of Title 49 U.S.C. and this subchapter.
(b) The PMA holder must obtain FAA approval before making any changes to the location of any of its manufacturing facilities.
(c) The PMA holder must immediately notify the FAA, in writing, of any change to the manufacturing facilities that may affect the inspection, conformity, or airworthiness of its PMA article.
§ 21.310
Inspections and tests.
(a) Each applicant for or holder of a PMA must allow the FAA to inspect its quality system, facilities, technical data, and any manufactured articles and witness any tests, including any inspections or tests at a supplier facility, necessary to determine compliance with this subchapter.
(b) Unless otherwise authorized by the FAA, the applicant or holder—
(1) May not present any article to the FAA for an inspection or test unless compliance with § 21.303(b)(2) through (4) has been shown for that article; and
(2) May not make any change to an article between the time that compliance with § 21.303(b)(2) through (4) is shown for that article and the time that the article is presented to the FAA for the inspection or test.
§ 21.311
Issuance.
The FAA issues a PMA after finding that the applicant complies with the requirements of this subpart and the design complies with the requirements of this chapter applicable to the product on which the article is to be installed.
§ 21.313
Duration.
A PMA is effective until surrendered, withdrawn, or the FAA otherwise terminates it.
§ 21.314
Transferability.
The holder of a PMA may not transfer the PMA.
§ 21.316
Responsibility of holder.
Each holder of a PMA must—
(a) Amend the document required by § 21.305 as necessary to reflect changes in the organization and provide these amendments to the FAA;
(b) Maintain the quality system in compliance with the data and procedures approved for the PMA;
(c) Ensure that each PMA article conforms to its approved design and is in a condition for safe operation;
(d) Mark the PMA article for which an approval has been issued. Marking must be in accordance with part 45 of this chapter, including any critical parts;
(e) Identify any portion of the PMA article (
e.g.,
sub-assemblies, component parts, or replacement articles) that leave the manufacturer's facility as FAA approved with the manufacturer's part number and name, trademark, symbol, or other FAA approved manufacturer's identification;
(f) Have access to design data necessary to determine conformity and airworthiness for each article produced under the PMA;
(g) Retain each document granting PMA and make it available to the FAA upon request; and
(h) Make available to the FAA information regarding all delegation of authority to suppliers.
§ 21.319
Design changes.
(a)
Classification of design changes.
(1) A “minor change” to the design of an article produced under a PMA is one that has no appreciable effect on the approval basis.
(2) A “major change” to the design of an article produced under a PMA is any change that is not minor.
(b)
Approval of design changes.
(1) Minor changes to the basic design of a PMA may be approved using a method acceptable to the FAA.
(2) The PMA holder must obtain FAA approval of any major change before including it in the design of an article produced under a PMA.
§ 21.320
Changes in quality system.
After the issuance of a PMA—
(a) Each change to the quality system is subject to review by the FAA; and
(b) The holder of the PMA must immediately notify the FAA, in writing, of any change that may affect the inspection, conformity, or airworthiness of its article.

# Subpart L—Export Airworthiness Approvals

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53391, Oct. 16, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.321
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes—
(a) Procedural requirements for issuing export airworthiness approvals; and
(b) Rules governing the holders of those approvals.
§ 21.325
Export airworthiness approvals.
(a) An export airworthiness approval for an aircraft is issued in the form of an export certificate of airworthiness. This certificate does not authorize operation of that aircraft.
(b) The FAA prescribes the form and manner in which an export airworthiness approval for an aircraft engine, propeller, or article is issued.
(c) If the FAA finds no undue burden in administering the applicable requirements of Title 49 U.S.C. and this subchapter, an export airworthiness approval may be issued for a product or article located outside of the United States.
§ 21.327
Application.
Any person may apply for an export airworthiness approval. Each applicant must apply in a form and manner prescribed by the FAA.
§ 21.329
Issuance of export certificates of airworthiness.
(a) A person may obtain from the FAA an export certificate of airworthiness for an aircraft if—
(1) A new or used aircraft manufactured under subpart F or G of this part meets the airworthiness requirements under subpart H of this part for a—
(i) Standard airworthiness certificate; or
(ii) Special airworthiness certificate in either the “primary” or the “restricted” category; or
(2) A new or used aircraft not manufactured under subpart F or G of this part has a valid—
(i) Standard airworthiness certificate; or
(ii) Special airworthiness certificate in either the “primary” or the “restricted” category.
(b) An aircraft need not meet a requirement specified in paragraph (a) of this section, as applicable, if—
(1) The importing country or jurisdiction accepts, in a form and manner acceptable to the FAA, a deviation from that requirement; and
(2) The export certificate of airworthiness lists as an exception any difference between the aircraft to be exported and its type design.
§ 21.331
Issuance of export airworthiness approvals for aircraft engines, propellers, and articles.
(a) A person may obtain from the FAA an export airworthiness approval to export a new aircraft engine, propeller, or article that is manufactured under this part if it conforms to its approved design and is in a condition for safe operation.
(b) A new aircraft engine, propeller, or article need not meet a requirement of paragraph (a) of this section if—
(1) The importing country or jurisdiction accepts, in a form and manner acceptable to the FAA, a deviation from that requirement; and
(2) The export airworthiness approval lists as an exception any difference between the aircraft engine, propeller, or article to be exported and its approved design.
(c) A person may obtain from the FAA an export airworthiness approval to export a used aircraft engine, propeller, or article if it conforms to its approved design and is in a condition for safe operation.
(d) A used aircraft engine or propeller need not meet a requirement of paragraph (c) of this section if—
(1) The importing country or jurisdiction accepts, in a form and manner acceptable to the FAA, a deviation from that requirement; and
(2) The export airworthiness approval lists as an exception any difference between the used aircraft engine or propeller to be exported and its approved design.
§ 21.335
Responsibilities of exporters.
Unless otherwise agreed to by the importing country or jurisdiction, each exporter must—
(a) Forward to the importing country or jurisdiction all documents specified by that country or jurisdiction;
(b) Preserve and package products and articles as necessary to protect
them against corrosion and damage during transit or storage and state the duration of effectiveness of such preservation and packaging;
(c) Remove or cause to be removed any temporary installation incorporated on an aircraft for the purpose of export delivery and restore the aircraft to the approved configuration upon completion of the delivery flight;
(d) Secure all proper foreign entry clearances from all the countries or jurisdictions involved when conducting sales demonstrations or delivery flights; and
(e) When title to an aircraft passes or has passed to a foreign purchaser—
(1) Request cancellation of the U.S. registration and airworthiness certificates from the FAA, giving the date of transfer of title, and the name and address of the foreign owner;
(2) Return the Registration and Airworthiness Certificates to the FAA; and
(3) Provide a statement to the FAA certifying that the U.S. identification and registration numbers have been removed from the aircraft in compliance with § 45.33.
Subpart M [Reserved]

# Subpart N—Acceptance of Aircraft Engines, Propellers, and Articles for Import

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2006-25877, 74 FR 53392, Amdt. 21-92, Oct. 16, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.500
Acceptance of aircraft engines and propellers.
An aircraft engine or propeller manufactured in a foreign country or jurisdiction meets the requirements for acceptance under this subchapter if—
(a) That country or jurisdiction is subject to the provisions of an agreement with the United States for the acceptance of that product;
(b) That product is marked in accordance with part 45 of this chapter; and
(c) The holder or licensee of a U.S. type certificate for that product furnishes with each such aircraft engine or propeller imported into the United States, an export airworthiness approval issued in accordance with the provisions of that agreement certifying that the individual aircraft engine or propeller—
(1) Conforms to its U.S. type certificate and is in condition for safe operation; and
(2) Has been subjected by the manufacturer to a final operational check.
§ 21.502
Acceptance of articles.
An article (including an article produced under a letter of TSO design approval) manufactured in a foreign country or jurisdiction meets the requirements for acceptance under this subchapter if—
(a) That country or jurisdiction is subject to the provisions of an agreement with the United States for the acceptance of that article;
(b) That article is marked in accordance with part 45 of this chapter; and
(c) An export airworthiness approval has been issued in accordance with the provisions of that agreement for that article for import into the United States.

# Subpart O—Technical Standard Order Approvals

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53392, Oct. 16, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.601
Applicability and definitions.
(a) This subpart prescribes—
(1) Procedural requirements for issuing TSO authorizations;
(2) Rules governing the holders of TSO authorizations; and
(3) Procedural requirements for issuing letters of TSO design approval.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart—
(1) A TSO issued by the FAA is a minimum performance standard for specified articles used on civil aircraft;
(2) A TSO authorization is an FAA design and production approval issued to the manufacturer of an article that has been found to meet a specific TSO;
(3) A letter of TSO design approval is an FAA design approval for an article that has been found to meet a specific TSO in accordance with the procedures of § 21.621;
(4) An article manufactured under a TSO authorization, an FAA letter of acceptance as described in § 21.613(b), or
an article manufactured under a letter of TSO design approval described in § 21.621 is an approved article for the purpose of meeting the regulations of this chapter that require the article to be approved; and
(5) An article manufacturer is the person who controls the design and quality of the article produced (or to be produced, in the case of an application), including any related parts, processes, or services procured from an outside source.
§ 21.603
Application.
(a) An applicant for a TSO authorization must apply in the form and manner prescribed by the FAA. The applicant must include the following documents in the application:
(1) A statement of conformance certifying that the applicant has met the requirements of this subpart and that the article concerned meets the applicable TSO that is effective on the date of application for that article.
(2) One copy of the technical data required in the applicable TSO.
(b) If the applicant anticipates a series of minor changes in accordance with § 21.619, the applicant may set forth in its application the basic model number of the article and the part number of the components with open brackets after it to denote that suffix change letters or numbers (or combinations of them) will be added from time to time.
(c) If the application is deficient, the applicant must, when requested by the FAA, provide any additional information necessary to show compliance with this part. If the applicant fails to provide the additional information within 30 days after the FAA's request, the FAA denies the application and notifies the applicant.
[Docket No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53392, Oct. 16, 2009, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 21.605
Organization.
(a) Each applicant for or holder of a TSO authorization must provide the FAA with a document—
(1) Describing how its organization will ensure compliance with the provisions of this subpart;
(2) Describing assigned responsibilities, delegated authorities, and the functional relationship of those responsible for quality to management and other organizational components; and
(3) Identifying an accountable manager.
(b) The accountable manager specified in paragraph (a) of this section must be responsible within the applicant's or production approval holder's organization for, and have authority over, all production operations conducted under this part. The accountable manager must confirm that the procedures described in the quality manual required by § 21.608 are in place and that the production approval holder satisfies the requirements of the applicable regulations of subchapter C, Aircraft. The accountable manager must serve as the primary contact with the FAA.
[Doc. No. FAA-2013-0933, Amdt. 21-98, 80 FR 59032, Oct. 1, 2015]
§ 21.607
Quality system.
Each applicant for or holder of a TSO authorization must establish a quality system that meets the requirements of § 21.137.
§ 21.608
Quality manual.
Each applicant for or holder of a TSO authorization must provide a manual describing its quality system to the FAA for approval. The manual must be in the English language and retrievable in a form acceptable to the FAA.
§ 21.609
Location of or change to manufacturing facilities.
(a) An applicant may obtain a TSO authorization for manufacturing facilities located outside of the United States if the FAA finds no undue burden in administering the applicable requirements of Title 49 U.S.C. and this subchapter.
(b) The TSO authorization holder must obtain FAA approval before making any changes to the location of any of its manufacturing facilities.
(c) The TSO authorization holder must immediately notify the FAA, in writing, of any change to the manufacturing facilities that may affect the inspection, conformity, or airworthiness of its product or article.
§ 21.610
Inspections and tests.
Each applicant for or holder of a TSO authorization must allow the FAA to inspect its quality system, facilities, technical data, and any manufactured articles and witness any tests, including any inspections or tests at a supplier facility, necessary to determine compliance with this subchapter.
§ 21.611
Issuance.
If the FAA finds that the applicant complies with the requirements of this subchapter, the FAA issues a TSO authorization to the applicant (including all TSO deviations granted to the applicant).
§ 21.613
Duration.
(a) A TSO authorization or letter of TSO design approval is effective until surrendered, withdrawn, or otherwise terminated by the FAA.
(b) If a TSO is revised or canceled, the holder of an affected FAA letter of acceptance of a statement of conformance, TSO authorization, or letter of TSO design approval may continue to manufacture articles that meet the original TSO without obtaining a new acceptance, authorization, or approval but must comply with the requirements of this chapter.
§ 21.614
Transferability.
The holder of a TSO authorization or letter of TSO design approval may not transfer the TSO authorization or letter of TSO design approval.
§ 21.616
Responsibility of holder.
Each holder of a TSO authorization must—
(a) Amend the document required by § 21.605 as necessary to reflect changes in the organization and provide these amendments to the FAA.
(b) Maintain a quality system in compliance with the data and procedures approved for the TSO authorization;
(c) Ensure that each manufactured article conforms to its approved design, is in a condition for safe operation, and meets the applicable TSO;
(d) Mark the TSO article for which an approval has been issued. Marking must be in accordance with part 45 of this chapter, including any critical parts;
(e) Identify any portion of the TSO article (e.g., sub-assemblies, component parts, or replacement articles) that leave the manufacturer's facility as FAA approved with the manufacturer's part number and name, trademark, symbol, or other FAA approved manufacturer's identification;
(f) Have access to design data necessary to determine conformity and airworthiness for each article produced under the TSO authorization. The manufacturer must retain this data until it no longer manufactures the article. At that time, copies of the data must be sent to the FAA;
(g) Retain its TSO authorization and make it available to the FAA upon request; and
(h) Make available to the FAA information regarding all delegation of authority to suppliers.
§ 21.618
Approval for deviation.
(a) Each manufacturer who requests approval to deviate from any performance standard of a TSO must show that factors or design features providing an equivalent level of safety compensate for the standards from which a deviation is requested.
(b) The manufacturer must send requests for approval to deviate, together with all pertinent data, to the FAA. If the article is manufactured under the authority of a foreign country or jurisdiction, the manufacturer must send requests for approval to deviate, together with all pertinent data, through the civil aviation authority of that country or jurisdiction to the FAA.
[Docket No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53392, Oct. 16, 2009, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 21.619
Design changes.
(a)
Minor changes by the manufacturer holding a TSO authorization.
The manufacturer of an article under an authorization issued under this part may make minor design changes (any change other than a major change) without further approval by the FAA. In this case, the changed article keeps the original model number (part numbers may be used to identify minor
changes) and the manufacturer must forward to the FAA, any revised data that are necessary for compliance with § 21.603(a).
(b)
Major changes by the manufacturer holding a TSO authorization.
Any design change by the manufacturer extensive enough to require a substantially complete investigation to determine compliance with a TSO is a major change. Before making a major change, the manufacturer must assign a new type or model designation to the article and apply for an authorization under § 21.603.
(c)
Changes by persons other than the manufacturer.
No design change by any person (other than the manufacturer who provided the statement of conformance for the article) is eligible for approval under this part unless the person seeking the approval is a manufacturer and applies under § 21.603(a) for a separate TSO authorization. Persons other than a manufacturer may obtain approval for design changes under part 43 or under the applicable airworthiness regulations of this chapter.
[Docket No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53392, Oct. 16, 2009, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018; Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 21-106, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 21.620
Changes in quality system.
After the issuance of a TSO authorization—
(a) Each change to the quality system is subject to review by the FAA; and
(b) The holder of the TSO authorization must immediately notify the FAA, in writing, of any change that may affect the inspection, conformity, or airworthiness of its article.
§ 21.621
Issue of letters of TSO design approval: Import articles.
(a) The FAA may issue a letter of TSO design approval for an article—
(1) Designed and manufactured in a foreign country or jurisdiction subject to the export provisions of an agreement with the United States for the acceptance of these articles for import; and
(2) For import into the United States if—
(i) The State of Design certifies that the article has been examined, tested, and found to meet the applicable TSO or the applicable performance standards of the State of Design and any other performance standards the FAA may prescribe to provide a level of safety equivalent to that provided by the TSO; and
(ii) The manufacturer has provided to the FAA one copy of the technical data required in the applicable performance standard through its State of Design.
(b) The FAA issues the letter of TSO design approval that lists any deviation granted under § 21.618.
[Doc. No. FAA-2006-25877, Amdt. 21-92, 74 FR 53392, Oct. 16, 2009, as amended by Amdt. 21-92A, 75 FR 9095, Mar. 1, 2010]

# Subpart P—Special Federal Aviation Regulations

# Source:
Docket No. FAA-2011-0186, Amdt. 21-92, 76 FR 12555, Mar. 8, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.700
SFAR No. 111—Lavatory Oxygen Systems.
The requirements of § 121.1500 of this chapter also apply to this part.
Pt. 23

# PART 23—AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: NORMAL CATEGORY AIRPLANES
Sec.
23.1457
Cockpit voice recorders.
23.1459
Flight data recorders.
23.1529
Instructions for continued airworthiness.

# Subpart A—General
23.2000
Applicability and definitions.
23.2005
Certification of normal category airplanes.
23.2010
Accepted means of compliance.

# Subpart B—Flight

# Performance
23.2100
Weight and center of gravity.
23.2105
Performance data.
23.2110
Stall speed.
23.2115
Takeoff performance.
23.2120
Climb requirements.
23.2125
Climb information.
23.2130
Landing.

# Flight Characteristics
23.2135
Controllability.
23.2140
Trim.
23.2145
Stability.
23.2150
Stall characteristics, stall warning, and spins.
23.2155
Ground and water handling characteristics.
23.2160
Vibration, buffeting, and high-speed characteristics.
23.2165
Performance and flight characteristics requirements for flight in icing conditions.

# Subpart C—Structures
23.2200
Structural design envelope.
23.2205
Interaction of systems and structures.

# Structural Loads
23.2210
Structural design loads.
23.2215
Flight load conditions.
23.2220
Ground and water load conditions.
23.2225
Component loading conditions.
23.2230
Limit and ultimate loads.

# Structural Performance
23.2235
Structural strength.
23.2240
Structural durability.
23.2245
Aeroelasticity.

# Design
23.2250
Design and construction principles.
23.2255
Protection of structure.
23.2260
Materials and processes.
23.2265
Special factors of safety.

# Structural Occupant Protection
23.2270
Emergency conditions.

# Subpart D—Design and Construction
23.2300
Flight control systems.
23.2305
Landing gear systems.
23.2310
Buoyancy for seaplanes and amphibians.

# Occupant System Design Protection
23.2315
Means of egress and emergency exits.
23.2320
Occupant physical environment.

# Fire and High Energy Protection
23.2325
Fire protection.
23.2330
Fire protection in designated fire zones and adjacent areas.
23.2335
Lightning protection.

# Subpart E—Powerplant
23.2400
Powerplant installation.
23.2405
Automatic power or thrust control systems.
23.2410
Powerplant installation hazard assessment.
23.2415
Powerplant ice protection.
23.2420
Reversing systems.
23.2425
Powerplant operational characteristics.
23.2430
Fuel system.
23.2435
Powerplant induction and exhaust systems.
23.2440
Powerplant fire protection.

# Subpart F—Equipment
23.2500
Airplane level systems requirements.
23.2505
Function and installation.
23.2510
Equipment, systems, and installations.
23.2515
Electrical and electronic system lightning protection.
23.2520
High-intensity Radiated Fields (HIRF) protection.
23.2525
System power generation, storage, and distribution.
23.2530
External and cockpit lighting.
23.2535
Safety equipment.
23.2540
Flight in icing conditions.
23.2545
Pressurized system elements.
23.2550
Equipment containing high-energy rotors.

# Subpart G—Flightcrew Interface and Other Information
23.2600
Flightcrew interface.
23.2605
Installation and operation.
23.2610
Instrument markings, control markings, and placards.
23.2615
Flight, navigation, and powerplant instruments.
23.2620
Airplane flight manual.
Appendix A to Part 23—Instructions for Continued Airworthiness

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 106(g), 40113, 44701-44702, 44704, Pub. L. 113-53, 127 Stat. 584 (49 U.S.C. 44704) note.

# Source:
Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 23.1457
Cockpit voice recorders.
(a) Each cockpit voice recorder required by the operating rules of this chapter must be approved and must be installed so that it will record the following:
(1) Voice communications transmitted from or received in the airplane by radio.
(2) Voice communications of flightcrew members on the flight deck.
(3) Voice communications of flightcrew members on the flight deck, using the airplane's interphone system.
(4) Voice or audio signals identifying navigation or approach aids introduced into a headset or speaker.
(5) Voice communications of flightcrew members using the passenger loudspeaker system, if there is such a system and if the fourth channel is available in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section.
(6) If datalink communication equipment is installed, all datalink communications, using an approved data message set. Datalink messages must be recorded as the output signal from the communications unit that translates the signal into usable data.
(b) The recording requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section must be met by installing a cockpit-mounted area microphone, located in the best position for recording voice communications originating at the first and second pilot stations and voice communications of other crewmembers on the flight deck when directed to those stations. The microphone must be so located and, if necessary, the preamplifiers and filters of the recorder must be so adjusted or supplemented, so that the intelligibility of the recorded communications is as high as practicable when recorded under flight cockpit noise conditions and played back. Repeated aural or visual playback of the record may be used in evaluating intelligibility.
(c) Each cockpit voice recorder must be installed so that the part of the communication or audio signals specified in paragraph (a) of this section obtained from each of the following sources is recorded on a separate channel:
(1) For the first channel, from each boom, mask, or handheld microphone, headset, or speaker used at the first pilot station.
(2) For the second channel from each boom, mask, or handheld microphone, headset, or speaker used at the second pilot station.
(3) For the third channel—from the cockpit-mounted area microphone.
(4) For the fourth channel from:
(i) Each boom, mask, or handheld microphone, headset, or speaker used at the station for the third and fourth crewmembers.
(ii) If the stations specified in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section are not required or if the signal at such a station is picked up by another channel, each microphone on the flight deck that is used with the passenger loudspeaker system, if its signals are not picked up by another channel.
(5) And that as far as is practicable all sounds received by the microphone listed in paragraphs (c)(1), (2), and (4) of this section must be recorded without interruption irrespective of the position of the interphone-transmitter key switch. The design shall ensure that sidetone for the flightcrew is produced only when the interphone, public address system, or radio transmitters are in use.
(d) Each cockpit voice recorder must be installed so that:
(1)(i) It receives its electrical power from the bus that provides the maximum reliability for operation of the cockpit voice recorder without jeopardizing service to essential or emergency loads.
(ii) It remains powered for as long as possible without jeopardizing emergency operation of the airplane.
(2) There is an automatic means to simultaneously stop the recorder and prevent each erasure feature from functioning, within 10 minutes after crash impact.
(3) There is an aural or visual means for preflight checking of the recorder for proper operation.
(4) Any single electrical failure external to the recorder does not disable both the cockpit voice recorder and the flight data recorder.
(5) It has an independent power source—
(i) That provides 10 ±1 minutes of electrical power to operate both the cockpit voice recorder and cockpit-mounted area microphone;
(ii) That is located as close as practicable to the cockpit voice recorder; and
(iii) To which the cockpit voice recorder and cockpit-mounted area microphone are switched automatically in the event that all other power to the cockpit voice recorder is interrupted either by normal shutdown or by any other loss of power to the electrical power bus.
(6) It is in a separate container from the flight data recorder when both are required. If used to comply with only the cockpit voice recorder requirements, a combination unit may be installed.
(e) The recorder container must be located and mounted to minimize the probability of rupture of the container as a result of crash impact and consequent heat damage to the recorder from fire.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the recorder container must be located as far aft as practicable, but need not be outside of the pressurized compartment, and may not be located where aft-mounted engines may crush the container during impact.
(2) If two separate combination digital flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder units are installed instead of one cockpit voice recorder and one digital flight data recorder, the combination unit that is installed to comply with the cockpit voice recorder requirements may be located near the cockpit.
(f) If the cockpit voice recorder has a bulk erasure device, the installation must be designed to minimize the probability of inadvertent operation and actuation of the device during crash impact.
(g) Each recorder container must—
(1) Be either bright orange or bright yellow;
(2) Have reflective tape affixed to its external surface to facilitate its location under water; and
(3) Have an underwater locating device, when required by the operating rules of this chapter, on or adjacent to the container, which is secured in such manner that they are not likely to be separated during crash impact.
§ 23.1459
Flight data recorders.
(a) Each flight recorder required by the operating rules of this chapter must be installed so that—
(1) It is supplied with airspeed, altitude, and directional data obtained from sources that meet the aircraft level system requirements and the functionality specified in § 23.2500;
(2) The vertical acceleration sensor is rigidly attached, and located longitudinally either within the approved center of gravity limits of the airplane, or at a distance forward or aft of these limits that does not exceed 25 percent of the airplane's mean aerodynamic chord;
(3)(i) It receives its electrical power from the bus that provides the maximum reliability for operation of the flight data recorder without jeopardizing service to essential or emergency loads;
(ii) It remains powered for as long as possible without jeopardizing emergency operation of the airplane;
(4) There is an aural or visual means for preflight checking of the recorder for proper recording of data in the storage medium;
(5) Except for recorders powered solely by the engine-driven electrical generator system, there is an automatic means to simultaneously stop a recorder that has a data erasure feature and prevent each erasure feature from functioning, within 10 minutes after crash impact;
(6) Any single electrical failure external to the recorder does not disable both the cockpit voice recorder and the flight data recorder; and
(7) It is in a separate container from the cockpit voice recorder when both are required. If used to comply with only the flight data recorder requirements, a combination unit may be installed. If a combination unit is installed as a cockpit voice recorder to comply with § 23.1457(e)(2), a combination unit must be used to comply with this flight data recorder requirement.
(b) Each non-ejectable record container must be located and mounted so as to minimize the probability of container rupture resulting from crash impact and subsequent damage to the record from fire. In meeting this requirement, the record container must be located as far aft as practicable, but need not be aft of the pressurized compartment, and may not be where aft-mounted engines may crush the container upon impact.
(c) A correlation must be established between the flight recorder readings of airspeed, altitude, and heading and the corresponding readings (taking into account correction factors) of the first pilot's instruments. The correlation
must cover the airspeed range over which the airplane is to be operated, the range of altitude to which the airplane is limited, and 360 degrees of heading. Correlation may be established on the ground as appropriate.
(d) Each recorder container must—
(1) Be either bright orange or bright yellow;
(2) Have reflective tape affixed to its external surface to facilitate its location under water; and
(3) Have an underwater locating device, when required by the operating rules of this chapter, on or adjacent to the container, which is secured in such a manner that they are not likely to be separated during crash impact.
(e) Any novel or unique design or operational characteristics of the aircraft shall be evaluated to determine if any dedicated parameters must be recorded on flight recorders in addition to or in place of existing requirements.
§ 23.1529
Instructions for continued airworthiness.
The applicant must prepare Instructions for Continued Airworthiness, in accordance with appendix A of this part, that are acceptable to the Administrator. The instructions may be incomplete at type certification if a program exists to ensure their completion prior to delivery of the first airplane or issuance of a standard certificate of airworthiness, whichever occurs later.

# Subpart A—General
§ 23.2000
Applicability and definitions.
(a) This part prescribes airworthiness standards for the issuance of type certificates, and changes to those certificates, for airplanes in the normal category.
(b) For the purposes of this part, the following definition applies:
Continued safe flight and landing
means an airplane is capable of continued controlled flight and landing, possibly using emergency procedures, without requiring exceptional pilot skill or strength. Upon landing, some airplane damage may occur as a result of a failure condition.
§ 23.2005
Certification of normal category airplanes.
(a) Certification in the normal category applies to airplanes with a passenger-seating configuration of 19 or less and a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 19,000 pounds or less.
(b) Airplane certification levels are:
(1) Level 1—for airplanes with a maximum seating configuration of 0 to 1 passengers.
(2) Level 2—for airplanes with a maximum seating configuration of 2 to 6 passengers.
(3) Level 3—for airplanes with a maximum seating configuration of 7 to 9 passengers.
(4) Level 4—for airplanes with a maximum seating configuration of 10 to 19 passengers.
(c) Airplane performance levels are:
(1) Low speed—for airplanes with a V
NO
and V
MO
≤ 250 Knots Calibrated Airspeed (KCAS) and a M
MO
≤ 0.6.
(2) High speed—for airplanes with a V
NO
or V
MO
250 KCAS or a M
MO
0.6.
(d) Airplanes not certified for aerobatics may be used to perform any maneuver incident to normal flying, including—
(1) Stalls (except whip stalls); and
(2) Lazy eights, chandelles, and steep turns, in which the angle of bank is not more than 60 degrees.
(e) Airplanes certified for aerobatics may be used to perform maneuvers without limitations, other than those limitations established under subpart G of this part.
§ 23.2010
Accepted means of compliance.
(a) An applicant must comply with this part using a means of compliance, which may include consensus standards, accepted by the Administrator.
(b) An applicant requesting acceptance of a means of compliance must provide the means of compliance to the FAA in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator.

# Subpart B—Flight

# Performance
§ 23.2100
Weight and center of gravity.
(a) The applicant must determine limits for weights and centers of gravity that provide for the safe operation of the airplane.
(b) The applicant must comply with each requirement of this subpart at critical combinations of weight and center of gravity within the airplane's range of loading conditions using tolerances acceptable to the Administrator.
(c) The condition of the airplane at the time of determining its empty weight and center of gravity must be well defined and easily repeatable.
§ 23.2105
Performance data.
(a) Unless otherwise prescribed, an airplane must meet the performance requirements of this subpart in—
(1) Still air and standard atmospheric conditions at sea level for all airplanes; and
(2) Ambient atmospheric conditions within the operating envelope for levels 1 and 2 high-speed and levels 3 and 4 airplanes.
(b) Unless otherwise prescribed, the applicant must develop the performance data required by this subpart for the following conditions:
(1) Airport altitudes from sea level to 10,000 feet (3,048 meters); and
(2) Temperatures above and below standard day temperature that are within the range of operating limitations, if those temperatures could have a negative effect on performance.
(c) The procedures used for determining takeoff and landing distances must be executable consistently by pilots of average skill in atmospheric conditions expected to be encountered in service.
(d) Performance data determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section must account for losses due to atmospheric conditions, cooling needs, and other demands on power sources.
§ 23.2110
Stall speed.
The applicant must determine the airplane stall speed or the minimum steady flight speed for each flight configuration used in normal operations, including takeoff, climb, cruise, descent, approach, and landing. The stall speed or minimum steady flight speed determination must account for the most adverse conditions for each flight configuration with power set at—
(a) Idle or zero thrust for propulsion systems that are used primarily for thrust; and
(b) A nominal thrust for propulsion systems that are used for thrust, flight control, and/or high-lift systems.
§ 23.2115
Takeoff performance.
(a) The applicant must determine airplane takeoff performance accounting for—
(1) Stall speed safety margins;
(2) Minimum control speeds; and
(3) Climb gradients.
(b) For single engine airplanes and levels 1, 2, and 3 low-speed multiengine airplanes, takeoff performance includes the determination of ground roll and initial climb distance to 50 feet (15 meters) above the takeoff surface.
(c) For levels 1, 2, and 3 high-speed multiengine airplanes, and level 4 multiengine airplanes, takeoff performance includes a determination of the following distances after a sudden critical loss of thrust—
(1) An aborted takeoff at critical speed;
(2) Ground roll and initial climb to 35 feet (11 meters) above the takeoff surface; and
(3) Net takeoff flight path.
[Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 23-65, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 23.2120
Climb requirements.
The design must comply with the following minimum climb performance out of ground effect:
(a) With all engines operating and in the initial climb configuration(s)—
(1) For levels 1 and 2 low-speed airplanes, a climb gradient of 8.3 percent for landplanes and 6.7 percent for seaplanes and amphibians; and
(2) For levels 1 and 2 high-speed airplanes, all level 3 airplanes, and level 4 single-engines a climb gradient after takeoff of 4 percent.
(b) After a critical loss of thrust on multiengine airplanes—
(1) For levels 1 and 2 low-speed airplanes that do not meet single-engine crashworthiness requirements, a climb gradient of 1.5 percent at a pressure altitude of 5,000 feet (1,524 meters) in the cruise configuration(s);
(2) For levels 1 and 2 high-speed airplanes, and level 3 low-speed airplanes, a 1 percent climb gradient at 400 feet (122 meters) above the takeoff surface with the landing gear retracted and flaps in the takeoff configuration(s); and
(3) For level 3 high-speed airplanes and all level 4 airplanes, a 2 percent climb gradient at 400 feet (122 meters) above the takeoff surface with the landing gear retracted and flaps in the approach configuration(s).
(c) For a balked landing, a climb gradient of 3 percent without creating undue pilot workload with the landing gear extended and flaps in the landing configuration(s).
[Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 23-65, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 23.2125
Climb information.
(a) The applicant must determine climb performance at each weight, altitude, and ambient temperature within the operating limitations—
(1) For all single-engine airplanes;
(2) For levels 1 and 2 high-speed multiengine airplanes and level 3 multiengine airplanes, following a critical loss of thrust on takeoff in the initial climb configuration; and
(3) For all multiengine airplanes, during the enroute phase of flight with all engines operating and after a critical loss of thrust in the cruise configuration.
(b) The applicant must determine the glide performance for single-engine airplanes after a complete loss of thrust.
§ 23.2130
Landing.
The applicant must determine the following, for standard temperatures at critical combinations of weight and altitude within the operational limits:
(a) The distance, starting from a height of 50 feet (15 meters) above the landing surface, required to land and come to a stop.
(b) The approach and landing speeds, configurations, and procedures, which allow a pilot of average skill to land within the published landing distance consistently and without causing damage or injury, and which allow for a safe transition to the balked landing conditions of this part accounting for:
(1) Stall speed safety margin; and
(2) Minimum control speeds.

# Flight Characteristics
§ 23.2135
Controllability.
(a) The airplane must be controllable and maneuverable, without requiring exceptional piloting skill, alertness, or strength, within the operating envelope—
(1) At all loading conditions for which certification is requested;
(2) During all phases of flight;
(3) With likely reversible flight control or propulsion system failure; and
(4) During configuration changes.
(b) The airplane must be able to complete a landing without causing substantial damage or serious injury using the steepest approved approach gradient procedures and providing a reasonable margin below V
ref
or above approach angle of attack.
(c) V
MC
is the calibrated airspeed at which, following the sudden critical loss of thrust, it is possible to maintain control of the airplane. For multiengine airplanes, the applicant must determine V
MC,
if applicable, for the most critical configurations used in takeoff and landing operations.
(d) If the applicant requests certification of an airplane for aerobatics, the applicant must demonstrate those aerobatic maneuvers for which certification is requested and determine entry speeds.
§ 23.2140
Trim.
(a) The airplane must maintain lateral and directional trim without further force upon, or movement of, the primary flight controls or corresponding trim controls by the pilot, or the flight control system, under the following conditions:
(1) For levels 1, 2, and 3 airplanes in cruise.
(2) For level 4 airplanes in normal operations.
(b) The airplane must maintain longitudinal trim without further force upon, or movement of, the primary flight controls or corresponding trim controls by the pilot, or the flight control system, under the following conditions:
(1) Climb.
(2) Level flight.
(3) Descent.
(4) Approach.
(c) Residual control forces must not fatigue or distract the pilot during normal operations of the airplane and likely abnormal or emergency operations, including a critical loss of thrust on multiengine airplanes.
§ 23.2145
Stability.
(a) Airplanes not certified for aerobatics must—
(1) Have static longitudinal, lateral, and directional stability in normal operations;
(2) Have dynamic short period and Dutch roll stability in normal operations; and
(3) Provide stable control force feedback throughout the operating envelope.
(b) No airplane may exhibit any divergent longitudinal stability characteristic so unstable as to increase the pilot's workload or otherwise endanger the airplane and its occupants.
§ 23.2150
Stall characteristics, stall warning, and spins.
(a) The airplane must have controllable stall characteristics in straight flight, turning flight, and accelerated turning flight with a clear and distinctive stall warning that provides sufficient margin to prevent inadvertent stalling.
(b) Single-engine airplanes, not certified for aerobatics, must not have a tendency to inadvertently depart controlled flight.
(c) Levels 1 and 2 multiengine airplanes, not certified for aerobatics, must not have a tendency to inadvertently depart controlled flight from thrust asymmetry after a critical loss of thrust.
(d) Airplanes certified for aerobatics that include spins must have controllable stall characteristics and the ability to recover within one and one-half additional turns after initiation of the first control action from any point in a spin, not exceeding six turns or any greater number of turns for which certification is requested, while remaining within the operating limitations of the airplane.
(e) Spin characteristics in airplanes certified for aerobatics that includes spins must recover without exceeding limitations and may not result in unrecoverable spins—
(1) With any typical use of the flight or engine power controls; or
(2) Due to pilot disorientation or incapacitation.
§ 23.2155
Ground and water handling characteristics.
For airplanes intended for operation on land or water, the airplane must have controllable longitudinal and directional handling characteristics during taxi, takeoff, and landing operations.
§ 23.2160
Vibration, buffeting, and high-speed characteristics.
(a) Vibration and buffeting, for operations up to V
D
/M
D,
must not interfere with the control of the airplane or cause excessive fatigue to the flightcrew. Stall warning buffet within these limits is allowable.
(b) For high-speed airplanes and all airplanes with a maximum operating altitude greater than 25,000 feet (7,620 meters) pressure altitude, there must be no perceptible buffeting in cruise configuration at 1g and at any speed up to V
MO
/M
MO
, except stall buffeting.
(c) For high-speed airplanes, the applicant must determine the positive maneuvering load factors at which the onset of perceptible buffet occurs in the cruise configuration within the operational envelope. Likely inadvertent excursions beyond this boundary must not result in structural damage.
(d) High-speed airplanes must have recovery characteristics that do not result in structural damage or loss of control, beginning at any likely speed up to V
MO
/M
MO
, following—
(1) An inadvertent speed increase; and
(2) A high-speed trim upset for airplanes where dynamic pressure can impair the longitudinal trim system operation.
§ 23.2165
Performance and flight characteristics requirements for flight in icing conditions.
(a) An applicant who requests certification for flight in icing conditions defined in part 1 of appendix C to part 25 of this chapter, or an applicant who requests certification for flight in these icing conditions and any additional atmospheric icing conditions, must show the following in the icing conditions for which certification is requested under normal operation of the ice protection system(s):
(1) Compliance with each requirement of this subpart, except those applicable to spins and any that must be demonstrated at speeds in excess of—
(i) 250 KCAS;
(ii) V
MO
/M
MO
or V
NE
; or
(iii) A speed at which the applicant demonstrates the airframe will be free of ice accretion.
(2) The means by which stall warning is provided to the pilot for flight in icing conditions and non-icing conditions is the same.
(b) If an applicant requests certification for flight in icing conditions, the applicant must provide a means to detect any icing conditions for which certification is not requested and show the airplane's ability to avoid or exit those conditions.
(c) The applicant must develop an operating limitation to prohibit intentional flight, including takeoff and landing, into icing conditions for which the airplane is not certified to operate.
[Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 23-65, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]

# Subpart C—Structures
§ 23.2200
Structural design envelope.
The applicant must determine the structural design envelope, which describes the range and limits of airplane design and operational parameters for which the applicant will show compliance with the requirements of this subpart. The applicant must account for all airplane design and operational parameters that affect structural loads, strength, durability, and aeroelasticity, including:
(a) Structural design airspeeds, landing descent speeds, and any other airspeed limitation at which the applicant must show compliance to the requirements of this subpart. The structural design airspeeds must—
(1) Be sufficiently greater than the stalling speed of the airplane to safeguard against loss of control in turbulent air; and
(2) Provide sufficient margin for the establishment of practical operational limiting airspeeds.
(b) Design maneuvering load factors not less than those, which service history shows, may occur within the structural design envelope.
(c) Inertial properties including weight, center of gravity, and mass moments of inertia, accounting for—
(1) Each critical weight from the airplane empty weight to the maximum weight; and
(2) The weight and distribution of occupants, payload, and fuel.
(d) Characteristics of airplane control systems, including range of motion and tolerances for control surfaces, high-lift devices, or other moveable surfaces.
(e) Each critical altitude up to the maximum altitude.
[Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 23-65, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 23.2205
Interaction of systems and structures.
For airplanes equipped with systems that modify structural performance, alleviate the impact of this subpart's requirements, or provide a means of compliance with this subpart, the applicant must account for the influence and failure of these systems when showing compliance with the requirements of this subpart.

# Structural Loads
§ 23.2210
Structural design loads.
(a) The applicant must:
(1) Determine the applicable structural design loads resulting from likely
externally or internally applied pressures, forces, or moments that may occur in flight, ground and water operations, ground and water handling, and while the airplane is parked or moored.
(2) Determine the loads required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section at all critical combinations of parameters, on and within the boundaries of the structural design envelope.
(b) The magnitude and distribution of the applicable structural design loads required by this section must be based on physical principles.
§ 23.2215
Flight load conditions.
The applicant must determine the structural design loads resulting from the following flight conditions:
(a) Atmospheric gusts where the magnitude and gradient of these gusts are based on measured gust statistics.
(b) Symmetric and asymmetric maneuvers.
(c) Asymmetric thrust resulting from the failure of a powerplant unit.
§ 23.2220
Ground and water load conditions.
The applicant must determine the structural design loads resulting from taxi, takeoff, landing, and handling conditions on the applicable surface in normal and adverse attitudes and configurations.
§ 23.2225
Component loading conditions.
The applicant must determine the structural design loads acting on:
(a) Each engine mount and its supporting structure such that both are designed to withstand loads resulting from—
(1) Powerplant operation combined with flight gust and maneuver loads; and
(2) For non-reciprocating powerplants, sudden powerplant stoppage.
(b) Each flight control and high-lift surface, their associated system and supporting structure resulting from—
(1) The inertia of each surface and mass balance attachment;
(2) Flight gusts and maneuvers;
(3) Pilot or automated system inputs;
(4) System induced conditions, including jamming and friction; and
(5) Taxi, takeoff, and landing operations on the applicable surface, including downwind taxi and gusts occurring on the applicable surface.
(c) A pressurized cabin resulting from the pressurization differential—
(1) From zero up to the maximum relief pressure combined with gust and maneuver loads;
(2) From zero up to the maximum relief pressure combined with ground and water loads if the airplane may land with the cabin pressurized; and
(3) At the maximum relief pressure multiplied by 1.33, omitting all other loads.
§ 23.2230
Limit and ultimate loads.
The applicant must determine—
(a) The limit loads, which are equal to the structural design loads unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this part; and
(b) The ultimate loads, which are equal to the limit loads multiplied by a 1.5 factor of safety unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this part.

# Structural Performance
§ 23.2235
Structural strength.
The structure must support:
(a) Limit loads without—
(1) Interference with the safe operation of the airplane; and
(2) Detrimental permanent deformation.
(b) Ultimate loads.
§ 23.2240
Structural durability.
(a) The applicant must develop and implement inspections or other procedures to prevent structural failures due to foreseeable causes of strength degradation, which could result in serious or fatal injuries, or extended periods of operation with reduced safety margins. Each of the inspections or other procedures developed under this section must be included in the Airworthiness Limitations Section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness required by § 23.1529.
(b) For Level 4 airplanes, the procedures developed for compliance with paragraph (a) of this section must be capable of detecting structural damage before the damage could result in structural failure.
(c) For pressurized airplanes:
(1) The airplane must be capable of continued safe flight and landing following a sudden release of cabin pressure, including sudden releases caused by door and window failures.
(2) For airplanes with maximum operating altitude greater than 41,000 feet, the procedures developed for compliance with paragraph (a) of this section must be capable of detecting damage to the pressurized cabin structure before the damage could result in rapid decompression that would result in serious or fatal injuries.
(d) The airplane must be designed to minimize hazards to the airplane due to structural damage caused by high-energy fragments from an uncontained engine or rotating machinery failure.
§ 23.2245
Aeroelasticity.
(a) The airplane must be free from flutter, control reversal, and divergence—
(1) At all speeds within and sufficiently beyond the structural design envelope;
(2) For any configuration and condition of operation;
(3) Accounting for critical degrees of freedom; and
(4) Accounting for any critical failures or malfunctions.
(b) The applicant must establish tolerances for all quantities that affect flutter.

# Design
§ 23.2250
Design and construction principles.
(a) The applicant must design each part, article, and assembly for the expected operating conditions of the airplane.
(b) Design data must adequately define the part, article, or assembly configuration, its design features, and any materials and processes used.
(c) The applicant must determine the suitability of each design detail and part having an important bearing on safety in operations.
(d) The control system must be free from jamming, excessive friction, and excessive deflection when the airplane is subjected to expected limit airloads.
(e) Doors, canopies, and exits must be protected against inadvertent opening in flight, unless shown to create no hazard when opened in flight.
§ 23.2255
Protection of structure.
(a) The applicant must protect each part of the airplane, including small parts such as fasteners, against deterioration or loss of strength due to any cause likely to occur in the expected operational environment.
(b) Each part of the airplane must have adequate provisions for ventilation and drainage.
(c) For each part that requires maintenance, preventive maintenance, or servicing, the applicant must incorporate a means into the airplane design to allow such actions to be accomplished.
[Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 23-65, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 23.2260
Materials and processes.
(a) The applicant must determine the suitability and durability of materials used for parts, articles, and assemblies, accounting for the effects of likely environmental conditions expected in service, the failure of which could prevent continued safe flight and landing.
(b) The methods and processes of fabrication and assembly used must produce consistently sound structures. If a fabrication process requires close control to reach this objective, the applicant must perform the process under an approved process specification.
(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, the applicant must select design values that ensure material strength with probabilities that account for the criticality of the structural element. Design values must account for the probability of structural failure due to material variability.
(d) If material strength properties are required, a determination of those properties must be based on sufficient tests of material meeting specifications to establish design values on a statistical basis.
(e) If thermal effects are significant on a critical component or structure under normal operating conditions, the
applicant must determine those effects on allowable stresses used for design.
(f) Design values, greater than the minimums specified by this section, may be used, where only guaranteed minimum values are normally allowed, if a specimen of each individual item is tested before use to determine that the actual strength properties of that particular item will equal or exceed those used in the design.
(g) An applicant may use other material design values if approved by the Administrator.
§ 23.2265
Special factors of safety.
(a) The applicant must determine a special factor of safety for each critical design value for each part, article, or assembly for which that critical design value is uncertain, and for each part, article, or assembly that is—
(1) Likely to deteriorate in service before normal replacement; or
(2) Subject to appreciable variability because of uncertainties in manufacturing processes or inspection methods.
(b) The applicant must determine a special factor of safety using quality controls and specifications that account for each—
(1) Type of application;
(2) Inspection method;
(3) Structural test requirement;
(4) Sampling percentage; and
(5) Process and material control.
(c) The applicant must multiply the highest pertinent special factor of safety in the design for each part of the structure by each limit and ultimate load, or ultimate load only, if there is no corresponding limit load, such as occurs with emergency condition loading.

# Structural Occupant Protection
§ 23.2270
Emergency conditions.
(a) The airplane, even when damaged in an emergency landing, must protect each occupant against injury that would preclude egress when—
(1) Properly using safety equipment and features provided for in the design;
(2) The occupant experiences ultimate static inertia loads likely to occur in an emergency landing; and
(3) Items of mass, including engines or auxiliary power units (APUs), within or aft of the cabin, that could injure an occupant, experience ultimate static inertia loads likely to occur in an emergency landing.
(b) The emergency landing conditions specified in paragraph (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, must—
(1) Include dynamic conditions that are likely to occur in an emergency landing; and
(2) Not generate loads experienced by the occupants, which exceed established human injury criteria for human tolerance due to restraint or contact with objects in the airplane.
(c) The airplane must provide protection for all occupants, accounting for likely flight, ground, and emergency landing conditions.
(d) Each occupant protection system must perform its intended function and not create a hazard that could cause a secondary injury to an occupant. The occupant protection system must not prevent occupant egress or interfere with the operation of the airplane when not in use.
(e) Each baggage and cargo compartment must—
(1) Be designed for its maximum weight of contents and for the critical load distributions at the maximum load factors corresponding to the flight and ground load conditions determined under this part;
(2) Have a means to prevent the contents of the compartment from becoming a hazard by impacting occupants or shifting; and
(3) Protect any controls, wiring, lines, equipment, or accessories whose damage or failure would affect safe operations.

# Subpart D—Design and Construction
§ 23.2300
Flight control systems.
(a) The applicant must design airplane flight control systems to:
(1) Operate easily, smoothly, and positively enough to allow proper performance of their functions.
(2) Protect against likely hazards.
(b) The applicant must design trim systems, if installed, to:
(1) Protect against inadvertent, incorrect, or abrupt trim operation.
(2) Provide a means to indicate—
(i) The direction of trim control movement relative to airplane motion;
(ii) The trim position with respect to the trim range;
(iii) The neutral position for lateral and directional trim; and
(iv) The range for takeoff for all applicant requested center of gravity ranges and configurations.
§ 23.2305
Landing gear systems.
(a) The landing gear must be designed to—
(1) Provide stable support and control to the airplane during surface operation; and
(2) Account for likely system failures and likely operation environments (including anticipated limitation exceedances and emergency procedures).
(b) All airplanes must have a reliable means of stopping the airplane with sufficient kinetic energy absorption to account for landing. Airplanes that are required to demonstrate aborted takeoff capability must account for this additional kinetic energy.
(c) For airplanes that have a system that actuates the landing gear, there is—
(1) A positive means to keep the landing gear in the landing position; and
(2) An alternative means available to bring the landing gear in the landing position when a non-deployed system position would be a hazard.
§ 23.2310
Buoyancy for seaplanes and amphibians.
Airplanes intended for operations on water, must—
(a) Provide buoyancy of 80 percent in excess of the buoyancy required to support the maximum weight of the airplane in fresh water; and
(b) Have sufficient margin so the airplane will stay afloat at rest in calm water without capsizing in case of a likely float or hull flooding.

# Occupant System Design Protection
§ 23.2315
Means of egress and emergency exits.
(a) With the cabin configured for takeoff or landing, the airplane is designed to:
(1) Facilitate rapid and safe evacuation of the airplane in conditions likely to occur following an emergency landing, excluding ditching for level 1, level 2, and single-engine level 3 airplanes.
(2) Have means of egress (openings, exits, or emergency exits), that can be readily located and opened from the inside and outside. The means of opening must be simple and obvious and marked inside and outside the airplane.
(3) Have easy access to emergency exits when present.
(b) Airplanes approved for aerobatics must have a means to egress the airplane in flight.
[Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 23-65, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 23.2320
Occupant physical environment.
(a) The applicant must design the airplane to—
(1) Allow clear communication between the flightcrew and passengers;
(2) Protect the pilot and flight controls from propellers; and
(3) Protect the occupants from serious injury due to damage to windshields, windows, and canopies.
(b) For level 4 airplanes, each windshield and its supporting structure directly in front of the pilot must withstand, without penetration, the impact equivalent to a two-pound bird when the velocity of the airplane is equal to the airplane's maximum approach flap speed.
(c) The airplane must provide each occupant with air at a breathable pressure, free of hazardous concentrations of gases, vapors, and smoke during normal operations and likely failures.
(d) If a pressurization system is installed in the airplane, it must be designed to protect against—
(1) Decompression to an unsafe level; and
(2) Excessive differential pressure.
(e) If an oxygen system is installed in the airplane, it must—
(1) Effectively provide oxygen to each user to prevent the effects of hypoxia; and
(2) Be free from hazards in itself, in its method of operation, and its effect upon other components.

# Fire and High Energy Protection
§ 23.2325
Fire protection.
(a) The following materials must be self-extinguishing—
(1) Insulation on electrical wire and electrical cable;
(2) For levels 1, 2, and 3 airplanes, materials in the baggage and cargo compartments inaccessible in flight; and
(3) For level 4 airplanes, materials in the cockpit, cabin, baggage, and cargo compartments.
(b) The following materials must be flame resistant—
(1) For levels 1, 2 and 3 airplanes, materials in each compartment accessible in flight; and
(2) Any equipment associated with any electrical cable installation and that would overheat in the event of circuit overload or fault.
(c) Thermal/acoustic materials in the fuselage, if installed, must not be a flame propagation hazard.
(d) Sources of heat within each baggage and cargo compartment that are capable of igniting adjacent objects must be shielded and insulated to prevent such ignition.
(e) For level 4 airplanes, each baggage and cargo compartment must—
(1) Be located where a fire would be visible to the pilots, or equipped with a fire detection system and warning system; and
(2) Be accessible for the manual extinguishing of a fire, have a built-in fire extinguishing system, or be constructed and sealed to contain any fire within the compartment.
(f) There must be a means to extinguish any fire in the cabin such that—
(1) The pilot, while seated, can easily access the fire extinguishing means; and
(2) For levels 3 and 4 airplanes, passengers have a fire extinguishing means available within the passenger compartment.
(g) Each area where flammable fluids or vapors might escape by leakage of a fluid system must—
(1) Be defined; and
(2) Have a means to minimize the probability of fluid and vapor ignition, and the resultant hazard, if ignition occurs.
(h) Combustion heater installations must be protected from uncontained fire.
§ 23.2330
Fire protection in designated fire zones and adjacent areas.
(a) Flight controls, engine mounts, and other flight structures within or adjacent to designated fire zones must be capable of withstanding the effects of a fire.
(b) Engines in a designated fire zone must remain attached to the airplane in the event of a fire.
(c) In designated fire zones, terminals, equipment, and electrical cables used during emergency procedures must be fire-resistant.
§ 23.2335
Lightning protection.
The airplane must be protected against catastrophic effects from lightning.

# Subpart E—Powerplant
§ 23.2400
Powerplant installation.
(a) For the purpose of this subpart, the airplane powerplant installation must include each component necessary for propulsion, which affects propulsion safety, or provides auxiliary power to the airplane.
(b) Each airplane engine and propeller must be type certificated, except for engines and propellers installed on level 1 low-speed airplanes, which may be approved under the airplane type certificate in accordance with a standard accepted by the Administrator that contains airworthiness criteria the Administrator has found appropriate and applicable to the specific design and intended use of the engine or propeller and provides a level of safety acceptable to the Administrator.
(c) The applicant must construct and arrange each powerplant installation to account for—
(1) Likely operating conditions, including foreign object threats;
(2) Sufficient clearance of moving parts to other airplane parts and their surroundings;
(3) Likely hazards in operation including hazards to ground personnel; and
(4) Vibration and fatigue.
(d) Hazardous accumulations of fluids, vapors, or gases must be isolated from the airplane and personnel compartments, and be safely contained or discharged.
(e) Powerplant components must comply with their component limitations and installation instructions or be shown not to create a hazard.
[Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 23-65, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 23.2405
Automatic power or thrust control systems.
(a) An automatic power or thrust control system intended for in-flight use must be designed so no unsafe condition will result during normal operation of the system.
(b) Any single failure or likely combination of failures of an automatic power or thrust control system must not prevent continued safe flight and landing of the airplane.
(c) Inadvertent operation of an automatic power or thrust control system by the flightcrew must be prevented, or if not prevented, must not result in an unsafe condition.
(d) Unless the failure of an automatic power or thrust control system is extremely remote, the system must—
(1) Provide a means for the flightcrew to verify the system is in an operating condition;
(2) Provide a means for the flightcrew to override the automatic function; and
(3) Prevent inadvertent deactivation of the system.
§ 23.2410
Powerplant installation hazard assessment.
The applicant must assess each powerplant separately and in relation to other airplane systems and installations to show that any hazard resulting from the likely failure of any powerplant system, component, or accessory will not—
(a) Prevent continued safe flight and landing or, if continued safe flight and landing cannot be ensured, the hazard has been minimized;
(b) Cause serious injury that may be avoided; and
(c) Require immediate action by any crewmember for continued operation of any remaining powerplant system.
§ 23.2415
Powerplant ice protection.
(a) The airplane design, including the induction and inlet system, must prevent foreseeable accumulation of ice or snow that adversely affects powerplant operation.
(b) The powerplant installation design must prevent any accumulation of ice or snow that adversely affects powerplant operation, in those icing conditions for which certification is requested.
§ 23.2420
Reversing systems.
Each reversing system must be designed so that—
(a) No unsafe condition will result during normal operation of the system; and
(b) The airplane is capable of continued safe flight and landing after any single failure, likely combination of failures, or malfunction of the reversing system.
§ 23.2425
Powerplant operational characteristics.
(a) The installed powerplant must operate without any hazardous characteristics during normal and emergency operation within the range of operating limitations for the airplane and the engine.
(b) The pilot must have the capability to stop the powerplant in flight and restart the powerplant within an established operational envelope.
§ 23.2430
Fuel systems.
(a) Each fuel system must—
(1) Be designed and arranged to provide independence between multiple fuel storage and supply systems so that failure of any one component in one system will not result in loss of fuel storage or supply of another system;
(2) Be designed and arranged to prevent ignition of the fuel within the system by direct lightning strikes or swept lightning strokes to areas where such occurrences are highly probable,
or by corona or streamering at fuel vent outlets;
(3) Provide the fuel necessary to ensure each powerplant and auxiliary power unit functions properly in all likely operating conditions;
(4) Provide the flightcrew with a means to determine the total useable fuel available and provide uninterrupted supply of that fuel when the system is correctly operated, accounting for likely fuel fluctuations;
(5) Provide a means to safely remove or isolate the fuel stored in the system from the airplane;
(6) Be designed to retain fuel under all likely operating conditions and minimize hazards to the occupants during any survivable emergency landing. For level 4 airplanes, failure due to overload of the landing system must be taken into account; and
(7) Prevent hazardous contamination of the fuel supplied to each powerplant and auxiliary power unit.
(b) Each fuel storage system must—
(1) Withstand the loads under likely operating conditions without failure;
(2) Be isolated from personnel compartments and protected from hazards due to unintended temperature influences;
(3) Be designed to prevent significant loss of stored fuel from any vent system due to fuel transfer between fuel storage or supply systems, or under likely operating conditions;
(4) Provide fuel for at least one-half hour of operation at maximum continuous power or thrust; and
(5) Be capable of jettisoning fuel safely if required for landing.
(c) Each fuel storage refilling or recharging system must be designed to—
(1) Prevent improper refilling or recharging;
(2) Prevent contamination of the fuel stored during likely operating conditions; and
(3) Prevent the occurrence of any hazard to the airplane or to persons during refilling or recharging.
§ 23.2435
Powerplant induction and exhaust systems.
(a) The air induction system for each powerplant or auxiliary power unit and their accessories must—
(1) Supply the air required by that powerplant or auxiliary power unit and its accessories under likely operating conditions;
(2) Be designed to prevent likely hazards in the event of fire or backfire;
(3) Minimize the ingestion of foreign matter; and
(4) Provide an alternate intake if blockage of the primary intake is likely.
(b) The exhaust system, including exhaust heat exchangers for each powerplant or auxiliary power unit, must—
(1) Provide a means to safely discharge potential harmful material; and
(2) Be designed to prevent likely hazards from heat, corrosion, or blockage.
§ 23.2440
Powerplant fire protection.
(a) A powerplant, auxiliary power unit, or combustion heater that includes a flammable fluid and an ignition source for that fluid must be installed in a designated fire zone.
(b) Each designated fire zone must provide a means to isolate and mitigate hazards to the airplane in the event of fire or overheat within the zone.
(c) Each component, line, fitting, and control subject to fire conditions must—
(1) Be designed and located to prevent hazards resulting from a fire, including any located adjacent to a designated fire zone that may be affected by fire within that zone;
(2) Be fire-resistant if carrying flammable fluid, gas or air, or is required to operate in the event of a fire; and
(3) Be fireproof or enclosed by a fire proof shield if storing concentrated flammable fluids.
(d) The applicant must provide a means to prevent hazardous quantities of flammable fluids from flowing into, within or through each designated fire zone. This means must—
(1) Not restrict flow or limit operation of any remaining powerplant or auxiliary power unit, or equipment necessary for safety;
(2) Prevent inadvertent operation; and
(3) Be located outside the fire zone unless an equal degree of safety is provided with a means inside the fire zone.
(e) A means to ensure the prompt detection of fire must be provided for each designated fire zone—
(1) On a multiengine airplane where detection will mitigate likely hazards to the airplane; or
(2) That contains a fire extinguisher.
(f) A means to extinguish fire within a fire zone, except a combustion heater fire zone, must be provided for—
(1) Any fire zone located outside the pilot's view;
(2) Any fire zone embedded within the fuselage, which must also include a redundant means to extinguish fire; and
(3) Any fire zone on a level 4 airplane.
[Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 23-65, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]

# Subpart F—Equipment
§ 23.2500
Airplane level systems requirements.
This section applies generally to installed equipment and systems unless a section of this part imposes requirements for a specific piece of equipment, system, or systems.
(a) The equipment and systems required for an airplane to operate safely in the kinds of operations for which certification is requested (Day VFR, Night VFR, IFR) must be designed and installed to—
(1) Meet the level of safety applicable to the certification and performance level of the airplane; and
(2) Perform their intended function throughout the operating and environmental limits for which the airplane is certificated.
(b) The systems and equipment not covered by paragraph (a) of this section—considered separately and in relation to other systems—must be designed and installed so their operation does not have an adverse effect on the airplane or its occupants.
[Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 23-65, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 23.2505
Function and installation.
When installed, each item of equipment must function as intended.
§ 23.2510
Equipment, systems, and installations.
For any airplane system or equipment whose failure or abnormal operation has not been specifically addressed by another requirement in this part, the applicant must design and install each system and equipment, such that there is a logical and acceptable inverse relationship between the average probability and the severity of failure conditions to the extent that:
(a) Each catastrophic failure condition is extremely improbable;
(b) Each hazardous failure condition is extremely remote; and
(c) Each major failure condition is remote.
§ 23.2515
Electrical and electronic system lightning protection.
An airplane approved for IFR operations must meet the following requirements, unless an applicant shows that exposure to lightning is unlikely:
(a) Each electrical or electronic system that performs a function, the failure of which would prevent the continued safe flight and landing of the airplane, must be designed and installed such that—
(1) The function at the airplane level is not adversely affected during and after the time the airplane is exposed to lightning; and
(2) The system recovers normal operation of that function in a timely manner after the airplane is exposed to lightning unless the system's recovery conflicts with other operational or functional requirements of the system.
(b) Each electrical and electronic system that performs a function, the failure of which would significantly reduce the capability of the airplane or the ability of the flightcrew to respond to an adverse operating condition, must be designed and installed such that the system recovers normal operation of that function in a timely manner after the airplane is exposed to lightning.
§ 23.2520
High-intensity Radiated Fields (HIRF) protection.
(a) Each electrical and electronic system that performs a function, the failure of which would prevent the continued safe flight and landing of the
airplane, must be designed and installed such that—
(1) The function at the airplane level is not adversely affected during and after the time the airplane is exposed to the HIRF environment; and
(2) The system recovers normal operation of that function in a timely manner after the airplane is exposed to the HIRF environment, unless the system's recovery conflicts with other operational or functional requirements of the system.
(b) For airplanes approved for IFR operations, each electrical and electronic system that performs a function, the failure of which would significantly reduce the capability of the airplane or the ability of the flightcrew to respond to an adverse operating condition, must be designed and installed such that the system recovers normal operation of that function in a timely manner after the airplane is exposed to the HIRF environment.
[Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 23-65, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 23.2525
System power generation, storage, and distribution.
The power generation, storage, and distribution for any system must be designed and installed to—
(a) Supply the power required for operation of connected loads during all intended operating conditions;
(b) Ensure no single failure or malfunction of any one power supply, distribution system, or other utilization system will prevent the system from supplying the essential loads required for continued safe flight and landing; and
(c) Have enough capacity, if the primary source fails, to supply essential loads, including non-continuous essential loads for the time needed to complete the function required for continued safe flight and landing.
§ 23.2530
External and cockpit lighting.
(a) The applicant must design and install all lights to minimize any adverse effects on the performance of flightcrew duties.
(b) Any position and anti-collision lights, if required by part 91 of this chapter, must have the intensities, flash rate, colors, fields of coverage, and other characteristics to provide sufficient time for another aircraft to avoid a collision.
(c) Any position lights, if required by part 91 of this chapter, must include a red light on the left side of the airplane, a green light on the right side of the airplane, spaced laterally as far apart as practicable, and a white light facing aft, located on an aft portion of the airplane or on the wing tips.
(d) Any taxi and landing lights must be designed and installed so they provide sufficient light for night operations.
(e) For seaplanes or amphibian airplanes, riding lights must provide a white light visible in clear atmospheric conditions.
§ 23.2535
Safety equipment.
Safety and survival equipment, required by the operating rules of this chapter, must be reliable, readily accessible, easily identifiable, and clearly marked to identify its method of operation.
§ 23.2540
Flight in icing conditions.
An applicant who requests certification for flight in icing conditions defined in part 1 of appendix C to part 25 of this chapter, or an applicant who requests certification for flight in these icing conditions and any additional atmospheric icing conditions, must show the following in the icing conditions for which certification is requested:
(a) The ice protection system provides for safe operation.
(b) The airplane design must provide protection from stalling when the autopilot is operating.
§ 23.2545
Pressurized systems elements.
Pressurized systems must withstand appropriate proof and burst pressures.
§ 23.2550
Equipment containing high-energy rotors.
Equipment containing high-energy rotors must be designed or installed to protect the occupants and airplane from uncontained fragments.

# Subpart G—Flightcrew Interface and Other Information
§ 23.2600
Flightcrew interface.
(a) The pilot compartment, its equipment, and its arrangement to include pilot view, must allow each pilot to perform his or her duties, including taxi, takeoff, climb, cruise, descent, approach, landing, and perform any maneuvers within the operating envelope of the airplane, without excessive concentration, skill, alertness, or fatigue.
(b) The applicant must install flight, navigation, surveillance, and powerplant controls and displays so flightcrew members can monitor and perform defined tasks associated with the intended functions of systems and equipment. The system and equipment design must minimize flightcrew errors, which could result in additional hazards.
(c) For level 4 airplanes, the flightcrew interface design must allow for continued safe flight and landing after the loss of vision through any one of the windshield panels.
[Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 23-65, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 23.2605
Installation and operation.
(a) Each item of installed equipment related to the flightcrew interface must be labelled, if applicable, as to it identification, function, or operating limitations, or any combination of these factors.
(b) There must be a discernible means of providing system operating parameters required to operate the airplane, including warnings, cautions, and normal indications to the responsible crewmember.
(c) Information concerning an unsafe system operating condition must be provided in a timely manner to the crewmember responsible for taking corrective action. The information must be clear enough to avoid likely crewmember errors.
§ 23.2610
Instrument markings, control markings, and placards.
(a) Each airplane must display in a conspicuous manner any placard and instrument marking necessary for operation.
(b) The design must clearly indicate the function of each cockpit control, other than primary flight controls.
(c) The applicant must include instrument marking and placard information in the Airplane Flight Manual.
§ 23.2615
Flight, navigation, and powerplant instruments.
(a) Installed systems must provide the flightcrew member who sets or monitors parameters for the flight, navigation, and powerplant, the information necessary to do so during each phase of flight. This information must—
(1) Be presented in a manner that the crewmember can monitor the parameter and determine trends, as needed, to operate the airplane; and
(2) Include limitations, unless the limitation cannot be exceeded in all intended operations.
(b) Indication systems that integrate the display of flight or powerplant parameters to operate the airplane or are required by the operating rules of this chapter must—
(1) Not inhibit the primary display of flight or powerplant parameters needed by any flightcrew member in any normal mode of operation; and
(2) In combination with other systems, be designed and installed so information essential for continued safe flight and landing will be available to the flightcrew in a timely manner after any single failure or probable combination of failures.
§ 23.2620
Airplane flight manual.
The applicant must provide an Airplane Flight Manual that must be delivered with each airplane.
(a) The Airplane Flight Manual must contain the following information—
(1) Airplane operating limitations;
(2) Airplane operating procedures;
(3) Performance information;
(4) Loading information; and
(5) Other information that is necessary for safe operation because of design, operating, or handling characteristics.
(b) The following sections of the Airplane Flight Manual must be approved
by the FAA in a manner specified by the Administrator—
(1) For low-speed, level 1 and 2 airplanes, those portions of the Airplane Flight Manual containing the information specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(2) For high-speed level 1 and 2 airplanes and all level 3 and 4 airplanes, those portions of the Airplane Flight Manual containing the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) thru (a)(4) of this section.
[Doc. No. FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 23-64, 81 FR 96689, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 23-65, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022]
Pt. 23, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 23—Instructions for Continued Airworthiness

# A23.1 General
(a) This appendix specifies requirements for the preparation of Instructions for Continued Airworthiness as required by this part.
(b) The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness for each airplane must include the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness for each engine and propeller (hereinafter designated “products”), for each appliance required by this chapter, and any required information relating to the interface of those appliances and products with the airplane. If Instructions for Continued Airworthiness are not supplied by the manufacturer of an appliance or product installed in the airplane, the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness for the airplane must include the information essential to the continued airworthiness of the airplane.
(c) The applicant must submit to the FAA a program to show how changes to the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness made by the applicant or by the manufacturers of products and appliances installed in the airplane will be distributed.

# A23.2 Format
(a) The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness must be in the form of a manual or manuals as appropriate for the quantity of data to be provided.
(b) The format of the manual or manuals must provide for a practical arrangement.

# A23.3 Content
The contents of the manual or manuals must be prepared in the English language. The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness must contain the following manuals or sections and information:
(a) Airplane maintenance manual or section.
(1) Introduction information that includes an explanation of the airplane's features and data to the extent necessary for maintenance or preventive maintenance.
(2) A description of the airplane and its systems and installations including its engines, propellers, and appliances.
(3) Basic control and operation information describing how the airplane components and systems are controlled and how they operate, including any special procedures and limitations that apply.
(4) Servicing information that covers details regarding servicing points, capacities of tanks, reservoirs, types of fluids to be used, pressures applicable to the various systems, location of access panels for inspection and servicing, locations of lubrication points, lubricants to be used, equipment required for servicing, tow instructions and limitations, mooring, jacking, and leveling information.
(b) Maintenance Instructions.
(1) Scheduling information for each part of the airplane and its engines, auxiliary power units, propellers, accessories, instruments, and equipment that provides the recommended periods at which they should be cleaned, inspected, adjusted, tested, and lubricated, and the degree of inspection, the applicable wear tolerances, and work recommended at these periods. However, the applicant may refer to an accessory, instrument, or equipment manufacturer as the source of this information if the applicant shows that the item has an exceptionally high degree of complexity requiring specialized maintenance techniques, test equipment, or expertise. The recommended overhaul periods and necessary cross reference to the Airworthiness Limitations section of the manual must also be included. In addition, the applicant must include an inspection program that includes the frequency and extent of the inspections necessary to provide for the continued airworthiness of the airplane.
(2) Troubleshooting information describing probable malfunctions, how to recognize those malfunctions, and the remedial action for those malfunctions.
(3) Information describing the order and method of removing and replacing products and parts with any necessary precautions to be taken.
(4) Other general procedural instructions including procedures for system testing during ground running, symmetry checks, weighing and determining the center of gravity, lifting and shoring, and storage limitations.
(c) Diagrams of structural access plates and information needed to gain access for inspections when access plates are not provided.
(d) Details for the application of special inspection techniques including radiographic and ultrasonic testing where such processes are specified by the applicant.
(e) Information needed to apply protective treatments to the structure after inspection.
(f) All data relative to structural fasteners such as identification, discard recommendations, and torque values.
(g) A list of special tools needed.
(h) In addition, for level 4 airplanes, the following information must be furnished—
(1) Electrical loads applicable to the various systems;
(2) Methods of balancing control surfaces;
(3) Identification of primary and secondary structures; and
(4) Special repair methods applicable to the airplane.

# A23.4 Airworthiness limitations section.
The Instructions for Continued Airworthiness must contain a section titled Airworthiness Limitations that is segregated and clearly distinguishable from the rest of the document. This section must set forth each mandatory replacement time, structural inspection interval, and related structural inspection procedure required for type certification. If the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness consist of multiple documents, the section required by this paragraph must be included in the principal manual. This section must contain a legible statement in a prominent location that reads “The Airworthiness Limitations section is FAA approved and specifies maintenance required under §§ 43.16 and 91.403 of Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations unless an alternative program has been FAA approved.”
Pt. 25

# PART 25—AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 13
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 109

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
25.1
Applicability.
25.2
Special retroactive requirements.
25.3
Special provisions for ETOPS type design approvals.
25.4
Definitions.
25.5
Incorporations by reference.

# Subpart B—Flight

# General
25.21
Proof of compliance.
25.23
Load distribution limits.
25.25
Weight limits.
25.27
Center of gravity limits.
25.29
Empty weight and corresponding center of gravity.
25.31
Removable ballast.
25.33
Propeller speed and pitch limits.

# Performance
25.101
General.
25.103
Stall speed.
25.105
Takeoff.
25.107
Takeoff speeds.
25.109
Accelerate-stop distance.
25.111
Takeoff path.
25.113
Takeoff distance and takeoff run.
25.115
Takeoff flight path.
25.117
Climb: general.
25.119
Landing climb: All-engines-operating.
25.121
Climb: One-engine-inoperative.
25.123
En route flight paths.
25.125
Landing.

# Controllability and Maneuverability
25.143
General.
25.145
Longitudinal control.
25.147
Directional and lateral control.
25.149
Minimum control speed.

# Trim
25.161
Trim.

# Stability
25.171
General.
25.173
Static longitudinal stability.
25.175
Demonstration of static longitudinal stability.
25.177
Static lateral-directional stability.
25.181
Dynamic stability.

# Stalls
25.201
Stall demonstration.
25.203
Stall characteristics.
25.207
Stall warning.

# Ground and Water Handling Characteristics
25.231
Longitudinal stability and control.
25.233
Directional stability and control.
25.235
Taxiing condition.
25.237
Wind velocities.
25.239
Spray characteristics, control, and stability on water.

# Miscellaneous Flight Requirements
25.251
Vibration and buffeting.
25.253
High-speed characteristics.
25.255
Out-of-trim characteristics.

# Subpart C—Structure

# General
25.301
Loads.
25.302
Interaction of systems and structures.
25.303
Factor of safety.
25.305
Strength and deformation.
25.307
Proof of structure.

# Flight Loads
25.321
General.

# Flight Maneuver and Gust Conditions
25.331
Symmetric maneuvering conditions.
25.333
Flight maneuvering envelope.
25.335
Design airspeeds.
25.337
Limit maneuvering load factors.
25.341
Gust and turbulence loads.
25.343
Design fuel and oil loads.
25.345
High lift devices.
25.349
Rolling conditions.
25.351
Yaw maneuver conditions.
25.353
Rudder control reversal conditions.

# Supplementary Conditions
25.361
Engine and auxiliary power unit torque.
25.362
Engine failure loads.
25.363
Side load on engine and auxiliary power unit mounts.
25.365
Pressurized compartment loads.
25.367
Unsymmetrical loads due to engine failure.
25.371
Gyroscopic loads.
25.373
Speed control devices.

# Control Surface and System Loads
25.391
Control surface loads: General.
25.393
Loads parallel to hinge line.
25.395
Control system.
25.397
Control system loads.
25.399
Dual control system.
25.405
Secondary control system.
25.407
Trim tab effects.
25.409
Tabs.
25.415
Ground gust conditions.
25.427
Unsymmetrical loads.
25.445
Auxiliary aerodynamic surfaces.
25.457
Wing flaps.
25.459
Special devices.

# Ground Loads
25.471
General.
25.473
Landing load conditions and assumptions.
25.477
Landing gear arrangement.
25.479
Level landing conditions.
25.481
Tail-down landing conditions.
25.483
One-gear landing conditions.
25.485
Side load conditions.
25.487
Rebound landing condition.
25.489
Ground handling conditions.
25.491
Taxi, takeoff and landing roll.
25.493
Braked roll conditions.
25.495
Turning.
25.497
Tail-wheel yawing.
25.499
Nose-wheel yaw and steering.
25.503
Pivoting.
25.507
Reversed braking.
25.509
Towing loads.
25.511
Ground load: unsymmetrical loads on multiple-wheel units.
25.519
Jacking and tie-down provisions.

# Water Loads
25.521
General.
25.523
Design weights and center of gravity positions.
25.525
Application of loads.
25.527
Hull and main float load factors.
25.529
Hull and main float landing conditions.
25.531
Hull and main float takeoff condition.
25.533
Hull and main float bottom pressures.
25.535
Auxiliary float loads.
25.537
Seawing loads.

# Emergency Landing Conditions
25.561
General.
25.562
Emergency landing dynamic conditions.
25.563
Structural ditching provisions.

# Fatigue Evaluation
25.571
Damage-tolerance and fatigue evaluation of structure.

# Lightning Protection
25.581
Lightning protection.

# Subpart D—Design and Construction

# General
25.601
General.
25.603
Materials.
25.605
Fabrication methods.
25.607
Fasteners.
25.609
Protection of structure.
25.611
Accessibility provisions.
25.613
Material strength properties and material design values.
25.619
Special factors.
25.621
Casting factors.
25.623
Bearing factors.
25.625
Fitting factors.
25.629
Aeroelastic stability requirements.
25.631
Bird strike damage.

# Control Surfaces
25.651
Proof of strength.
25.655
Installation.
25.657
Hinges.

# Control Systems
25.671
General.
25.672
Stability augmentation and automatic and power-operated systems.
25.675
Stops.
25.677
Trim systems.
25.679
Control system gust locks.
25.681
Limit load static tests.
25.683
Operation tests.
25.685
Control system details.
25.689
Cable systems.
25.693
Joints.
25.697
Lift and drag devices, controls.
25.699
Lift and drag device indicator.
25.701
Flap and slat interconnection.
25.703
Takeoff warning system.

# Landing Gear
25.721
General.
25.723
Shock absorption tests.
25.725-25.727
[Reserved]
25.729
Retracting mechanism.
25.731
Wheels.
25.733
Tires.
25.735
Brakes and braking systems.
25.737
Skis.

# Floats and Hulls
25.751
Main float buoyancy.
25.753
Main float design.
25.755
Hulls.

# Personnel and Cargo Accommodations
25.771
Pilot compartment.
25.772
Pilot compartment doors.
25.773
Pilot compartment view.
25.775
Windshields and windows.
25.777
Cockpit controls.
25.779
Motion and effect of cockpit controls.
25.781
Cockpit control knob shape.
25.783
Fuselage doors.
25.785
Seats, berths, safety belts, and harnesses.
25.787
Stowage compartments.
25.789
Retention of items of mass in passenger and crew compartments and galleys.
25.791
Passenger information signs and placards.
25.793
Floor surfaces.
25.795
Security considerations.

# Emergency Provisions
25.801
Ditching.
25.803
Emergency evacuation.
25.807
Emergency exits.
25.809
Emergency exit arrangement.
25.810
Emergency egress assist means and escape routes.
25.811
Emergency exit marking.
25.812
Emergency lighting.
25.813
Emergency exit access.
25.815
Width of aisle.
25.817
Maximum number of seats abreast.
25.819
Lower deck service compartments (including galleys).
25.820
Lavatory doors.

# Ventilation and Heating
25.831
Ventilation.
25.832
Cabin ozone concentration.
25.833
Combustion heating systems.

# Pressurization
25.841
Pressurized cabins.
25.843
Tests for pressurized cabins.

# Fire Protection
25.851
Fire extinguishers.
25.853
Compartment interiors.
25.854
Lavatory fire protection.
25.855
Cargo or baggage compartments.
25.856
Thermal/Acoustic insulation materials.
25.857
Cargo compartment classification.
25.858
Cargo or baggage compartment smoke or fire detection systems.
25.859
Combustion heater fire protection.
25.863
Flammable fluid fire protection.
25.865
Fire protection of flight controls, engine mounts, and other flight structure.
25.867
Fire protection: other components.
25.869
Fire protection: systems.

# Miscellaneous
25.871
Leveling means.
25.875
Reinforcement near propellers.
25.899
Electrical bonding and protection against static electricity.

# Subpart E—Powerplant

# General
25.901
Installation.
25.903
Engines.
25.904
Automatic takeoff thrust control system (ATTCS).
25.905
Propellers.
25.907
Propeller vibration and fatigue.
25.925
Propeller clearance.
25.929
Propeller deicing.
25.933
Reversing systems.
25.934
Turbojet engine thrust reverser system tests.
25.937
Turbopropeller-drag limiting systems.
25.939
Turbine engine operating characteristics.
25.941
Inlet, engine, and exhaust compatibility.
25.943
Negative acceleration.
25.945
Thrust or power augmentation system.

# Fuel System
25.951
General.
25.952
Fuel system analysis and test.
25.953
Fuel system independence.
25.954
Fuel system lightning protection.
25.955
Fuel flow.
25.957
Flow between interconnected tanks.
25.959
Unusable fuel supply.
25.961
Fuel system hot weather operation.
25.963
Fuel tanks: general.
25.965
Fuel tank tests.
25.967
Fuel tank installations.
25.969
Fuel tank expansion space.
25.971
Fuel tank sump.
25.973
Fuel tank filler connection.
25.975
Fuel tank vents and carburetor vapor vents.
25.977
Fuel tank outlet.
25.979
Pressure fueling system.
25.981
Fuel tank explosion prevention.

# Fuel System Components
25.991
Fuel pumps.
25.993
Fuel system lines and fittings.
25.994
Fuel system components.
25.995
Fuel valves.
25.997
Fuel strainer or filter.
25.999
Fuel system drains.
25.1001
Fuel jettisoning system.

# Oil System
25.1011
General.
25.1013
Oil tanks.
25.1015
Oil tank tests.
25.1017
Oil lines and fittings.
25.1019
Oil strainer or filter.
25.1021
Oil system drains.
25.1023
Oil radiators.
25.1025
Oil valves.
25.1027
Propeller feathering system.

# Cooling
25.1041
General.
25.1043
Cooling tests.
25.1045
Cooling test procedures.

# Induction System
25.1091
Air induction.
25.1093
Induction system icing protection.
25.1101
Carburetor air preheater design.
25.1103
Induction system ducts and air duct systems.
25.1105
Induction system screens.
25.1107
Inter-coolers and after-coolers.

# Exhaust System
25.1121
General.
25.1123
Exhaust piping.
25.1125
Exhaust heat exchangers.
25.1127
Exhaust driven turbo-superchargers.

# Powerplant Controls and Accessories
25.1141
Powerplant controls: general.
25.1142
Auxiliary power unit controls.
25.1143
Engine controls.
25.1145
Ignition switches.
25.1147
Mixture controls.
25.1149
Propeller speed and pitch controls.
25.1153
Propeller feathering controls.
25.1155
Reverse thrust and propeller pitch settings below the flight regime.
25.1157
Carburetor air temperature controls.
25.1159
Supercharger controls.
25.1161
Fuel jettisoning system controls.
25.1163
Powerplant accessories.
25.1165
Engine ignition systems.
25.1167
Accessory gearboxes.

# Powerplant Fire Protection
25.1181
Designated fire zones; regions included.
25.1182
Nacelle areas behind firewalls, and engine pod attaching structures containing flammable fluid lines.
25.1183
Flammable fluid-carrying components.
25.1185
Flammable fluids.
25.1187
Drainage and ventilation of fire zones.
25.1189
Shutoff means.
25.1191
Firewalls.
25.1192
Engine accessory section diaphragm.
25.1193
Cowling and nacelle skin.
25.1195
Fire extinguishing systems.
25.1197
Fire extinguishing agents.
25.1199
Extinguishing agent containers.
25.1201
Fire extinguishing system materials.
25.1203
Fire detector system.
25.1207
Compliance.

# Subpart F—Equipment

# General
25.1301
Function and installation.
25.1302
Installed systems and equipment for use by the flightcrew.
25.1303
Flight and navigation instruments.
25.1305
Powerplant instruments.
25.1307
Miscellaneous equipment.
25.1309
Equipment, systems, and installations.
25.1310
Power source capacity and distribution.
25.1316
Electrical and electronic system lightning protection.
25.1317
High-intensity Radiated Fields (HIRF) Protection.

# Instruments: Installation
25.1321
Arrangement and visibility.
25.1322
Flightcrew alerting.
25.1323
Airspeed indicating system.
25.1324
Angle of attack system.
25.1325
Static pressure systems.
25.1326
Pitot heat indication systems.
25.1327
Magnetic direction indicator.
25.1329
Flight guidance system.
25.1331
Instruments using a power supply.
25.1333
Instrument systems.
25.1337
Powerplant instruments.

# Electrical Systems and Equipment
25.1351
General.
25.1353
Electrical equipment and installations.
25.1355
Distribution system.
25.1357
Circuit protective devices.
25.1360
Precautions against injury.
25.1362
Electrical supplies for emergency conditions.
25.1363
Electrical system tests.
25.1365
Electrical appliances, motors, and transformers.

# Lights
25.1381
Instrument lights.
25.1383
Landing lights.
25.1385
Position light system installation.
25.1387
Position light system dihedral angles.
25.1389
Position light distribution and intensities.
25.1391
Minimum intensities in the horizontal plane of forward and rear position lights.
25.1393
Minimum intensities in any vertical plane of forward and rear position lights.
25.1395
Maximum intensities in overlapping beams of forward and rear position lights.
25.1397
Color specifications.
25.1399
Riding light.
25.1401
Anticollision light system.
25.1403
Wing icing detection lights.

# Safety Equipment
25.1411
General.
25.1415
Ditching equipment.
25.1419
Ice protection.
25.1420
Supercooled large drop icing conditions.
25.1421
Megaphones.
25.1423
Public address system.

# Miscellaneous Equipment
25.1431
Electronic equipment.
25.1433
Vacuum systems.
25.1435
Hydraulic systems.
25.1438
Pressurization and pneumatic systems.
25.1439
Protective breathing equipment.
25.1441
Oxygen equipment and supply.
25.1443
Minimum mass flow of supplemental oxygen.
25.1445
Equipment standards for the oxygen distributing system.
25.1447
Equipment standards for oxygen dispensing units.
25.1449
Means for determining use of oxygen.
25.1450
Chemical oxygen generators.
25.1453
Protection of oxygen equipment from rupture.
25.1455
Draining of fluids subject to freezing.
25.1457
Cockpit voice recorders.
25.1459
Flight data recorders.
25.1461
Equipment containing high energy rotors.

# Subpart G—Operating Limitations and Information
25.1501
General.

# Operating Limitations
25.1503
Airspeed limitations: general.
25.1505
Maximum operating limit speed.
25.1507
Maneuvering speed.
25.1511
Flap extended speed.
25.1513
Minimum control speed.
25.1515
Landing gear speeds.
25.1516
Other speed limitations.
25.1517
Rough air speed, V
RA.
25.1519
Weight, center of gravity, and weight distribution.
25.1521
Powerplant limitations.
25.1522
Auxiliary power unit limitations.
25.1523
Minimum flight crew.
25.1525
Kinds of operation.
25.1527
Ambient air temperature and operating altitude.
25.1529
Instructions for Continued Airworthiness.
25.1531
Maneuvering flight load factors.
25.1533
Additional operating limitations.
25.1535
ETOPS approval.

# Markings and Placards
25.1541
General.
25.1543
Instrument markings: general.
25.1545
Airspeed limitation information.
25.1547
Magnetic direction indicator.
25.1549
Powerplant and auxiliary power unit instruments.
25.1551
Oil quantity indication.
25.1553
Fuel quantity indicator.
25.1555
Control markings.
25.1557
Miscellaneous markings and placards.
25.1561
Safety equipment.
25.1563
Airspeed placard.

# Airplane Flight Manual
25.1581
General.
25.1583
Operating limitations.
25.1585
Operating procedures.
25.1587
Performance information.

# Subpart H—Electrical Wiring Interconnection Systems (EWIS)
25.1701
Definition.
25.1703
Function and installation: EWIS.
25.1705
Systems and functions: EWIS.
25.1707
System separation: EWIS.
25.1709
System safety: EWIS.
25.1711
Component identification: EWIS.
25.1713
Fire protection: EWIS.
25.1715
Electrical bonding and protection against static electricity: EWIS.
25.1717
Circuit protective devices: EWIS.
25.1719
Accessibility provisions: EWIS.
25.1721
Protection of EWIS.
25.1723
Flammable fluid fire protection: EWIS.
25.1725
Powerplants: EWIS.
25.1727
Flammable fluid shutoff means: EWIS.
25.1729
Instructions for Continued Airworthiness: EWIS.
25.1731
Powerplant and APU fire detector system: EWIS.
25.1733
Fire detector systems, general: EWIS.

# Subpart I—Special Federal Aviation Regulations
25.1801
SFAR No. 111—Lavatory Oxygen Systems.
Appendix A to Part 25
Appendix B to Part 25
Appendix C to Part 25
Appendix D to Part 25
Appendix E to Part 25
Appendix F to Part 25
Appendix G to Part 25 [Reserved]
Appendix H to Part 25—Instructions for Continued Airworthiness
Appendix I to Part 25—Installation of an Automatic Takeoff Thrust Control System (ATTCS)
Appendix J to Part 25—Emergency Evacuation
Appendix K to Part 25—Extended Operations (ETOPS)
Appendix L to Part 25—HIRF Environments and Equipment HIRF Test Levels
Appendix M to Part 25—Fuel Tank System Flammability Reduction Means
Appendix N to Part 25—Fuel Tank Flammability Exposure and Reliability Analysis
Appendix O to Part 25—Supercooled Large Drop Icing Conditions

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 106(g), 40113, 44701, 44702 and 44704; Pub. L. 115-254, 132 Stat 3281 (49 U.S.C. 44903 note).

# Source:
Docket No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, unless otherwise noted.
Pt. 25, SFAR No. 13

# Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 13
1.
Applicability.
Contrary provisions of the Civil Air Regulations regarding certification notwithstanding,
1
this regulation shall provide the basis for approval by the Administrator of modifications of individual Douglas DC-3 and Lockheed L-18 airplanes subsequent to the effective date of this regulation.
1
It is not intended to waive compliance with such airworthiness requirements as are included in the operating parts of the Civil Air Regulations for specific types of operation.
2.
General modifications.
Except as modified in sections 3 and 4 of this regulation, an applicant for approval of modifications to a DC-3 or L-18 airplane which result in changes in design or in changes to approved limitations shall show that the modifications were accomplished in accordance with the rules of either Part 4a or Part 4b in effect on September 1, 1953, which are applicable to the modification being made:
Provided,
That an applicant may elect to accomplish a modification in accordance with the rules of Part 4b in effect on the date of application for the modification in lieu of Part 4a or Part 4b as in effect on September 1, 1953:
And provided further,
That each specific modification must be accomplished in accordance with all of the provisions contained in the elected rules relating to the particular modification.
3.
Specific conditions for approval.
An applicant for any approval of the following specific changes shall comply with section 2 of this regulation as modified by the applicable provisions of this section.
(a)
Increase in take-off power limitation—1,200 to 1,350 horsepower.
The engine take-off power limitation for the airplane may be increased to more than 1,200 horsepower but not to more than 1,350 horsepower per engine if the increase in power does not adversely affect the flight characteristics of the airplane.
(b)
Increase in take-off power limitation to more than 1,350 horsepower.
The engine take-off power limitation for the airplane may be increased to more than 1,350 horsepower per engine if compliance is shown with the flight characteristics and ground handling requirements of Part 4b.
(c)
Installation of engines of not more than 1,830 cubic inches displacement and not having a certificated take-off rating of more than 1,350 horsepower.
Engines of not more than 1,830 cubic inches displacement and not having a certificated take-off rating of more than 1,350 horsepower which necessitate a major modification of redesign of the engine installation may be installed, if the engine fire prevention and fire protection are equivalent to that on the prior engine installation.
(d)
Installation of engines of more than 1,830 cubic inches displacement or having certificated take-off rating of more than 1,350 horsepower.
Engines of more than 1,830 cubic inches displacement or having certificated take-off rating of more than 1,350 horsepower may be installed if compliance is shown with the engine installation requirements of Part 4b:
Provided,
That where literal compliance with the engine installation requirements of Part 4b is extremely difficult to accomplish and would not contribute materially to the objective sought, and the Administrator finds that the experience with the DC-3 or L-18 airplanes justifies it, he is authorized to accept such measures of compliance as he finds will effectively accomplish the basic objective.
4.
Establishment of new maximum certificated weights.
An applicant for approval of new maximum certificated weights shall apply for an amendment of the airworthiness certificate of the airplane and shall show that the weights sought have been established, and the appropriate manual material obtained, as provided in this section.

# Note:
Transport category performance requirements result in the establishment of
maximum certificated weights for various altitudes.
(a)
Weights-25,200 to 26,900 for the DC-3 and 18,500 to 19,500 for the L-18.
New maximum certificated weights of more than 25,200 but not more than 26,900 pounds for DC-3 and more than 18,500 but not more than 19,500 pounds for L-18 airplanes may be established in accordance with the transport category performance requirements of either Part 4a or Part 4b, if the airplane at the new maximum weights can meet the structural requirements of the elected part.
(b)
Weights of more than 26,900 for the DC-3 and 19,500 for the L-18.
New maximum certificated weights of more than 26,900 pounds for DC-3 and 19,500 pounds for L-18 airplanes shall be established in accordance with the structural performance, flight characteristics, and ground handling requirements of Part 4b:
Provided,
That where literal compliance with the structural requirements of Part 4b is extremely difficult to accomplish and would not contribute materially to the objective sought, and the Administrator finds that the experience with the DC-3 or L-18 airplanes justifies it, he is authorized to accept such measures of compliance as he finds will effectively accomplish the basic objective.
(c)
Airplane flight manual-performance operating information.
An approved airplane flight manual shall be provided for each DC-3 and L-18 airplane which has had new maximum certificated weights established under this section. The airplane flight manual shall contain the applicable performance information prescribed in that part of the regulations under which the new certificated weights were established and such additional information as may be necessary to enable the application of the take-off, en route, and landing limitations prescribed for transport category airplanes in the operating parts of the Civil Air Regulations.
(d)
Performance operating limitations.
Each airplane for which new maximum certificated weights are established in accordance with paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be considered a transport category airplane for the purpose of complying with the performance operating limitations applicable to the operations in which it is utilized.
5.
Reference.
Unless otherwise provided, all references in this regulation to Part 4a and Part 4b are those parts of the Civil Air Regulations in effect on September 1, 1953.
This regulation supersedes Special Civil Air Regulation SR-398 and shall remain effective until superseded or rescinded by the Board.
[19 FR 5039, Aug. 11, 1954. Redesignated at 29 FR 19099, Dec. 30, 1964]
Pt. 25, SFAR No. 109

# Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 109
1.
Applicability.
Contrary provisions of 14 CFR parts 21, 25, and 119 of this chapter notwithstanding, an applicant is entitled to an amended type certificate or supplemental type certificate in the transport category, if the applicant complies with all applicable provisions of this SFAR.

# Operations
2.
General.
(a) The passenger capacity may not exceed 60. If more than 60 passenger seats are installed, then:
(1) If the extra seats are not suitable for occupancy during taxi, takeoff and landing, each extra seat must be clearly marked (e.g., a placard on the top of an armrest, or a placard sewn into the top of the back cushion) that the seat is not to be occupied during taxi, takeoff and landing.
(2) If the extra seats are suitable for occupancy during taxi, takeoff and landing (
i.e.,
meet all the strength and passenger injury criteria in part 25), then a note must be included in the Limitations Section of the Airplane Flight Manual that there are extra seats installed but that the number of passengers on the airplane must not exceed 60. Additionally, there must be a placard installed adjacent to each door that can be used as a passenger boarding door that states that the maximum passenger capacity is 60. The placard must be clearly legible to passengers entering the airplane.
(b) For airplanes outfitted with interior doors under paragraph 10 of this SFAR, the airplane flight manual (AFM) must include an appropriate limitation that the airplane must be staffed with at least the following number of flight attendants who meet the requirements of 14 CFR 91.533(b):
(1) The number of flight attendants required by § 91.533(a)(1) and (2) of this chapter, and
(2) At least one flight attendant if the airplane model was originally certified for 75 passengers or more.
(c) The AFM must include appropriate limitation(s) to require a preflight passenger briefing describing the appropriate functions to be performed by the passengers and the relevant features of the airplane to ensure the safety of the passengers and crew.
(d) The airplane may not be offered for common carriage or operated for hire. The operating limitations section of the AFM must be revised to prohibit any operations involving the carriage of persons or property for compensation or hire. The operators may receive remuneration to the extent consistent with parts 125 and 91, subpart F, of this chapter.
(e) A placard stating that “Operations involving the carriage of persons or property
for compensation or hire are prohibited,” must be located in the area of the Airworthiness Certificate holder at the entrance to the flightdeck.
(f) For passenger capacities of 45 to 60 passengers, analysis must be submitted that demonstrates that the airplane can be evacuated in less than 90 seconds under the conditions specified in § 25.803 and appendix J to part 25.
(g) In order for any airplane certified under this SFAR to be placed in part 135 or part 121 operations, the airplane must be brought back into full compliance with the applicable operational part.

# Equipment and Design
3.
General.
Unless otherwise noted, compliance is required with the applicable certification basis for the airplane. Some provisions of this SFAR impose alternative requirements to certain airworthiness standards that do not apply to airplanes certificated to earlier standards. Those airplanes with an earlier certification basis are not required to comply with those alternative requirements.
4.
Occupant Protection.
(a) Firm Handhold. In lieu of the requirements of § 25.785(j), there must be means provided to enable persons to steady themselves in moderately rough air while occupying aisles that are along the cabin sidewall, or where practicable, bordered by seats (seat backs providing a 25-pound minimum breakaway force are an acceptable means of compliance).
(b) Injury criteria for multiple occupancy side-facing seats. The following requirements are only applicable to airplanes that are subject to § 25.562.
(1)
Existing Criteria.
All injury protection criteria of § 25.562(c)(1) through (c)(6) apply to the occupants of side-facing seating. The Head Injury Criterion (HIC) assessments are only required for head contact with the seat and/or adjacent structures.
(2)
Body-to-Body Contact.
Contact between the head, pelvis, torso or shoulder area of one Anthropomorphic Test Dummy (ATD) with the head, pelvis, torso or shoulder area of the ATD in the adjacent seat is not allowed during the tests conducted in accordance with § 25.562(b)(1) and (b)(2). Contact during rebound is allowed.
(3)
Thoracic Trauma.
If the torso of an ATD at the forward-most seat place impacts the seat and/or adjacent structure during testing, compliance with the Thoracic Trauma Index (TTI) injury criterion must be substantiated by dynamic test or by rational analysis based on previous test(s) of a similar seat installation. TTI data must be acquired with a Side Impact Dummy (SID), as defined by 49 CFR part 572, subpart F, or an equivalent ATD or a more appropriate ATD and must be processed as defined in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS) part 571.214, section S6.13.5 (49 CFR 571.214). The TTI must be less than 85, as defined in 49 CFR part 572, subpart F. Torso contact during rebound is acceptable and need not be measured.
(4)
Pelvis.
If the pelvis of an ATD at any seat place impacts seat and/or adjacent structure during testing, pelvic lateral acceleration injury criteria must be substantiated by dynamic test or by rational analysis based on previous test(s) of a similar seat installation. Pelvic lateral acceleration may not exceed 130g. Pelvic acceleration data must be processed as defined in FMVSS part 571.214, section S6.13.5 (49 CFR 571.214).
(5)
Body-to-Wall/Furnishing Contact.
If the seat is installed aft of a structure—such as an interior wall or furnishing that may contact the pelvis, upper arm, chest, or head of an occupant seated next to the structure—the structure or a conservative representation of the structure and its stiffness must be included in the tests. It is recommended, but not required, that the contact surface of the actual structure be covered with at least two inches of energy absorbing protective padding (foam or equivalent) such as Ensolite.
(6)
Shoulder Strap Loads.
Where upper torso straps (shoulder straps) are used for sofa occupants, the tension loads in individual straps may not exceed 1,750 pounds. If dual straps are used for restraining the upper torso, the total strap tension loads may not exceed 2,000 pounds.
(7)
Occupant Retention.
All side-facing seats require end closures or other means to prevent the ATD's pelvis from translating beyond the end of the seat at any time during testing.
(8)
Test Parameters.
(i) All seat positions need to be occupied by ATDs for the longitudinal tests.
(ii) A minimum of one longitudinal test, conducted in accordance with the conditions specified in § 25.562(b)(2), is required to assess the injury criteria as follows. Note that if a seat is installed aft of structure (such as an interior wall or furnishing) that does not have a homogeneous surface, an additional test or tests may be required to demonstrate that the injury criteria are met for the area which an occupant could contact. For example, different yaw angles could result in different injury considerations and may require separate tests to evaluate.
(A) For configurations without structure (such as a wall or bulkhead) installed directly forward of the forward seat place, Hybrid II ATDs or equivalent must be in all seat places.
(B) For configurations with structure (such as a wall or bulkhead) installed directly forward of the forward seat place, a side impact dummy or equivalent ATD or more appropriate ATD must be in the forward seat place
and a Hybrid II ATD or equivalent must be in all other seat places.
(C) The test may be conducted with or without deformed floor.
(D) The test must be conducted with either no yaw or 10 degrees yaw for evaluating occupant injury. Deviating from the no yaw condition may not result in the critical area of contact not being evaluated. The upper torso restraint straps, where installed, must remain on the occupant's shoulder during the impact condition of § 25.562(b)(2).
(c) For the vertical test, conducted in accordance with the conditions specified in § 25.562(b)(1), Hybrid II ATDs or equivalent must be used in all seat positions.
5.
Direct View.
In lieu of the requirements of § 25.785(h)(2), to the extent practical without compromising proximity to a required floor level emergency exit, the majority of installed flight attendant seats must be located to face the cabin area for which the flight attendant is responsible.
6.
Passenger Information Signs.
Compliance with § 25.791 is required except that for § 25.791(a), when smoking is to be prohibited, notification to the passengers may be provided by a single placard so stating, to be conspicuously located inside the passenger compartment, easily visible to all persons entering the cabin in the immediate vicinity of each passenger entry door.
7.
Distance Between Exits.
For an airplane that is required to comply with § 25.807(f)(4), in effect as of July 24, 1989, which has more than one passenger emergency exit on each side of the fuselage, no passenger emergency exit may be more than 60 feet from any adjacent passenger emergency exit on the same side of the same deck of the fuselage, as measured parallel to the airplane's longitudinal axis between the nearest exit edges, unless the following conditions are met:
(a) Each passenger seat must be located within 30 feet from the nearest exit on each side of the fuselage, as measured parallel to the airplane's longitudinal axis, between the nearest exit edge and the front of the seat bottom cushion.
(b) The number of passenger seats located between two adjacent pairs of emergency exits (commonly referred to as a passenger zone) or between a pair of exits and a bulkhead or a compartment door (commonly referred to as a “dead-end zone”), may not exceed the following:
(1) For zones between two pairs of exits, 50 percent of the combined rated capacity of the two pairs of emergency exits.
(2) For zones between one pair of exits and a bulkhead, 40 percent of the rated capacity of the pair of emergency exits.
(c) The total number of passenger seats in the airplane may not exceed 33 percent of the maximum seating capacity for the airplane model using the exit ratings listed in § 25.807(g) for the original certified exits or the maximum allowable after modification when exits are deactivated, whichever is less.
(d) A distance of more than 60 feet between adjacent passenger emergency exits on the same side of the same deck of the fuselage, as measured parallel to the airplane's longitudinal axis between the nearest exit edges, is allowed only once on each side of the fuselage.
8.
Emergency Exit Signs.
In lieu of the requirements of § 25.811(d)(1) and (2) a single sign at each exit may be installed provided:
(a) The sign can be read from the aisle while directly facing the exit, and
(b) The sign can be read from the aisle adjacent to the passenger seat that is farthest from the exit and that does not have an intervening bulkhead/divider or exit.
9.
Emergency Lighting.
(a)
Exit Signs.
In lieu of the requirements of § 25.812(b)(1), for airplanes that have a passenger seating configuration, excluding pilot seats, of 19 seats or less, the emergency exit signs required by § 25.811(d)(1), (2), and (3) must have red letters at least 1-inch high on a white background at least 2 inches high. These signs may be internally electrically illuminated, or self illuminated by other than electrical means, with an initial brightness of at least 160 microlamberts. The color may be reversed in the case of a sign that is self-illuminated by other than electrical means.
(b)
Floor Proximity Escape Path Marking.
In lieu of the requirements of § 25.812(e)(1), for cabin seating compartments that do not have the main cabin aisle entering and exiting the compartment, the following are applicable:
(1) After a passenger leaves any passenger seat in the compartment, he/she must be able to exit the compartment to the main cabin aisle using only markings and visual features not more that 4 feet above the cabin floor, and
(2) Proceed to the exits using the marking system necessary to accomplish the actions in § 25.812(e)(1) and (e)(2).
(c)
Transverse Separation of the Fuselage.
In the event of a transverse separation of the fuselage, compliance must be shown with § 25.812(l) except as follows:
(1) For each airplane type originally type certificated with a maximum passenger seating capacity of 9 or less, not more than 50 percent of all electrically illuminated emergency lights required by § 25.812 may be rendered inoperative in addition to the lights that are directly damaged by the separation.
(2) For each airplane type originally type certificated with a maximum passenger seating capacity of 10 to 19, not more than 33 percent of all electrically illuminated emergency lights required by § 25.812 may be rendered inoperative in addition to the lights that are directly damaged by the separation.
10.
Interior doors.
In lieu of the requirements of § 25.813(e), interior doors may be installed between passenger seats and exits, provided the following requirements are met.
(a) Each door between any passenger seat, occupiable for taxi, takeoff, and landing, and any emergency exit must have a means to signal to the flightcrew, at the flightdeck, that the door is in the open position for taxi, takeoff and landing.
(b) Appropriate procedures/limitations must be established to ensure that any such door is in the open configuration for takeoff and landing.
(c) Each door between any passenger seat and any exit must have dual means to retain it in the open position, each of which is capable of reacting the inertia loads specified in § 25.561.
(d) Doors installed across a longitudinal aisle must translate laterally to open and close, e.g., pocket doors.
(e) Each door between any passenger seat and any exit must be frangible in either direction.
(f) Each door between any passenger seat and any exit must be operable from either side, and if a locking mechanism is installed, it must be capable of being unlocked from either side without the use of special tools.
11.
Width of Aisle.
Compliance is required with § 25.815, except that aisle width may be reduced to 0 inches between passenger seats during in-flight operations only, provided that the applicant demonstrates that all areas of the cabin are easily accessible by a crew member in the event of an emergency (e.g., in-flight fire, decompression). Additionally, instructions must be provided at each passenger seat for restoring the aisle width required by § 25.815. Procedures must be established and documented in the AFM to ensure that the required aisle widths are provided during taxi, takeoff, and landing.
12.
Materials for Compartment Interiors.
Compliance is required with the applicable provisions of § 25.853, except that compliance with appendix F, parts IV and V, to part 25, need not be demonstrated if it can be shown by test or a combination of test and analysis that the maximum time for evacuation of all occupants does not exceed 45 seconds under the conditions specified in appendix J to part 25.
13.
Fire Detection.
For airplanes with a type certificated passenger capacity of 20 or more, there must be means that meet the requirements of § 25.858(a) through (d) to signal the flightcrew in the event of a fire in any isolated room not occupiable for taxi, takeoff and landing, which can be closed off from the rest of the cabin by a door. The indication must identify the compartment where the fire is located. This does not apply to lavatories, which continue to be governed by § 25.854.
14.
Cooktops.
Each cooktop must be designed and installed to minimize any potential threat to the airplane, passengers, and crew. Compliance with this requirement must be found in accordance with the following criteria:
(a) Means, such as conspicuous burner-on indicators, physical barriers, or handholds, must be installed to minimize the potential for inadvertent personnel contact with hot surfaces of both the cooktop and cookware. Conditions of turbulence must be considered.
(b) Sufficient design means must be included to restrain cookware while in place on the cooktop, as well as representative contents, e.g., soup, sauces, etc., from the effects of flight loads and turbulence. Restraints must be provided to preclude hazardous movement of cookware and contents. These restraints must accommodate any cookware that is identified for use with the cooktop. Restraints must be designed to be easily utilized and effective in service. The cookware restraint system should also be designed so that it will not be easily disabled, thus rendering it unusable. Placarding must be installed which prohibits the use of cookware that cannot be accommodated by the restraint system.
(c) Placarding must be installed which prohibits the use of cooktops (i.e., power on any burner) during taxi, takeoff, and landing.
(d) Means must be provided to address the possibility of a fire occurring on or in the immediate vicinity of the cooktop. Two acceptable means of complying with this requirement are as follows:
(1) Placarding must be installed that prohibits any burner from being powered when the cooktop is unattended. (
Note
: This would prohibit a single person from cooking on the cooktop and intermittently serving food to passengers while any burner is powered.) A fire detector must be installed in the vicinity of the cooktop which provides an audible warning in the passenger cabin, and a fire extinguisher of appropriate size and extinguishing agent must be installed in the immediate vicinity of the cooktop. Access to the extinguisher may not be blocked by a fire on or around the cooktop.
(2) An automatic, thermally activated fire suppression system must be installed to extinguish a fire at the cooktop and immediately adjacent surfaces. The agent used in the system must be an approved total flooding agent suitable for use in an occupied area. The fire suppression system must have a manual override. The automatic activation of the fire suppression system must also automatically shut off power to the cooktop.
(e) The surfaces of the galley surrounding the cooktop which would be exposed to a fire on the cooktop surface or in cookware on the cooktop must be constructed of materials that comply with the flammability requirements of part III of appendix F to part 25.
This requirement is in addition to the flammability requirements typically required of the materials in these galley surfaces. During the selection of these materials, consideration must also be given to ensure that the flammability characteristics of the materials will not be adversely affected by the use of cleaning agents and utensils used to remove cooking stains.
(f) The cooktop must be ventilated with a system independent of the airplane cabin and cargo ventilation system. Procedures and time intervals must be established to inspect and clean or replace the ventilation system to prevent a fire hazard from the accumulation of flammable oils and be included in the instructions for continued airworthiness. The ventilation system ducting must be protected by a flame arrestor. [
Note
: The applicant may find additional useful information in Society of Automotive Engineers, Aerospace Recommended Practice 85, Rev. E, entitled “Air Conditioning Systems for Subsonic Airplanes,” dated August 1, 1991.]
(g) Means must be provided to contain spilled foods or fluids in a manner that will prevent the creation of a slipping hazard to occupants and will not lead to the loss of structural strength due to airplane corrosion.
(h) Cooktop installations must provide adequate space for the user to immediately escape a hazardous cooktop condition.
(i) A means to shut off power to the cooktop must be provided at the galley containing the cooktop and in the cockpit. If additional switches are introduced in the cockpit, revisions to smoke or fire emergency procedures of the AFM will be required.
(j) If the cooktop is required to have a lid to enclose the cooktop there must be a means to automatically shut off power to the cooktop when the lid is closed.
15.
Hand-Held Fire Extinguishers.
(a) For airplanes that were originally type certificated with more than 60 passengers, the number of hand-held fire extinguishers must be the greater of—
(1) That provided in accordance with the requirements of § 25.851, or
(2) A number equal to the number of originally type certificated exit pairs, regardless of whether the exits are deactivated for the proposed configuration.
(b) Extinguishers must be evenly distributed throughout the cabin. These extinguishers are in addition to those required by paragraph 14 of this SFAR, unless it can be shown that the cooktop was installed in the immediate vicinity of the original exits.
16.
Security.
The requirements of § 25.795 are not applicable to airplanes approved in accordance with this SFAR.
[Doc. No. FAA-2007-28250, 74 FR 21541, May 8, 2009]

# Subpart A—General
§ 25.1
Applicability.
(a) This part prescribes airworthiness standards for the issue of type certificates, and changes to those certificates, for transport category airplanes.
(b) Each person who applies under Part 21 for such a certificate or change must show compliance with the applicable requirements in this part.
§ 25.2
Special retroactive requirements.
The following special retroactive requirements are applicable to an airplane for which the regulations referenced in the type certificate predate the sections specified below—
(a) Irrespective of the date of application, each applicant for a supplemental type certificate (or an amendment to a type certificate) involving an increase in passenger seating capacity to a total greater than that for which the airplane has been type certificated must show that the airplane concerned meets the requirements of:
(1) Sections 25.721(d), 25.783(g), 25.785(c), 25.803(c)(2) through (9), 25.803 (d) and (e), 25.807 (a), (c), and (d), 25.809 (f) and (h), 25.811, 25.812, 25.813 (a), (b), and (c), 25.815, 25.817, 25.853 (a) and (b), 25.855(a), 25.993(f), and 25.1359(c) in effect on October 24, 1967, and
(2) Sections 25.803(b) and 25.803(c)(1) in effect on April 23, 1969.
(b) Irrespective of the date of application, each applicant for a supplemental type certificate (or an amendment to a type certificate) for an airplane manufactured after October 16, 1987, must show that the airplane meets the requirements of § 25.807(c)(7) in effect on July 24, 1989.
(c) Compliance with subsequent revisions to the sections specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may be elected or may be required in accordance with § 21.101(a) of this chapter.
[Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29773, July 20, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 25-99, 65 FR 36266, June 7, 2000]
§ 25.3
Special provisions for ETOPS type design approvals.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to an applicant for ETOPS type design approval of an airplane:
(1) That has an existing type certificate on February 15, 2007; or
(2) For which an application for an original type certificate was submitted before February 15, 2007.
(b)
Airplanes with two engines.
(1) For ETOPS type design approval of an airplane up to and including 180 minutes, an applicant must comply with § 25.1535, except that it need not comply with the following provisions of Appendix K, K25.1.4, of this part:
(i) K25.1.4(a), fuel system pressure and flow requirements;
(ii) K25.1.4(a)(3), low fuel alerting; and
(iii) K25.1.4(c), engine oil tank design.
(2) For ETOPS type design approval of an airplane beyond 180 minutes an applicant must comply with § 25.1535.
(c)
Airplanes with more than two engines.
An applicant for ETOPS type design approval must comply with § 25.1535 for an airplane manufactured on or after February 17, 2015, except that, for an airplane configured for a three person flight crew, the applicant need not comply with Appendix K, K25.1.4(a)(3), of this part, low fuel alerting.
[Doc. No. FAA-2002-6717, 72 FR 1873, Jan. 16, 2007]
§ 25.4
Definitions.
(a) For the purposes of this part, the following general definitions apply:
(1)
Certification maintenance requirement
means a required scheduled maintenance task established during the design certification of the airplane systems as an airworthiness limitation of the type certificate or supplemental type certificate.
(2)
Significant latent failure
is a latent failure that, in combination with one or more specific failures or events, would result in a hazardous or catastrophic failure condition.
(b) For purposes of this part, the following failure conditions, in order of increasing severity, apply:
(1)
Major failure condition
means a failure condition that would reduce the capability of the airplane or the ability of the flightcrew to cope with adverse operating conditions, to the extent that there would be—
(i) A significant reduction in safety margins or functional capabilities,
(ii) A physical discomfort or a significant increase in flightcrew workload or in conditions impairing the efficiency of the flightcrew,
(iii) Physical distress to passengers or cabin crew, possibly including injuries, or
(iv) An effect of similar severity.
(2)
Hazardous failure condition
means a failure condition that would reduce the capability of the airplane or the ability of the flightcrew to cope with adverse operating conditions, to the extent that there would be—
(i) A large reduction in safety margins or functional capabilities,
(ii) Physical distress or excessive workload such that the flightcrew cannot be relied upon to perform their tasks accurately or completely, or
(iii) Serious or fatal injuries to a relatively small number of persons other than the flightcrew.
(3)
Catastrophic failure condition
means a failure condition that would result in multiple fatalities, usually with the loss of the airplane.
(c) For purposes of this part, the following failure conditions in order of decreasing probability apply:
(1)
Probable failure condition
means a failure condition that is anticipated to occur one or more times during the entire operational life of each airplane of a given type.
(2)
Remote failure condition
means a failure condition that is not anticipated to occur to each airplane of a given type during its entire operational life, but which may occur several times during the total operational life of a number of airplanes of a given type.
(3)
Extremely remote failure condition
means a failure condition that is not anticipated to occur to each airplane of a given type during its entire operational life, but which may occur a few times during the total operational life of all airplanes of a given type.
(4)
Extremely improbable failure condition
means a failure condition that is not anticipated to occur during the total operational life of all airplanes of a given type.
[Doc. No. FAA-2022-1544, 89 FR 68731, Aug. 27, 2024]
§ 25.5
Incorporations by reference.
(a) The materials listed in this section are incorporated by reference in the corresponding sections noted. These incorporations by reference were approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These materials are incorporated as they exist on the date of the approval, and notice of any change in these materials will be published in the
Federal Register.
The materials are available for purchase at the corresponding addresses noted below, and all are available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
(b) The following materials are available for purchase from the following address: The National Technical Information Services (NTIS), Springfield, Virginia 22166.
(1) Fuel Tank Flammability Assessment Method User's Manual, dated May 2008, document number DOT/FAA/AR-05/8, IBR approved for § 25.981 and Appendix N. It can also be obtained at the following Web site:
http://www.fire.tc.faa.gov/systems/fueltank/FTFAM.stm.
(2) [Reserved]
[73 FR 42494, July 21, 2008, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]

# Subpart B—Flight

# General
§ 25.21
Proof of compliance.
(a) Each requirement of this subpart must be met at each appropriate combination of weight and center of gravity within the range of loading conditions for which certification is requested. This must be shown—
(1) By tests upon an airplane of the type for which certification is requested, or by calculations based on, and equal in accuracy to, the results of testing; and
(2) By systematic investigation of each probable combination of weight and center of gravity, if compliance cannot be reasonably inferred from combinations investigated.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) The controllability, stability, trim, and stalling characteristics of the airplane must be shown for each altitude up to the maximum expected in operation.
(d) Parameters critical for the test being conducted, such as weight, loading (center of gravity and inertia), airspeed, power, and wind, must be maintained within acceptable tolerances of the critical values during flight testing.
(e) If compliance with the flight characteristics requirements is dependent upon a stability augmentation system or upon any other automatic or power-operated system, compliance must be shown with §§ 25.671 and 25.672.
(f) In meeting the requirements of §§ 25.105(d), 25.125, 25.233, and 25.237, the wind velocity must be measured at a height of 10 meters above the surface, or corrected for the difference between the height at which the wind velocity is measured and the 10-meter height.
(g) The requirements of this subpart associated with icing conditions apply only if the applicant is seeking certification for flight in icing conditions.
(1) Paragraphs (g)(3) and (4) of this section apply only to airplanes with one or both of the following attributes:
(i) Maximum takeoff gross weight is less than 60,000 lbs; or
(ii) The airplane is equipped with reversible flight controls.
(2) Each requirement of this subpart, except §§ 25.121(a), 25.123(c), 25.143(b)(1) and (2), 25.149, 25.201(c)(2), 25.239, and 25.251(b) through (e), must be met in the icing conditions specified in Appendix C of this part. Section 25.207(c) and (d) must be met in the landing configuration in the icing conditions specified in Appendix C, but need not be met for other configurations. Compliance must be shown using the ice accretions defined in part II of Appendix C of this part, assuming normal operation of the airplane and its ice protection system in accordance with the operating limitations and operating procedures established by the applicant and provided in the airplane flight manual.
(3) If the applicant does not seek certification for flight in all icing conditions defined in Appendix O of this part, each requirement of this subpart, except §§ 25.105, 25.107, 25.109, 25.111, 25.113, 25.115, 25.121, 25.123, 25.143(b)(1), (b)(2), and (c)(1), 25.149, 25.201(c)(2), 25.207(c), (d), and (e)(1), 25.239, and 25.251(b) through (e), must be met in the Appendix O icing conditions for which certification is not sought in order to allow a safe exit from those conditions. Compliance must be shown using the ice accretions defined in part II, paragraphs (b) and (d) of Appendix O, assuming normal operation of the airplane and its ice protection system in accordance with the operating limitations and operating procedures established by the applicant and provided in the airplane flight manual.
(4) If the applicant seeks certification for flight in any portion of the icing conditions of Appendix O of this part, each requirement of this subpart, except §§ 25.121(a), 25.123(c), 25.143(b)(1) and (2), 25.149, 25.201(c)(2), 25.239, and 25.251(b) through (e), must be met in the Appendix O icing conditions for which certification is sought. Section 25.207(c) and (d) must be met in the landing configuration in the Appendix O icing conditions for which certification is sought, but need not be met for other configurations. Compliance must be shown using the ice accretions defined in part II, paragraphs (c) and (d) of Appendix O, assuming normal operation of the airplane and its ice protection system in accordance with the operating limitations and operating procedures established by the applicant and provided in the airplane flight manual.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5671, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2320, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29774, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44665, Aug. 8, 2007 Amdt. 25-135, 76 FR 74654, Dec. 1, 2011; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65524, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.23
Load distribution limits.
(a) Ranges of weights and centers of gravity within which the airplane may be safely operated must be established. If a weight and center of gravity combination is allowable only within certain load distribution limits (such as spanwise) that could be inadvertently exceeded, these limits and the corresponding weight and center of gravity combinations must be established.
(b) The load distribution limits may not exceed—
(1) The selected limits;
(2) The limits at which the structure is proven; or
(3) The limits at which compliance with each applicable flight requirement of this subpart is shown.
§ 25.25
Weight limits.
(a)
Maximum weights.
Maximum weights corresponding to the airplane operating conditions (such as ramp, ground or water taxi, takeoff, en route, and landing), environmental conditions (such as altitude and temperature), and loading conditions (such as zero fuel weight, center of gravity position and weight distribution) must be established so that they are not more than—
(1) The highest weight selected by the applicant for the particular conditions; or
(2) The highest weight at which compliance with each applicable structural loading and flight requirement is shown, except that for airplanes equipped with standby power rocket engines the maximum weight must not be more than the highest weight established in accordance with appendix E of this part; or
(3) The highest weight at which compliance is shown with the certification requirements of Part 36 of this chapter.
(b)
Minimum weight.
The minimum weight (the lowest weight at which compliance with each applicable requirement of this part is shown) must be established so that it is not less than—
(1) The lowest weight selected by the applicant;
(2) The design minimum weight (the lowest weight at which compliance with each structural loading condition of this part is shown); or
(3) The lowest weight at which compliance with each applicable flight requirement is shown.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5671, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-63, 53 FR 16365, May 6, 1988]
§ 25.27
Center of gravity limits.
The extreme forward and the extreme aft center of gravity limitations must be established for each practicably separable operating condition. No such limit may lie beyond—
(a) The extremes selected by the applicant;
(b) The extremes within which the structure is proven; or
(c) The extremes within which compliance with each applicable flight requirement is shown.
§ 25.29
Empty weight and corresponding center of gravity.
(a) The empty weight and corresponding center of gravity must be determined by weighing the airplane with—
(1) Fixed ballast;
(2) Unusable fuel determined under § 25.959; and
(3) Full operating fluids, including—
(i) Oil;
(ii) Hydraulic fluid; and
(iii) Other fluids required for normal operation of airplane systems, except potable water, lavatory precharge water, and fluids intended for injection in the engine.
(b) The condition of the airplane at the time of determining empty weight must be one that is well defined and can be easily repeated.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2320, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29774, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.31
Removable ballast.
Removable ballast may be used on showing compliance with the flight requirements of this subpart.
§ 25.33
Propeller speed and pitch limits.
(a) The propeller speed and pitch must be limited to values that will ensure—
(1) Safe operation under normal operating conditions; and
(2) Compliance with the performance requirements of §§ 25.101 through 25.125.
(b) There must be a propeller speed limiting means at the governor. It must limit the maximum possible governed engine speed to a value not exceeding the maximum allowable r.p.m.
(c) The means used to limit the low pitch position of the propeller blades must be set so that the engine does not exceed 103 percent of the maximum allowable engine rpm or 99 percent of an approved maximum overspeed, whichever is greater, with—
(1) The propeller blades at the low pitch limit and governor inoperative;
(2) The airplane stationary under standard atmospheric conditions with no wind; and
(3) The engines operating at the takeoff manifold pressure limit for reciprocating engine powered airplanes or the maximum takeoff torque limit for turbopropeller engine-powered airplanes.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6848, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29774, July 20, 1990]

# Performance
§ 25.101
General.
(a) Unless otherwise prescribed, airplanes must meet the applicable performance requirements of this subpart for ambient atmospheric conditions and still air.
(b) The performance, as affected by engine power or thrust, must be based on the following relative humidities;
(1) For turbine engine powered airplanes, a relative humidity of—
(i) 80 percent, at and below standard temperatures; and
(ii) 34 percent, at and above standard temperatures plus 50 °F.
Between these two temperatures, the relative humidity must vary linearly.
(2) For reciprocating engine powered airplanes, a relative humidity of 80 percent in a standard atmosphere. Engine power corrections for vapor pressure must be made in accordance with the following table:
Altitude
H
(
ft.
)
Vapor
pressure
e
(In. Hg.)
Specific humidity
w
(Lb. moisture per lb. dry air)
Density ratio
ρ / σ = 0.0023769
0
0.403
0.00849
0.99508
1,000
.354
.00773
.96672
2,000
.311
.00703
.93895
3,000
.272
.00638
.91178
4,000
.238
.00578
.88514
5,000
.207
.00523
.85910
6,000
.1805
.00472
.83361
7,000
.1566
.00425
.80870
8,000
.1356
.00382
.78434
9,000
.1172
.00343
.76053
10,000
.1010
.00307
.73722
15,000
.0463
.001710
.62868
20,000
.01978
.000896
.53263
25,000
.00778
.000436
.44806
(c) The performance must correspond to the propulsive thrust available under the particular ambient atmospheric conditions, the particular flight condition, and the relative humidity specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The available propulsive thrust must correspond to engine power or thrust, not exceeding the approved power or thrust less—
(1) Installation losses; and
(2) The power or equivalent thrust absorbed by the accessories and services appropriate to the particular ambient atmospheric conditions and the particular flight condition.
(d) Unless otherwise prescribed, the applicant must select the takeoff, en route, approach, and landing configurations for the airplane.
(e) The airplane configurations may vary with weight, altitude, and temperature, to the extent they are compatible with the operating procedures required by paragraph (f) of this section.
(f) Unless otherwise prescribed, in determining the accelerate-stop distances, takeoff flight paths, takeoff distances, and landing distances, changes in the airplane's configuration, speed, power, and thrust, must be made in accordance with procedures established by the applicant for operation in service.
(g) Procedures for the execution of balked landings and missed approaches associated with the conditions prescribed in §§ 25.119 and 25.121(d) must be established.
(h) The procedures established under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section must—
(1) Be able to be consistently executed in service by crews of average skill;
(2) Use methods or devices that are safe and reliable; and
(3) Include allowance for any time delays, in the execution of the procedures, that may reasonably be expected in service.
(i) The accelerate-stop and landing distances prescribed in §§ 25.109 and 25.125, respectively, must be determined with all the airplane wheel brake assemblies at the fully worn limit of their allowable wear range.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55466, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-92, 63 FR 8318, Feb. 18, 1998]
§ 25.103
Stall speed.
(a) The reference stall speed, V
SR
, is a calibrated airspeed defined by the applicant. V
SR
may not be less than a 1-g stall speed. V
SR
is expressed as:
ER26NO02.001
where:
V
CL
MAX
= Calibrated airspeed obtained when the load factor-corrected lift coefficient
ER26NO02.002
is first a maximum during the maneuver prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. In addition, when the maneuver is limited by a device that abruptly pushes the nose down at a selected angle of attack (e.g., a stick pusher), V
CL
MAX
may not be less than the speed existing at the instant the device operates;
n
ZW
= Load factor normal to the flight path at V
CL
MAX
W = Airplane gross weight;
S = Aerodynamic reference wing area; and
q = Dynamic pressure.
(b) V
CL
MAX
is determined with:
(1) Engines idling, or, if that resultant thrust causes an appreciable decrease in stall speed, not more than zero thrust at the stall speed;
(2) Propeller pitch controls (if applicable) in the takeoff position;
(3) The airplane in other respects (such as flaps, landing gear, and ice accretions) in the condition existing in the test or performance standard in which V
SR
is being used;
(4) The weight used when V
SR
is being used as a factor to determine compliance with a required performance standard;
(5) The center of gravity position that results in the highest value of reference stall speed; and
(6) The airplane trimmed for straight flight at a speed selected by the applicant, but not less than 1.13V
SR
and not greater than 1.3V
SR
.
(c) Starting from the stabilized trim condition, apply the longitudinal control to decelerate the airplane so that the speed reduction does not exceed one knot per second.
(d) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, when a device that abruptly pushes the nose down at a selected angle of attack (e.g., a stick pusher) is installed, the reference stall speed, V
SR
, may not be less than 2 knots or 2 percent, whichever is greater, above the speed at which the device operates.
[Doc. No. 28404, 67 FR 70825, Nov. 26, 2002, as amended by Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44665, Aug. 8, 2007]
§ 25.105
Takeoff.
(a) The takeoff speeds prescribed by § 25.107, the accelerate-stop distance prescribed by § 25.109, the takeoff path prescribed by § 25.111, the takeoff distance and takeoff run prescribed by § 25.113, and the net takeoff flight path prescribed by § 25.115, must be determined in the selected configuration for takeoff at each weight, altitude, and ambient temperature within the operational limits selected by the applicant—
(1) In non-icing conditions; and
(2) In icing conditions, if in the configuration used to show compliance with § 25.121(b), and with the most critical of the takeoff ice accretion(s) defined in appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g):
(i) The stall speed at maximum takeoff weight exceeds that in non-icing conditions by more than the greater of 3 knots CAS or 3 percent of V
SR
; or
(ii) The degradation of the gradient of climb determined in accordance with § 25.121(b) is greater than one-half of the applicable actual-to-net takeoff flight path gradient reduction defined in § 25.115(b).
(b) No takeoff made to determine the data required by this section may require exceptional piloting skill or alertness.
(c) The takeoff data must be based on—
(1) In the case of land planes and amphibians:
(i) Smooth, dry and wet, hard-surfaced runways; and
(ii) At the option of the applicant, grooved or porous friction course wet, hard-surfaced runways.
(2) Smooth water, in the case of seaplanes and amphibians; and
(3) Smooth, dry snow, in the case of skiplanes.
(d) The takeoff data must include, within the established operational limits of the airplane, the following operational correction factors:
(1) Not more than 50 percent of nominal wind components along the takeoff path opposite to the direction of takeoff, and not less than 150 percent of nominal wind components along the takeoff path in the direction of takeoff.
(2) Effective runway gradients.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-92, 63 FR 8318, Feb. 18, 1998; Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44665, Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.107
Takeoff speeds.
(a) V
1
must be established in relation to V
EF
as follows:
(1) V
EF
is the calibrated airspeed at which the critical engine is assumed to fail. V
EF
must be selected by the applicant, but may not be less than V
MCG
determined under § 25.149(e).
(2) V
1
, in terms of calibrated airspeed, is selected by the applicant; however, V
1
may not be less than V
EF
plus the speed gained with critical engine inoperative during the time interval between the instant at which the critical engine is failed, and the instant at which the pilot recognizes and reacts to the engine failure, as indicated by the pilot's initiation of the first action (e.g., applying brakes, reducing thrust, deploying speed brakes) to stop the airplane during accelerate-stop tests.
(b)
V
2MIN,
in terms of calibrated airspeed, may not be less than—
(1) 1.13
V
SR
for—
(i) Two-engine and three-engine turbopropeller and reciprocating engine powered airplanes; and
(ii) Turbojet powered airplanes without provisions for obtaining a significant reduction in the one-engine-inoperative power-on stall speed;
(2) 1.08
V
SR
for—
(i) Turbopropeller and reciprocating engine powered airplanes with more than three engines; and
(ii) Turbojet powered airplanes with provisions for obtaining a significant reduction in the one-engine-inoperative power-on stall speed; and
(3) 1.10 times
V
MC
established under § 25.149.
(c)
V
2
, in terms of calibrated airspeed, must be selected by the applicant to provide at least the gradient of climb required by § 25.121(b) but may not be less than—
(1) V
2MIN
;
(2)
V
R
plus the speed increment attained (in accordance with § 25.111(c)(2)) before reaching a height of 35 feet above the takeoff surface; and
(3) A speed that provides the maneuvering capability specified in § 25.143(h).
(d) V
MU
is the calibrated airspeed at and above which the airplane can safely lift off the ground, and con- tinue the takeoff. V
MU
speeds must be selected by the applicant throughout the range of thrust-to-weight ratios to be certificated. These speeds may be established from free air data if these data are verified by ground takeoff tests.
(e)
V
R,
in terms of calibrated airspeed, must be selected in accordance with the conditions of paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1)
V
R
may not be less than—
(i)
V
1
;
(ii) 105 percent of
V
MC
;
(iii) The speed (determined in accordance with § 25.111(c)(2)) that allows reaching
V
2
before reaching a height of 35 feet above the takeoff surface; or
(iv) A speed that, if the airplane is rotated at its maximum practicable rate, will result in a V
LOF
of not less than —
(A) 110 percent of V
MU
in the all-engines-operating condition, and 105 percent of V
MU
determined at the thrust-to-weight ratio corresponding to the one-engine-inoperative condition; or
(B) If the V
MU
attitude is limited by the geometry of the airplane (
i.e.,
tail contact with the runway), 108 percent of V
MU
in the all-engines-operating condition, and 104 percent of V
MU
determined at the thrust-to-weight ratio corresponding to the one-engine-inoperative condition.
(2) For any given set of conditions (such as weight, configuration, and temperature), a single value of
V
R,
obtained in accordance with this paragraph, must be used to show compliance with both the one-engine-inoperative and the all-engines-operating takeoff provisions.
(3) It must be shown that the one-engine-inoperative takeoff distance, using a rotation speed of 5 knots less than
V
R
established in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, does not exceed the corresponding one-engine-inoperative takeoff distance using the established
V
R
. The takeoff distances must be determined in accordance with § 25.113(a)(1).
(4) Reasonably expected variations in service from the established takeoff procedures for the operation of the airplane (such as over-rotation of the airplane and out-of-trim conditions) may not result in unsafe flight characteristics or in marked increases in the scheduled takeoff distances established in accordance with § 25.113(a).
(f)
V
LOF
is the calibrated airspeed at which the airplane first becomes airborne.
(g)
V
FTO
, in terms of calibrated airspeed, must be selected by the applicant to provide at least the gradient of climb required by § 25.121(c), but may not be less than—
(1) 1.18
V
SR
; and
(2) A speed that provides the maneuvering capability specified in § 25.143(h).
(h) In determining the takeoff speeds V
1
, V
R
, and V
2
for flight in icing conditions, the values of V
MCG
, V
MC
, and V
MU
determined for non-icing conditions may be used.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55466, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2320, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-92, 63 FR 8318, Feb. 18, 1998; Amdt. 25-94, 63 FR 8848, Feb. 23, 1998; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70826, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44665, Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-135, 76 FR 74654, Dec. 1, 2011]
§ 25.109
Accelerate-stop distance.
(a) The accelerate-stop distance on a dry runway is the greater of the following distances:
(1) The sum of the distances necessary to—
(i) Accelerate the airplane from a standing start with all engines operating to V
EF
for takeoff from a dry runway;
(ii) Allow the airplane to accelerate from V
EF
to the highest speed reached during the rejected takeoff, assuming the critical engine fails at V
EF
and the pilot takes the first action to reject the takeoff at the V
1
for takeoff from a dry runway; and
(iii) Come to a full stop on a dry runway from the speed reached as prescribed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section; plus
(iv) A distance equivalent to 2 seconds at the V
1
for takeoff from a dry runway.
(2) The sum of the distances necessary to—
(i) Accelerate the airplane from a standing start with all engines operating to the highest speed reached during the rejected takeoff, assuming the pilot takes the first action to reject the takeoff at the V
1
for takeoff from a dry runway; and
(ii) With all engines still operating, come to a full stop on dry runway from the speed reached as prescribed in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section; plus
(iii) A distance equivalent to 2 seconds at the V
1
for takeoff from a dry runway.
(b) The accelerate-stop distance on a wet runway is the greater of the following distances:
(1) The accelerate-stop distance on a dry runway determined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) The accelerate-stop distance determined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, except that the runway is wet and the corresponding wet runway values of V
EF
and V
1
are used. In determining the wet runway accelerate-stop distance, the stopping force from the wheel brakes may never exceed:
(i) The wheel brakes stopping force determined in meeting the requirements of § 25.101(i) and paragraph (a) of this section; and
(ii) The force resulting from the wet runway braking coefficient of friction determined in accordance with paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, as applicable, taking into account the distribution of the normal load between braked and unbraked wheels at the most adverse center-of-gravity position approved for takeoff.
(c) The wet runway braking coefficient of friction for a smooth wet runway is defined as a curve of friction coefficient versus ground speed and must be computed as follows:
(1) The maximum tire-to-ground wet runway braking coefficient of friction is defined as:
ER18FE98.004
Where—
Tire Pressure = maximum airplane operating tire pressure (psi);
μ
t/gMAX
= maximum tire-to-ground braking coefficient;
V = airplane true ground speed (knots); and
Linear interpolation may be used for tire pressures other than those listed.
(2) The maximum tire-to-ground wet runway braking coefficient of friction must be adjusted to take into account the efficiency of the anti-skid system on a wet runway. Anti-skid system operation must be demonstrated by flight testing on a smooth wet runway, and
its efficiency must be determined. Unless a specific anti-skid system efficiency is determined from a quantitative analysis of the flight testing on a smooth wet runway, the maximum tire-to-ground wet runway braking coefficient of friction determined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be multiplied by the efficiency value associated with the type of anti-skid system installed on the airplane:
Type of anti-skid system
Efficiency value
On-Off
0.30
Quasi-Modulating
0.50
Fully Modulating
0.80
(d) At the option of the applicant, a higher wet runway braking coefficient of friction may be used for runway surfaces that have been grooved or treated with a porous friction course material. For grooved and porous friction course runways, the wet runway braking coefficent of friction is defined as either:
(1) 70 percent of the dry runway braking coefficient of friction used to determine the dry runway accelerate-stop distance; or
(2) The wet runway braking coefficient defined in paragraph (c) of this section, except that a specific anti-skid system efficiency, if determined, is appropriate for a grooved or porous friction course wet runway, and the maximum tire-to-ground wet runway braking coefficient of friction is defined as:
ER18FE98.005
Where—
Tire Pressure = maximum airplane operating tire pressure (psi);
μ
t/gMAX
= maximum tire-to-ground braking coefficient;
V = airplane true ground speed (knots); and
Linear interpolation may be used for tire pressures other than those listed.
(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, means other than wheel brakes may be used to determine the accelerate-stop distance if that means—
(1) Is safe and reliable;
(2) Is used so that consistent results can be expected under normal operating conditions; and
(3) Is such that exceptional skill is not required to control the airplane.
(f) The effects of available reverse thrust—
(1) Shall not be included as an additional means of deceleration when determining the accelerate-stop distance on a dry runway; and
(2) May be included as an additional means of deceleration using recommended reverse thrust procedures when determining the accelerate-stop distance on a wet runway, provided the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section are met.
(g) The landing gear must remain extended throughout the accelerate-stop distance.
(h) If the accelerate-stop distance includes a stopway with surface characteristics substantially different from those of the runway, the takeoff data must include operational correction
factors for the accelerate-stop distance. The correction factors must account for the particular surface characteristics of the stopway and the variations in these characteristics with seasonal weather conditions (such as temperature, rain, snow, and ice) within the established operational limits.
(i) A flight test demonstration of the maximum brake kinetic energy accelerate-stop distance must be conducted with not more than 10 percent of the allowable brake wear range remaining on each of the airplane wheel brakes.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2321, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-92, 63 FR 8318, Feb. 18, 1998]
§ 25.111
Takeoff path.
(a) The takeoff path extends from a standing start to a point in the takeoff at which the airplane is 1,500 feet above the takeoff surface, or at which the transition from the takeoff to the en route configuration is completed and V
FTO
is reached, whichever point is higher. In addition—
(1) The takeoff path must be based on the procedures prescribed in § 25.101(f);
(2) The airplane must be accelerated on the ground to
V
EF,
at which point the critical engine must be made inoperative and remain inoperative for the rest of the takeoff; and
(3) After reaching
V
EF,
the airplane must be accelerated to
V
2
.
(b) During the acceleration to speed
V
2
, the nose gear may be raised off the ground at a speed not less than
V
R
. However, landing gear retraction may not be begun until the airplane is airborne.
(c) During the takeoff path determination in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section—
(1) The slope of the airborne part of the takeoff path must be positive at each point;
(2) The airplane must reach
V
2
before it is 35 feet above the takeoff surface and must continue at a speed as close as practical to, but not less than
V
2
, until it is 400 feet above the takeoff surface;
(3) At each point along the takeoff path, starting at the point at which the airplane reaches 400 feet above the takeoff surface, the available gradient of climb may not be less than—
(i) 1.2 percent for two-engine airplanes;
(ii) 1.5 percent for three-engine airplanes; and
(iii) 1.7 percent for four-engine airplanes.
(4) The airplane configuration may not be changed, except for gear retraction and automatic propeller feathering, and no change in power or thrust that requires action by the pilot may be made until the airplane is 400 feet above the takeoff surface; and
(5) If § 25.105(a)(2) requires the takeoff path to be determined for flight in icing conditions, the airborne part of the takeoff must be based on the airplane drag:
(i) With the most critical of the takeoff ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), from a height of 35 feet above the takeoff surface up to the point where the airplane is 400 feet above the takeoff surface; and
(ii) With the most critical of the final takeoff ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), from the point where the airplane is 400 feet above the takeoff surface to the end of the takeoff path.
(d) The takeoff path must be determined by a continuous demonstrated takeoff or by synthesis from segments. If the takeoff path is determined by the segmental method—
(1) The segments must be clearly defined and must be related to the distinct changes in the configuration, power or thrust, and speed;
(2) The weight of the airplane, the configuration, and the power or thrust must be constant throughout each segment and must correspond to the most critical condition prevailing in the segment;
(3) The flight path must be based on the airplane's performance without ground effect; and
(4) The takeoff path data must be checked by continuous demonstrated takeoffs up to the point at which the airplane is out of ground effect and its speed is stabilized, to ensure that the path is conservative relative to the continous path.
The airplane is considered to be out of the ground effect when it reaches a height equal to its wing span.
(e) For airplanes equipped with standby power rocket engines, the takeoff path may be determined in accordance with section II of appendix E.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-6, 30 FR 8468, July 2, 1965; Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2321, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-54, 45 FR 60172, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29774, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-94, 63 FR 8848, Feb. 23, 1998; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70826, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-115, 69 FR 40527, July 2, 2004; Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44666; Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.113
Takeoff distance and takeoff run.
(a) Takeoff distance on a dry runway is the greater of—
(1) The horizontal distance along the takeoff path from the start of the takeoff to the point at which the airplane is 35 feet above the takeoff surface, determined under § 25.111 for a dry runway; or
(2) 115 percent of the horizontal distance along the takeoff path, with all engines operating, from the start of the takeoff to the point at which the airplane is 35 feet above the takeoff surface, as determined by a procedure consistent with § 25.111.
(b) Takeoff distance on a wet runway is the greater of—
(1) The takeoff distance on a dry runway determined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) The horizontal distance along the takeoff path from the start of the takeoff to the point at which the airplane is 15 feet above the takeoff surface, achieved in a manner consistent with the achievement of V
2
before reaching 35 feet above the takeoff surface, determined under § 25.111 for a wet runway.
(c) If the takeoff distance does not include a clearway, the takeoff run is equal to the takeoff distance. If the takeoff distance includes a clearway—
(1) The takeoff run on a dry runway is the greater of—
(i) The horizontal distance along the takeoff path from the start of the takeoff to a point equidistant between the point at which V
LOF
is reached and the point at which the airplane is 35 feet above the takeoff surface, as determined under § 25.111 for a dry runway; or
(ii) 115 percent of the horizontal distance along the takeoff path, with all engines operating, from the start of the takeoff to a point equidistant between the point at which V
LOF
is reached and the point at which the airplane is 35 feet above the takeoff surface, determined by a procedure consistent with § 25.111.
(2) The takeoff run on a wet runway is the greater of—
(i) The horizontal distance along the takeoff path from the start of the takeoff to the point at which the airplane is 15 feet above the takeoff surface, achieved in a manner consistent with the achievement of V
2
before reaching 35 feet above the takeoff surface, as determined under § 25.111 for a wet runway; or
(ii) 115 percent of the horizontal distance along the takeoff path, with all engines operating, from the start of the takeoff to a point equidistant between the point at which V
LOF
is reached and the point at which the airplane is 35 feet above the takeoff surface, determined by a procedure consistent with § 25.111.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5671, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-92, 63 FR 8320, Feb. 18, 1998]
§ 25.115
Takeoff flight path.
(a) The takeoff flight path shall be considered to begin 35 feet above the takeoff surface at the end of the takeoff distance determined in accordance with § 25.113(a) or (b), as appropriate for the runway surface condition.
(b) The net takeoff flight path data must be determined so that they represent the actual takeoff flight paths (determined in accordance with § 25.111 and with paragraph (a) of this section) reduced at each point by a gradient of climb equal to—
(1) 0.8 percent for two-engine airplanes;
(2) 0.9 percent for three-engine airplanes; and
(3) 1.0 percent for four-engine airplanes.
(c) The prescribed reduction in climb gradient may be applied as an equivalent reduction in acceleration along that part of the takeoff flight path at
which the airplane is accelerated in level flight.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-92, 63 FR 8320, Feb. 18, 1998]
§ 25.117
Climb: general.
Compliance with the requirements of §§ 25.119 and 25.121 must be shown at each weight, altitude, and ambient temperature within the operational limits established for the airplane and with the most unfavorable center of gravity for each configuration.
§ 25.119
Landing climb: All-engines-operating.
In the landing configuration, the steady gradient of climb may not be less than 3.2 percent, with the engines at the power or thrust that is available 8 seconds after initiation of movement of the power or thrust controls from the minimum flight idle to the go-around power or thrust setting—
(a) In non-icing conditions, with a climb speed of V
REF
determined in accordance with § 25.125(b)(2)(i); and
(b) In icing conditions with the most critical of the landing ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), and with a climb speed of V
REF
determined in accordance with § 25.125(b)(2)(ii).
[Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44666; Aug. 8, 2007, as amended by Amdt. 25-,140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.121
Climb: One-engine-inoperative.
(a)
Takeoff; landing gear extended.
In the critical takeoff configuration existing along the flight path (between the points at which the airplane reaches
V
LOF
and at which the landing gear is fully retracted) and in the configuration used in § 25.111 but without ground effect, the steady gradient of climb must be positive for two-engine airplanes, and not less than 0.3 percent for three-engine airplanes or 0.5 percent for four-engine airplanes, at
V
LOF
and with—
(1) The critical engine inoperative and the remaining engines at the power or thrust available when retraction of the landing gear is begun in accordance with § 25.111 unless there is a more critical power operating condition existing later along the flight path but before the point at which the landing gear is fully retracted; and
(2) The weight equal to the weight existing when retraction of the landing gear is begun, determined under § 25.111.
(b)
Takeoff; landing gear retracted.
In the takeoff configuration existing at the point of the flight path at which the landing gear is fully retracted, and in the configuration used in § 25.111 but without ground effect:
(1) The steady gradient of climb may not be less than 2.4 percent for two-engine airplanes, 2.7 percent for three-engine airplanes, and 3.0 percent for four-engine airplanes, at V
2
with:
(i) The critical engine inoperative, the remaining engines at the takeoff power or thrust available at the time the landing gear is fully retracted, determined under § 25.111, unless there is a more critical power operating condition existing later along the flight path but before the point where the airplane reaches a height of 400 feet above the takeoff surface; and
(ii) The weight equal to the weight existing when the airplane's landing gear is fully retracted, determined under § 25.111.
(2) The requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be met:
(i) In non-icing conditions; and
(ii) In icing conditions with the most critical of the takeoff ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), if in the configuration used to show compliance with § 25.121(b) with this takeoff ice accretion:
(A) The stall speed at maximum takeoff weight exceeds that in non-icing conditions by more than the greater of 3 knots CAS or 3 percent of V
SR
; or
(B) The degradation of the gradient of climb determined in accordance with § 25.121(b) is greater than one-half of the applicable actual-to-net takeoff flight path gradient reduction defined in § 25.115(b).
(c)
Final takeoff.
In the en route configuration at the end of the takeoff path determined in accordance with § 25.111:
(1) The steady gradient of climb may not be less than 1.2 percent for two-engine airplanes, 1.5 percent for three-engine airplanes, and 1.7 percent for four-engine airplanes, at V
FTO
with—
(i) The critical engine inoperative and the remaining engines at the available maximum continuous power or thrust; and
(ii) The weight equal to the weight existing at the end of the takeoff path, determined under § 25.111.
(2) The requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be met:
(i) In non-icing conditions; and
(ii) In icing conditions with the most critical of the final takeoff ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), if in the configuration used to show compliance with § 25.121(b) with the takeoff ice accretion used to show compliance with § 25.111(c)(5)(i):
(A) The stall speed at maximum takeoff weight exceeds that in non-icing conditions by more than the greater of 3 knots CAS or 3 percent of V
SR
; or
(B) The degradation of the gradient of climb determined in accordance with § 25.121(b) is greater than one-half of the applicable actual-to-net takeoff flight path gradient reduction defined in § 25.115(b).
(d)
Approach.
In a configuration corresponding to the normal all-engines-operating procedure in which V
SR
for this configuration does not exceed 110 percent of the V
SR
for the related all-engines-operating landing configuration:
(1) The steady gradient of climb may not be less than 2.1 percent for two-engine airplanes, 2.4 percent for three-engine airplanes, and 2.7 percent for four-engine airplanes, with—
(i) The critical engine inoperative, the remaining engines at the go-around power or thrust setting;
(ii) The maximum landing weight;
(iii) A climb speed established in connection with normal landing procedures, but not exceeding 1.4 V
SR
; and
(iv) Landing gear retracted.
(2) The requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be met:
(i) In non-icing conditions; and
(ii) In icing conditions with the most critical of the approach ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g). The climb speed selected for non-icing conditions may be used if the climb speed for icing conditions, computed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, does not exceed that for non-icing conditions by more than the greater of 3 knots CAS or 3 percent.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-84, 60 FR 30749, June 9, 1995; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70826, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44666; Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.123
En route flight paths.
(a) For the en route configuration, the flight paths prescribed in paragraph (b) and (c) of this section must be determined at each weight, altitude, and ambient temperature, within the operating limits established for the airplane. The variation of weight along the flight path, accounting for the progressive consumption of fuel and oil by the operating engines, may be included in the computation. The flight paths must be determined at a speed not less than V
FTO
, with—
(1) The most unfavorable center of gravity;
(2) The critical engines inoperative;
(3) The remaining engines at the available maximum continuous power or thrust; and
(4) The means for controlling the engine-cooling air supply in the position that provides adequate cooling in the hot-day condition.
(b) The one-engine-inoperative net flight path data must represent the actual climb performance diminished by a gradient of climb of 1.1 percent for two-engine airplanes, 1.4 percent for three-engine airplanes, and 1.6 percent for four-engine airplanes—
(1) In non-icing conditions; and
(2) In icing conditions with the most critical of the en route ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), if:
(i) A speed of 1.18 “V
SR0
with the en route ice accretion exceeds the en route speed selected for non-icing conditions by more than the greater of 3 knots CAS or 3 percent of V
SR
; or
(ii) The degradation of the gradient of climb is greater than one-half of the applicable actual-to-net flight path reduction defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(c) For three- or four-engine airplanes, the two-engine-inoperative net flight path data must represent the actual climb performance diminished by a gradient of climb of 0.3 percent for three-engine airplanes and 0.5 percent for four-engine airplanes.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44666; Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.125
Landing.
(a) The horizontal distance necessary to land and to come to a complete stop (or to a speed of approximately 3 knots for water landings) from a point 50 feet above the landing surface must be determined (for standard temperatures, at each weight, altitude, and wind within the operational limits established by the applicant for the airplane):
(1) In non-icing conditions; and
(2) In icing conditions with the most critical of the landing ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), if V
REF
for icing conditions exceeds V
REF
for non-icing conditions by more than 5 knots CAS at the maximum landing weight.
(b) In determining the distance in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) The airplane must be in the landing configuration.
(2) A stabilized approach, with a calibrated airspeed of not less than V
REF
, must be maintained down to the 50-foot height.
(i) In non-icing conditions, V
REF
may not be less than:
(A) 1.23 V
SR
0;
(B) V
MCL
established under § 25.149(f); and
(C) A speed that provides the maneuvering capability specified in § 25.143(h).
(ii) In icing conditions, V
REF
may not be less than:
(A) The speed determined in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) 1.23 V
SR0
with the most critical of the landing ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), if that speed exceeds V
REF
selected for non-icing conditions by more than 5 knots CAS; and
(C) A speed that provides the maneuvering capability specified in § 25.143(h) with the most critical of the landing ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g).
(3) Changes in configuration, power or thrust, and speed, must be made in accordance with the established procedures for service operation.
(4) The landing must be made without excessive vertical acceleration, tendency to bounce, nose over, ground loop, porpoise, or water loop.
(5) The landings may not require exceptional piloting skill or alertness.
(c) For landplanes and amphibians, the landing distance on land must be determined on a level, smooth, dry, hard-surfaced runway. In addition—
(1) The pressures on the wheel braking systems may not exceed those specified by the brake manufacturer;
(2) The brakes may not be used so as to cause excessive wear of brakes or tires; and
(3) Means other than wheel brakes may be used if that means—
(i) Is safe and reliable;
(ii) Is used so that consistent results can be expected in service; and
(iii) Is such that exceptional skill is not required to control the airplane.
(d) For seaplanes and amphibians, the landing distance on water must be determined on smooth water.
(e) For skiplanes, the landing distance on snow must be determined on smooth, dry, snow.
(f) The landing distance data must include correction factors for not more than 50 percent of the nominal wind components along the landing path opposite to the direction of landing, and not less than 150 percent of the nominal wind components along the landing path in the direction of landing.
(g) If any device is used that depends on the operation of any engine, and if the landing distance would be noticeably increased when a landing is made with that engine inoperative, the landing distance must be determined with that engine inoperative unless the use of compensating means will result in a
landing distance not more than that with each engine operating.
[Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44666; Aug. 8, 2007; 72 FR 50467, Aug. 31, 2007; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014]

# Controllability and Maneuverability
§ 25.143
General.
(a) The airplane must be safely controllable and maneuverable during—
(1) Takeoff;
(2) Climb;
(3) Level flight;
(4) Descent; and
(5) Landing.
(b) It must be possible to make a smooth transition from one flight condition to any other flight condition without exceptional piloting skill, alertness, or strength, and without danger of exceeding the airplane limit-load factor under any probable operating conditions, including—
(1) The sudden failure of the critical engine;
(2) For airplanes with three or more engines, the sudden failure of the second critical engine when the airplane is in the en route, approach, or landing configuration and is trimmed with the critical engine inoperative; and
(3) Configuration changes, including deployment or retraction of deceleration devices.
(c) The airplane must be shown to be safely controllable and maneuverable with the most critical of the ice accretion(s) appropriate to the phase of flight as defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), and with the critical engine inoperative and its propeller (if applicable) in the minimum drag position:
(1) At the minimum V
2
for takeoff;
(2) During an approach and go-around; and
(3) During an approach and landing.
(d) The following table prescribes, for conventional wheel type controls, the maximum control forces permitted during the testing required by paragraph (a) through (c) of this section:
Force, in pounds, applied to the control wheel or rudder pedals
Pitch
Roll
Yaw
For short term application for pitch and roll control—two hands available for control
75
50
For short term application for pitch and roll control—one hand available for control
50
25
For short term application for yaw control
150
For long term application
10
5
20
(e) Approved operating procedures or conventional operating practices must be followed when demonstrating compliance with the control force limitations for short term application that are prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section. The airplane must be in trim, or as near to being in trim as practical, in the preceding steady flight condition. For the takeoff condition, the airplane must be trimmed according to the approved operating procedures.
(f) When demonstrating compliance with the control force limitations for long term application that are prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section, the airplane must be in trim, or as near to being in trim as practical.
(g) When maneuvering at a constant airspeed or Mach number (up to V
FC
/M
FC
), the stick forces and the gradient of the stick force versus maneuvering load factor must lie within satisfactory limits. The stick forces must not be so great as to make excessive demands on the pilot's strength when maneuvering the airplane, and must not be so low that the airplane can easily be overstressed inadvertently. Changes of gradient that occur with changes of load factor must not cause undue difficulty in maintaining control of the airplane, and local gradients must not be so low as to result in a danger of overcontrolling.
(h) The maneuvering capabilities in a constant speed coordinated turn at forward center of gravity, as specified in the following table, must be free of stall warning or other characteristics that might interfere with normal maneuvering:
Configuration
Speed
Maneuvering bank angle in a coordinated turn
Thrust/power setting
Takeoff
V
2
30°
Asymmetric WAT-Limited.
1
Takeoff
2
V
2
+ XX
40°
All-engines-operating climb.
3
En route
V
FTO
40°
Asymmetric WAT-Limited.
1
Landing
V
REF
40°
Symmetric for −3° flight path angle.
1
A combination of weight, altitude, and temperature (WAT) such that the thrust or power setting produces the minimum climb gradient specified in § 25.121 for the flight condition.
2
Airspeed approved for all-engines-operating initial climb.
3
That thrust or power setting which, in the event of failure of the critical engine and without any crew action to adjust the thrust or power of the remaining engines, would result in the thrust or power specified for the takeoff condition at V
2
, or any lesser thrust or power setting that is used for all-engines-operating initial climb procedures.
(i) When demonstrating compliance with § 25.143 in icing conditions—
(1) Controllability must be demonstrated with the most critical of the ice accretion(s) for the particular flight phase as defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g);
(2) It must be shown that a push force is required throughout a pushover maneuver down to a zero g load factor, or the lowest load factor obtainable if limited by elevator power or other design characteristic of the flight control system. It must be possible to promptly recover from the maneuver without exceeding a pull control force of 50 pounds; and
(3) Any changes in force that the pilot must apply to the pitch control to maintain speed with increasing sideslip angle must be steadily increasing with no force reversals, unless the change in control force is gradual and easily controllable by the pilot without using exceptional piloting skill, alertness, or strength.
(j) For flight in icing conditions before the ice protection system has been activated and is performing its intended function, it must be demonstrated in flight with the most critical of the ice accretion(s) defined in Appendix C, part II, paragraph (e) of this part and Appendix O, part II, paragraph (d) of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), that:
(1) The airplane is controllable in a pull-up maneuver up to 1.5 g load factor; and
(2) There is no pitch control force reversal during a pushover maneuver down to 0.5 g load factor.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2321, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-84, 60 FR 30749, June 9, 1995; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70826, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44667, Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-129, 74 FR 38339, Aug. 3, 2009; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.145
Longitudinal control.
(a) It must be possible, at any point between the trim speed prescribed in § 25.103(b)(6) and stall identification (as defined in § 25.201(d)), to pitch the nose downward so that the acceleration to this selected trim speed is prompt with
(1) The airplane trimmed at the trim speed prescribed in § 25.103(b)(6);
(2) The landing gear extended;
(3) The wing flaps (i) retracted and (ii) extended; and
(4) Power (i) off and (ii) at maximum continuous power on the engines.
(b) With the landing gear extended, no change in trim control, or exertion of more than 50 pounds control force (representative of the maximum short term force that can be applied readily by one hand) may be required for the following maneuvers:
(1) With power off, flaps retracted, and the airplane trimmed at 1.3 V
SR1
, extend the flaps as rapidly as possible while maintaining the airspeed at approximately 30 percent above the reference stall speed existing at each instant throughout the maneuver.
(2) Repeat paragraph (b)(1) except initially extend the flaps and then retract them as rapidly as possible.
(3) Repeat paragraph (b)(2), except at the go-around power or thrust setting.
(4) With power off, flaps retracted, and the airplane trimmed at 1.3 V
SR1
,
rapidly set go-around power or thrust while maintaining the same airspeed.
(5) Repeat paragraph (b)(4) except with flaps extended.
(6) With power off, flaps extended, and the airplane trimmed at 1.3 V
SR1
, obtain and maintain airspeeds between V
SW
and either 1.6 V
SR1
or V
FE
, whichever is lower.
(c) It must be possible, without exceptional piloting skill, to prevent loss of altitude when complete retraction of the high lift devices from any position is begun during steady, straight, level flight at 1.08 V
SR1
for propeller powered airplanes, or 1.13 V
SR1
for turbojet powered airplanes, with—
(1) Simultaneous movement of the power or thrust controls to the go-around power or thrust setting;
(2) The landing gear extended; and
(3) The critical combinations of landing weights and altitudes.
(d) If gated high-lift device control positions are provided, paragraph (c) of this section applies to retractions of the high-lift devices from any position from the maximum landing position to the first gated position, between gated positions, and from the last gated position to the fully retracted position. The requirements of paragraph (c) of this section also apply to retractions from each approved landing position to the control position(s) associated with the high-lift device configuration(s) used to establish the go-around procedure(s) from that landing position. In addition, the first gated control position from the maximum landing position must correspond with a configuration of the high-lift devices used to establish a go-around procedure from a landing configuration. Each gated control position must require a separate and distinct motion of the control to pass through the gated position and must have features to prevent inadvertent movement of the control through the gated position. It must only be possible to make this separate and distinct motion once the control has reached the gated position.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5671, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29774, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-84, 60 FR 30749, June 9, 1995; Amdt. 25-98, 64 FR 6164, Feb. 8, 1999; 64 FR 10740, Mar. 5, 1999; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002]
§ 25.147
Directional and lateral control.
(a)
Directional control; general.
It must be possible, with the wings level, to yaw into the operative engine and to safely make a reasonably sudden change in heading of up to 15 degrees in the direction of the critical inoperative engine. This must be shown at 1.3 V
S
R1 for heading changes up to 15 degrees (except that the heading change at which the rudder pedal force is 150 pounds need not be exceeded), and with—
(1) The critical engine inoperative and its propeller in the minimum drag position;
(2) The power required for level flight at 1.3
V
S
R1, but not more than maximum continuous power;
(3) The most unfavorable center of gravity;
(4) Landing gear retracted;
(5) Flaps in the approach position; and
(6) Maximum landing weight.
(b)
Directional control; airplanes with four or more engines.
Airplanes with four or more engines must meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section except that—
(1) The two critical engines must be inoperative with their propellers (if applicable) in the minimum drag position;
(2) [Reserved]
(3) The flaps must be in the most favorable climb position.
(c)
Lateral control; general.
It must be possible to make 20° banked turns, with and against the inoperative engine, from steady flight at a speed equal to 1.3
V
S
R1, with—
(1) The critical engine inoperative and its propeller (if applicable) in the minimum drag position;
(2) The remaining engines at maximum continuous power;
(3) The most unfavorable center of gravity;
(4) Landing gear (i) retracted and (ii) extended;
(5) Flaps in the most favorable climb position; and
(6) Maximum takeoff weight.
(d)
Lateral control; roll capability.
With the critical engine inoperative, roll response must allow normal maneuvers. Lateral control must be sufficient, at the speeds likely to be used with one engine inoperative, to provide a roll rate necessary for safety without excessive control forces or travel.
(e)
Lateral control; airplanes with four or more engines.
Airplanes with four or more engines must be able to make 20° banked turns, with and against the inoperative engines, from steady flight at a speed equal to 1.3
V
S
R1, with maximum continuous power, and with the airplane in the configuration prescribed by paragraph (b) of this section.
(f)
Lateral control; all engines operating.
With the engines operating, roll response must allow normal maneuvers (such as recovery from upsets produced by gusts and the initiation of evasive maneuvers). There must be enough excess lateral control in sideslips (up to sideslip angles that might be required in normal operation), to allow a limited amount of maneuvering and to correct for gusts. Lateral control must be enough at any speed up to
V
FC
/
M
FC
to provide a peak roll rate necessary for safety, without excessive control forces or travel.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2321, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29774, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-115, 69 FR 40527, July 2, 2004]
§ 25.149
Minimum control speed.
(a) In establishing the minimum control speeds required by this section, the method used to simulate critical engine failure must represent the most critical mode of powerplant failure with respect to controllability expected in service.
(b) V
MC
is the calibrated airspeed at which, when the critical engine is suddenly made inoperative, it is possible to maintain control of the airplane with that engine still inoperative and maintain straight flight with an angle of bank of not more than 5 degrees.
(c)
V
MC
may not exceed 1.13
V
SR
with—
(1) Maximum available takeoff power or thrust on the engines;
(2) The most unfavorable center of gravity;
(3) The airplane trimmed for takeoff;
(4) The maximum sea level takeoff weight (or any lesser weight necessary to show
V
MC
);
(5) The airplane in the most critical takeoff configuration existing along the flight path after the airplane becomes airborne, except with the landing gear retracted;
(6) The airplane airborne and the ground effect negligible; and
(7) If applicable, the propeller of the inoperative engine—
(i) Windmilling;
(ii) In the most probable position for the specific design of the propeller control; or
(iii) Feathered, if the airplane has an automatic feathering device acceptable for showing compliance with the climb requirements of § 25.121.
(d) The rudder forces required to maintain control at
V
MC
may not exceed 150 pounds nor may it be necessary to reduce power or thrust of the operative engines. During recovery, the airplane may not assume any dangerous attitude or require exceptional piloting skill, alertness, or strength to prevent a heading change of more than 20 degrees.
(e) V
MCG
, the minimum control speed on the ground, is the calibrated airspeed during the takeoff run at which, when the critical engine is suddenly made inoperative, it is possible to maintain control of the airplane using the rudder control alone (without the use of nosewheel steering), as limited by 150 pounds of force, and the lateral control to the extent of keeping the wings level to enable the takeoff to be safely continued using normal piloting skill. In the determination of V
MCG
, assuming that the path of the airplane accelerating with all engines operating is along the centerline of the runway, its path from the point at which the critical engine is made inoperative to the point at which recovery to a direction parallel to the centerline is completed may not deviate more than 30 feet laterally from the centerline at
any point. V
MCG
must be established with—
(1) The airplane in each takeoff configuration or, at the option of the applicant, in the most critical takeoff configuration;
(2) Maximum available takeoff power or thrust on the operating engines;
(3) The most unfavorable center of gravity;
(4) The airplane trimmed for takeoff; and
(5) The most unfavorable weight in the range of takeoff weights.
(f) V
MCL
, the minimum control speed during approach and landing with all engines operating, is the calibrated airspeed at which, when the critical engine is suddenly made inoperative, it is possible to maintain control of the airplane with that engine still inoperative, and maintain straight flight with an angle of bank of not more than 5 degrees. V
MCL
must be established with—
(1) The airplane in the most critical configuration (or, at the option of the applicant, each configuration) for approach and landing with all engines operating;
(2) The most unfavorable center of gravity;
(3) The airplane trimmed for approach with all engines operating;
(4) The most favorable weight, or, at the option of the applicant, as a function of weight;
(5) For propeller airplanes, the propeller of the inoperative engine in the position it achieves without pilot action, assuming the engine fails while at the power or thrust necessary to maintain a three degree approach path angle; and
(6) Go-around power or thrust setting on the operating engine(s).
(g) For airplanes with three or more engines, V
MCL-2
, the minimum control speed during approach and landing with one critical engine inoperative, is the calibrated airspeed at which, when a second critical engine is suddenly made inoperative, it is possible to maintain control of the airplane with both engines still inoperative, and maintain straight flight with an angle of bank of not more than 5 degrees. V
MCL-2
must be established with—
(1) The airplane in the most critical configuration (or, at the option of the applicant, each configuration) for approach and landing with one critical engine inoperative;
(2) The most unfavorable center of gravity;
(3) The airplane trimmed for approach with one critical engine inoperative;
(4) The most unfavorable weight, or, at the option of the applicant, as a function of weight;
(5) For propeller airplanes, the propeller of the more critical inoperative engine in the position it achieves without pilot action, assuming the engine fails while at the power or thrust necessary to maintain a three degree approach path angle, and the propeller of the other inoperative engine feathered;
(6) The power or thrust on the operating engine(s) necessary to maintain an approach path angle of three degrees when one critical engine is inoperative; and
(7) The power or thrust on the operating engine(s) rapidly changed, immediately after the second critical engine is made inoperative, from the power or thrust prescribed in paragraph (g)(6) of this section to—
(i) Minimum power or thrust; and
(ii) Go-around power or thrust setting.
(h) In demonstrations of V
MCL
and V
MCL-2
—
(1) The rudder force may not exceed 150 pounds;
(2) The airplane may not exhibit hazardous flight characteristics or require exceptional piloting skill, alertness, or strength;
(3) Lateral control must be sufficient to roll the airplane, from an initial condition of steady flight, through an angle of 20 degrees in the direction necessary to initiate a turn away from the inoperative engine(s), in not more than 5 seconds; and
(4) For propeller airplanes, hazardous flight characteristics must not be exhibited due to any propeller position
achieved when the engine fails or during any likely subsequent movements of the engine or propeller controls.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2321, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29774, July 20, 1990; 55 FR 37607, Sept. 12, 1990; Amdt. 25-84, 60 FR 30749, June 9, 1995; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002]

# Trim
§ 25.161
Trim.
(a)
General.
Each airplane must meet the trim requirements of this section after being trimmed, and without further pressure upon, or movement of, either the primary controls or their corresponding trim controls by the pilot or the automatic pilot.
(b)
Lateral and directional trim.
The airplane must maintain lateral and directional trim with the most adverse lateral displacement of the center of gravity within the relevant operating limitations, during normally expected conditions of operation (including operation at any speed from 1.3
V
SR
1
to
V
MO
/M
MO
).
(c)
Longitudinal trim.
The airplane must maintain longitudinal trim during—
(1) A climb with maximum continuous power at a speed not more than 1.3
V
SR
1
, with the landing gear retracted, and the flaps (i) retracted and (ii) in the takeoff position;
(2) Either a glide with power off at a speed not more than 1.3 V
SR1
, or an approach within the normal range of approach speeds appropriate to the weight and configuration with power settings corresponding to a 3 degree glidepath, whichever is the most severe, with the landing gear extended, the wing flaps (i) retracted and (ii) extended, and with the most unfavorable combination of center of gravity position and weight approved for landing; and
(3) Level flight at any speed from 1.3
V
SR
1
, to
V
MO
/M
MO,
with the landing gear and flaps retracted, and from 1.3
V
SR
1
to
V
LE
with the landing gear extended.
(d)
Longitudinal, directional, and lateral trim.
The airplane must maintain longitudinal, directional, and lateral trim (and for the lateral trim, the angle of bank may not exceed five degrees) at 1.3
V
SR
1
during climbing flight with—
(1) The critical engine inoperative;
(2) The remaining engines at maximum continuous power; and
(3) The landing gear and flaps retracted.
(e) Airplanes with four or more engines. Each airplane with four or more engines must also maintain trim in rectilinear flight with the most unfavorable center of gravity and at the climb speed, configuration, and power required by § 25.123(a) for the purpose of establishing the en route flight paths with two engines inoperative.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5671, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55466, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-115, 69 FR 40527, July 2, 2004]

# Stability
§ 25.171
General.
The airplane must be longitudinally, directionally, and laterally stable in accordance with the provisions of §§ 25.173 through 25.177. In addition, suitable stability and control feel (static stability) is required in any condition normally encountered in service, if flight tests show it is necessary for safe operation.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-7, 30 FR 13117, Oct. 15, 1965]
§ 25.173
Static longitudinal stability.
Under the conditions specified in § 25.175, the characteristics of the elevator control forces (including friction) must be as follows:
(a) A pull must be required to obtain and maintain speeds below the specified trim speed, and a push must be required to obtain and maintain speeds above the specified trim speed. This must be shown at any speed that can be obtained except speeds higher than the landing gear or wing flap operating limit speeds or
V
FC
/M
FC,
whichever is appropriate, or lower than the minimum speed for steady unstalled flight.
(b) The airspeed must return to within 10 percent of the original trim speed for the climb, approach, and landing conditions specified in § 25.175 (a), (c), and (d), and must return to within 7.5
percent of the original trim speed for the cruising condition specified in § 25.175(b), when the control force is slowly released from any speed within the range specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The average gradient of the stable slope of the stick force versus speed curve may not be less than 1 pound for each 6 knots.
(d) Within the free return speed range specified in paragraph (b) of this section, it is permissible for the airplane, without control forces, to stabilize on speeds above or below the desired trim speeds if exceptional attention on the part of the pilot is not required to return to and maintain the desired trim speed and altitude.
[Amdt. 25-7, 30 FR 13117, Oct. 15, 1965]
§ 25.175
Demonstration of static longitudinal stability.
Static longitudinal stability must be shown as follows:
(a)
Climb.
The stick force curve must have a stable slope at speeds between 85 and 115 percent of the speed at which the airplane—
(1) Is trimmed, with—
(i) Wing flaps retracted;
(ii) Landing gear retracted;
(iii) Maximum takeoff weight; and
(iv) 75 percent of maximum continuous power for reciprocating engines or the maximum power or thrust selected by the applicant as an operating limitation for use during climb for turbine engines; and
(2) Is trimmed at the speed for best rate-of-climb except that the speed need not be less than 1.3
V
SR
1
.
(b)
Cruise.
Static longitudinal stability must be shown in the cruise condition as follows:
(1) With the landing gear retracted at high speed, the stick force curve must have a stable slope at all speeds within a range which is the greater of 15 percent of the trim speed plus the resulting free return speed range, or 50 knots plus the resulting free return speed range, above and below the trim speed (except that the speed range need not include speeds less than 1.3
V
SR
1
, nor speeds greater than
V
FC
/M
FC,
nor speeds that require a stick force of more than 50 pounds), with—
(i) The wing flaps retracted;
(ii) The center of gravity in the most adverse position (see § 25.27);
(iii) The most critical weight between the maximum takeoff and maximum landing weights;
(iv) 75 percent of maximum continuous power for reciprocating engines or for turbine engines, the maximum cruising power selected by the applicant as an operating limitation (see § 25.1521), except that the power need not exceed that required at
V
MO
/
M
MO
; and
(v) The airplane trimmed for level flight with the power required in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section.
(2) With the landing gear retracted at low speed, the stick force curve must have a stable slope at all speeds within a range which is the greater of 15 percent of the trim speed plus the resulting free return speed range, or 50 knots plus the resulting free return speed range, above and below the trim speed (except that the speed range need not include speeds less than 1.3
V
SR
1
, nor speeds greater than the minimum speed of the applicable speed range prescribed in paragraph (b)(1), nor speeds that require a stick force of more than 50 pounds), with—
(i) Wing flaps, center of gravity position, and weight as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(ii) Power required for level flight at a speed equal to (
V
MO
+ 1.3
V
SR
1
)/2; and
(iii) The airplane trimmed for level flight with the power required in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(3) With the landing gear extended, the stick force curve must have a stable slope at all speeds within a range which is the greater of 15 percent of the trim speed plus the resulting free return speed range, or 50 knots plus the resulting free return speed range, above and below the trim speed (except that the speed range need not include speeds less than 1.3
V
SR
1
, nor speeds greater than
V
LE,
nor speeds that require a stick force of more than 50 pounds), with—
(i) Wing flap, center of gravity position, and weight as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(ii) 75 percent of maximum continuous power for reciprocating engines or, for turbine engines, the maximum
cruising power selected by the applicant as an operating limitation, except that the power need not exceed that required for level flight at
V
LE
; and
(iii) The aircraft trimmed for level flight with the power required in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(c)
Approach.
The stick force curve must have a stable slope at speeds between
V
SW
and 1.7
V
SR
1
, with—
(1) Wing flaps in the approach position;
(2) Landing gear retracted;
(3) Maximum landing weight; and
(4) The airplane trimmed at 1.3
V
SR
1
with enough power to maintain level flight at this speed.
(d)
Landing.
The stick force curve must have a stable slope, and the stick force may not exceed 80 pounds, at speeds between
V
SW
and 1.7
V
SR
0
with—
(1) Wing flaps in the landing position;
(2) Landing gear extended;
(3) Maximum landing weight;
(4) The airplane trimmed at 1.3 V
SR0
with—
(i) Power or thrust off, and
(ii) Power or thrust for level flight.
(5) The airplane trimmed at 1.3
V
SR
0
with power or thrust off.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-7, 30 FR 13117, Oct. 15, 1965; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-115, 69 FR 40527, July 2, 2004]
§ 25.177
Static lateral-directional stability.
(a) The static directional stability (as shown by the tendency to recover from a skid with the rudder free) must be positive for any landing gear and flap position and symmetric power condition, at speeds from 1.13 V
SR1
, up to V
FE
, V
LE
, or V
FC
/M
FC
(as appropriate for the airplane configuration).
(b) The static lateral stability (as shown by the tendency to raise the low wing in a sideslip with the aileron controls free) for any landing gear and flap position and symmetric power condition, may not be negative at any airspeed (except that speeds higher than V
FE
need not be considered for flaps extended configurations nor speeds higher than V
LE
for landing gear extended configurations) in the following airspeed ranges:
(1) From 1.13 V
SR1
to V
MO
/M
MO
.
(2) From V
MO
/M
MO
to V
FC
/M
FC
, unless the divergence is—
(i) Gradual;
(ii) Easily recognizable by the pilot; and
(iii) Easily controllable by the pilot.
(c) The following requirement must be met for the configurations and speed specified in paragraph (a) of this section. In straight, steady sideslips over the range of sideslip angles appropriate to the operation of the airplane, the aileron and rudder control movements and forces must be substantially proportional to the angle of sideslip in a stable sense. This factor of proportionality must lie between limits found necessary for safe operation. The range of sideslip angles evaluated must include those sideslip angles resulting from the lesser of:
(1) One-half of the available rudder control input; and
(2) A rudder control force of 180 pounds.
(d) For sideslip angles greater than those prescribed by paragraph (c) of this section, up to the angle at which full rudder control is used or a rudder control force of 180 pounds is obtained, the rudder control forces may not reverse, and increased rudder deflection must be needed for increased angles of sideslip. Compliance with this requirement must be shown using straight, steady sideslips, unless full lateral control input is achieved before reaching either full rudder control input or a rudder control force of 180 pounds; a straight, steady sideslip need not be maintained after achieving full lateral control input. This requirement must be met at all approved landing gear and flap positions for the range of operating speeds and power conditions appropriate to each landing gear and flap position with all engines operating.
[Amdt. 25-135, 76 FR 74654, Dec. 1, 2011]
§ 25.181
Dynamic stability.
(a) Any short period oscillation, not including combined lateral-directional oscillations, occurring between 1.13 V
SR
and maximum allowable speed appropriate to the configuration of the airplane must be heavily damped with the primary controls—
(1) Free; and
(2) In a fixed position.
(b) Any combined lateral-directional oscillations (“Dutch roll”) occurring between 1.13 V
SR
and maximum allowable speed appropriate to the configuration of the airplane must be positively damped with controls free, and must be controllable with normal use of the primary controls without requiring exceptional pilot skill.
[Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2322, Jan. 16, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29775, July 20, 1990; 55 FR 37607, Sept. 12, 1990; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002]

# Stalls
§ 25.201
Stall demonstration.
(a) Stalls must be shown in straight flight and in 30 degree banked turns with—
(1) Power off; and
(2) The power necessary to maintain level flight at 1.5 V
SR1
(where V
SR1
corresponds to the reference stall speed at maximum landing weight with flaps in the approach position and the landing gear retracted).
(b) In each condition required by paragraph (a) of this section, it must be possible to meet the applicable requirements of § 25.203 with—
(1) Flaps, landing gear, and deceleration devices in any likely combination of positions approved for operation;
(2) Representative weights within the range for which certification is requested;
(3) The most adverse center of gravity for recovery; and
(4) The airplane trimmed for straight flight at the speed prescribed in § 25.103(b)(6).
(c) The following procedures must be used to show compliance with § 25.203;
(1) Starting at a speed sufficiently above the stalling speed to ensure that a steady rate of speed reduction can be established, apply the longitudinal control so that the speed reduction does not exceed one knot per second until the airplane is stalled.
(2) In addition, for turning flight stalls, apply the longitudinal control to achieve airspeed deceleration rates up to 3 knots per second.
(3) As soon as the airplane is stalled, recover by normal recovery techniques.
(d) The airplane is considered stalled when the behavior of the airplane gives the pilot a clear and distinctive indication of an acceptable nature that the airplane is stalled. Acceptable indications of a stall, occurring either individually or in combination, are—
(1) A nose-down pitch that cannot be readily arrested;
(2) Buffeting, of a magnitude and severity that is a strong and effective deterrent to further speed reduction; or
(3) The pitch control reaches the aft stop and no further increase in pitch attitude occurs when the control is held full aft for a short time before recovery is initiated.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-84, 60 FR 30750, June 9, 1995; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002]
§ 25.203
Stall characteristics.
(a) It must be possible to produce and to correct roll and yaw by unreversed use of the aileron and rudder controls, up to the time the airplane is stalled. No abnormal nose-up pitching may occur. The longitudinal control force must be positive up to and throughout the stall. In addition, it must be possible to promptly prevent stalling and to recover from a stall by normal use of the controls.
(b) For level wing stalls, the roll occurring between the stall and the completion of the recovery may not exceed approximately 20 degrees.
(c) For turning flight stalls, the action of the airplane after the stall may not be so violent or extreme as to make it difficult, with normal piloting skill, to effect a prompt recovery and to regain control of the airplane. The maximum bank angle that occurs during the recovery may not exceed—
(1) Approximately 60 degrees in the original direction of the turn, or 30 degrees in the opposite direction, for deceleration rates up to 1 knot per second; and
(2) Approximately 90 degrees in the original direction of the turn, or 60 degrees in the opposite direction, for deceleration rates in excess of 1 knot per second.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-84, 60 FR 30750, June 9, 1995]
§ 25.207
Stall warning.
(a) Stall warning with sufficient margin to prevent inadvertent stalling with the flaps and landing gear in any normal position must be clear and distinctive to the pilot in straight and turning flight.
(b) The warning must be furnished either through the inherent aerodynamic qualities of the airplane or by a device that will give clearly distinguishable indications under expected conditions of flight. However, a visual stall warning device that requires the attention of the crew within the cockpit is not acceptable by itself. If a warning device is used, it must provide a warning in each of the airplane configurations prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section at the speed prescribed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. Except for the stall warning prescribed in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section, the stall warning for flight in icing conditions must be provided by the same means as the stall warning for flight in non-icing conditions.
(c) When the speed is reduced at rates not exceeding one knot per second, stall warning must begin, in each normal configuration, at a speed, V
SW
, exceeding the speed at which the stall is identified in accordance with § 25.201(d) by not less than five knots or five percent CAS, whichever is greater. Once initiated, stall warning must continue until the angle of attack is reduced to approximately that at which stall warning began.
(d) In addition to the requirement of paragraph (c) of this section, when the speed is reduced at rates not exceeding one knot per second, in straight flight with engines idling and at the center-of-gravity position specified in § 25.103(b)(5), V
SW
, in each normal configuration, must exceed V
SR
by not less than three knots or three percent CAS, whichever is greater.
(e) In icing conditions, the stall warning margin in straight and turning flight must be sufficient to allow the pilot to prevent stalling (as defined in § 25.201(d)) when the pilot starts a recovery maneuver not less than three seconds after the onset of stall warning. When demonstrating compliance with this paragraph, the pilot must perform the recovery maneuver in the same way as for the airplane in non-icing conditions. Compliance with this requirement must be demonstrated in flight with the speed reduced at rates not exceeding one knot per second, with—
(1) The most critical of the takeoff ice and final takeoff ice accretions defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), for each configuration used in the takeoff phase of flight;
(2) The most critical of the en route ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), for the en route configuration;
(3) The most critical of the holding ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), for the holding configuration(s);
(4) The most critical of the approach ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), for the approach configuration(s); and
(5) The most critical of the landing ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), for the landing and go-around configuration(s).
(f) The stall warning margin must be sufficient in both non-icing and icing conditions to allow the pilot to prevent stalling when the pilot starts a recovery maneuver not less than one second after the onset of stall warning in slow-down turns with at least 1.5 g load factor normal to the flight path and airspeed deceleration rates of at least 2 knots per second. When demonstrating compliance with this paragraph for icing conditions, the pilot must perform the recovery maneuver in the same way as for the airplane in non-icing conditions. Compliance with this requirement must be demonstrated in flight with—
(1) The flaps and landing gear in any normal position;
(2) The airplane trimmed for straight flight at a speed of 1.3 V
SR
; and
(3) The power or thrust necessary to maintain level flight at 1.3 V
SR
.
(g) Stall warning must also be provided in each abnormal configuration of the high lift devices that is likely to
be used in flight following system failures (including all configurations covered by Airplane Flight Manual procedures).
(h) The following stall warning margin is required for flight in icing conditions before the ice protection system has been activated and is performing its intended function. Compliance must be shown using the most critical of the ice accretion(s) defined in Appendix C, part II, paragraph (e) of this part and Appendix O, part II, paragraph (d) of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g). The stall warning margin in straight and turning flight must be sufficient to allow the pilot to prevent stalling without encountering any adverse flight characteristics when:
(1) The speed is reduced at rates not exceeding one knot per second;
(2) The pilot performs the recovery maneuver in the same way as for flight in non-icing conditions; and
(3) The recovery maneuver is started no earlier than:
(i) One second after the onset of stall warning if stall warning is provided by the same means as for flight in non-icing conditions; or
(ii) Three seconds after the onset of stall warning if stall warning is provided by a different means than for flight in non-icing conditions.
(i) In showing compliance with paragraph (h) of this section, if stall warning is provided by a different means in icing conditions than for non-icing conditions, compliance with § 25.203 must be shown using the accretion defined in appendix C, part II(e) of this part. Compliance with this requirement must be shown using the demonstration prescribed by § 25.201, except that the deceleration rates of § 25.201(c)(2) need not be demonstrated.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-7, 30 FR 13118, Oct. 15, 1965; Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2322, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44668, Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-129, 74 FR 38339, Aug. 3, 2009; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65526, Nov. 4, 2014]

# Ground and Water Handling Characteristics
§ 25.231
Longitudinal stability and control.
(a) Landplanes may have no uncontrollable tendency to nose over in any reasonably expected operating condition or when rebound occurs during landing or takeoff. In addition—
(1) Wheel brakes must operate smoothly and may not cause any undue tendency to nose over; and
(2) If a tail-wheel landing gear is used, it must be possible, during the takeoff ground run on concrete, to maintain any attitude up to thrust line level, at 75 percent of
V
SR
1
.
(b) For seaplanes and amphibians, the most adverse water conditions safe for takeoff, taxiing, and landing, must be established.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70828, Nov. 26, 2002]
§ 25.233
Directional stability and control.
(a) There may be no uncontrollable ground-looping tendency in 90° cross winds, up to a wind velocity of 20 knots or 0.2
V
SR
0
, whichever is greater, except that the wind velocity need not exceed 25 knots at any speed at which the airplane may be expected to be operated on the ground. This may be shown while establishing the 90° cross component of wind velocity required by § 25.237.
(b) Landplanes must be satisfactorily controllable, without exceptional piloting skill or alertness, in power-off landings at normal landing speed, without using brakes or engine power to maintain a straight path. This may be shown during power-off landings made in conjunction with other tests.
(c) The airplane must have adequate directional control during taxiing. This may be shown during taxiing prior to takeoffs made in conjunction with other tests.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5671, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2322, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 25-94, 63 FR 8848, Feb. 23, 1998; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70828, Nov. 26, 2002]
§ 25.235
Taxiing condition.
The shock absorbing mechanism may not damage the structure of the airplane when the airplane is taxied on the roughest ground that may reasonably be expected in normal operation.
§ 25.237
Wind velocities.
(a) For land planes and amphibians, the following applies:
(1) A 90-degree cross component of wind velocity, demonstrated to be safe for takeoff and landing, must be established for dry runways and must be at least 20 knots or 0.2 V
SR0
, whichever is greater, except that it need not exceed 25 knots.
(2) The crosswind component for takeoff established without ice accretions is valid in icing conditions.
(3) The landing crosswind component must be established for:
(i) Non-icing conditions, and
(ii) Icing conditions with the most critical of the landing ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g).
(b) For seaplanes and amphibians, the following applies:
(1) A 90-degree cross component of wind velocity, up to which takeoff and landing is safe under all water conditions that may reasonably be expected in normal operation, must be established and must be at least 20 knots or 0.2 V
SR
0
, whichever is greater, except that it need not exceed 25 knots.
(2) A wind velocity, for which taxiing is safe in any direction under all water conditions that may reasonably be expected in normal operation, must be established and must be at least 20 knots or 0.2 V
SR0
, whichever is greater, except that it need not exceed 25 knots.
[Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2322, Jan. 16, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70827, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44668, Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.239
Spray characteristics, control, and stability on water.
(a) For seaplanes and amphibians, during takeoff, taxiing, and landing, and in the conditions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, there may be no—
(1) Spray characteristics that would impair the pilot's view, cause damage, or result in the taking in of an undue quantity of water;
(2) Dangerously uncontrollable porpoising, bounding, or swinging tendency; or
(3) Immersion of auxiliary floats or sponsons, wing tips, propeller blades, or other parts not designed to withstand the resulting water loads.
(b) Compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section must be shown—
(1) In water conditions, from smooth to the most adverse condition established in accordance with § 25.231;
(2) In wind and cross-wind velocities, water currents, and associated waves and swells that may reasonably be expected in operation on water;
(3) At speeds that may reasonably be expected in operation on water;
(4) With sudden failure of the critical engine at any time while on water; and
(5) At each weight and center of gravity position, relevant to each operating condition, within the range of loading conditions for which certification is requested.
(c) In the water conditions of paragraph (b) of this section, and in the corresponding wind conditions, the seaplane or amphibian must be able to drift for five minutes with engines inoperative, aided, if necessary, by a sea anchor.

# Miscellaneous Flight Requirements
§ 25.251
Vibration and buffeting.
(a) The airplane must be demonstrated in flight to be free from any vibration and buffeting that would prevent continued safe flight in any likely operating condition.
(b) Each part of the airplane must be demonstrated in flight to be free from excessive vibration under any appropriate speed and power conditions up to V
DF
/M
DF
. The maximum speeds shown must be used in establishing the operating limitations of the airplane in accordance with § 25.1505.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, there may be no buffeting condition, in normal flight, including configuration changes during cruise, severe enough to interfere with the control of the airplane, to cause excessive fatigue to the crew, or to cause
structural damage. Stall warning buffeting within these limits is allowable.
(d) There may be no perceptible buffeting condition in the cruise configuration in straight flight at any speed up to
V
MO
/
M
MO,
except that stall warning buffeting is allowable.
(e) For an airplane with M
D
greater than .6 or with a maximum operating altitude greater than 25,000 feet, the positive maneuvering load factors at which the onset of perceptible buffeting occurs must be determined with the airplane in the cruise configuration for the ranges of airspeed or Mach number, weight, and altitude for which the airplane is to be certificated. The envelopes of load factor, speed, altitude, and weight must provide a sufficient range of speeds and load factors for normal operations. Probable inadvertent excursions beyond the boundaries of the buffet onset envelopes may not result in unsafe conditions.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5671, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29775, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-77, 57 FR 28949, June 29, 1992]
§ 25.253
High-speed characteristics.
(a)
Speed increase and recovery characteristics.
The following speed increase and recovery characteristics must be met:
(1) Operating conditions and characteristics likely to cause inadvertent speed increases (including upsets in pitch and roll) must be simulated with the airplane trimmed at any likely cruise speed up to
V
MO
/
M
MO
. These conditions and characteristics include gust upsets, inadvertent control movements, low stick force gradient in relation to control friction, passenger movement, leveling off from climb, and descent from Mach to airspeed limit altitudes.
(2) Allowing for pilot reaction time after effective inherent or artificial speed warning occurs, it must be shown that the airplane can be recovered to a normal attitude and its speed reduced to
V
MO
/
M
MO,
without—
(i) Exceptional piloting strength or skill;
(ii) Exceeding
V
D
/
M
D,
V
DF
/
M
DF,
or the structural limitations; and
(iii) Buffeting that would impair the pilot's ability to read the instruments or control the airplane for recovery.
(3) With the airplane trimmed at any speed up to V
MO
/M
MO
, there must be no reversal of the response to control input about any axis at any speed up to V
DF
/M
DF
. Any tendency to pitch, roll, or yaw must be mild and readily controllable, using normal piloting techniques. When the airplane is trimmed at V
MO
/M
MO
, the slope of the elevator control force versus speed curve need not be stable at speeds greater than V
FC
/M
FC
, but there must be a push force at all speeds up to V
DF
/M
DF
and there must be no sudden or excessive reduction of elevator control force as V
DF
/M
DF
is reached.
(4) Adequate roll capability to assure a prompt recovery from a lateral upset condition must be available at any speed up to V
DF
/M
DF
.
(5) With the airplane trimmed at V
MO
/M
MO
, extension of the speedbrakes over the available range of movements of the pilot's control, at all speeds above V
MO
/M
MO
, but not so high that V
DF
/M
DF
would be exceeded during the maneuver, must not result in:
(i) An excessive positive load factor when the pilot does not take action to counteract the effects of extension;
(ii) Buffeting that would impair the pilot's ability to read the instruments or control the airplane for recovery; or
(iii) A nose down pitching moment, unless it is small.
(b)
Maximum speed for stability characteristics, V
FC
/M
FC
. V
FC
/M
FC
is the maximum speed at which the requirements of §§ 25.143(g), 25.147(f), 25.175(b)(1), 25.177(a) through (c), and 25.181 must be met with flaps and landing gear retracted. Except as noted in § 25.253(c), V
FC
/M
FC
may not be less than a speed midway between V
MO
/M
MO
and V
DF
/M
DF
, except that, for altitudes where Mach number is the limiting factor, M
FC
need not exceed the Mach number at which effective speed warning occurs.
(c)
Maximum speed for stability characteristics in icing conditions.
The maximum speed for stability characteristics with the most critical of the ice accretions defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), at which the requirements of §§ 25.143(g), 25.147(f),
25.175(b)(1), 25.177(a) through (c), and 25.181 must be met, is the lower of:
(1) 300 knots CAS;
(2) V
FC
; or
(3) A speed at which it is demonstrated that the airframe will be free of ice accretion due to the effects of increased dynamic pressure.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5671, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-54, 45 FR 60172, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29775, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-84, 60 FR 30750, June 9, 1995; Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44668, Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-135, 76 FR 74654, Dec. 1, 2011; Amdt. 25-140,79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014]
§ 25.255
Out-of-trim characteristics.
(a) From an initial condition with the airplane trimmed at cruise speeds up to V
MO
/M
MO,
the airplane must have satisfactory maneuvering stability and controllability with the degree of out-of-trim in both the airplane nose-up and nose-down directions, which results from the greater of—
(1) A three-second movement of the longitudinal trim system at its normal rate for the particular flight condition with no aerodynamic load (or an equivalent degree of trim for airplanes that do not have a power-operated trim system), except as limited by stops in the trim system, including those required by § 25.655(b) for adjustable stabilizers; or
(2) The maximum mistrim that can be sustained by the autopilot while maintaining level flight in the high speed cruising condition.
(b) In the out-of-trim condition specified in paragraph (a) of this section, when the normal acceleration is varied from + 1 g to the positive and negative values specified in paragraph (c) of this section—
(1) The stick force vs. g curve must have a positive slope at any speed up to and including V
FC
/M
FC
; and
(2) At speeds between V
FC
/M
FC
and V
DF
/M
DF
the direction of the primary longitudinal control force may not reverse.
(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, compliance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section must be demonstrated in flight over the acceleration range—
(1) −1 g to + 2.5 g; or
(2) 0 g to 2.0 g, and extrapolating by an acceptable method to −1 g and + 2.5 g.
(d) If the procedure set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is used to demonstrate compliance and marginal conditions exist during flight test with regard to reversal of primary longitudinal control force, flight tests must be accomplished from the normal acceleration at which a marginal condition is found to exist to the applicable limit specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(e) During flight tests required by paragraph (a) of this section, the limit maneuvering load factors prescribed in §§ 25.333(b) and 25.337, and the maneuvering load factors associated with probable inadvertent excursions beyond the boundaries of the buffet onset envelopes determined under § 25.251(e), need not be exceeded. In addition, the entry speeds for flight test demonstrations at normal acceleration values less than 1 g must be limited to the extent necessary to accomplish a recovery without exceeding V
DF
/M
DF
.
(f) In the out-of-trim condition specified in paragraph (a) of this section, it must be possible from an overspeed condition at V
DF
/M
DF
to produce at least 1.5 g for recovery by applying not more than 125 pounds of longitudinal control force using either the primary longitudinal control alone or the primary longitudinal control and the longitudinal trim system. If the longitudinal trim is used to assist in producing the required load factor, it must be shown at V
DF
/M
DF
that the longitudinal trim can be actuated in the airplane nose-up direction with the primary surface loaded to correspond to the least of the following airplane nose-up control forces:
(1) The maximum control forces expected in service as specified in §§ 25.301 and 25.397.
(2) The control force required to produce 1.5 g.
(3) The control force corresponding to buffeting or other phenomena of such intensity that it is a strong deterrent to further application of primary longitudinal control force.
[Amdt. 25-42, 43 FR 2322, Jan. 16, 1978]

# Subpart C—Structure

# General
§ 25.301
Loads.
(a) Strength requirements are specified in terms of limit loads (the maximum loads to be expected in service) and ultimate loads (limit loads multiplied by prescribed factors of safety). Unless otherwise provided, prescribed loads are limit loads.
(b) Unless otherwise provided, the specified air, ground, and water loads must be placed in equilibrium with inertia forces, considering each item of mass in the airplane. These loads must be distributed to conservatively approximate or closely represent actual conditions. Methods used to determine load intensities and distribution must be validated by flight load measurement unless the methods used for determining those loading conditions are shown to be reliable.
(c) If deflections under load would significantly change the distribution of external or internal loads, this redistribution must be taken into account.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5672, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.302
Interaction of systems and structures.
For airplanes equipped with systems that affect structural performance, either directly or as a result of a failure or malfunction, the influence of these systems and their failure conditions must be taken into account when showing compliance with the requirements of subparts C and D of this part. These criteria are only applicable to structure whose failure could prevent continued safe flight and landing.
(a)
General.
The applicant must use the following criteria in determining the influence of a system and its failure conditions on the airplane structure.
(b)
System fully operative.
With the system fully operative, the following criteria apply:
(1) The applicant must derive limit loads for the limit conditions specified in subpart C of this part, taking into account the behavior of the system up to the limit loads. System nonlinearities must be taken into account.
(2) The applicant must show that the airplane meets the strength requirements of subparts C and D of this part, using the appropriate factor of safety to derive ultimate loads from the limit loads defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The effect of nonlinearities must be investigated sufficiently beyond limit conditions to ensure the behavior of the system presents no detrimental effects compared to the behavior below limit conditions. However, conditions beyond limit conditions need not be considered when it can be shown that the airplane has design features that will not allow it to exceed those limit conditions.
(3) [Reserved]
(c)
System in the failure condition.
For any system failure condition not shown to be extremely improbable or that results from a single failure, the following criteria apply:
(1)
At the time of occurrence.
The applicant must establish a realistic scenario, starting from 1g level flight conditions, and including pilot corrective actions, to determine the loads occurring at the time of failure and immediately after failure.
(i) For static strength substantiation, the airplane must be able to withstand the ultimate loads determined by multiplying the loads in paragraph (c)(1) of this section by a factor of safety that is related to the probability of occurrence of the failure. The factor of safety (F.S.) is defined in Figure 1.
Figure 1 to paragraph (c)(1)(i)
ER27AU24.002
(ii) For residual strength substantiation, the airplane must be able to withstand two thirds of the ultimate loads defined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. For pressurized cabins, these loads must be combined with the normal operating differential pressure.
(iii) [Reserved]
(iv) Failures of the system that result in forced structural vibrations (oscillatory failures) must not produce loads that could result in detrimental deformation of primary structure.
(2)
For the continuation of the flight.
For the airplane, in the system failed state and considering any appropriate reconfiguration and flight limitations, the following apply:
(i) The loads derived from the following conditions at speeds up to V
C
/M
C
, or the speed limitation prescribed for the remainder of the flight must be determined:
(A) the limit symmetrical maneuvering conditions specified in §§ 25.331 and 25.345,
(B) the limit gust and turbulence conditions specified in §§ 25.341 and 25.345,
(C) the limit rolling conditions specified in § 25.349 and the limit unsymmetrical conditions specified in §§ 25.367 and 25.427(b) and (c),
(D) the limit yaw maneuvering conditions specified in § 25.351,
(E) the limit ground loading conditions specified in §§ 25.473 and 25.491, and
(F) any other subpart C of this part load condition for which a system is specifically installed or tailored to reduce the loads of that condition.
(ii) For static strength substantiation, each part of the structure must be able to withstand the loads in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section multiplied by a factor of safety that depends on the probability of being in this failure condition. The factor of safety is defined in Figure 2.
Figure 2 to paragraph (c)(2)(ii)
ER27AU24.003
Qj = (Tj)(Pj) where:
Tj = Average time spent in failure condition j (in hours)
Pj = Probability of occurrence of failure mode j (per hour)
If Pj is greater than 10
−3
per flight hour, then a 1.5 factor of safety must be applied in lieu of the factor of safety defined in Figure 2.
(iii) For residual strength substantiation, the airplane must be able to withstand two thirds of the ultimate loads defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. For pressurized cabins, these loads must be combined with the normal operating differential pressure.
(iv) If the loads induced by the failure condition have a significant effect on fatigue or damage tolerance then their effects must be taken into account.
(v)-(vi) [Reserved]
(3) [Reserved]
(d)
Failure indications.
For system failure detection and indication, the following apply:
(1) The system must be checked for failure conditions evaluated under paragraph (c) of this section that degrade the structural capability below the level required by subparts C (excluding § 25.302) and D of this part or that reduce the reliability of the remaining system. As far as practicable, these failures must be indicated to the flightcrew before flight.
(2) The existence of any failure condition evaluated under paragraph (c) of this section that results in a factor of safety between the airplane strength and the loads of subpart C of this part below 1.25 must be indicated to the flightcrew.
(e) Dispatch with known failure conditions. If the airplane is to be dispatched in a known system failure condition that affects structural performance or affects the reliability of the remaining system to maintain structural performance, then the Master Minimum Equipment List must ensure the provisions of § 25.302 are met for the dispatched condition and for any subsequent failures. Flight limitations and operational limitations may be taken into account in establishing Qj as the combined probability of being in the dispatched failure condition and the subsequent failure condition for the safety margins in Figure 2. No reduction in these safety margins is allowed
if the subsequent system failure rate is greater than 10
−3
per flight hour.
[Doc. No. FAA-2022-1544, 89 FR 68732, Aug. 27, 2024]
§ 25.303
Factor of safety.
Unless otherwise specified, a factor of safety of 1.5 must be applied to the prescribed limit load which are considered external loads on the structure. When a loading condition is prescribed in terms of ultimate loads, a factor of safety need not be applied unless otherwise specified.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5672, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.305
Strength and deformation.
(a) The structure must be able to support limit loads without detrimental permanent deformation. At any load up to limit loads, the deformation may not interfere with safe operation.
(b) The structure must be able to support ultimate loads without failure for at least 3 seconds. However, when proof of strength is shown by dynamic tests simulating actual load conditions, the 3-second limit does not apply. Static tests conducted to ultimate load must include the ultimate deflections and ultimate deformation induced by the loading. When analytical methods are used to show compliance with the ultimate load strength requirements, it must be shown that—
(1) The effects of deformation are not significant;
(2) The deformations involved are fully accounted for in the analysis; or
(3) The methods and assumptions used are sufficient to cover the effects of these deformations.
(c) Where structural flexibility is such that any rate of load application likely to occur in the operating conditions might produce transient stresses appreciably higher than those corresponding to static loads, the effects of this rate of application must be considered.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) The airplane must be designed to withstand any vibration and buffeting that might occur in any likely operating condition up to V
D
/M
D
, including stall and probable inadvertent excursions beyond the boundaries of the buffet onset envelope. This must be shown by analysis, flight tests, or other tests found necessary by the Administrator.
(f) Unless shown to be extremely improbable, the airplane must be designed to withstand any forced structural vibration resulting from any failure, malfunction or adverse condition in the flight control system. These must be considered limit loads and must be investigated at airspeeds up to V
C
/M
C
.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5672, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-54, 45 FR 60172, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 25-77, 57 FR 28949, June 29, 1992; Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5220, Feb. 9, 1996]
§ 25.307
Proof of structure.
(a) Compliance with the strength and deformation requirements of this subpart must be shown for each critical loading condition. Structural analysis may be used only if the structure conforms to that for which experience has shown this method to be reliable. In other cases, substantiating tests must be made to load levels that are sufficient to verify structural behavior up to loads specified in § 25.305.
(b)-(c) [Reserved]
(d) When static or dynamic tests are used to show compliance with the requirements of § 25.305(b) for flight structures, appropriate material correction factors must be applied to the test results, unless the structure, or part thereof, being tested has features such that a number of elements contribute to the total strength of the structure and the failure of one element results in the redistribution of the load through alternate load paths.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5672, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-54, 45 FR 60172, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29775, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-139, 79 FR 59429, Oct. 2, 2014]

# Flight Loads
§ 25.321
General.
(a) Flight load factors represent the ratio of the aerodynamic force component (acting normal to the assumed longitudinal axis of the airplane) to the weight of the airplane. A positive load factor is one in which the aerodynamic force acts upward with respect to the airplane.
(b) Considering compressibility effects at each speed, compliance with the flight load requirements of this subpart must be shown—
(1) At each critical altitude within the range of altitudes selected by the applicant;
(2) At each weight from the design minimum weight to the design maximum weight appropriate to each particular flight load condition; and
(3) For each required altitude and weight, for any practicable distribution of disposable load within the operating limitations recorded in the Airplane Flight Manual.
(c) Enough points on and within the boundaries of the design envelope must be investigated to ensure that the maximum load for each part of the airplane structure is obtained.
(d) The significant forces acting on the airplane must be placed in equilibrium in a rational or conservative manner. The linear inertia forces must be considered in equilibrium with the thrust and all aerodynamic loads, while the angular (pitching) inertia forces must be considered in equilibrium with thrust and all aerodynamic moments, including moments due to loads on components such as tail surfaces and nacelles. Critical thrust values in the range from zero to maximum continuous thrust must be considered.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5672, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5220, Feb. 9, 1996]

# Flight Maneuver and Gust Conditions
§ 25.331
Symmetric maneuvering conditions.
(a)
Procedure.
For the analysis of the maneuvering flight conditions specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the following provisions apply:
(1) Where sudden displacement of a control is specified, the assumed rate of control surface displacement may not be less than the rate that could be applied by the pilot through the control system.
(2) In determining elevator angles and chordwise load distribution in the maneuvering conditions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the effect of corresponding pitching velocities must be taken into account. The in-trim and out-of-trim flight conditions specified in § 25.255 must be considered.
(b)
Maneuvering balanced conditions.
Assuming the airplane to be in equilibrium with zero pitching acceleration, the maneuvering conditions A through I on the maneuvering envelope in § 25.333(b) must be investigated.
(c)
Maneuvering pitching conditions.
The following conditions must be investigated:
(1)
Maximum pitch control displacement at V
A
. The airplane is assumed to be flying in steady level flight (point A
1
, § 25.333(b)) and the cockpit pitch control is suddenly moved to obtain extreme nose up pitching acceleration. In defining the tail load, the response of the airplane must be taken into account. Airplane loads that occur subsequent to the time when normal acceleration at the c.g. exceeds the positive limit maneuvering load factor (at point A
2
in § 25.333(b)), or the resulting tailplane normal load reaches its maximum, whichever occurs first, need not be considered.
(2)
Checked maneuver between V
A
and
V
D
. Nose-up checked pitching maneuvers must be analyzed in which the positive limit load factor prescribed in § 25.337 is achieved. As a separate condition, nose-down checked pitching maneuvers must be analyzed in which a limit load factor of 0g is achieved. In defining the airplane loads, the flight deck pitch control motions described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section must be used:
(i) The airplane is assumed to be flying in steady level flight at any speed between V
A
and V
D
and the flight deck pitch control is moved in accordance with the following formula:
δ(t) = δ
1
sin(ωt) for 0 ≤ t ≤ t
max
Where—
δ
1
= the maximum available displacement of the flight deck pitch control in the initial direction, as limited by the control system stops, control surface stops, or by pilot effort in accordance with § 25.397(b);
δ(t) = the displacement of the flight deck pitch control as a function of time. In the initial direction, δ(t) is limited to δ
1
. In the reverse direction, δ(t) may be truncated at the maximum available displacement of the flight deck pitch control as limited by the control system
stops, control surface stops, or by pilot effort in accordance with 25.397(b);
t
max
= 3π/2ω;
ω = the circular frequency (radians/second) of the control deflection taken equal to the undamped natural frequency of the short period rigid mode of the airplane, with active control system effects included where appropriate; but not less than:
ER11DE14.023
Where
V = the speed of the airplane at entry to the maneuver.
V
A
= the design maneuvering speed prescribed in § 25.335(c).
(ii) For nose-up pitching maneuvers, the complete flight deck pitch control displacement history may be scaled down in amplitude to the extent necessary to ensure that the positive limit load factor prescribed in § 25.337 is not exceeded. For nose-down pitching maneuvers, the complete flight deck control displacement history may be scaled down in amplitude to the extent necessary to ensure that the normal acceleration at the center of gravity does not go below 0g.
(iii) In addition, for cases where the airplane response to the specified flight deck pitch control motion does not achieve the prescribed limit load factors, then the following flight deck pitch control motion must be used:
δ(t) = δ
1
sin(ωt) for 0 ≤ t ≤ t
1
δ(t) = δ
1
for t
1
≤ t ≤ t
2
δ(t) = δ
1
sin(ω[t + t
1
− t
2
]) for t
2
≤ t ≤ t
max
Where—
t
1
= π/2ω
t
2
= t
1
+ Δt
t
max
= t
2
+ π/ω;
Δt = the minimum period of time necessary to allow the prescribed limit load factor to be achieved in the initial direction, but it need not exceed five seconds (see figure below).
ER11DE14.024
(iv) In cases where the flight deck pitch control motion may be affected by inputs from systems (for example, by a stick pusher that can operate at high load factor as well as at 1g), then the effects of those systems shall be taken into account.
(v) Airplane loads that occur beyond the following times need not be considered:
(A) For the nose-up pitching maneuver, the time at which the normal acceleration at the center of gravity goes below 0g;
(B) For the nose-down pitching maneuver, the time at which the normal acceleration at the center of gravity goes above the positive limit load factor prescribed in § 25.337;
(C) t
max.
.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5672, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50594, Oct. 30, 1978; 43 FR 52495, Nov. 13, 1978; 43 FR 54082, Nov. 20, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29775, July 20, 1990; 55 FR 37607, Sept. 12, 1990; Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5220, Feb. 9, 1996; Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40704, July 29, 1997; Amdt. 25-141, 79 FR 73466, Dec. 11, 2014]
§ 25.333
Flight maneuvering envelope.
(a)
General.
The strength requirements must be met at each combination of airspeed and load factor on and within the boundaries of the representative maneuvering envelope (
V-n
diagram) of paragraph (b) of this section. This envelope must also be used in determining the airplane structural operating limitations as specified in § 25.1501.
(b)
Maneuvering envelope.
EC28SE91.035
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5220, Feb. 9, 1996]
§ 25.335
Design airspeeds.
The selected design airspeeds are equivalent airspeeds (EAS). Estimated values of
V
S
0
and
V
S
1
must be conservative.
(a)
Design cruising speed, V
C
. For
V
C,
the following apply:
(1) The minimum value of
V
C
must be sufficiently greater than
V
B
to provide for inadvertent speed increases likely to occur as a result of severe atmospheric turbulence.
(2) Except as provided in § 25.335(d)(2), V
C
may not be less than V
B
+ 1.32 U
REF
(with U
REF
as specified in § 25.341(a)(5)(i)). However V
C
need not exceed the maximum speed in level flight at maximum continuous power for the corresponding altitude.
(3) At altitudes where
V
D
is limited by Mach number,
V
C
may be limited to a selected Mach number.
(b)
Design dive speed, V
D
.
V
D
must be selected so that
V
C
/
M
C
is not greater than 0.8
V
D
/
M
D,
or so that the minimum
speed margin between
V
C
/
M
C
and
V
D
/
M
D
is the greater of the following values:
(1) From an initial condition of stabilized flight at
V
C
/
M
C,
the airplane is upset, flown for 20 seconds along a flight path 7.5° below the initial path, and then pulled up at a load factor of 1.5
g
(0.5
g
acceleration increment). The speed increase occurring in this maneuver may be calculated if reliable or conservative aerodynamic data is used. Power as specified in § 25.175(b)(1)(iv) is assumed until the pullup is initiated, at which time power reduction and the use of pilot controlled drag devices may be assumed;
(2) The minimum speed margin must be enough to provide for atmospheric variations (such as horizontal gusts, and penetration of jet streams and cold fronts) and for instrument errors and airframe production variations. These factors may be considered on a probability basis. The margin at altitude where M
C
is limited by compressibility effects must not less than 0.07M unless a lower margin is determined using a rational analysis that includes the effects of any automatic systems. In any case, the margin may not be reduced to less than 0.05M.
(c)
Design maneuvering speed V
A
. For
V
A
, the following apply:
(1) V
A
may not be less than V
S
1
√n where—
(i)
n
is the limit positive maneuvering load factor at
V
C
; and
(ii)
V
S
1
is the stalling speed with flaps retracted.
(2)
V
A
and
V
S
must be evaluated at the design weight and altitude under consideration.
(3)
V
A
need not be more than
V
C
or the speed at which the positive
C
N max
curve intersects the positive maneuver load factor line, whichever is less.
(d)
Design speed for maximum gust intensity, V
B
.
(1) V
B
may not be less than
ER09fe96.016
where—
V
S1
= the 1-g stalling speed based on C
NAmax
with the flaps retracted at the particular weight under consideration;
V
c
= design cruise speed (knots equivalent airspeed);
U
ref
= the reference gust velocity (feet per second equivalent airspeed) from § 25.341(a)(5)(i);
w = average wing loading (pounds per square foot) at the particular weight under consideration.
ER09FE96.017
ρ = density of air (slugs/ft
3
);
c = mean geometric chord of the wing (feet);
g = acceleration due to gravity (ft/sec
2
);
a = slope of the airplane normal force coefficient curve, C
NA
per radian;
(2) At altitudes where V
C
is limited by Mach number—
(i) V
B
may be chosen to provide an optimum margin between low and high speed buffet boundaries; and,
(ii) V
B
need not be greater than V
C
.
(e)
Design flap speeds, V
F
. For
V
F
, the following apply:
(1) The design flap speed for each flap position (established in accordance with § 25.697(a)) must be sufficiently greater than the operating speed recommended for the corresponding stage of flight (including balked landings) to allow for probable variations in control of airspeed and for transition from one flap position to another.
(2) If an automatic flap positioning or load limiting device is used, the speeds and corresponding flap positions programmed or allowed by the device may be used.
(3)
V
F
may not be less than—
(i) 1.6
V
S
1
with the flaps in takeoff position at maximum takeoff weight;
(ii) 1.8
V
S
1
with the flaps in approach position at maximum landing weight, and
(iii) 1.8
V
S
0
with the flaps in landing position at maximum landing weight.
(f)
Design drag device speeds, V
DD
. The selected design speed for each drag device must be sufficiently greater than the speed recommended for the operation of the device to allow for probable variations in speed control. For drag devices intended for use in high speed descents,
V
DD
may not be less than
V
D
. When an automatic drag device positioning or load limiting means is used, the speeds and corresponding
drag device positions programmed or allowed by the automatic means must be used for design.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5672, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5220, Feb. 9, 1996; Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40704, July 29, 1997]
§ 25.337
Limit maneuvering load factors.
(a) Except where limited by maximum (static) lift coefficients, the airplane is assumed to be subjected to symmetrical maneuvers resulting in the limit maneuvering load factors prescribed in this section. Pitching velocities appropriate to the corresponding pull-up and steady turn maneuvers must be taken into account.
(b) The positive limit maneuvering load factor
n
for any speed up to
Vn
may not be less than 2.1 + 24,000/ (
W
+ 10,000) except that
n
may not be less than 2.5 and need not be greater than 3.8—where
W
is the design maximum takeoff weight.
(c) The negative limit maneuvering load factor—
(1) May not be less than −1.0 at speeds up to
V
C
; and
(2) Must vary linearly with speed from the value at
V
C
to zero at
V
D
.
(d) Maneuvering load factors lower than those specified in this section may be used if the airplane has design features that make it impossible to exceed these values in flight.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5672, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.341
Gust and turbulence loads.
(a)
Discrete Gust Design Criteria.
The airplane is assumed to be subjected to symmetrical vertical and lateral gusts in level flight. Limit gust loads must be determined in accordance with the provisions:
(1) Loads on each part of the structure must be determined by dynamic analysis. The analysis must take into account unsteady aerodynamic characteristics and all significant structural degrees of freedom including rigid body motions.
(2) The shape of the gust must be:
ER09FE96.018
for 0 ≤s ≤2H
where—
s = distance penetrated into the gust (feet);
U
ds
= the design gust velocity in equivalent airspeed specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section; and
H = the gust gradient which is the distance (feet) parallel to the airplane's flight path for the gust to reach its peak velocity.
(3) A sufficient number of gust gradient distances in the range 30 feet to 350 feet must be investigated to find the critical response for each load quantity.
(4) The design gust velocity must be:
ER09FE96.019
where—
U
ref
= the reference gust velocity in equivalent airspeed defined in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
F
g
= the flight profile alleviation factor defined in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
(5) The following reference gust velocities apply:
(i) At airplane speeds between V
B
and V
C
: Positive and negative gusts with reference gust velocities of 56.0 ft/sec EAS must be considered at sea level. The reference gust velocity may be reduced linearly from 56.0 ft/sec EAS at sea level to 44.0 ft/sec EAS at 15,000 feet. The reference gust velocity may be further reduced linearly from 44.0 ft/sec EAS at 15,000 feet to 20.86 ft/sec EAS at 60,000 feet.
(ii) At the airplane design speed V
D
: The reference gust velocity must be 0.5 times the value obtained under § 25.341(a)(5)(i).
(6) The flight profile alleviation factor, F
g
, must be increased linearly from the sea level value to a value of 1.0 at the maximum operating altitude defined in § 25.1527. At sea level, the flight profile alleviation factor is determined by the following equation:
EN08MR96.004
Z
mo
= Maximum operating altitude defined in § 25.1527 (feet).
(7) When a stability augmentation system is included in the analysis, the effect of any significant system nonlinearities should be accounted for when deriving limit loads from limit gust conditions.
(b)
Continuous turbulence design criteria.
The dynamic response of the airplane to vertical and lateral continuous turbulence must be taken into account. The dynamic analysis must take into account unsteady aerodynamic characteristics and all significant structural degrees of freedom including rigid body motions. The limit loads must be determined for all critical altitudes, weights, and weight distributions as specified in § 25.321(b), and all critical speeds within the ranges indicated in § 25.341(b)(3).
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section, the following equation must be used:
P
L
= P
L−1
g
± U
σ
A
Where—
P
L
= limit load;
P
L−1g
= steady 1g load for the condition;
A
= ratio of root-mean-square incremental load for the condition to root-mean-square turbulence velocity; and
U
σ
= limit turbulence intensity in true airspeed, specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) Values of
A
must be determined according to the following formula:
ER11DE14.025
Where—
H(Ω) = the frequency response function, determined by dynamic analysis, that relates the loads in the aircraft structure to the atmospheric turbulence; and
Φ(Ω) = normalized power spectral density of atmospheric turbulence given by—
ER11DE14.026
Where—
Ω = reduced frequency, radians per foot; and
L = scale of turbulence = 2,500 ft.
(3) The limit turbulence intensities, U
σ
, in feet per second true airspeed required for compliance with this paragraph are—
(i) At airplane speeds between V
B
and V
C
:
U
σ
= U
σ
ref
F
g
Where—
U
σ
ref
is the reference turbulence intensity that varies linearly with altitude from 90 fps (TAS) at sea level to 79 fps (TAS) at
24,000 feet and is then constant at 79 fps (TAS) up to the altitude of 60,000 feet.
F
g
is the flight profile alleviation factor defined in paragraph (a)(6) of this section;
(ii) At speed V
D
: U
σ
is equal to
1/2
the values obtained under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
(iii) At speeds between V
C
and V
D
: U
σ
is equal to a value obtained by linear interpolation.
(iv) At all speeds, both positive and negative incremental loads due to continuous turbulence must be considered.
(4) When an automatic system affecting the dynamic response of the airplane is included in the analysis, the effects of system non-linearities on loads at the limit load level must be taken into account in a realistic or conservative manner.
(5) If necessary for the assessment of loads on airplanes with significant non-linearities, it must be assumed that the turbulence field has a root-mean-square velocity equal to 40 percent of the U
σ
values specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The value of limit load is that load with the same probability of exceedance in the turbulence field as
A
U
σ
of the same load quantity in a linear approximated model.
(c)
Supplementary gust conditions for wing-mounted engines.
For airplanes equipped with wing-mounted engines, the engine mounts, pylons, and wing supporting structure must be designed for the maximum response at the nacelle center of gravity derived from the following dynamic gust conditions applied to the airplane:
(1) A discrete gust determined in accordance with § 25.341(a) at each angle normal to the flight path, and separately,
(2) A pair of discrete gusts, one vertical and one lateral. The length of each of these gusts must be independently tuned to the maximum response in accordance with § 25.341(a). The penetration of the airplane in the combined gust field and the phasing of the vertical and lateral component gusts must be established to develop the maximum response to the gust pair. In the absence of a more rational analysis, the following formula must be used for each of the maximum engine loads in all six degrees of freedom:
ER11DE14.027
Where—
P
L
= limit load;
P
L-1g
= steady 1g load for the condition;
L
V
= peak incremental response load due to a vertical gust according to § 25.341(a); and
L
L
= peak incremental response load due to a lateral gust according to § 25.341(a).
[Doc. No. 27902, 61 FR 5221, Feb. 9, 1996; 61 FR 9533, Mar. 8, 1996; Doc. No. FAA-2013-0142; 79 FR 73467, Dec. 11, 2014; Amdt. 25-141, 80 FR 4762, Jan. 29, 2015; 80 FR 6435, Feb. 5, 2015]
§ 25.343
Design fuel and oil loads.
(a) The disposable load combinations must include each fuel and oil load in the range from zero fuel and oil to the selected maximum fuel and oil load. A structural reserve fuel condition, not exceeding 45 minutes of fuel under the operating conditions in § 25.1001(e) and (f), as applicable, may be selected.
(b) If a structural reserve fuel condition is selected, it must be used as the minimum fuel weight condition for showing compliance with the flight load requirements as prescribed in this subpart. In addition—
(1) The structure must be designed for a condition of zero fuel and oil in the wing at limit loads corresponding to—
(i) A maneuvering load factor of + 2.25; and
(ii) The gust and turbulence conditions of § 25.341(a) and (b), but assuming 85% of the gust velocities prescribed in § 25.341(a)(4) and 85% of the turbulence intensities prescribed in § 25.341(b)(3).
(2) Fatigue evaluation of the structure must account for any increase in operating stresses resulting from the design condition of paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(3) The flutter, deformation, and vibration requirements must also be met with zero fuel.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-18, 33 FR 12226, Aug. 30, 1968; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 37607, Sept. 12, 1990; Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5221, Feb. 9, 1996; Amdt. 25-141, 79 FR 73468, Dec. 11, 2014]
§ 25.345
High lift devices.
(a) If wing flaps are to be used during takeoff, approach, or landing, at the design flap speeds established for these stages of flight under § 25.335(e) and with the wing flaps in the corresponding positions, the airplane is assumed to be subjected to symmetrical maneuvers and gusts. The resulting limit loads must correspond to the conditions determined as follows:
(1) Maneuvering to a positive limit load factor of 2.0; and
(2) Positive and negative gusts of 25 ft/sec EAS acting normal to the flight path in level flight. Gust loads resulting on each part of the structure must be determined by rational analysis. The analysis must take into account the unsteady aerodynamic characteristics and rigid body motions of the aircraft. The shape of the gust must be as described in § 25.341(a)(2) except that—
U
ds
= 25 ft/sec EAS;
H = 12.5 c; and
c = mean geometric chord of the wing (feet).
(b) The airplane must be designed for the conditions prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, except that the airplane load factor need not exceed 1.0, taking into account, as separate conditions, the effects of—
(1) Propeller slipstream corresponding to maximum continuous power at the design flap speeds
V
F,
and with takeoff power at not less than 1.4 times the stalling speed for the particular flap position and associated maximum weight; and
(2) A head-on gust of 25 feet per second velocity (EAS).
(c) If flaps or other high lift devices are to be used in en route conditions, and with flaps in the appropriate position at speeds up to the flap design speed chosen for these conditions, the airplane is assumed to be subjected to symmetrical maneuvers and gusts within the range determined by—
(1) Maneuvering to a positive limit load factor as prescribed in § 25.337(b); and
(2) The vertical gust and turbulence conditions prescribed in § 25.341(a) and (b).
(d) The airplane must be designed for a maneuvering load factor of 1.5 g at the maximum take-off weight with the wing-flaps and similar high lift devices in the landing configurations.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50595, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 37607, Sept. 17, 1990; Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5221, Feb. 9, 1996; Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40704, July 29, 1997; Amdt. 25-141, 79 FR 73468, Dec. 11, 2014]
§ 25.349
Rolling conditions.
The airplane must be designed for loads resulting from the rolling conditions specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Unbalanced aerodynamic moments about the center of gravity must be reacted in a rational or conservative manner, considering the principal masses furnishing the reacting inertia forces.
(a)
Maneuvering.
The following conditions, speeds, and aileron deflections (except as the deflections may be limited by pilot effort) must be considered in combination with an airplane load factor of zero and of two-thirds of the positive maneuvering factor used in design. In determining the required aileron deflections, the torsional flexibility of the wing must be considered in accordance with § 25.301(b):
(1) Conditions corresponding to steady rolling velocities must be investigated. In addition, conditions corresponding to maximum angular acceleration must be investigated for airplanes with engines or other weight concentrations outboard of the fuselage. For the angular acceleration conditions, zero rolling velocity may be assumed in the absence of a rational time history investigation of the maneuver.
(2) At
V
A,
a sudden deflection of the aileron to the stop is assumed.
(3) At
V
C,
the aileron deflection must be that required to produce a rate of roll not less than that obtained in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(4) At
V
D,
the aileron deflection must be that required to produce a rate of
roll not less than one-third of that in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b)
Unsymmetrical gusts.
The airplane is assumed to be subjected to unsymmetrical vertical gusts in level flight. The resulting limit loads must be determined from either the wing maximum airload derived directly from § 25.341(a), or the wing maximum airload derived indirectly from the vertical load factor calculated from § 25.341(a). It must be assumed that 100 percent of the wing air load acts on one side of the airplane and 80 percent of the wing air load acts on the other side.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5672, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5222, Feb. 9, 1996; Amdt. 25-94, 63 FR 8848, Feb. 23, 1998]
§ 25.351
Yaw maneuver conditions.
The airplane must be designed for loads resulting from the yaw maneuver conditions specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section at speeds from V
MC
to V
D
. Unbalanced aerodynamic moments about the center of gravity must be reacted in a rational or conservative manner considering the airplane inertia forces. In computing the tail loads the yawing velocity may be assumed to be zero.
(a) With the airplane in unaccelerated flight at zero yaw, it is assumed that the cockpit rudder control is suddenly displaced to achieve the resulting rudder deflection, as limited by:
(1) The control system on control surface stops; or
(2) A limit pilot force of 300 pounds from V
MC
to V
A
and 200 pounds from V
C
/M
C
to V
D
/M
D
, with a linear variation between V
A
and V
C
/M
C
.
(b) With the cockpit rudder control deflected so as always to maintain the maximum rudder deflection available within the limitations specified in paragraph (a) of this section, it is assumed that the airplane yaws to the overswing sideslip angle.
(c) With the airplane yawed to the static equilibrium sideslip angle, it is assumed that the cockpit rudder control is held so as to achieve the maximum rudder deflection available within the limitations specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) With the airplane yawed to the static equilibrium sideslip angle of paragraph (c) of this section, it is assumed that the cockpit rudder control is suddenly returned to neutral.
[Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40704, July 29, 1997]
§ 25.353
Rudder control reversal conditions.
Airplanes with a powered rudder control surface or surfaces must be designed for loads, considered to be ultimate, resulting from the yaw maneuver conditions specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section at speeds from V
MC
to V
C
/M
C
. Any permanent deformation resulting from these ultimate load conditions must not prevent continued safe flight and landing. The applicant must evaluate these conditions with the landing gear retracted and speed brakes (and spoilers when used as speed brakes) retracted. The applicant must evaluate the effects of flaps, flaperons, or any other aerodynamic devices when used as flaps, and slats-extended configurations, if they are used in en route conditions. Unbalanced aerodynamic moments about the center of gravity must be reacted in a rational or conservative manner considering the airplane inertia forces. In computing the loads on the airplane, the yawing velocity may be assumed to be zero. The applicant must assume a pilot force of 200 pounds when evaluating each of the following conditions:
(a) With the airplane in unaccelerated flight at zero yaw, the flightdeck rudder control is suddenly and fully displaced to achieve the resulting rudder deflection, as limited by the control system or the control surface stops.
(b) With the airplane yawed to the overswing sideslip angle, the flightdeck rudder control is suddenly and fully displaced in the opposite direction, as limited by the control system or control surface stops.
(c) With the airplane yawed to the opposite overswing sideslip angle, the flightdeck rudder control is suddenly and fully displaced in the opposite direction, as limited by the control system or control surface stops.
(d) With the airplane yawed to the subsequent overswing sideslip angle,
the flightdeck rudder control is suddenly and fully displaced in the opposite direction, as limited by the control system or control surface stops.
(e) With the airplane yawed to the opposite overswing sideslip angle, the flightdeck rudder control is suddenly returned to neutral.
[Amdt. No. 25-147, 87 FR 71210, Nov. 22, 2022]

# Supplementary Conditions
§ 25.361
Engine and auxiliary power unit torque.
(a) For engine installations—
(1) Each engine mount, pylon, and adjacent supporting airframe structures must be designed for the effects of—
(i) A limit engine torque corresponding to takeoff power/thrust and, if applicable, corresponding propeller speed, acting simultaneously with 75% of the limit loads from flight condition A of § 25.333(b);
(ii) A limit engine torque corresponding to the maximum continuous power/thrust and, if applicable, corresponding propeller speed, acting simultaneously with the limit loads from flight condition A of § 25.333(b); and
(iii) For turbopropeller installations only, in addition to the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, a limit engine torque corresponding to takeoff power and propeller speed, multiplied by a factor accounting for propeller control system malfunction, including quick feathering, acting simultaneously with 1g level flight loads. In the absence of a rational analysis, a factor of 1.6 must be used.
(2) The limit engine torque to be considered under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be obtained by—
(i) For turbopropeller installations, multiplying mean engine torque for the specified power/thrust and speed by a factor of 1.25;
(ii) For other turbine engines, the limit engine torque must be equal to the maximum accelerating torque for the case considered.
(3) The engine mounts, pylons, and adjacent supporting airframe structure must be designed to withstand 1g level flight loads acting simultaneously with the limit engine torque loads imposed by each of the following conditions to be considered separately:
(i) Sudden maximum engine deceleration due to malfunction or abnormal condition; and
(ii) The maximum acceleration of engine.
(b) For auxiliary power unit installations, the power unit mounts and adjacent supporting airframe structure must be designed to withstand 1g level flight loads acting simultaneously with the limit torque loads imposed by each of the following conditions to be considered separately:
(1) Sudden maximum auxiliary power unit deceleration due to malfunction, abnormal condition, or structural failure; and
(2) The maximum acceleration of the auxiliary power unit.
[Amdt. 25-141, 79 FR 73468, Dec. 11, 2014]
§ 25.362
Engine failure loads.
(a) For engine mounts, pylons, and adjacent supporting airframe structure, an ultimate loading condition must be considered that combines 1g flight loads with the most critical transient dynamic loads and vibrations, as determined by dynamic analysis, resulting from failure of a blade, shaft, bearing or bearing support, or bird strike event. Any permanent deformation from these ultimate load conditions must not prevent continued safe flight and landing.
(b) The ultimate loads developed from the conditions specified in paragraph (a) of this section are to be—
(1) Multiplied by a factor of 1.0 when applied to engine mounts and pylons; and
(2) Multiplied by a factor of 1.25 when applied to adjacent supporting airframe structure.
[Amdt. 25-141, 79 FR 73468, Dec. 11, 2014]
§ 25.363
Side load on engine and auxiliary power unit mounts.
(a) Each engine and auxiliary power unit mount and its supporting structure must be designed for a limit load factor in lateral direction, for the side load on the engine and auxiliary power unit mount, at least equal to the maximum load factor obtained in the yawing conditions but not less than—
(1) 1.33; or
(2) One-third of the limit load factor for flight condition A as prescribed in § 25.333(b).
(b) The side load prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section may be assumed to be independent of other flight conditions.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5672, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40704, July 29, 1997]
§ 25.365
Pressurized compartment loads.
For airplanes with one or more pressurized compartments the following apply:
(a) The airplane structure must be strong enough to withstand the flight loads combined with pressure differential loads from zero up to the maximum relief valve setting.
(b) The external pressure distribution in flight, and stress concentrations and fatigue effects must be accounted for.
(c) If landings may be made with the compartment pressurized, landing loads must be combined with pressure differential loads from zero up to the maximum allowed during landing.
(d) The airplane structure must be designed to be able to withstand the pressure differential loads corresponding to the maximum relief valve setting multiplied by a factor of 1.33 for airplanes to be approved for operation to 45,000 feet or by a factor of 1.67 for airplanes to be approved for operation above 45,000 feet, omitting other loads.
(e) Any structure, component or part, inside or outside a pressurized compartment, the failure of which could interfere with continued safe flight and landing, must be designed to withstand the effects of a sudden release of pressure through an opening in any compartment at any operating altitude resulting from each of the following conditions:
(1) The penetration of the compartment by a portion of an engine following an engine disintegration;
(2) Any opening in any pressurized compartment up to the size H
o
in square feet; however, small compartments may be combined with an adjacent pressurized compartment and both considered as a single compartment for openings that cannot reasonably be expected to be confined to the small compartment. The size H
o
must be computed by the following formula:
H
o
= PA
s
where,
H
o
= Maximum opening in square feet, need not exceed 20 square feet.
P = (A
s
/6240) + .024
A
s
= Maximum cross-sectional area of the pressurized shell normal to the longitudinal axis, in square feet; and
(3) The maximum opening caused by airplane or equipment failures not shown to be extremely improbable.
(f) In complying with paragraph (e) of this section, the fail-safe features of the design may be considered in determining the probability of failure or penetration and probable size of openings, provided that possible improper operation of closure devices and inadvertent door openings are also considered. Furthermore, the resulting differential pressure loads must be combined in a rational and conservative manner with 1-g level flight loads and any loads arising from emergency depressurization conditions. These loads may be considered as ultimate conditions; however, any deformations associated with these conditions must not interfere with continued safe flight and landing. The pressure relief provided by intercompartment venting may also be considered.
(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, bulkheads, floors, and partitions in pressurized compartments for occupants must be designed to withstand the conditions specified in paragraph (e) of this section. In addition, reasonable design precautions must be taken to minimize the probability of parts becoming detached and injuring occupants while in their seats.
(2) Partitions adjacent to the opening specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section need not be designed to withstand that condition provided—
(i) Failure of the partition would not interfere with continued safe flight and landing; and
(ii) Designing the partition to withstand the condition specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section would be impractical.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-54, 45 FR 60172, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 25-71, 55 FR 13477, Apr. 10, 1990; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29776, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-87, 61 FR 28695, June 5, 1996; Amdt. No. 25-149, 88 FR 38382, June 13, 2023]
§ 25.367
Unsymmetrical loads due to engine failure.
(a) The airplane must be designed for the unsymmetrical loads resulting from the failure of the critical engine. Turbopropeller airplanes must be designed for the following conditions in combination with a single malfunction of the propeller drag limiting system, considering the probable pilot corrective action on the flight controls:
(1) At speeds between
V
MC
and
V
D,
the loads resulting from power failure because of fuel flow interruption are considered to be limit loads.
(2) At speeds between
V
MC
and
V
C,
the loads resulting from the disconnection of the engine compressor from the turbine or from loss of the turbine blades are considered to be ultimate loads.
(3) The time history of the thrust decay and drag build-up occurring as a result of the prescribed engine failures must be substantiated by test or other data applicable to the particular engine-propeller combination.
(4) The timing and magnitude of the probable pilot corrective action must be conservatively estimated, considering the characteristics of the particular engine-propeller-airplane combination.
(b) Pilot corrective action may be assumed to be initiated at the time maximum yawing velocity is reached, but not earlier than two seconds after the engine failure. The magnitude of the corrective action may be based on the control forces specified in § 25.397(b) except that lower forces may be assumed where it is shown by anaylsis or test that these forces can control the yaw and roll resulting from the prescribed engine failure conditions.
§ 25.371
Gyroscopic loads.
The structure supporting any engine or auxiliary power unit must be designed for the loads, including gyroscopic loads, arising from the conditions specified in §§ 25.331, 25.341, 25.349, 25.351, 25.473, 25.479, and 25.481, with the engine or auxiliary power unit at the maximum rotating speed appropriate to the condition. For the purposes of compliance with this paragraph, the pitch maneuver in § 25.331(c)(1) must be carried out until the positive limit maneuvering load factor (point A
2
in § 25.333(b)) is reached.
[Amdt. 25-141, 79 FR 73468, Dec. 11, 2014]
§ 25.373
Speed control devices.
If speed control devices (such as spoilers and drag flaps) are installed for use in en route conditions—
(a) The airplane must be designed for the symmetrical maneuvers prescribed in §§ 25.333 and 25.337, the yawing maneuvers in § 25.351, and the vertical and lateral gust and turbulence conditions prescribed in § 25.341(a) and (b) at each setting and the maximum speed associated with that setting; and
(b) If the device has automatic operating or load limiting features, the airplane must be designed for the maneuver and gust conditions prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, at the speeds and corresponding device positions that the mechanism allows.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29776, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5222, Feb. 9, 1996; Amdt. 25-141, 79 FR 73468, Dec. 11, 2014]

# Control Surface and System Loads
§ 25.391
Control surface loads: General.
The control surfaces must be designed for the limit loads resulting from the flight conditions in §§ 25.331, 25.341(a) and (b), 25.349, and 25.351, considering the requirements for—
(a) Loads parallel to hinge line, in § 25.393;
(b) Pilot effort effects, in § 25.397;
(c) Trim tab effects, in § 25.407;
(d) Unsymmetrical loads, in § 25.427; and
(e) Auxiliary aerodynamic surfaces, in § 25.445.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5222, Feb. 9, 1996; Amdt. 25-141, 79 FR 73468, Dec. 11, 2014]
§ 25.393
Loads parallel to hinge line.
(a) Control surfaces and supporting hinge brackets must be designed for inertia loads acting parallel to the hinge line.
(b) In the absence of more rational data, the inertia loads may be assumed to be equal to
KW,
where—
(1)
K
= 24 for vertical surfaces;
(2)
K
= 12 for horizontal surfaces; and
(3)
W
= weight of the movable surfaces.
§ 25.395
Control system.
(a) Longitudinal, lateral, directional, and drag control system and their supporting structures must be designed for loads corresponding to 125 percent of the computed hinge moments of the movable control surface in the conditions prescribed in § 25.391.
(b) The system limit loads of paragraph (a) of this section need not exceed the loads that can be produced by the pilot (or pilots) and by automatic or power devices operating the controls.
(c) The loads must not be less than those resulting from application of the minimum forces prescribed in § 25.397(c).
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5672, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29776, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-141, 79 FR 73468, Dec. 11, 2014]
§ 25.397
Control system loads.
(a)
General.
The maximum and minimum pilot forces, specified in paragraph (c) of this section, are assumed to act at the appropriate control grips or pads (in a manner simulating flight conditions) and to be reacted at the attachment of the control system to the control surface horn.
(b)
Pilot effort effects.
In the control surface flight loading condition, the air loads on movable surfaces and the corresponding deflections need not exceed those that would result in flight from the application of any pilot force within the ranges specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Two-thirds of the maximum values specified for the aileron and elevator may be used if control surface hinge moments are based on reliable data. In applying this criterion, the effects of servo mechanisms, tabs, and automatic pilot systems, must be considered.
(c)
Limit pilot forces and torques.
The limit pilot forces and torques are as follows:
Control
Maximum forces or torques
Minimum forces or torques
Aileron:
Stick
100 lbs
40 lbs.
Wheel
1
80 D in.-lbs
2
40 D in.-lbs.
Elevator:
Stick
250 lbs
100 lbs.
Wheel (symmetrical)
300 lbs
100 lbs.
Wheel (unsymmetrical)
3
100 lbs.
Rudder
300 lbs
130 lbs.
1
The critical parts of the aileron control system must be designed for a single tangential force with a limit value equal to 1.25 times the couple force determined from these criteria.
2
D
= wheel diameter (inches).
3
The unsymmetrical forces must be applied at one of the normal handgrip points on the periphery of the control wheel.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55466, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29776, July 20, 1990]
§ 25.399
Dual control system.
(a) Each dual control system must be designed for the pilots operating in opposition, using individual pilot forces not less than—
(1) 0.75 times those obtained under § 25.395; or
(2) The minimum forces specified in § 25.397(c).
(b) The control system must be designed for pilot forces applied in the same direction, using individual pilot forces not less than 0.75 times those obtained under § 25.395.
§ 25.405
Secondary control system.
Secondary controls, such as wheel brake, spoiler, and tab controls, must be designed for the maximum forces that a pilot is likely to apply to those controls. The following values may be used:
Pilot Control Force Limits (Secondary Controls)
Control
Limit pilot forces
Miscellaneous:
*Crank, wheel, or lever
((1 + R) / 3) × 50 lbs., but not less than 50 lbs. nor more than 150 lbs. (R = radius). (Applicable to any angle within 20° of plane of control).
Twist
133 in.-lbs.
Push-pull
To be chosen by applicant.
*Limited to flap, tab, stabilizer, spoiler, and landing gear operation controls.
§ 25.407
Trim tab effects.
The effects of trim tabs on the control surface design conditions must be accounted for only where the surface loads are limited by maximum pilot effort. In these cases, the tabs are considered to be deflected in the direction that would assist the pilot, and the deflections are—
(a) For elevator trim tabs, those required to trim the airplane at any point within the positive portion of the pertinent flight envelope in § 25.333(b), except as limited by the stops; and
(b) For aileron and rudder trim tabs, those required to trim the airplane in the critical unsymmetrical power and loading conditions, with appropriate allowance for rigging tolerances.
§ 25.409
Tabs.
(a)
Trim tabs.
Trim tabs must be designed to withstand loads arising from all likely combinations of tab setting, primary control position, and airplane speed (obtainable without exceeding the flight load conditions prescribed for the airplane as a whole), when the effect of the tab is opposed by pilot effort forces up to those specified in § 25.397(b).
(b)
Balancing tabs.
Balancing tabs must be designed for deflections consistent with the primary control surface loading conditions.
(c)
Servo tabs.
Servo tabs must be designed for deflections consistent with the primary control surface loading conditions obtainable within the pilot maneuvering effort, considering possible opposition from the trim tabs.
§ 25.415
Ground gust conditions.
(a) The flight control systems and surfaces must be designed for the limit loads generated when the airplane is subjected to a horizontal 65-knot ground gust from any direction while taxiing and while parked. For airplanes equipped with control system gust locks, the taxiing condition must be evaluated with the controls locked and unlocked, and the parked condition must be evaluated with the controls locked.
(b) The control system and surface loads due to ground gust may be assumed to be static loads, and the hinge moments H must be computed from the formula:
H = K (1/2) ρ
o
V
2
c S
Where—
K = hinge moment factor for ground gusts derived in paragraph (c) of this section;
ρ
o
= density of air at sea level;
V = 65 knots relative to the aircraft;
S = area of the control surface aft of the hinge line;
c = mean aerodynamic chord of the control surface aft of the hinge line.
(c) The hinge moment factor K for ground gusts must be taken from the following table:
Surface
K
Position of
controls
(1) Aileron
0.75
Control column locked or lashed in mid-position.
(2) Aileron
* ±0.50
Ailerons at full throw.
(3) Elevator
* ±0.75
Elevator full down.
(4) Elevator
* ±0.75
Elevator full up.
(5) Rudder
0.75
Rudder in neutral.
(6) Rudder
0.75
Rudder at full throw.
* A positive value of K indicates a moment tending to depress the surface, while a negative value of K indicates a moment tending to raise the surface.
(d) The computed hinge moment of paragraph (b) of this section must be used to determine the limit loads due to ground gust conditions for the control surface. A 1.25 factor on the computed hinge moments must be used in calculating limit control system loads.
(e) Where control system flexibility is such that the rate of load application in the ground gust conditions might produce transient stresses appreciably higher than those corresponding to static loads, in the absence of a rational analysis substantiating a different dynamic factor, an additional factor of 1.6 must be applied to the control system loads of paragraph (d) of this section to obtain limit loads. If a rational analysis is used, the additional factor must not be less than 1.2.
(f) For the condition of the control locks engaged, the control surfaces, the control system locks, and the parts of any control systems between the surfaces and the locks must be designed to the resultant limit loads. Where control locks are not provided, then the control surfaces, the control system stops nearest the surfaces, and the parts of any control systems between the surfaces and the stops must be designed to the resultant limit loads. If
the control system design is such as to allow any part of the control system to impact with the stops due to flexibility, then the resultant impact loads must be taken into account in deriving the limit loads due to ground gust.
(g) For the condition of taxiing with the control locks disengaged, or where control locks are not provided, the following apply:
(1) The control surfaces, the control system stops nearest the surfaces, and the parts of any control systems between the surfaces and the stops must be designed to the resultant limit loads.
(2) The parts of the control systems between the stops nearest the surfaces and the flight deck controls must be designed to the resultant limit loads, except that the parts of the control system where loads are eventually reacted by the pilot need not exceed:
(i) The loads corresponding to the maximum pilot loads in § 25.397(c) for each pilot alone; or
(ii) 0.75 times these maximum loads for each pilot when the pilot forces are applied in the same direction.
[Amdt. 25-141, 79 FR 73468, Dec. 11, 2014]
§ 25.427
Unsymmetrical loads.
(a) In designing the airplane for lateral gust, yaw maneuver and roll maneuver conditions, account must be taken of unsymmetrical loads on the empennage arising from effects such as slipstream and aerodynamic interference with the wing, vertical fin and other aerodynamic surfaces.
(b) The horizontal tail must be assumed to be subjected to unsymmetrical loading conditions determined as follows:
(1) 100 percent of the maximum loading from the symmetrical maneuver conditions of § 25.331 and the vertical gust conditions of § 25.341(a) acting separately on the surface on one side of the plane of symmetry; and
(2) 80 percent of these loadings acting on the other side.
(c) For empennage arrangements where the horizontal tail surfaces have dihedral angles greater than plus or minus 10 degrees, or are supported by the vertical tail surfaces, the surfaces and the supporting structure must be designed for gust velocities specified in § 25.341(a) acting in any orientation at right angles to the flight path.
(d) Unsymmetrical loading on the empennage arising from buffet conditions of § 25.305(e) must be taken into account.
[Doc. No. 27902, 61 FR 5222, Feb. 9, 1996]
§ 25.445
Auxiliary aerodynamic surfaces.
(a) When significant, the aerodynamic influence between auxiliary aerodynamic surfaces, such as outboard fins and winglets, and their supporting aerodynamic surfaces, must be taken into account for all loading conditions including pitch, roll, and yaw maneuvers, and gusts as specified in § 25.341(a) acting at any orientation at right angles to the flight path.
(b) To provide for unsymmetrical loading when outboard fins extend above and below the horizontal surface, the critical vertical surface loading (load per unit area) determined under § 25.391 must also be applied as follows:
(1) 100 percent to the area of the vertical surfaces above (or below) the horizontal surface.
(2) 80 percent to the area below (or above) the horizontal surface.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5222, Feb. 9, 1996]
§ 25.457
Wing flaps.
Wing flaps, their operating mechanisms, and their supporting structures must be designed for critical loads occurring in the conditions prescribed in § 25.345, accounting for the loads occurring during transition from one flap position and airspeed to another.
§ 25.459
Special devices.
The loading for special devices using aerodynamic surfaces (such as slots, slats and spoilers) must be determined from test data.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29776, July 20, 1990]

# Ground Loads
§ 25.471
General.
(a)
Loads and equilibrium.
For limit ground loads—
(1) Limit ground loads obtained under this subpart are considered to be external forces applied to the airplane structure; and
(2) In each specified ground load condition, the external loads must be placed in equilibrium with the linear and angular inertia loads in a rational or conservative manner.
(b)
Critical centers of gravity.
The critical centers of gravity within the range for which certification is requested must be selected so that the maximum design loads are obtained in each landing gear element. Fore and aft, vertical, and lateral airplane centers of gravity must be considered. Lateral displacements of the c.g. from the airplane centerline which would result in main gear loads not greater than 103 percent of the critical design load for symmetrical loading conditions may be selected without considering the effects of these lateral c.g. displacements on the loading of the main gear elements, or on the airplane structure provided—
(1) The lateral displacement of the c.g. results from random passenger or cargo disposition within the fuselage or from random unsymmetrical fuel loading or fuel usage; and
(2) Appropriate loading instructions for random disposable loads are included under the provisions of § 25.1583(c)(2) to ensure that the lateral displacement of the center of gravity is maintained within these limits.
(c)
Landing gear dimension data.
Figure 1 of appendix A contains the basic landing gear dimension data.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5673, Apr. 8, 1970, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 25-148, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2813, Jan. 18, 2023]
§ 25.473
Landing load conditions and assumptions.
(a) For the landing conditions specified in § 25.479 to § 25.485 the airplane is assumed to contact the ground—
(1) In the attitudes defined in § 25.479 and § 25.481;
(2) With a limit descent velocity of 10 fps at the design landing weight (the maximum weight for landing conditions at maximum descent velocity); and
(3) With a limit descent velocity of 6 fps at the design take-off weight (the maximum weight for landing conditions at a reduced descent velocity).
(4) The prescribed descent velocities may be modified if it is shown that the airplane has design features that make it impossible to develop these velocities.
(b) Airplane lift, not exceeding airplane weight, may be assumed unless the presence of systems or procedures significantly affects the lift.
(c) The method of analysis of airplane and landing gear loads must take into account at least the following elements:
(1) Landing gear dynamic characteristics.
(2) Spin-up and springback.
(3) Rigid body response.
(4) Structural dynamic response of the airframe, if significant.
(d) The landing gear dynamic characteristics must be validated by tests as defined in § 25.723(a).
(e) The coefficient of friction between the tires and the ground may be established by considering the effects of skidding velocity and tire pressure. However, this coefficient of friction need not be more than 0.8.
[Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40705, July 29, 1997; Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 45481, Aug. 27, 1997; Amdt. 25-103, 66 FR 27394, May 16, 2001]
§ 25.477
Landing gear arrangement.
Sections 25.479 through 25.485 apply to airplanes with conventional arrangements of main and nose gears, or main and tail gears, when normal operating techniques are used.
§ 25.479
Level landing conditions.
(a) In the level attitude, the airplane is assumed to contact the ground at forward velocity components, ranging from V
L1
to 1.25 V
L2
parallel to the ground under the conditions prescribed in § 25.473 with—
(1) V
L1
equal to V
S0
(TAS) at the appropriate landing weight and in standard sea level conditions; and
(2) V
L2
equal to V
S0
(TAS) at the appropriate landing weight and altitudes in a hot day temperature of 41 degrees F. above standard.
(3) The effects of increased contact speed must be investigated if approval
of downwind landings exceeding 10 knots is requested.
(b) For the level landing attitude for airplanes with tail wheels, the conditions specified in this section must be investigated with the airplane horizontal reference line horizontal in accordance with Figure 2 of Appendix A of this part.
(c) For the level landing attitude for airplanes with nose wheels, shown in Figure 2 of Appendix A of this part, the conditions specified in this section must be investigated assuming the following attitudes:
(1) An attitude in which the main wheels are assumed to contact the ground with the nose wheel just clear of the ground; and
(2) If reasonably attainable at the specified descent and forward velocities, an attitude in which the nose and main wheels are assumed to contact the ground simultaneously.
(d) In addition to the loading conditions prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, but with maximum vertical ground reactions calculated from paragraph (a), the following apply:
(1) The landing gear and directly affected attaching structure must be designed for the maximum vertical ground reaction combined with an aft acting drag component of not less than 25% of this maximum vertical ground reaction.
(2) The most severe combination of loads that are likely to arise during a lateral drift landing must be taken into account. In absence of a more rational analysis of this condition, the following must be investigated:
(i) A vertical load equal to 75% of the maximum ground reaction of § 25.473 must be considered in combination with a drag and side load of 40% and 25% respectively of that vertical load.
(ii) The shock absorber and tire deflections must be assumed to be 75% of the deflection corresponding to the maximum ground reaction of § 25.473(a)(2). This load case need not be considered in combination with flat tires.
(3) The combination of vertical and drag components is considered to be acting at the wheel axle centerline.
[Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40705, July 29, 1997; Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 45481, Aug. 27, 1997]
§ 25.481
Tail-down landing conditions.
(a) In the tail-down attitude, the airplane is assumed to contact the ground at forward velocity components, ranging from V
L1
to V
L2
parallel to the ground under the conditions prescribed in § 25.473 with—
(1)
V
L
1
equal to
V
S
0
(TAS) at the appropriate landing weight and in standard sea level conditions; and
(2)
V
L
2
equal to
V
S
0
(TAS) at the appropriate landing weight and altitudes in a hot day temperature of 41 degrees F. above standard.
(3) The combination of vertical and drag components considered to be acting at the main wheel axle centerline.
(b) For the tail-down landing condition for airplanes with tail wheels, the main and tail wheels are assumed to contact the ground simultaneously, in accordance with figure 3 of appendix A. Ground reaction conditions on the tail wheel are assumed to act—
(1) Vertically; and
(2) Up and aft through the axle at 45 degrees to the ground line.
(c) For the tail-down landing condition for airplanes with nose wheels, the airplane is assumed to be at an attitude corresponding to either the stalling angle or the maximum angle allowing clearance with the ground by each part of the airplane other than the main wheels, in accordance with figure 3 of appendix A, whichever is less.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40705, July 29, 1997; Amdt. 25-94, 63 FR 8848, Feb. 23, 1998]
§ 25.483
One-gear landing conditions.
For the one-gear landing conditions, the airplane is assumed to be in the level attitude and to contact the ground on one main landing gear, in accordance with Figure 4 of Appendix A of this part. In this attitude—
(a) The ground reactions must be the same as those obtained on that side under § 25.479(d)(1), and
(b) Each unbalanced external load must be reacted by airplane inertia in a rational or conservative manner.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40705, July 29, 1997]
§ 25.485
Side load conditions.
In addition to § 25.479(d)(2) the following conditions must be considered:
(a) For the side load condition, the airplane is assumed to be in the level attitude with only the main wheels contacting the ground, in accordance with figure 5 of appendix A.
(b) Side loads of 0.8 of the vertical reaction (on one side) acting inward and 0.6 of the vertical reaction (on the other side) acting outward must be combined with one-half of the maximum vertical ground reactions obtained in the level landing conditions. These loads are assumed to be applied at the ground contact point and to be resisted by the inertia of the airplane. The drag loads may be assumed to be zero.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40705, July 29, 1997]
§ 25.487
Rebound landing condition.
(a) The landing gear and its supporting structure must be investigated for the loads occurring during rebound of the airplane from the landing surface.
(b) With the landing gear fully extended and not in contact with the ground, a load factor of 20.0 must act on the unsprung weights of the landing gear. This load factor must act in the direction of motion of the unsprung weights as they reach their limiting positions in extending with relation to the sprung parts of the landing gear.
§ 25.489
Ground handling conditions.
Unless otherwise prescribed, the landing gear and airplane structure must be investigated for the conditions in §§ 25.491 through 25.509 with the airplane at the design ramp weight (the maximum weight for ground handling conditions). No wing lift may be considered. The shock absorbers and tires may be assumed to be in their static position.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5673, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.491
Taxi, takeoff and landing roll.
Within the range of appropriate ground speeds and approved weights, the airplane structure and landing gear are assumed to be subjected to loads not less than those obtained when the aircraft is operating over the roughest ground that may reasonably be expected in normal operation.
[Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40705, July 29, 1997]
§ 25.493
Braked roll conditions.
(a) An airplane with a tail wheel is assumed to be in the level attitude with the load on the main wheels, in accordance with figure 6 of appendix A. The limit vertical load factor is 1.2 at the design landing weight and 1.0 at the design ramp weight. A drag reaction equal to the vertical reaction multiplied by a coefficient of friction of 0.8, must be combined with the vertical ground reaction and applied at the ground contact point.
(b) For an airplane with a nose wheel the limit vertical load factor is 1.2 at the design landing weight, and 1.0 at the design ramp weight. A drag reaction equal to the vertical reaction, multiplied by a coefficient of friction of 0.8, must be combined with the vertical reaction and applied at the ground contact point of each wheel with brakes. The following two attitudes, in accordance with figure 6 of appendix A, must be considered:
(1) The level attitude with the wheels contacting the ground and the loads distributed between the main and nose gear. Zero pitching acceleration is assumed.
(2) The level attitude with only the main gear contacting the ground and with the pitching moment resisted by angular acceleration.
(c) A drag reaction lower than that prescribed in this section may be used if it is substantiated that an effective drag force of 0.8 times the vertical reaction cannot be attained under any likely loading condition.
(d) An airplane equipped with a nose gear must be designed to withstand the loads arising from the dynamic pitching motion of the airplane due to sudden application of maximum braking force. The airplane is considered to be at design takeoff weight with the nose and main gears in contact with the ground, and with a steady-state vertical load factor of 1.0. The steady-
state nose gear reaction must be combined with the maximum incremental nose gear vertical reaction caused by the sudden application of maximum braking force as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(e) In the absence of a more rational analysis, the nose gear vertical reaction prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section must be calculated according to the following formula:
ER27MY98.017
Where:
V
N
= Nose gear vertical reaction.
W
T
= Design takeoff weight.
A = Horizontal distance between the c.g. of the airplane and the nose wheel.
B = Horizontal distance between the c.g. of the airplane and the line joining the centers of the main wheels.
E = Vertical height of the c.g. of the airplane above the ground in the 1.0 g static condition.
μ = Coefficient of friction of 0.80.
f = Dynamic response factor; 2.0 is to be used unless a lower factor is substantiated. In the absence of other information, the dynamic response factor f may be defined by the equation:
ER27MY98.018
Where:
ξ is the effective critical damping ratio of the rigid body pitching mode about the main landing gear effective ground contact point.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5673, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-97, 63 FR 29072, May 27, 1998]
§ 25.495
Turning.
In the static position, in accordance with figure 7 of appendix A, the airplane is assumed to execute a steady turn by nose gear steering, or by application of sufficient differential power, so that the limit load factors applied at the center of gravity are 1.0 vertically and 0.5 laterally. The side ground reaction of each wheel must be 0.5 of the vertical reaction.
§ 25.497
Tail-wheel yawing.
(a) A vertical ground reaction equal to the static load on the tail wheel, in combination with a side component of equal magnitude, is assumed.
(b) If there is a swivel, the tail wheel is assumed to be swiveled 90° to the airplane longitudinal axis with the resultant load passing through the axle.
(c) If there is a lock, steering device, or shimmy damper the tail wheel is also assumed to be in the trailing position with the side load acting at the ground contact point.
§ 25.499
Nose-wheel yaw and steering.
(a) A vertical load factor of 1.0 at the airplane center of gravity, and a side component at the nose wheel ground contact equal to 0.8 of the vertical ground reaction at that point are assumed.
(b) With the airplane assumed to be in static equilibrium with the loads resulting from the use of brakes on one side of the main landing gear, the nose gear, its attaching structure, and the fuselage structure forward of the center of gravity must be designed for the following loads:
(1) A vertical load factor at the center of gravity of 1.0.
(2) A forward acting load at the airplane center of gravity of 0.8 times the vertical load on one main gear.
(3) Side and vertical loads at the ground contact point on the nose gear that are required for static equilibrium.
(4) A side load factor at the airplane center of gravity of zero.
(c) If the loads prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section result in a nose gear side load higher than 0.8 times the vertical nose gear load, the design nose gear side load may be limited to 0.8 times the vertical load, with unbalanced yawing moments assumed to be resisted by airplane inertia forces.
(d) For other than the nose gear, its attaching structure, and the forward fuselage structure, the loading conditions are those prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, except that—
(1) A lower drag reaction may be used if an effective drag force of 0.8 times the vertical reaction cannot be reached under any likely loading condition; and
(2) The forward acting load at the center of gravity need not exceed the maximum drag reaction on one main gear, determined in accordance with § 25.493(b).
(e) With the airplane at design ramp weight, and the nose gear in any steerable position, the combined application of full normal steering torque and vertical force equal to 1.33 times the maximum static reaction on the nose gear must be considered in designing the nose gear, its attaching structure, and the forward fuselage structure.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5673, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50595, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40705, July 29, 1997]
§ 25.503
Pivoting.
(a) The airplane is assumed to pivot about one side of the main gear with the brakes on that side locked. The limit vertical load factor must be 1.0 and the coefficient of friction 0.8.
(b) The airplane is assumed to be in static equilibrium, with the loads being applied at the ground contact points, in accordance with figure 8 of appendix A.
§ 25.507
Reversed braking.
(a) The airplane must be in a three point static ground attitude. Horizontal reactions parallel to the ground and directed forward must be applied at the ground contact point of each wheel with brakes. The limit loads must be equal to 0.55 times the vertical load at each wheel or to the load developed by 1.2 times the nominal maximum static brake torque, whichever is less.
(b) For airplanes with nose wheels, the pitching moment must be balanced by rotational inertia.
(c) For airplanes with tail wheels, the resultant of the ground reactions must pass through the center of gravity of the airplane.
§ 25.509
Towing loads.
(a) The towing loads specified in paragraph (d) of this section must be considered separately. These loads must be applied at the towing fittings and must act parallel to the ground. In addition—
(1) A vertical load factor equal to 1.0 must be considered acting at the center of gravity;
(2) The shock struts and tires must be in their static positions; and
(3) With
W
T
as the design ramp weight, the towing load,
F
TOW,
is—
(i) 0.3
W
T
for
W
T
less than 30,000 pounds;
(ii) (
6W
T
+ 450,000)/70 for
W
T
between 30,000 and 100,000 pounds; and
(iii) 0.15
W
T
for
W
T
over 100,000 pounds.
(b) For towing points not on the landing gear but near the plane of symmetry of the airplane, the drag and side tow load components specified for the auxiliary gear apply. For towing points located outboard of the main gear, the drag and side tow load components specified for the main gear apply. Where the specified angle of swivel cannot be reached, the maximum obtainable angle must be used.
(c) The towing loads specified in paragraph (d) of this section must be reacted as follows:
(1) The side component of the towing load at the main gear must be reacted by a side force at the static ground line of the wheel to which the load is applied.
(2) The towing loads at the auxiliary gear and the drag components of the towing loads at the main gear must be reacted as follows:
(i) A reaction with a maximum value equal to the vertical reaction must be applied at the axle of the wheel to which the load is applied. Enough airplane inertia to achieve equilibrium must be applied.
(ii) The loads must be reacted by airplane inertia.
(d) The prescribed towing loads are as follows:
Tow point
Position
Load
Magnitude
No.
Direction
Main gear
0.75
F
TOW
per main gear unit
1
2
3
4
Forward, parallel to drag axis.
Forward, at 30° to drag axis.
Aft, parallel to drag axis.
Aft, at 30° to drag axis.
Auxiliary gear
Swiveled forward
1.0
F
TOW
5
6
Forward.
Aft.
Swiveled aft
......do
7
8
Forward.
Aft.
Swiveled 45° from forward
0.5
F
TOW
9
10
Forward, in plane of wheel.
Aft, in plane of wheel.
Swiveled 45° from aft
......do
11
12
Forward, in plane of wheel.
Aft, in plane of wheel.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5673, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.511
Ground load: unsymmetrical loads on multiple-wheel units.
(a)
General.
Multiple-wheel landing gear units are assumed to be subjected to the limit ground loads prescribed in this subpart under paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section. In addition—
(1) A tandem strut gear arrangement is a multiple-wheel unit; and
(2) In determining the total load on a gear unit with respect to the provisions of paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, the transverse shift in the load centroid, due to unsymmetrical load distribution on the wheels, may be neglected.
(b)
Distribution of limit loads to wheels; tires inflated.
The distribution of the limit loads among the wheels of the landing gear must be established for each landing, taxiing, and ground handling condition, taking into account the effects of the following factors:
(1) The number of wheels and their physical arrangements. For truck type landing gear units, the effects of any seesaw motion of the truck during the landing impact must be considered in determining the maximum design loads for the fore and aft wheel pairs.
(2) Any differentials in tire diameters resulting from a combination of manufacturing tolerances, tire growth, and tire wear. A maximum tire-diameter differential equal to
2/3
of the most unfavorable combination of diameter variations that is obtained when taking into account manufacturing tolerances, tire growth, and tire wear, may be assumed.
(3) Any unequal tire inflation pressure, assuming the maximum variation to be ±5 percent of the nominal tire inflation pressure.
(4) A runway crown of zero and a runway crown having a convex upward shape that may be approximated by a slope of 1
1/2
percent with the horizontal. Runway crown effects must be considered with the nose gear unit on either slope of the crown.
(5) The airplane attitude.
(6) Any structural deflections.
(c)
Deflated tires.
The effect of deflated tires on the structure must be considered with respect to the loading conditions specified in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section, taking into account the physical arrangement of the gear components. In addition—
(1) The deflation of any one tire for each multiple wheel landing gear unit, and the deflation of any two critical tires for each landing gear unit using four or more wheels per unit, must be considered; and
(2) The ground reactions must be applied to the wheels with inflated tires except that, for multiple-wheel gear units with more than one shock strut, a rational distribution of the ground reactions between the deflated and inflated tires, accounting for the differences in shock strut extensions resulting from a deflated tire, may be used.
(d)
Landing conditions.
For one and for two deflated tires, the applied load to each gear unit is assumed to be 60 percent and 50 percent, respectively, of the limit load applied to each gear for
each of the prescribed landing conditions. However, for the drift landing condition of § 25.485, 100 percent of the vertical load must be applied.
(e)
Taxiing and ground handling conditions.
For one and for two deflated tires—
(1) The applied side or drag load factor, or both factors, at the center of gravity must be the most critical value up to 50 percent and 40 percent, respectively, of the limit side or drag load factors, or both factors, corresponding to the most severe condition resulting from consideration of the prescribed taxiing and ground handling conditions;
(2) For the braked roll conditions of § 25.493 (a) and (b)(2), the drag loads on each inflated tire may not be less than those at each tire for the symmetrical load distribution with no deflated tires;
(3) The vertical load factor at the center of gravity must be 60 percent and 50 percent, respectively, of the factor with no deflated tires, except that it may not be less than 1g; and
(4) Pivoting need not be considered.
(f)
Towing conditions.
For one and for two deflated tires, the towing load,
F
TOW,
must be 60 percent and 50 percent, respectively, of the load prescribed.
§ 25.519
Jacking and tie-down provisions.
(a) General. The airplane must be designed to withstand the limit load conditions resulting from the static ground load conditions of paragraph (b) of this section and, if applicable, paragraph (c) of this section at the most critical combinations of airplane weight and center of gravity. The maximum allowable load at each jack pad must be specified.
(b) Jacking. The airplane must have provisions for jacking and must withstand the following limit loads when the airplane is supported on jacks—
(1) For jacking by the landing gear at the maximum ramp weight of the airplane, the airplane structure must be designed for a vertical load of 1.33 times the vertical static reaction at each jacking point acting singly and in combination with a horizontal load of 0.33 times the vertical static reaction applied in any direction.
(2) For jacking by other airplane structure at maximum approved jacking weight:
(i) The airplane structure must be designed for a vertical load of 1.33 times the vertical reaction at each jacking point acting singly and in combination with a horizontal load of 0.33 times the vertical static reaction applied in any direction.
(ii) The jacking pads and local structure must be designed for a vertical load of 2.0 times the vertical static reaction at each jacking point, acting singly and in combination with a horizontal load of 0.33 times the vertical static reaction applied in any direction.
(c) Tie-down. If tie-down points are provided, the main tie-down points and local structure must withstand the limit loads resulting from a 65-knot horizontal wind from any direction.
[Doc. No. 26129, 59 FR 22102, Apr. 28, 1994]

# Water Loads
§ 25.521
General.
(a) Seaplanes must be designed for the water loads developed during takeoff and landing, with the seaplane in any attitude likely to occur in normal operation, and at the appropriate forward and sinking velocities under the most severe sea conditions likely to be encountered.
(b) Unless a more rational analysis of the water loads is made, or the standards in ANC-3 are used, §§ 25.523 through 25.537 apply.
(c) The requirements of this section and §§ 25.523 through 25.537 apply also to amphibians.
§ 25.523
Design weights and center of gravity positions.
(a)
Design weights.
The water load requirements must be met at each operating weight up to the design landing weight except that, for the takeoff condition prescribed in § 25.531, the design water takeoff weight (the maximum weight for water taxi and takeoff run) must be used.
(b)
Center of gravity positions.
The critical centers of gravity within the limits for which certification is requested must be considered to reach
maximum design loads for each part of the seaplane structure.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5673, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.525
Application of loads.
(a) Unless otherwise prescribed, the seaplane as a whole is assumed to be subjected to the loads corresponding to the load factors specified in § 25.527.
(b) In applying the loads resulting from the load factors prescribed in § 25.527, the loads may be distributed over the hull or main float bottom (in order to avoid excessive local shear loads and bending moments at the location of water load application) using pressures not less than those prescribed in § 25.533(c).
(c) For twin float seaplanes, each float must be treated as an equivalent hull on a fictitious seaplane with a weight equal to one-half the weight of the twin float seaplane.
(d) Except in the takeoff condition of § 25.531, the aerodynamic lift on the seaplane during the impact is assumed to be
2/3
of the weight of the seaplane.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 25-148, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2813, Jan. 18, 2023]
§ 25.527
Hull and main float load factors.
(a) Water reaction load factors
n
W
must be computed in the following manner:
(1) For the step landing case
EC28SE91.036
(2) For the bow and stern landing cases
EC28SE91.037
(b) The following values are used:
(1)
n
W
= water reaction load factor (that is, the water reaction divided by seaplane weight).
(2)
C
1
= empirical seaplane operations factor equal to 0.012 (except that this factor may not be less than that necessary to obtain the minimum value of step load factor of 2.33).
(3)
V
S
0
= seaplane stalling speed in knots with flaps extended in the appropriate landing position and with no slipstream effect.
(4) β = angle of dead rise at the longitudinal station at which the load factor is being determined in accordance with figure 1 of appendix B.
(5)
W=
seaplane design landing weight in pounds.
(6)
K
1
= empirical hull station weighing factor, in accordance with figure 2 of appendix B.
(7)
r
x
= ratio of distance, measured parallel to hull reference axis, from the center of gravity of the seaplane to the hull longitudinal station at which the load factor is being computed to the radius of gyration in pitch of the seaplane, the hull reference axis being a straight line, in the plane of symmetry, tangential to the keel at the main step.
(c) For a twin float seaplane, because of the effect of flexibility of the attachment of the floats to the seaplane, the factor
K
1
may be reduced at the bow and stern to 0.8 of the value shown in figure 2 of appendix B. This reduction applies only to the design of the carrythrough and seaplane structure.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5673, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.529
Hull and main float landing conditions.
(a)
Symmetrical step, bow, and stern landing.
For symmetrical step, bow, and stern landings, the limit water reaction load factors are those computed under § 25.527. In addition—
(1) For symmetrical step landings, the resultant water load must be applied at the keel, through the center of gravity, and must be directed perpendicularly to the keel line;
(2) For symmetrical bow landings, the resultant water load must be applied at the keel, one-fifth of the longitudinal distance from the bow to the step, and must be directed perpendicularly to the keel line; and
(3) For symmetrical stern landings, the resultant water load must be applied at the keel, at a point 85 percent of the longitudinal distance from the step to the stern post, and must be directed perpendicularly to the keel line.
(b)
Unsymmetrical landing for hull and single float seaplanes.
Unsymmetrical step, bow, and stern landing conditions must be investigated. In addition—
(1) The loading for each condition consists of an upward component and a side component equal, respectively, to 0.75 and 0.25 tan β times the resultant load in the corresponding symmetrical landing condition; and
(2) The point of application and direction of the upward component of the load is the same as that in the symmetrical condition, and the point of application of the side component is at the same longitudinal station as the upward component but is directed inward perpendicularly to the plane of symmetry at a point midway between the keel and chine lines.
(c)
Unsymmetrical landing; twin float seaplanes.
The unsymmetrical loading consists of an upward load at the step of each float of 0.75 and a side load of 0.25 tan β at one float times the step landing load reached under § 25.527. The side load is directed inboard, perpendicularly to the plane of symmetry midway between the keel and chine lines of the float, at the same longitudinal station as the upward load.
§ 25.531
Hull and main float takeoff condition.
For the wing and its attachment to the hull or main float—
(a) The aerodynamic wing lift is assumed to be zero; and
(b) A downward inertia load, corresponding to a load factor computed from the following formula, must be applied:
EC28SE91.038
where—
n
= inertia load factor;
C
TO
= empirical seaplane operations factor equal to 0.004;
V
S
1
= seaplane stalling speed (knots) at the design takeoff weight with the flaps extended in the appropriate takeoff position;
β = angle of dead rise at the main step (degrees); and
W
= design water takeoff weight in pounds.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5673, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.533
Hull and main float bottom pressures.
(a)
General.
The hull and main float structure, including frames and bulkheads, stringers, and bottom plating, must be designed under this section.
(b)
Local pressures.
For the design of the bottom plating and stringers and their attachments to the supporting structure, the following pressure distributions must be applied:
(1) For an unflared bottom, the pressure at the chine is 0.75 times the pressure at the keel, and the pressures between the keel and chine vary linearly, in accordance with figure 3 of appendix B. The pressure at the keel (psi) is computed as follows:
EC28SE91.039
where—
P
k
= pressure (p.s.i.) at the keel;
C
2
= 0.00213;
K
2
= hull station weighing factor, in accordance with figure 2 of appendix B;
V
S
1
= seaplane stalling speed (Knots) at the design water takeoff weight with flaps extended in the appropriate takeoff position; and
β
k
= angle of dead rise at keel, in accordance with figure 1 of appendix B.
(2) For a flared bottom, the pressure at the beginning of the flare is the same as that for an unflared bottom, and the pressure between the chine and the beginning of the flare varies linearly, in accordance with figure 3 of appendix B. The pressure distribution is the same as that prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for an unflared bottom except that the pressure at the chine is computed as follows:
EC28SE91.040
where—
P
ch
= pressure (p.s.i.) at the chine;
C
3
= 0.0016;
K
2
= hull station weighing factor, in accordance with figure 2 of appendix B;
V
S
1
= seaplane stalling speed at the design water takeoff weight with flaps extended in the appropriate takeoff position; and
β = angle of dead rise at appropriate station.
The area over which these pressures are applied must simulate pressures occurring during high localized impacts on the hull or float, but need not extend over an area that would induce critical stresses in the frames or in the overall structure.
(c)
Distributed pressures.
For the design of the frames, keel, and chine structure, the following pressure distributions apply:
(1) Symmetrical pressures are computed as follows:
EC28SE91.041
where—
P
= pressure (p.s.i.);
C
4
= 0.078
C
1
(with
C
1
computed under § 25.527);
K
2
= hull station weighing factor, determined in accordance with figure 2 of appendix B;
V
S
0
= seaplane stalling speed (Knots) with landing flaps extended in the appropriate position and with no slipstream effect; and
V
S
0
= seaplane stalling speed with landing flaps extended in the appropriate position and with no slipstream effect; and β = angle of dead rise at appropriate station.
(2) The unsymmetrical pressure distribution consists of the pressures prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section on one side of the hull or main float centerline and one-half of that pressure on the other side of the hull or main float centerline, in accordance with figure 3 of appendix B.
These pressures are uniform and must be applied simultaneously over the entire hull or main float bottom. The loads obtained must be carried into the sidewall structure of the hull proper, but need not be transmitted in a fore and aft direction as shear and bending loads.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5673, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.535
Auxiliary float loads.
(a)
General.
Auxiliary floats and their attachments and supporting structures must be designed for the conditions prescribed in this section. In the cases specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, the prescribed water loads may be distributed over the float bottom to avoid excessive local loads, using bottom pressures not less than those prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section.
(b)
Step loading.
The resultant water load must be applied in the plane of symmetry of the float at a point three-fourths of the distance from the bow to the step and must be perpendicular to the keel. The resultant limit load is computed as follows, except that the value of
L
need not exceed three times the weight of the displaced water when the float is completely submerged:
EC28SE91.042
where—
L
= limit load (lbs.);
C
5
= 0.0053;
V
S
0
= seaplane stalling speed (knots) with landing flaps extended in the appropriate position and with no slipstream effect;
W
= seaplane design landing weight in pounds;
β
S
= angle of dead rise at a station
3/4
of the distance from the bow to the step, but need not be less than 15 degrees; and
r
y
= ratio of the lateral distance between the center of gravity and the plane of symmetry of the float to the radius of gyration in roll.
(c)
Bow loading.
The resultant limit load must be applied in the plane of symmetry of the float at a point one-fourth of the distance from the bow to the step and must be perpendicular to the tangent to the keel line at that point. The magnitude of the resultant load is that specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Unsymmetrical step loading.
The resultant water load consists of a component equal to 0.75 times the load specified in paragraph (a) of this section and a side component equal to 0.25 tan β times the load specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The side load must be applied perpendicularly to the plane
of symmetry of the float at a point midway between the keel and the chine.
(e)
Unsymmetrical bow loading.
The resultant water load consists of a component equal to 0.75 times the load specified in paragraph (b) of this section and a side component equal to 0.25 tan β times the load specified in paragraph (c) of this section. The side load must be applied perpendicularly to the plane of symmetry at a point midway between the keel and the chine.
(f)
Immersed float condition.
The resultant load must be applied at the centroid of the cross section of the float at a point one-third of the distance from the bow to the step. The limit load components are as follows:
EC28SE91.043
where—
ρ = mass density of water (slugs/ft.
2
);
V
= volume of float (ft.
2
);
C
x
= coefficient of drag force, equal to 0.133;
C
y
= coefficient of side force, equal to 0.106;
K
= 0.8, except that lower values may be used if it is shown that the floats are incapable of submerging at a speed of 0.8
V
S
0
in normal operations;
V
S
0
= seaplane stalling speed (knots) with landing flaps extended in the appropriate position and with no slipstream effect; and
g
= acceleration due to gravity (ft./sec.
2
).
(g)
Float bottom pressures.
The float bottom pressures must be established under § 25.533, except that the value of K
2
in the formulae may be taken as 1.0. The angle of dead rise to be used in determining the float bottom pressures is set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5673, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-148, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2813, Jan. 18, 2023]
§ 25.537
Seawing loads.
Seawing design loads must be based on applicable test data.

# Emergency Landing Conditions
§ 25.561
General.
(a) The airplane, although it may be damaged in emergency landing conditions on land or water, must be designed as prescribed in this section to protect each occupant under those conditions.
(b) The structure must be designed to give each occupant every reasonable chance of escaping serious injury in a minor crash landing when—
(1) Proper use is made of seats, belts, and all other safety design provisions;
(2) The wheels are retracted (where applicable); and
(3) The occupant experiences the following ultimate inertia forces acting separately relative to the surrounding structure:
(i) Upward, 3.0g
(ii) Forward, 9.0g
(iii) Sideward, 3.0g on the airframe; and 4.0g on the seats and their attachments.
(iv) Downward, 6.0g
(v) Rearward, 1.5g
(c) For equipment, cargo in the passenger compartments and any other large masses, the following apply:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, these items must be positioned so that if they break loose they will be unlikely to:
(i) Cause direct injury to occupants;
(ii) Penetrate fuel tanks or lines or cause fire or explosion hazard by damage to adjacent systems; or
(iii) Nullify any of the escape facilities provided for use after an emergency landing.
(2) When such positioning is not practical (e.g. fuselage mounted engines or auxiliary power units) each such item of mass shall be restrained under all loads up to those specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The local attachments for these items should be designed to withstand 1.33 times the specified loads if these items are subject to severe wear and tear through frequent removal (e.g. quick change interior items).
(d) Seats and items of mass (and their supporting structure) must not deform under any loads up to those specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section in any manner that would impede
subsequent rapid evacuation of occupants.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5673, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-64, 53 FR 17646, May 17, 1988; Amdt. 25-91, 62 FR 40706, July 29, 1997]
§ 25.562
Emergency landing dynamic conditions.
(a) The seat and restraint system in the airplane must be designed as prescribed in this section to protect each occupant during an emergency landing condition when—
(1) Proper use is made of seats, safety belts, and shoulder harnesses provided for in the design; and
(2) The occupant is exposed to loads resulting from the conditions prescribed in this section.
(b) Each seat type design approved for crew or passenger occupancy during takeoff and landing must successfully complete dynamic tests or be demonstrated by rational analysis based on dynamic tests of a similar type seat, in accordance with each of the following emergency landing conditions. The tests must be conducted with an occupant simulated by a 170-pound anthropomorphic test dummy, as defined by 49 CFR Part 572, Subpart B, or its equivalent, sitting in the normal upright position.
(1) A change in downward vertical velocity (Δ v) of not less than 35 feet per second, with the airplane's longitudinal axis canted downward 30 degrees with respect to the horizontal plane and with the wings level. Peak floor deceleration must occur in not more than 0.08 seconds after impact and must reach a minimum of 14g.
(2) A change in forward longitudinal velocity (Δ v) of not less than 44 feet per second, with the airplane's longitudinal axis horizontal and yawed 10 degrees either right or left, whichever would cause the greatest likelihood of the upper torso restraint system (where installed) moving off the occupant's shoulder, and with the wings level. Peak floor deceleration must occur in not more than 0.09 seconds after impact and must reach a minimum of 16g. Where floor rails or floor fittings are used to attach the seating devices to the test fixture, the rails or fittings must be misaligned with respect to the adjacent set of rails or fittings by at least 10 degrees vertically (
i.e.
, out of Parallel) with one rolled 10 degrees.
(c) The following performance measures must not be exceeded during the dynamic tests conducted in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Where upper torso straps are used for crewmembers, tension loads in individual straps must not exceed 1,750 pounds. If dual straps are used for restraining the upper torso, the total strap tension loads must not exceed 2,000 pounds.
(2) The maximum compressive load measured between the pelvis and the lumbar column of the anthropomorphic dummy must not exceed 1,500 pounds.
(3) The upper torso restraint straps (where installed) must remain on the occupant's shoulder during the impact.
(4) The lap safety belt must remain on the occupant's pelvis during the impact.
(5) Each occupant must be protected from serious head injury under the conditions prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. Where head contact with seats or other structure can occur, protection must be provided so that the head impact does not exceed a Head Injury Criterion (HIC) of 1,000 units. The level of HIC is defined by the equation:
EC28SE91.044
Where:
t
1
is the initial integration time,
t
2
is the final integration time, and
a(t) is the total acceleration vs. time curve for the head strike, and where
(t) is in seconds, and (a) is in units of gravity (g).
(6) Where leg injuries may result from contact with seats or other structure, protection must be provided to prevent axially compressive loads exceeding 2,250 pounds in each femur.
(7) The seat must remain attached at all points of attachment, although the structure may have yielded.
(8) Seats must not yield under the tests specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section to the extent they would impede rapid evacuation of the airplane occupants.
[Amdt. 25-64, 53 FR 17646, May 17, 1988]
§ 25.563
Structural ditching provisions.
Structural strength considerations of ditching provisions must be in accordance with § 25.801(e).

# Fatigue Evaluation
§ 25.571
Damage-tolerance and fatigue evaluation of structure.
(a)
General.
An evaluation of the strength, detail design, and fabrication must show that catastrophic failure due to fatigue, corrosion, manufacturing defects, or accidental damage, will be avoided throughout the operational life of the airplane. This evaluation must be conducted in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, for each part of the structure that could contribute to a catastrophic failure (such as wing, empennage, control surfaces and their systems, the fuselage, engine mounting, landing gear, and their related primary attachments). For turbojet powered airplanes, those parts that could contribute to a catastrophic failure must also be evaluated under paragraph (d) of this section. In addition, the following apply:
(1) Each evaluation required by this section must include—
(i) The typical loading spectra, temperatures, and humidities expected in service;
(ii) The identification of principal structural elements and detail design points, the failure of which could cause catastrophic failure of the airplane; and
(iii) An analysis, supported by test evidence, of the principal structural elements and detail design points identified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2) The service history of airplanes of similar structural design, taking due account of differences in operating conditions and procedures, may be used in the evaluations required by this section.
(3) Based on the evaluations required by this section, inspections or other procedures must be established, as necessary, to prevent catastrophic failure, and must be included in the Airworthiness Limitations section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness required by § 25.1529. The limit of validity of the engineering data that supports the structural maintenance program (hereafter referred to as LOV), stated as a number of total accumulated flight cycles or flight hours or both, established by this section must also be included in the Airworthiness Limitations section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness required by § 25.1529. Inspection thresholds for the following types of structure must be established based on crack growth analyses and/or tests, assuming the structure contains an initial flaw of the maximum probable size that could exist as a result of manufacturing or service-induced damage:
(i) Single load path structure, and
(ii) Multiple load path “fail-safe” structure and crack arrest “fail-safe” structure, where it cannot be demonstrated that load path failure, partial failure, or crack arrest will be detected and repaired during normal maintenance, inspection, or operation of an airplane prior to failure of the remaining structure.
(b)
Damage-tolerance evaluation.
The evaluation must include a determination of the probable locations and modes of damage due to fatigue, corrosion, or accidental damage. Repeated load and static analyses supported by test evidence and (if available) service experience must also be incorporated in the evaluation. Special consideration for widespread fatigue damage must be included where the design is
such that this type of damage could occur. An LOV must be established that corresponds to the period of time, stated as a number of total accumulated flight cycles or flight hours or both, during which it is demonstrated that widespread fatigue damage will not occur in the airplane structure. This demonstration must be by full-scale fatigue test evidence. The type certificate may be issued prior to completion of full-scale fatigue testing, provided the Administrator has approved a plan for completing the required tests. In that case, the Airworthiness Limitations section of the Instructions for Continued Airworthiness required by § 25.1529 must specify that no airplane may be operated beyond a number of cycles equal to
1/2
the number of cycles accumulated on the fatigue test article, until such testing is completed. The extent of damage for residual strength evaluation at any time within the operational life of the airplane must be consistent with the initial detectability and subsequent growth under repeated loads. The residual strength evaluation must show that the remaining structure is able to withstand loads (considered as static ultimate loads) corresponding to the following conditions:
(1) The limit symmetrical maneuvering conditions specified in § 25.337 at all speeds up to V
c
and in § 25.345.
(2) The limit gust conditions specified in § 25.341 at the specified speeds up to V
C
and in § 25.345.
(3) The limit rolling conditions specified in § 25.349 and the limit unsymmetrical conditions specified in §§ 25.367 and 25.427 (a) through (c), at speeds up to V
C
.
(4) The limit yaw maneuvering conditions specified in § 25.351(a) at the specified speeds up to V
C
.
(5) For pressurized cabins, the following conditions:
(i) The normal operating differential pressure combined with the expected external aerodynamic pressures applied simultaneously with the flight loading conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, if they have a significant effect.
(ii) The maximum value of normal operating differential pressure (including the expected external aerodynamic pressures during 1 g level flight) multiplied by a factor of 1.15, omitting other loads.
(6) For landing gear and directly-affected airframe structure, the limit ground loading conditions specified in §§ 25.473, 25.491, and 25.493.
If significant changes in structural stiffness or geometry, or both, follow from a structural failure, or partial failure, the effect on damage tolerance must be further investigated.
(c)
Fatigue (safe-life) evaluation.
Compliance with the damage-tolerance requirements of paragraph (b) of this section is not required if the applicant establishes that their application for particular structure is impractical. This structure must be shown by analysis, supported by test evidence, to be able to withstand the repeated loads of variable magnitude expected during its service life without detectable cracks. Appropriate safe-life scatter factors must be applied.
(d)
Sonic fatigue strength.
It must be shown by analysis, supported by test evidence, or by the service history of airplanes of similar structural design and sonic excitation environment, that—
(1) Sonic fatigue cracks are not probable in any part of the flight structure subject to sonic excitation; or
(2) Catastrophic failure caused by sonic cracks is not probable assuming that the loads prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section are applied to all areas affected by those cracks.
(e)
Damage-tolerance (discrete source) evaluation.
The airplane must be capable of successfully completing a flight during which likely structural damage occurs as a result of—
(1) Impact with a 4-pound bird when the velocity of the airplane relative to the bird along the airplane's flight path is equal to V
c
at sea level or 0.85V
c
at 8,000 feet, whichever is more critical;
(2) Uncontained fan blade impact;
(3) Uncontained engine failure; or
(4) Uncontained high energy rotating machinery failure.
The damaged structure must be able to withstand the static loads (considered as ultimate loads) which are reasonably expected to occur on the flight. Dynamic effects on these static loads
need not be considered. Corrective action to be taken by the pilot following the incident, such as limiting maneuvers, avoiding turbulence, and reducing speed, must be considered. If significant changes in structural stiffness or geometry, or both, follow from a structural failure or partial failure, the effect on damage tolerance must be further investigated.
[Amdt. 25-45, 43 FR 46242, Oct. 5, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 25-54, 45 FR 60173, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29776, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-86, 61 FR 5222, Feb. 9, 1996; Amdt. 25-96, 63 FR 15714, Mar. 31, 1998; 63 FR 23338, Apr. 28, 1998; Amdt. 25-132, 75 FR 69781, Nov. 15, 2010; Amdt. No. 25-148, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2813, Jan. 18, 2023]

# Lightning Protection
§ 25.581
Lightning protection.
(a) The airplane must be protected against catastrophic effects from lightning.
(b) For metallic components, compliance with paragraph (a) of this section may be shown by—
(1) Bonding the components properly to the airframe; or
(2) Designing the components so that a strike will not endanger the airplane.
(c) For nonmetallic components, compliance with paragraph (a) of this section may be shown by—
(1) Designing the components to minimize the effect of a strike; or
(2) Incorporating acceptable means of diverting the resulting electrical current so as not to endanger the airplane.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5674, Apr. 8, 1970]

# Subpart D—Design and Construction

# General
§ 25.601
General.
The airplane may not have design features or details that experience has shown to be hazardous or unreliable. The suitability of each questionable design detail and part must be established by tests.
§ 25.603
Materials.
The suitability and durability of materials used for parts, the failure of which could adversely affect safety, must—
(a) Be established on the basis of experience or tests;
(b) Conform to approved specifications (such as industry or military specifications, or Technical Standard Orders) that ensure their having the strength and other properties assumed in the design data; and
(c) Take into account the effects of environmental conditions, such as temperature and humidity, expected in service.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55466, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50595, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 25.605
Fabrication methods.
(a) The methods of fabrication used must produce a consistently sound structure. If a fabrication process (such as gluing, spot welding, or heat treating) requires close control to reach this objective, the process must be performed under an approved process specification.
(b) Each new aircraft fabrication method must be substantiated by a test program.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50595, Oct. 30, 1978]
§ 25.607
Fasteners.
(a) Each removable bolt, screw, nut, pin, or other removable fastener must incorporate two separate locking devices if—
(1) Its loss could preclude continued flight and landing within the design limitations of the airplane using normal pilot skill and strength; or
(2) Its loss could result in reduction in pitch, yaw, or roll control capability or response below that required by Subpart B of this chapter.
(b) The fasteners specified in paragraph (a) of this section and their locking devices may not be adversely affected by the environmental conditions associated with the particular installation.
(c) No self-locking nut may be used on any bolt subject to rotation in operation unless a nonfriction locking device is used in addition to the self-locking device.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5674, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.609
Protection of structure.
Each part of the structure must—
(a) Be suitably protected against deterioration or loss of strength in service due to any cause, including—
(1) Weathering;
(2) Corrosion; and
(3) Abrasion; and
(b) Have provisions for ventilation and drainage where necessary for protection.
§ 25.611
Accessibility provisions.
(a)Means must be provided to allow inspection (including inspection of principal structural elements and control systems), replacement of parts normally requiring replacement, adjustment, and lubrication as necessary for continued airworthiness. The inspection means for each item must be practicable for the inspection interval for the item. Nondestructive inspection aids may be used to inspect structural elements where it is impracticable to provide means for direct visual inspection if it is shown that the inspection is effective and the inspection procedures are specified in the maintenance manual required by § 25.1529.
(b) EWIS must meet the accessibility requirements of § 25.1719.
[Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5674, Apr. 8, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 25-123, 72 FR 63404, Nov. 8, 2007]
§ 25.613
Material strength properties and material design values.
(a) Material strength properties must be based on enough tests of material meeting approved specifications to establish design values on a statistical basis.
(b) Material design values must be chosen to minimize the probability of structural failures due to material variability. Except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, compliance must be shown by selecting material design values which assure material strength with the following probability:
(1) Where applied loads are eventually distributed through a single member within an assembly, the failure of which would result in loss of structural integrity of the component, 99 percent probability with 95 percent confidence.
(2) For redundant structure, in which the failure of individual elements would result in applied loads being safely distributed to other load carrying members, 90 percent probability with 95 percent confidence.
(c) The effects of environmental conditions, such as temperature and moisture, on material design values used in an essential component or structure must be considered where these effects are significant within the airplane operating envelope.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) Greater material design values may be used if a “premium selection” of the material is made in which a specimen of each individual item is tested before use to determine that the actual strength properties of that particular item will equal or exceed those used in design.
(f) Other material design values may be used if approved by the Administrator.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-46, 43 FR 50595, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29776, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-112, 68 FR 46431, Aug. 5, 2003]
§ 25.619
Special factors.
The factor of safety prescribed in § 25.303 must be multiplied by the highest pertinent special factor of safety prescribed in §§ 25.621 through 25.625 for each part of the structure whose strength is—
(a) Uncertain;
(b) Likely to deteriorate in service before normal replacement; or
(c) Subject to appreciable variability because of uncertainties in manufacturing processes or inspection methods.
[Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5674, Apr. 8, 1970]
§ 25.621
Casting factors.
(a)
General.
For castings used in structural applications, the factors,
tests, and inspections specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section must be applied in addition to those necessary to establish foundry quality control. The inspections must meet approved specifications. Paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section apply to any structural castings, except castings that are pressure tested as parts of hydraulic or other fluid systems and do not support structural loads.
(b)
Bearing stresses and surfaces.
The casting factors specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section—
(1) Need not exceed 1.25 with respect to bearing stresses regardless of the method of inspection used; and
(2) Need not be used with respect to the bearing surfaces of a part whose bearing factor is larger than the applicable casting factor.
(c)
Critical castings.
Each casting whose failure could preclude continued safe flight and landing of the airplane or could result in serious injury to occupants is a critical casting. Each critical casting must have a factor associated with it for showing compliance with strength and deformation requirements of § 25.305, and must comply with the following criteria associated with that factor:
(1) A casting factor of 1.0 or greater may be used, provided that—
(i) It is demonstrated, in the form of process qualification, proof of product, and process monitoring that, for each casting design and part number, the castings produced by each foundry and process combination have coefficients of variation of the material properties that are equivalent to those of wrought alloy products of similar composition. Process monitoring must include testing of coupons cut from the prolongations of each casting (or each set of castings, if produced from a single pour into a single mold in a runner system) and, on a sampling basis, coupons cut from critical areas of production castings. The acceptance criteria for the process monitoring inspections and tests must be established and included in the process specifications to ensure the properties of the production castings are controlled to within levels used in design.
(ii) Each casting receives:
(A) Inspection of 100 percent of its surface, using visual inspection and liquid penetrant or equivalent inspection methods; and
(B) Inspection of structurally significant internal areas and areas where defects are likely to occur, using radiographic or equivalent inspection methods.
(iii) One casting undergoes a static test and is shown to meet the strength and deformation requirements of § 25.305(a) and (b).
(2) A casting factor of 1.25 or greater may be used, provided that—
(i) Each casting receives:
(A) Inspection of 100 percent of its surface, using visual inspection and liquid penetrant or equivalent inspection methods; and
(B) Inspection of structurally significant internal areas and areas where defects are likely to occur, using radiographic or equivalent inspection methods.
(ii) Three castings undergo static tests and are shown to meet:
(A) The strength requirements of § 25.305(b) at an ultimate load corresponding to a casting factor of 1.25; and
(B) The deformation requirements of § 25.305(a) at a load of 1.15 times the limit load.
(3) A casting factor of 1.50 or greater may be used, provided that—
(i) Each casting receives:
(A) Inspection of 100 percent of its surface, using visual inspection and liquid penetrant or equivalent inspection methods; and
(B) Inspection of structurally significant internal areas and areas where defects are likely to occur, using radiographic or equivalent inspection methods.
(ii) One casting undergoes a static test and is shown to meet:
(A) The strength requirements of § 25.305(b) at an ultimate load corresponding to a casting factor of 1.50; and
(B) The deformation requirements of § 25.305(a) at a load of 1.15 times the limit load.
(d)
Non-critical castings.
For each casting other than critical castings, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the following apply:
(1) A casting factor of 1.0 or greater may be used, provided that the requirements of (c)(1) of this section are met, or all of the following conditions are met:
(i) Castings are manufactured to approved specifications that specify the minimum mechanical properties of the material in the casting and provides for demonstration of these properties by testing of coupons cut from the castings on a sampling basis.
(ii) Each casting receives:
(A) Inspection of 100 percent of its surface, using visual inspection and liquid penetrant or equivalent inspection methods; and
