APHIS inspectors, contact Permit Unit, PPQ, APHIS, 4700 River Road Unit 133, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1236; toll-free (877) 770-5990; fax (301) 734-8700.
Pt .330

# PART 330—FEDERAL PLANT PEST REGULATIONS; GENERAL; PLANT PESTS, BIOLOGICAL CONTROL ORGANISMS, AND ASSOCIATED ARTICLES; GARBAGE

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
330.100
Definitions.
330.101
Policy.
330.102
Basis for certain regulations.
330.103
Documentation.
330.104
Ports of entry.
330.105
Inspection.
330.106
Emergency measures.
330.107
Costs.
330.108
Authority to issue administrative instructions.
330.109
Caution.
330.110
Seals.
330.111
Advance notification of arrival of aircraft and watercraft.

# Subpart B—Movement of Plant Pests, Biological Control Organisms, and Associated Articles
330.200
Scope and general restrictions.
330.201
Permit requirements.
330.202
Biological control organisms.
330.203
Soil.
330.204
Exceptions to permitting requirements for the importation or interstate movement of certain plant pests.
330.205
Hand-carry of plant pests, biological control organisms, and soil.
330.206
Packaging requirements.
330.207
Costs and charges.
Subpart C—Movement of Soil, Stone, and Quarry Products [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Garbage
330.400
Regulation of certain garbage.
330.401
Garbage generated onboard a conveyance.
330.402
Garbage generated in Hawaii.
330.403
Compliance agreement and cancellation.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1633, 7701-7772, 7781-7786, and 8301-8317; 21 U.S.C. 136 and 136a; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.3.

# Source:
24 FR 10825, Dec. 29, 1959, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Source:
Redesignated at 84 FR 2429, Feb. 7, 2019.
§ 330.100
Definitions.
The following terms, when used in this part, shall be construed, respectively, to mean:
Administrative instructions.
Published documents relating to the enforcement of this part, and issued under authority thereof by the Administrator.
Administrator.
The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), United States Department of Agriculture, or any employee of APHIS to whom authority has been delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
Article.
Any material or tangible object, including a living organism, that could harbor living plant pests or noxious weeds. The term includes associated articles such as soil and packaging.
Biocontainment facility.
A physical structure or portion thereof, constructed and maintained in order to contain plant pests, biological control organisms, or associated articles.
Biological control organism.
Any enemy, antagonist, or competitor used to control a plant pest or noxious weed.
Continental United States.
The contiguous 48 States, Alaska, and the District of Columbia.
Continued curation permit.
A permit issued prior to the expiration date for an import permit or interstate movement permit in order for a permittee to continue research or other actions listed on the import or interstate movement permit. Continued curation permits do not allow acquisition of additional organisms for research and other authorized activities and only address retention of existing organisms for authorized uses.
Department.
The United States Department of Agriculture.
Deputy Administrator.
The Deputy Administrator of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs or any employee of the Plant Protection and
Quarantine Programs delegated to act in his or her stead.
Enter (entry).
To move into, or the act of movement into, the commerce of the United States.
EPA.
The Environmental Protection Agency of the United States.
Export (exportation).
To move from, or the act of movement from, the United States to any place outside the United States.
Garbage.
That material designated as “garbage” in § 330.400(b).
Hand-carry.
Importation of an organism that remains in one's personal possession and in close proximity to one's person.
Import (importation).
To move into, or the act of movement into, the territorial limits of the United States.
Inspector.
Any individual authorized by the Administrator of APHIS or the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to enforce the regulations in this part.
Interstate movement.
Movement from one State into or through any other State; or movement within the District of Columbia, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
Living.
Viable or potentially viable.
Means of conveyance.
Any personal or public property used for or intended for use for the movement of any other property. This specifically includes, but is not limited to, automobiles, trucks, railway cars, aircraft, boats, freight containers, and other means of transportation.
Move (moved and movement).
To carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to aid, abet, cause, or induce the carrying, entering, importing, mailing, shipping, or transporting; to offer to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to receive to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to release into the environment, or to allow any of those activities.
Noxious weed.
Any plant or plant product that can directly or indirectly injure or cause damage to crops (including nursery stock or plant products), livestock, poultry, or other interests of agriculture, irrigation, navigation, the natural resources of the United States, the public health, or the environment.
Owner.
The owner, or his or her agent, having possession of a plant pest, biological control organism, associated article, or any other means of conveyance, products, or article subject to the regulations in this part.
Permit.
A written authorization, including by electronic methods, by the Administrator to move plant pests, biological control organisms, or associated articles under conditions prescribed by the Administrator.
Permittee.
The person to whom APHIS has issued a permit in accordance with this part and who must comply with the provisions of the permit and the regulations in this part.
Person.
Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint venture, or other legal entity.
Plant.
Any plant (including any plant part) for or capable of propagation including trees, tissue cultures, plantlet cultures, pollen, shrubs, vines, cuttings, grafts, scions, buds, bulbs, roots, and seeds.
Plant pest.
Any living stage of any of the following that can directly or indirectly injure, cause damage to, or cause disease in any plant or plant product: A protozoan, nonhuman animal, parasitic plant, bacterium, fungus, virus or viroid, infectious agent or other pathogen, or any article similar to or allied with any of the foregoing.
Plant product.
Any flower, fruit, vegetable, root, bulb, seed, or other plant part that is not included in the definition of plant; or any manufactured or processed plant or plant part.
Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs.
The Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs of the Animal and Plant Inspection Health Service.
Pure culture.
A single species of invertebrate originating only from an identified/described population and free of disease and parasites, cryptic species, soil and other biological material except host material and substrate as APHIS deems appropriate. Examples of identified/described population are those originating from a specific laboratory colony or field collection from a specified geographic area, such as an entire country or States or provinces of a country.
Regulated garbage.
That material designated as regulated garbage in § 330.400(c) and (d).
Responsible individual.
One or more individuals who a permittee designates to appropriately oversee and control the staff, facilities, and/or site(s) at the location(s) specified on the permit as the ultimate destination of the plant pest, biological control organism, or associated article, to ensure compliance with the permit conditions during all phases of the activities being performed with the regulated articles authorized under a permit issued in accordance with this part for the movement or curation of a plant pest, biological control organism, or associated article. For the duration of the permit, the individual(s) must serve as a primary contact for communication with APHIS. The permittee may designate him or herself as the responsible individual. The responsible individual(s) must be at least 18 years of age and to be able meet with and provide information to an APHIS representative within a reasonable time frame. In accordance with section 7734 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.
), the act, omission, or failure of any responsible individual will also be deemed the act, omission, or failure of a permittee.
Secure shipment.
Shipment of a regulated plant pest, biological control organism, or associated article in a container or a means of conveyance of sufficient strength and integrity to prevent leakage of contents and to withstand shocks, pressure changes, and other conditions incident to ordinary handling in transportation.
Shelf-stable.
The condition achieved in a product, by application of heat, alone or in combination with other ingredients and/or other treatments, of being rendered free of microorganisms capable of growing in the product at nonrefrigerated conditions (over 50 °F or 10 °C).
Soil.
The unconsolidated material from the earth's surface that consists of rock and mineral particles and that supports or is capable of supporting biotic communities.
State.
Any of the States of the United States, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and all other territories or possessions of the United States.
Sterilization (sterile, sterilized).
A chemical or physical process that results in the death of all living organisms on or within the article subject to the process. Examples include, but are not limited to, autoclaving and incineration.
Taxon (taxa).
Any recognized grouping or rank within the biological nomenclature of organisms, such as class, order, family, genus, species, subspecies, pathovar, biotype, race, forma specialis, or cultivar.
Transit.
Movement from and to a foreign destination through the United States.
United States.
All of the States and territories.
U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP).
U.S. Customs and Border Protection within the Department of Homeland Security.
[84 FR 29958, June 25, 2019]
§ 330.101
Policy.
The purpose of the regulations in this part is to prevent the dissemination of plant pests into the United States, or interstate, by regulating the movement of plant pests into or through the United States, or interstate, and the movement of means of conveyance, earth, stone and quarry products, garbage, and certain other products and articles into or through the United States, or from any Territory or possession into or through any other Territory or possession or the continental United States. The Deputy Administrator shall employ procedures to carry out this purpose which will impose a minimum of impediment to foreign commerce and travel whenever practicable, consistent with proper precaution against plant pest dissemination. The same policy is to be applied in the case of interstate commerce and travel.
§ 330.102
Basis for certain regulations.
Under the authority of the Plant Protection Act, the Secretary may prohibit or restrict the importation, entry, exportation, or movement in interstate commerce of any plant,
plant product, biological control organism, noxious weed, article (including baggage, mail, garbage, earth, stone, and quarry products) or means of conveyance if such actions are necessary to prevent the introduction into or the dissemination within the United States of a plant pest or noxious weed.
[66 FR 21058, Apr. 27, 2001]
§ 330.103
Documentation.
Any notifications, reports, and similar documentation not specified in the regulations in this part, but necessary to carry out the purpose of the regulations, will be prescribed in administrative instructions.
§ 330.104
Ports of entry.
Ports of entry for plant pests, means of conveyance, or other products or articles of any character whatsoever the entry or movement of which is regulated by the regulations in this part may be specified in administrative instructions or in the permits if permits are required by the regulations. The ports of entry shall be those named in 19 CFR 101.3(b)(1), except as otherwise provided by administrative instructions or by permits issued in accordance with this part, and except those ports of entry listed below.
List of Exceptions to Customs Designated Ports of Entry
State
Port of entry
[Reserved]
[Reserved]
[24 FR 10825, Dec. 29, 1959, as amended at 72 FR 43523, Aug. 6, 2007]
§ 330.105
Inspection.
(a)
Inspection of foreign arrivals.
In order to prevent the dissemination into the United States of plant pests and for the purpose of carrying out the regulations in this part, all plant pests; means of conveyance and their stores; baggage; mail; plants; plant products; soil; stone and quarry products under this part; garbage; and any other product or article of any character whatsoever which an inspector considers may be infested or infected by or contain a plant pest, arriving in the United States from any place outside thereof for entry into or movement through the United States shall be subject to inspection by an inspector at the port of first arrival, except that mail will be handled in accordance with the joint customs and postal regulations for inspecting and handling mail. No such plant pests; means of conveyance or their stores; baggage; mail; plants; plant products; soil; stone or quarry products under this part; garbage; or other products or articles which an inspector notifies the Customs authorities should be held for inspection shall be released by Customs officers for entry or onward movement until released by an inspector. The release of all means of conveyance, products and articles regulated under parts 319, 321, and 352 of this chapter shall be in accordance with the requirements of those parts and the applicable provisions in this part. Whenever it shall be deemed safe to modify the requirements of this section by exempting any class of means of conveyance, products or articles from the requirement that they be held for inspection and release of the inspector, the exemptions shall be specified in administrative instructions. Inspectors shall make local arrangements, in accordance with policies of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, with the Collector of Customs for the release by Customs officers on behalf of the inspector of any class of means of conveyance, their stores, baggage, mail, or other products or articles when such arrangements do not increase unduly the danger of plant pest dissemination and will facilitate clearance of means of conveyance, baggage, mail, or other products or articles.
(b)
Inspection of domestic movements.
For the purpose of preventing the interstate movement of plant pests, provisions requiring inspection of means of conveyance and products or articles moving interstate may be issued as regulations in association with quarantines in part 301 or part 318 of this chapter or in this part.

# Note:
Notices appearing at 24 FR 4650, June 9, 1959, 24 FR 5363, July 2, 1959, 24 FR 6889, August 26, 1959, and 24 FR 7519, September 18, 1959, provide in part as follows: That means of conveyance subject to such
inspection and release requirements and arriving at any port of entry outside the regularly assigned hours of duty of the Federal plant quarantine inspector, will be held for such inspection and release, until the regularly assigned hours of duty. However, notice is also hereby given that pursuant to the provisions of the Act of August 28, 1950 (7 U.S.C. 2260) such inspection service outside of the regularly assigned hours of duty may be made available to any interested person, upon a reimbursable basis and in accordance with applicable regulations, upon request to the Plant Quarantine Inspector in Charge at such port.
Information concerning regularly assigned hours of duty for Federal plant quarantine inspectors at each port where such inspection is available may be obtained locally by application to the Plant Quarantine Inspector in Charge at such port.
[24 FR 10825, Dec. 29, 1959, as amended at 62 FR 65009, Dec. 10, 1997; 84 FR 29960, June 25, 2019]
§ 330.106
Emergency measures.
(a)
Procedures to prevent pest dissemination.
Whenever inspection of any means of conveyance, stores, baggage, mail, plants, plant products, earth, stone and quarry products, garbage, or other products or articles of any character whatsoever, arriving in the United States from a place outside thereof, or moving interstate, discloses a plant pest, or provides a reason to believe such a pest is present (other than one moving under permit in accordance with any conditions in the permit and the provisions in this part) which is new to, or not theretofore known to be widely prevalent or distributed within and throughout the United States, the inspector shall employ procedures necessary to prevent the dissemination of the plant pest. Such procedures shall also be employed with respect to means of conveyance or products or articles of any character whatsoever which have moved into the United States or interstate and which the inspector has reason to believe were infested or infected by or contained any such plant pest at the time of such movement. The inspector may follow administrative instructions containing procedures prescribed for certain situations, or he may follow a procedure selected by him from administratively approved methods known to be effective. The procedure may involve seizure, quarantine, treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, application of other remedial measures, exportation, return to shipping point of origin, destruction, or other disposal, but no means of conveyance, product, article, or plant pest owned by any person shall be destroyed, exported, or returned to shipping point of origin or ordered to be so handled, unless there is, in the opinion of the inspector, no less drastic action adequate to prevent the dissemination of the plant pest. In forming such an opinion that no less drastic action is adequate, the inspector shall be guided by applicable specific and general instructions received from officers of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs. In taking action with respect to any means of conveyance, product, article, plant pest, the inspector shall take cognizance of applicable requirements of the customs and postal laws and regulations.
(b)
Orders for remedial measures.
The inspector may order the owner of any means of conveyance, product, article, or plant pest, subject to disposal under paragraph (a) of this section, to treat, apply other remedial measures, destroy, or make other disposal thereof without cost to the Federal Government and in a manner specified in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Failure to apply remedial measures.
If the measures required by the inspector are not applied promptly by the owner within the time limits specified by the inspector, the inspector shall apply measures necessary to prevent the dissemination of the plant pests.
(d)
Khapra beetle infestations of means of conveyance, or cargo or stores thereof; other infestations.
As a means of preventing the dissemination into the United States, or interstate, of the khapra beetle (Trogoderma granarium Everts), the following procedures will be applicable when that insect is found, or there is reason to believe it is present, in a means of conveyance within paragraph (a) of this section, or in any cargo or stores in such a means of conveyance, or in any cargo or stores unloaded or landed, or being unloaded or landed, in the United States therefrom. These procedures will also apply with respect to other plant pests
when the inspector finds they are necessary and sufficient to prevent the spread of such pests.
(1)
Infestation in storerooms and similar compartments of means of conveyance
(
except aircraft
). (i) When infestation is found only in stores or storerooms, galleys, pantries, or similar noncargo compartments of a means of conveyance, except aircraft, the inspector shall prescribe and supervise the application of such remedial measures as, in his opinion, will be effective under conditions that will not spread the infestation to other parts of the means of conveyance, or to adjacent piers or other installations. If, in the opinion of the inspector, fumigation is the only available safeguard to eliminate the infestation, he shall order the owner to arrange for immediate fumigation of the infested stores and portions of the means of conveyance.
(ii) If the means of conveyance is to leave the territorial limits of the United States directly for a port in another country within 24 hours of such order, the inspector may suspend compliance with the fumigation requirement pending departure from the United States. Pending fumigation or departure, the inspector may seal the openings of infested compartments, packages, or articles, if in his opinion the action is necessary to prevent plant pest dissemination while the means of conveyance remains in the teritorial limits of the United States, as authorized in § 330.110. The inspector may extend the 24-hour period to 48 hours, if, in his judgment, such extension is warranted by plans of the owner to remove the means of conveyance from the territorial limits of the United States within the extended period, the inability of the contractor to begin fumigation within the 24-hour period, or other reason deemed valid by the inspector. Further extension shall be given only under authority of the Deputy Administrator. Pending compliance with the requirement of fumigation, or the departure from the territorial limits of the United States directly for a port in another country, no stores, laundry, furnishings or equipment, or other articles or products whether in cargo or stores, shall be unloaded from the means of conveyance except as authorized by the inspector and under conditions prescribed by him. The owner of an infested means of conveyance under notice for fumigation which leaves the territorial limits of the United States without fumigation should arrange for the eradication of the infestation before returning to the same or another port in the United States. Upon return to a port in the United States and unless the infestation has been eliminated to the satisfaction of the inspector, the means of conveyance shall be subject to fumigation immediately upon arrival in the United States. Unloading or landing of any product or article shall not be permitted pending compliance with the fumigation requirement, except as authorized by the inspector and under conditions prescribed by him.
(iii) If the means of conveyance is to remain at the port where the infestation was found or is to be moved to another port in the United States, the inspector shall prescribe and supervise the application of the remedial measures at the port where the infestation is found, as provided in this paragraph, or he may authorize the means of conveyance to be moved to another port for fumigation or the application of other remedial measures under safeguards prescribed by him.
(iv) In all instances where the inspector prescribed procedures concerned with the application of remedial measures which involve (
a
) withholding permission to discharge articles or products; (
b
) permission to discharge after such permission has been withheld; (
c
) discontinuance of discharging; or (
d
) resumption of discharging after it has been discontinued, the appropriate Customs officer shall be immediately notified in writing. The inspector shall also inform the Customs officers at the port where the infestation is found and at such other ports as may be necessary of the requirement for fumigation and/or permission to move coastwise to another U.S. port for fumigation or other remedial measures.
(2)
Infestation in cargo compartments of means of conveyance
(
except aircraft
). When infestation is found in cargo compartments or in cargo of a means of conveyance, except aircraft, the inspector shall prescribe and supervise
the application of such remedial measures as, in his opinion are necessary, with respect to the cargo and the portions of the means of conveyance which contain or contained or were contaminated by the infested cargo. If in the opinion of the inspector fumigation is the only available safeguard to eliminate the infestation, he shall order the owner to arrange for immediate fumigation of the infested portions of such means of conveyance and cargo. However, if such cargo compartments cannot be fumigated without fumigating the entire means of conveyance, the inspector may order the entire means of conveyance and cargo to be fumigated. The inspector shall notify the owner of the means of conveyance of such requirement and the owner shall arrange for immediate fumigation. Discharge of cargo shall be discontinued unless the inspector allows it to continue under safeguards to be prescribed by him. The provisions applicable to stores and storerooms in paragraph (d)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section shall apply to cargo and cargo areas of such means of conveyance. Customs officers shall be informed as required in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section.
(3)
Infestation in an aircraft.
If infestation is found in an aircraft, the inspector may apply seals as provided in § 330.110, and he may require such temporary safeguards as he deems necessary, including the discontinuance of further unloading or landing of any products or articles except as authorized by him. Upon finding such infestation in an aircraft the inspector shall promptly notify the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs of all circumstances and the temporary safeguards employed, and the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs will specify the measures for eliminating the infestation which will not be deleterious to the aircraft or its operating components. Any insecticidal application required shall be approved by the Deputy Administrator for use in aircraft. If the aircraft is to depart from the territorial limits of the United States within 24 hours after the infestation is found, the inspector shall permit such departure in lieu of the application of other measures and shall prior to departure break any seals that would prevent access to the aircraft or safe operation thereof. Other seals shall remain intact at time of departure and shall be broken by the aircraft commander or a crew member upon his order only after the aircraft is beyond the territorial limits of the United States. Extension of the 24-hour period shall be given only under authority of the Deputy Administrator. The owner of the aircraft under notice of khapra beetle infestation which leaves the territorial limits of the United States before the infestation has been eradicated should arrange for eradication before returning the aircraft to the United States. Upon return to the United States, if the infestation is not eliminated to the satisfaction of the inspector, the aircraft shall be subject to the same disinfestation requirements and other safeguards immediately upon arrival in the United States. Customs officers shall be notified as required in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section.
(4)
Precautions.
The owner of a means of conveyance required to be fumigated pursuant to this section shall arrange with a competent operator to apply the fumigant under the supervision of the inspector. The owner shall understand that if certain fumigants are used they may result in residues in or on foodstuffs which may render them unsafe for use as food items. He is hereby warned against such use unless as ascertains that the fumigated foodstuffs are fit for human consumption. It should also be understood by the owner that emergency measures prescribed by the inspector to safeguard against dissemination of infestation may have adverse effects on certain products and articles, and that the acceptance of fumigation as a requirement is an alternative to the immediate removal of the infested means of conveyance and any products and articles thereon, from the territorial limits of the United States. Products or articles in a means of conveyance, or compartments thereof, which may be exposed to methyl bromide or other remedial measures and may be adversely affected thereby, may be removed from the means of conveyance or compartments thereof prior to the application of the remedial
measures if in the opinion of the inspector this can be done without danger of plant pest dissemination and under conditions authorized by him, for additional inspection and/or application of effective remedial measures.
[24 FR 10825, Dec. 29, 1959, as amended at 25 FR 8989, Sept. 20, 1960; 32 FR 6339, Apr. 21, 1967; 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971; 66 FR 21058, Apr. 27, 2001; 69 FR 12265, Mar. 16, 2004; 75 FR 4253, Jan. 26, 2010]
§ 330.107
Costs.
All costs (including those incurred under § 330.106 of this part by the government or the owner) incident to the inspection, handling, cleaning, safeguarding, treating, or other disposal of means of conveyance or products, articles, or plant pests under this part shall be borne by the owner. Services of the inspector during regularly assigned hours of duty at the usual places of duty shall be furnished without cost to the person requesting the services, unless a user fee is payable under § 354.3 of this chapter.

# Cross Reference:
See note following § 330.105.
[56 FR 14844, Apr. 12, 1991]
§ 330.108
Authority to issue administrative instructions.
The Deputy Administrator is authorized to issue the administrative instructions for which provision is made in the regulations in this part, for the purpose of preventing dissemination of plant pests into the United States or interstate. In addition, whenever the Deputy Administrator shall find that existing conditions as to pest risk involved in the movement of plant pests, means of conveyance, or other products or articles to which the regulations in this part apply, make it safe to modify by making less stringent the restrictions contained in any of such regulations, he shall publish such findings in administrative instructions, specifying the manner in which the regulations shall be made less stringent whereupon such modification shall become effective.
§ 330.109
Caution.
In applying treatments or taking other measures prescribed in administrative instructions or by the inspector, it should be understood that inexactness or carelessness may result in injury or damage.
§ 330.110
Seals.
(a)
Use authorized; form.
Whenever, in the opinion of the inspector, it is necessary, as a safeguard in order to prevent the dissemination of plant pests into the United States, or interstate, seals may be applied to openings, packages, or articles requiring the security provided by such seals. The words “openings, packages, or articles” shall include any form of container, shelf, bin, compartment, or other opening, package, or article which the inspector may have occasion to seal in lieu of more drastic action or otherwise, as a safeguard against plant pest dissemination. The seals may be automatic metal seals or labels or tags and will be provided by the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs. When they consist of a label or tag, they will be printed in black ink on yellow paper and read substantially as follows: “Warning! The opening, package, or article to which this seal is affixed is sealed under authority of law. This seal is not to be broken while within the territorial limits of the United States except by, or under instructions of, an inspector.”
(b)
Breaking of seals.
Seals may be broken: (1) By an inspector; (2) by a Customs officer for Customs purposes, in which case the opening, package, or article will be resealed with Customs seals; (3) by the owner or his agent when the means of conveyance, product, or article has left the territorial limits of the United States; (4) by any person authorized by the inspector or the Deputy Administrator under conditions specified by the inspector or Deputy Administrator. No person shall break seals applied under authority of this section except as provided in this paragraph. The movement into or through the United States, or interstate, of any means of conveyance or product or article on which a seal, applied under this paragraph, has been broken in violation of this paragraph is hereby prohibited, except as authorized by an inspector.
(c)
Notice of sealing.
When an inspector seals any opening, product or article, he shall explain the purpose of such action to the owner or his representative and shall present him with a written notice of the conditions under which the seal may be broken, if requested to do so.
[25 FR 8990, Sept. 20, 1960, as amended at 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971]
§ 330.111
Advance notification of arrival of aircraft and watercraft.
The owner, operator, or other representative of any aircraft or watercraft entering the United States from a foreign country, or arriving in the continental United States from Hawaii or any territory or possession of the United States, shall provide every Plant Protection and Quarantine office (PPQ office) serving a port of arrival on the itinerary of the craft while in the United States with advance notification of intent to arrive at that port. This advance notification of arrival shall:
(a) Reach the appropriate PPQ office not less than 12 hours before the craft's estimated time of arrival at the port;
(b) Be communicated by radio, wire, telephone, or any other means; and
(c) Include the following information:
(1) The name or other identifying feature of the individual craft;
(2) The date and estimated time of arrival at the port;
(3) The location of arrival, providing the most site-specific data available, such as the dock, pier, wharf, berth, mole, anchorage, gate, or facility, and;
(4) The names of all foreign and non-Continental U.S. ports where any cargo, crew, or passenger destined for the continental United States has boarded the craft since its most recent arrival at a port in the United States.
(d) If the craft's estimated time of arrival changes by more than one hour, the PPQ office that serves the port of arrival must be notified and provided with updated information immediately.
(e) If the craft's site of arrival changes after a PPQ office has received advance notification of arrival, both that PPQ office and the newly affected PPQ office shall be notified of this change immediately. This applies, too, to site-specific changes involving watercraft.
(f) If the craft's point of arrival is an anchorage, the PPQ office shall be notified, as soon as possible after the craft's arrival at the anchorage, of the specific site, such as berth, mole, pier, to which the craft will be moving, as well as of its estimated time of arrival at that site.
(g) Aircraft and watercraft meeting any of the following conditions are exempt from the provisions in this section, and need not provide advance notification of arrival:
(1) The craft is not regularly used to carry passengers or cargo for a fee;
(2) The aircraft is making a flight scheduled in the Official Airline Guide, North American Edition, or the Official Airline Guide, Worldwide Edition, unless the scheduled time of arrival changes by more than one hour or the plane is diverted to another landing port;
(3) An inspector has precleared the aircraft in Hawaii, a territory or possession of the United States, or a foreign port, having determined that the aircraft contained only articles that are not prohibited or restricted importation into the United States under the provisions of 7 CFR chapter III and 9 CFR chapter I; or
(4) Personnel of the United States armed forces, including the U.S. Coast Guard, in Hawaii, a territory or possession of the United States, or a foreign port, have precleared an aircraft, having determined that the aircraft contained only articles that are not prohibited or restricted importation into the United States under the provisions of 7 CFR chapter III and 9 CFR chapter I.
(5) The owner, operator, or other representative of the aircraft or watercraft not leaving the United States has been informed in writing by a PPQ inspector that notification of intended arrival is not required at subsequent ports in the United States.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0054)
[52 FR 49344, Dec. 31, 1987]

# Subpart B—Movement of Plant Pests, Biological Control Organisms, and Associated Articles

# Source:
84 FR 29960, June 25, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 330.200
Scope and general restrictions.
(a)
Restrictions.
No person shall import, move interstate, transit, or release into the environment plant pests, biological control organisms, or associated articles, unless the importation, interstate movement, transit, or release into the environment of the plant pests, biological control organisms, or associated articles is:
(1) Authorized under an import, interstate movement, or continued curation permit issued in accordance with § 330.201; or
(2) Authorized in accordance with other APHIS regulations in this chapter; or
(3) Explicitly granted an exception from permitting requirements in this subpart; or
(4) Authorized under a general permit issued by the Administrator.
(b)
Plant pests regulated by this subpart.
For the purposes of this subpart, and except for an organism that has undergone genetic engineering as defined in § 340.3 of this chapter, APHIS will consider an organism to be a plant pest if the organism directly or indirectly injures, causes damage to, or causes disease in a plant or plant product, or if the organism is an unknown risk to plants or plant products, but is similar to an organism known to directly or indirectly injure, cause damage to, or cause disease in a plant or plant product. Plant pests that have undergone genetic engineering, as defined in § 340.3 of this chapter, are subject to the regulations of part 340 of this chapter.
(c)
Biological control organisms regulated by this subpart.
For the purposes of this subpart, biological control organisms include:
(1) Invertebrate predators and parasites (parasitoids) used to control invertebrate plant pests;
(2) Invertebrate competitors used to control invertebrate plant pests;
(3) Invertebrate herbivores used to control noxious weeds;
(4) Microbial pathogens used to control invertebrate plant pests;
(5) Microbial pathogens used to control noxious weeds;
(6) Microbial parasites used to control plant pathogens; and
(7) Any other types of biological control organisms, as determined by APHIS.
(d)
Biological control organisms not regulated by this subpart.
Paragraph (c) of this section notwithstanding, biological control organisms that have undergone genetic engineering, as defined in § 340.3 of this chapter, as well as products that are currently under an EPA experimental use permit, a Federal Insecticide Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) section 18 emergency exemption, or products that are currently registered with EPA as a microbial pesticide product, are not regulated under this subpart. Additionally, biological control organisms that are pesticides that are not registered with EPA, but are being transferred, sold, or distributed in accordance with EPA's regulations in 40 CFR 152.30, are not regulated under this subpart for their interstate movement or importation. However, an importer desiring to import a shipment of biological control organisms subject to FIFRA must submit to the EPA Administrator a Notice of Arrival of Pesticides and Devices as required by CBP regulations at 19 CFR 12.112. The Administrator will provide notification to the importer indicating the disposition to be made of shipment upon its entry into the customs territory of the United States.
[84 FR 29960, June 25, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 29832, May 18, 2020]
§ 330.201
Permit requirements.
(a)
Types of permits.
APHIS issues import permits, interstate movement permits, continued curation permits, and transit permits for plant pests, biological control organisms, and associated articles.
1
1
Persons contemplating the shipment of plant pests, biological control organisms, or associated articles to places outside the
United States should make arrangements directly, or through the recipient, with the country of destination for the export of the plant pests, biological control organisms, or associated articles into that country.
(1)
Import permit.
Import permits are issued to persons for secure shipment from outside the United States into the territorial limits of the United States. When import permits are issued to individuals, these individuals must be 18 years of age or older and have a physical address within the United States. When import permits are issued to corporate persons, these persons must maintain an address or business office in the United States with one or more designated individuals for service of process.
(2)
Interstate movement permit.
Interstate movement permits are issued to persons for secure shipment from any State into or through any other State. When interstate movement permits are issued to individuals, these individuals must be 18 years of age or older and have a physical address within the United States. When interstate movement permits are issued to corporate persons, these persons must maintain an address or business office in the United States with a designated individual for service of process.
(3)
Continued curation permits.
Continued curation permits are issued in conjunction with and prior to the expiration date for an import permit or interstate movement permit, in order for the permittee to continue the actions listed on the import permit or interstate movement permit. When continued curation permits are issued to individuals, these individuals must be 18 years of age or older and have a physical address within the United States. When continued curation permits are issued to corporate persons, these persons must maintain an address or business office in the United States with one or more designated individuals for service of process.
(4)
Transit permits.
Transit permits are issued for secure shipments through the United States. Transit permits are issued in accordance with part 352 of this chapter.
(b)
Applying for a permit.
Permit applications must be submitted by the applicant in writing or electronically through one of the means listed at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/plant_health/permits/index.shtml
in advance of the action(s) proposed on the permit application.
(c)
Completing a permit application.
A permit application must be complete before APHIS will evaluate it in order to determine whether to issue the permit requested. To facilitate timely processing, applications should be submitted as far in advance as possible of the date of the proposed permit activity. Guidance regarding how to complete a permit application, including guidance specific to the various information blocks on the application, is available at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/plant_health/permits/index.shtml.
(d)
APHIS action on permit applications.
APHIS will review the information on the application to determine whether it is complete. In order to consider an application complete, APHIS may request additional information that it determines to be necessary in order to assess the risk to plants and plant products that may be posed by the actions proposed on the application. When it is determined that an application is complete, APHIS will commence review of the information provided.
(1)
State or Tribal consultation and comment; consultation with other individuals.
APHIS will share a copy of the permit application, and the proposed permit conditions, with the appropriate State or Tribal regulatory officials, and may share the application and the proposed conditions with other persons or groups to provide comment.
(2)
Initial assessment of sites and facilities.
Prior to issuance of a permit, APHIS will assess all sites and facilities that are listed on the permit application, including private residences, biocontainment facilities, and field locations where the organism
2
or associated article will be held or released. As part of this assessment, all sites and facilities are subject to inspection. All facilities must be determined by APHIS to be constructed and maintained in a manner that prevents the dissemination or dispersal of plant
pests, biological control organisms, or associated articles from the facility. The applicant must provide all information requested by APHIS regarding this assessment, and must allow all inspections requested by APHIS during normal business hours (8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding holidays). Failure to do so constitutes grounds for denial of the permit application.
2
Includes biological control organisms and plant pests.
(3)
Issuance of a permit.
APHIS may issue a permit to an applicant if APHIS concludes that the actions indicated in the permit application are not likely to introduce or disseminate a plant pest, biological control organism, or noxious weed within the United States in a manner that exposes plants and plant products to unacceptable risk. Issuance will occur as follows:
(i) Prior to issuing the permit, APHIS will notify the applicant in writing or electronically of all proposed permit conditions. The applicant must agree in writing or electronically that he or she, and all his or her employees, agents, and/or officers, will comply with all permit conditions and all provisions of this subpart. If the organism or associated article will be contained in a private residence, the applicant must state in this agreement that he or she authorizes APHIS to conduct unscheduled assessments of the residence during normal business hours if a permit is issued.
(ii) APHIS will issue the permit after it receives and reviews the applicant's agreement. The permit will be valid for no more than 3 years. During that period, the permittee must abide by all permitting conditions, and the use of the organism or associated article must conform to the intended use on the permit. Moreover, the use of organisms derived from a regulated parent organism during that period must conform to the intended use specified on the permit for the parent organism.
(iii) All activities carried out under the permit must cease on or before the expiration date for the permit, unless, prior to that expiration date, the permittee has submitted a new permit application and a new permit has been issued to authorize continuation of those actions.
(iv) At any point following issuance of a permit but prior to its expiration date, an inspector may conduct unscheduled assessments of the site or facility in which the organisms or associated articles are held, to determine whether they are constructed and are being maintained in a manner that prevents the dissemination of organisms or associated articles from the site or facility. The permittee must allow all such assessments requested by APHIS during normal business hours. Failure to allow such assessments constitutes grounds for revocation of the permit.
(4)
Denial of a permit application.
APHIS may deny an application for a permit if:
(i) APHIS concludes that the actions proposed in the permit application would present an unacceptable risk to plants and plant products because of the introduction or dissemination of a plant pest, biological control organism, or noxious weed within the United States; or
(ii) The actions proposed in the permit application would be adverse to the conduct of an APHIS eradication, suppression, control, or regulatory program; or
(iii) A State or Tribal executive official, or a State or Tribal plant protection official authorized to do so, objects to the movement in writing and provides specific, detailed information that there is a risk the movement will result in the dissemination of a plant pest or noxious weed into the State, APHIS evaluates the information and agrees, and APHIS determines that such plant pest or noxious weed risk cannot be adequately addressed or mitigated; or
(iv) The applicant does not agree to observe all of the proposed permit conditions that APHIS has determined are necessary to mitigate identified risks; or
(v) The applicant does not provide information requested by APHIS as part of an assessment of sites or facilities, or does not allow APHIS to inspect sites or facilities associated with the actions listed on the permit application; or
(vi) APHIS determines that the applicant has not followed prior permit conditions, or has not adequately demonstrated that they can meet the requirements for the current application. Factors that may contribute to such a determination include, but are not limited to:
(A) The applicant, or a partnership, firm, corporation, or other legal entity in which the applicant has a substantial interest, financial or otherwise, has not complied with any permit that was previously issued by APHIS.
(B) Issuing the permit would circumvent any order denying or revoking a previous permit issued by APHIS.
(C) The applicant has previously failed to comply with any APHIS regulation.
(D) The applicant has previously failed to comply with any other Federal, State, or local laws, regulations, or instructions pertaining to plant health.
(E) The applicant has previously failed to comply with the laws or regulations of a national plant protection organization or equivalent body, as these pertain to plant health.
(F) APHIS has determined that the applicant has made false or fraudulent statements or provided false or fraudulent records to APHIS.
(G) The applicant has been convicted or has pled
nolo contendere
to any crime involving fraud, bribery, extortion, or any other crime involving a lack of integrity.
(5)
Withdrawal of a permit application.
Any permit application may be withdrawn at the request of the applicant. If the applicant wishes to withdraw a permit application, he or she must provide the request in writing to APHIS. APHIS will provide written notification to the applicant as promptly as circumstances allow regarding reception of the request and withdrawal of the application.
(6)
Cancellation of a permit.
Any permit that has been issued may be canceled at the request of the permittee. If a permittee wishes a permit to be canceled, he or she must provide the request in writing to APHIS-PPQ. Whenever a permit is canceled, APHIS will notify the permittee in writing regarding such cancellation.
(7)
Revocation of a permit.
APHIS may revoke a permit for any of the following reasons:
(i) After issuing the permit, APHIS obtains information that would have otherwise provided grounds for it to deny the permit application; or
(ii) APHIS determines that the actions undertaken under the permit have resulted in or are likely to result in the introduction into or dissemination within the United States of a plant pest or noxious weed in a manner that presents an unacceptable risk to plants or plant products; or
(iii) APHIS determines that the permittee, or any employee, agent, or officer of the permittee, has failed to comply with a provision of the permit or the regulations under which the permit was issued.
(8)
Amendment of permits
—(i)
Amendment at permittee's request.
If a permittee determines that circumstances have changed since the permit was initially issued and wishes the permit to be amended accordingly, he or she must request the amendment, either through APHIS' online portal for permit applications, or by contacting APHIS directly via phone or email. The permittee may have to provide supporting information justifying the amendment. APHIS will review the amendment request, and may amend the permit if only minor changes are necessary. Requests for more substantive changes may require a new permit application. Prior to issuance of an amended permit, the permittee may be required to agree in writing that he or she, and his or her employees, agents, and/or officers will comply with the amended permit and conditions.
(ii)
Amendment initiated by APHIS.
APHIS may amend any permit and its conditions at any time, upon determining that the amendment is needed to address newly identified considerations concerning the risks presented by the organism or the activities being conducted under the permit. APHIS may also amend a permit at any time to ensure that the permit conditions are consistent with all of the requirements of this part. As soon as circumstances allow, APHIS will notify the permittee of the amendment to the
permit and the reason(s) for it. Depending on the nature of the amendment, the permittee may have to agree in writing or electronically that he or she, and his or her employees, agents, and/or officers, will comply with the permit and conditions as amended before APHIS will issue the amended permit. If APHIS requests such an agreement, and the permittee does not agree in writing that he or she, and his or her employees, agents, and/or officers, will comply with the amended permit and conditions, the existing permit will be revoked.
(9)
Suspension of permitted actions.
APHIS may suspend authorization of actions authorized under a permit if it identifies new factors that cause it to reevaluate the risk associated with those actions. APHIS will notify the permittee in writing of this suspension explaining the reasons for it and stating the actions for which APHIS is suspending authorization. Depending on the results of APHIS' evaluation, APHIS will subsequently contact the permittee to remove the suspension, amend the permit, or revoke the permit.
(10)
Appeals.
Any person whose application has been denied, whose permit has been revoked or amended, or whose authorization for actions authorized under a permit has been suspended, may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within 10 business days after receiving the written notification of the denial, revocation, amendment, or suspension. The appeal shall state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the application was wrongfully denied, permit revoked or amended, or authorization for actions under a permit suspended. The Administrator shall grant or deny the appeal, stating the reasons for the decision as promptly as circumstances allow.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget Under Control Number 0579-0054)
§ 330.202
Biological control organisms.
(a)
General conditions for importation, interstate movement, and release of biological control organisms.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no biological control organism regulated under this subpart may be imported, moved in interstate commerce, or released into the environment unless a permit has been issued in accordance with § 330.201 authorizing such importation, interstate movement, or release, and the organism is moved or released in accordance with this permit and the regulations in this subpart. The regulations in 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508, part 1b of this title, and part 372 of this chapter may require APHIS to request additional information from an applicant regarding the proposed release of a biological control organism as part of its evaluation of a permit application. Further information regarding the types of information that may be requested, and the manner in which this information will be evaluated, is found at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/plant_health/permits/index.shtml.
(b)
Exceptions from permitting requirements for certain biological control organisms.
APHIS has determined that certain biological control organisms have become established throughout their geographical or ecological range in the continental United States, such that the additional release of pure cultures derived from field populations of taxa of such organisms into the environment of the continental United States will present no additional plant pest risk (direct or indirect) to plants or plant products. Lists of biological control organisms for invertebrate plant pests and for weeds are maintained on the PPQ Permits and Certifications website at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/resources/permits.
(1)
Importation and interstate movement of listed organisms.
Pure cultures of organisms excepted from permit requirements, unless otherwise indicated, may be imported or moved interstate within the continental United States without further restriction under this subpart.
(2)
Release of listed organisms.
Pure cultures of organisms on the list may be released into the environment of the continental United States without further restriction under this subpart.
(c)
Additions to the list of organisms granted exceptions from permitting requirements for their importation, interstate movement, or release.
Any person
may request that APHIS add a biological control organism to the list referred to in paragraph (b) of this section by submitting a petition to APHIS via email to
pest.permits@usda.gov
or through any means listed at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/plant_health/permits/index.shtml.
The petition must include the following information:
(1) Evidence indicating that the organism is indigenous to the continental United States throughout its geographical or ecological range, or evidence indicating that the organism has produced self-replicating populations within the continental United States for an amount of time sufficient, based on the organism's taxon, to consider that taxon established throughout its geographical or ecological range in the continental United States; or
(2) Evidence that the organism's geographical or ecological range includes an extremely limited area of or none of the continental United States based on its inability to maintain year to year self-replicating populations despite repeated introductions over a sufficient range of time; or
(3) The petition would include evidence that the organism cannot establish anywhere in the continental United States; or
(4) Results from a field study where data were collected from representative habitats occupied by the biological control organism. Studies must include sampling for any direct or indirect impacts on target and non-target hosts of the biological control organism in these habitats. Supporting scientific literature must be cited; or
(5) Any other data, including published scientific reports, that suggest that subsequent releases of the organism into the environment of the continental United States will present no additional plant pest risk (direct or indirect) to plants or plant products.
(d)
APHIS review of petitions
—(1)
Evaluation.
APHIS will review the petition to determine whether it is complete. If APHIS determines that the petition is complete, it will conduct an evaluation of the petition to determine whether there is sufficient evidence that the organism exists throughout its geographical or ecological range in the continental United States and that subsequent releases of pure cultures of field populations of the organism into the environment of the continental United States will present no additional plant pest risk (direct or indirect) to plants or plant products.
(2)
Notice of availability of the petition.
If APHIS determines that there is sufficient evidence that the organism exists throughout its geographical or ecological range in the continental United States and that subsequent releases of pure cultures of the organism into the environment of the continental United States will present no additional plant pest risk to plants or plant products, APHIS will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing the availability of the petition and requesting public comment on that document.
(3)
Notice of determination.
(i) If no comments are received, or if the comments received do not lead APHIS to reconsider its determination, APHIS will publish in the
Federal Register
a subsequent notice describing the comments received and stating that the organism has been added to the list referred to in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) If the comments received lead APHIS to reconsider its determination, APHIS will publish in the
Federal Register
a subsequent notice describing the comments received and stating its reasons for determining not to add the organism to the list referred to in paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Removal of organisms from the list of exempt organisms.
Any biological control organism may be removed from the list referred to in paragraph (b) of this section if information emerges that would have otherwise led APHIS to deny the petition to add the organism to the list. Whenever an organism is removed from the list, APHIS will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing that action and the basis for it.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0187)
§ 330.203
Soil.
(a)
Requirements.
The Administrator has determined that, unless it has been sterilized, soil is an associated article, and is thus subject to the permitting
requirements of § 330.201, unless its movement:
(1) Is regulated pursuant to other APHIS regulations in this chapter; or
(2) Does not require such a permit under the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) or (c)(1) of this section.
(b)
Conditions governing the importation of soil
—(1)
Permit.
Except as provided in § 319.37-10 of this chapter and except for soil imported from areas of Canada not regulated by the national plant protection organization of Canada for a soil-borne plant pest, soil may be imported into the United States if an import permit has been issued in accordance with § 330.201 and if the soil is imported under the conditions specified on the permit.
(2)
Additional conditions for the importation of soil via hand-carry.
In addition to the condition of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, soil may be hand-carried into the United States only if the importation meets the conditions of § 330.205.
(3)
Additional conditions for the importation of soil intended for the extraction of plant pests.
In addition to the condition of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, soil may be imported into the United States for the extraction of plant pests if the soil will be imported directly to an APHIS-approved biocontainment facility.
(4)
Additional conditions for the importation of soil contaminated with plant pests and intended for disposal.
In addition to the condition of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, soil may be imported into the United States for the disposal of plant pests if the soil will be imported directly to an APHIS-approved disposal facility.
(5)
Exemptions.
The articles listed in this paragraph (b) are not soil, provided that they are free of organic material. Therefore, they may be imported into the United States without an import permit issued in accordance with § 330.201, unless the Administrator has issued an order stating otherwise. All such articles are, however, subject to inspection at the port of first arrival, subsequent reinspection at other locations, other remedial measures deemed necessary by an inspector to remove any risk the items pose of disseminating plant pests or noxious weeds, and any other restrictions of this chapter:
(i) Consolidated material derived from any strata or substrata of the earth. Examples include clay (laterites, bentonite, china clay, attapulgite, tierrafino), talc, chalk, slate, iron ore, and gravel.
(ii) Sediment, mud, or rock from saltwater bodies of water.
(iii) Cosmetic mud and other commercial mud products.
(iv) Stones, rocks, and quarry products.
(c)
Conditions governing the interstate movement of soil
—(1)
General conditions.
Except for soil moved in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2) through (5) of this section, soil may be moved interstate within the United States without prior issuance of an interstate movement permit in accordance with § 330.201 or further restriction under this subpart. However, all soil moved interstate is subject to any movement restrictions and remedial measures specified for such movement referenced in part 301 of this chapter.
(2)
Conditions for the interstate movement within the continental United States of soil intended for the extraction of plant pests.
Soil may be moved in interstate commerce within the continental United States with the intent of extracting plant pests, only if an interstate movement permit has been issued for its movement in accordance with § 330.201, and if the soil will be moved directly to an APHIS-approved biocontainment facility in a secure manner that prevents its dissemination into the outside environment.
(3)
Conditions for the interstate movement within the continental United States of soil infested with plant pests and intended for disposal.
Soil may be moved in interstate commerce within the continental United States with the intent of disposing of plant pests, only if an interstate movement permit has been issued for its movement in accordance with § 330.201, and the soil will be moved directly to an APHIS-approved disposal facility in a secure manner that prevents its dissemination into the outside environment.
(4)
Conditions for the interstate movement of soil samples from an area quarantined in accordance with part 301 of
this chapter for chemical or compositional testing or analysis.
Soil samples may be moved for chemical or compositional testing or analysis from an area that is quarantined in accordance with part 301 of this chapter without prior issuance of an interstate movement permit in accordance with § 330.201 or further restriction under this chapter, provided that the soil is moved to a laboratory that has entered into and is operating under a compliance agreement with APHIS, is abiding by all terms and conditions of the compliance agreement, and is approved by APHIS to test and/or analyze such samples.
(5)
Additional conditions for interstate movement of soil to, from, or between Hawaii, the territories, and the continental United States.
In addition to all general conditions for interstate movement of soil, soil may be moved in interstate commerce to, from, or between Hawaii, the territories, and the continental United States only if an interstate movement permit has been issued for its movement in accordance with § 330.201. In addition, soil moved to, from, or between Hawaii, the territories, and the continental United States with the intent of extracting plant pests is subject to the conditions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, while soil infested with plant pests and intended for disposal is subject to the conditions of paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(d)
Conditions governing the transit of soil through the United States.
Soil may transit through the United States only if a transit permit has been issued for its movement in accordance with part 352 of this chapter.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget Under Control Number 0579-0054)
§ 330.204
Exceptions to permitting requirements for the importation or interstate movement of certain plant pests.
Pursuant to section 7711 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.
), the Administrator has determined that certain plant pests may be moved interstate within the continental United States without restriction. The list of all such plant pests is on the PPQ Permits and Certifications website at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/resources/permits.
Plant pests listed as being excepted from permitting requirements, unless otherwise indicated, may be moved interstate within the continental United States without further restriction under this subpart.
(a)
Categories.
In order to be included on the list, a plant pest must:
(1) Be from field populations or lab cultures derived from field populations of a taxon that is established throughout its entire geographical or ecological range within the continental United States; or
(2) Be commercially available and raised under the regulatory purview of other Federal agencies.
(b)
Petition process to add plant pests to the list
—(1)
Petition.
Any person may petition APHIS to have an additional plant pest added to the list of plant pests that may be imported into or moved in interstate commerce within the continental United States without restriction. To submit a petition, the person must provide, in writing, information supporting the placement of a particular pest in one of the categories listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(i) Information that the plant pest belongs to a taxon that is established throughout its entire geographical or ecological range within the United States must include scientific literature, unpublished studies, or data regarding:
(A) The biology of the plant pest, including characteristics that allow it to be identified, known hosts, and virulence;
(B) The geographical or ecological range of the plant pest within the continental United States; and
(C) The areas of the continental United States within which the plant pest is established.
(ii) Information that the plant pest is commercially available and raised under the regulatory purview of another Federal agency must include a citation to the relevant law, regulation, or order under which the agency exercises such oversight.
(2)
APHIS review.
APHIS will review the information contained in the petition to determine whether it is complete. In order to consider the petition
complete, APHIS may require additional information to determine whether the plant pest belongs to one of the categories listed in paragraph (a) of this section. When it is determined that the information is complete, APHIS will commence review of the petition.
(3)
Action on petitions to add pests.
(i) If, after review of the petition, APHIS determines there is insufficient evidence that the plant pest belongs to one of the categories listed in paragraph (a) of this section, APHIS will deny the petition, and notify the petitioner in writing regarding this denial.
(ii) If, after review of the petition, APHIS determines that the plant pest belongs to one of the categories in paragraph (a) of this section, APHIS will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
that announces the availability of the petition and any supporting documentation to the public, that states that APHIS intends to add the plant pest to the list of plant pests that may be imported into or moved in interstate commerce within the continental United States without restriction, and that requests public comment. If no comments are received on the notice, or if, based on the comments received, APHIS determines that its conclusions regarding the petition have not been affected, APHIS will publish in the
Federal Register
a subsequent notice stating that the plant pest has been added to the list.
(c)
Petition process to have plant pests removed from the list
—(1)
Petition.
Any person may petition to have a plant pest removed from the list of plant pests that may be imported into or moved interstate within the continental United States without restriction by writing to APHIS. The petition must contain independently verifiable information demonstrating that APHIS' initial determination that the plant pest belongs to one of the categories in paragraph (a) of the section should be changed, or that additional information is now available that would have caused us to change the initial decision.
(2)
APHIS review.
APHIS will review the information contained in the petition to determine whether it is complete. In order to consider the petition complete, APHIS may require additional information supporting the petitioner's claim. When it is determined that the information is complete, APHIS will commence review of the petition.
(3)
APHIS action on petitions to remove pests.
(i) If, after review of the petition, APHIS determines that there is insufficient evidence to suggest that its initial determination should be changed, APHIS will deny the petition, and notify the petitioner in writing regarding this denial.
(ii) If, after review of the petition, APHIS determines that there is a sufficient basis to suggest that its initial determination should be changed, APHIS will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
that announces the availability of the petition, and that requests public comment regarding removing the plant pest from the list of plant pests that may be imported into or move in interstate commerce within the continental United States without restriction. If no comments are received on the notice, or if the comments received do not affect APHIS' conclusions regarding the petition, APHIS will publish a subsequent notice in the
Federal Register
stating that the plant pest has been removed from the list.
(d)
APHIS-initiated changes to the list.
(1) APHIS may propose to add a plant pest to or remove a pest from the list of plant pests that may be imported into or move in interstate commerce within the continental United States without restriction, if it determines that there is sufficient evidence that the plant pest belongs to one of the categories listed in paragraph (a) of the section, or if evidence emerges that leads APHIS to reconsider its initial determination that the plant pest was or was not in one of the categories listed in paragraph (a) of this section. APHIS will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing this proposed addition or removal, making available any supporting documentation that it prepares, and requesting public comment.
(2) If no comments are received on the notice or if the comments received do not affect the conclusions of the notice, APHIS will publish a subsequent
notice in the
Federal Register
stating that the plant pest has been added to or removed from the list.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget Under Control Number 0579-0187)
§ 330.205
Hand-carry of plant pests, biological control organisms, and soil.
Plant pests, biological control organisms, and soil may be hand-carried into the United States only in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(a)
Authorization to hand-carry
—(1)
Application for a permit; specification of “hand-carry” as proposed method of movement.
A person must apply for an import permit for the plant pest, biological control organism, or soil, in accordance with § 330.201, and specify hand-carry of the organism or article as the method of proposed movement.
(2)
Specification of individual who will hand-carry.
The application must also specify the individual or individuals who will hand-carry the plant pest, biological control organism, or soil into the United States. If APHIS authorizes this individual or these individuals to hand-carry, the authorization may not be transferred to nor actions under it performed by individuals other than those identified on the permit application.
(b)
Notification of intent to hand-carry.
After the permittee has obtained an import permit but no less than 20 days prior to movement, the permittee must provide APHIS through APHIS' online portal for permit applications or by fax with the names of the designated hand carrier, or carriers, assigned to that movement. Additional conditions for hand-carry are available on the APHIS website.
3
3
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/plant_health/permits/organism/downloads/HandCarryPolicy.pdf.
(c)
Denial, amendment, or cancellation of authorization to hand-carry.
APHIS may deny a request to hand-carry, or amend or cancel any hand-carry authorization at any time, if it deems such action necessary to prevent the introduction or dissemination of plant pests or noxious weeds within the United States.
(d)
Appeal of denial, amendment, or cancellation.
Any person whose request to hand-carry has been denied, or whose authorization to hand-carry has been amended or canceled, may appeal the decision in writing to APHIS.
§ 330.206
Packaging requirements.
Shipments in which plant pests, biological control organisms, and associated articles are imported into, moved in interstate commerce, or transited through the United States must meet the general packaging requirements of this section, as well as all specific packaging requirements on the permit itself.
(a)
Packaging requiremspents.
All shipments must consist of an outer shipping container and at least two packages within the container. Both the container and inner packages must be securely sealed to prevent the dissemination of the enclosed plant pests, biological control organisms, or associated articles.
(1)
Outer shipping container.
The outer shipping container must be rigid, impenetrable and durable enough to remain closed and structurally intact in the event of dropping, lateral impact with other objects, and other shocks incidental to handling.
(2)
Inner packages.
The innermost package or packages within the shipping container must contain all of the organisms or articles that will be moved. As a safeguard, the innermost package must be placed within another, larger package. All packages within the shipping container must be constructed or safeguarded so that they will remain sealed and structurally intact throughout transit. The packages must be able to withstand changes in pressure, temperature, and other climatic conditions incidental to shipment.
(b)
Packing material.
Packing materials may be placed in the inner packages or shipping container for such purposes as cushioning, stabilizing, water absorption or retention, nourishment or substrate for regulated articles, etc. Packing material for importation must be free of plant pests, noxious weeds, biological control organisms not listed on the permit or associated articles, and, as such, must be new, or must have been sterilized or
disinfected prior to reuse. Packing material must be suited for the enclosed organism or article, as well as any medium in which the organism or article will be maintained.
(c)
Requirements following receipt of the shipment at the point of destination.
(1) Packing material, including media and substrates, must be destroyed by incineration, be decontaminated using autoclaving or another approved method, or otherwise be disposed of in a manner specified in the permit itself.
(2) Shipping containers may be reused, provided that the container has not been contaminated with plant pests, noxious weeds, biological control organisms, or associated articles. Shipping containers that have been in contact with or otherwise contaminated with any of these items must be sufficiently sterilized or disinfected prior to reuse, or otherwise disposed of.
(d)
Costs.
Permittees who fail to meet the requirements of this section may be held responsible for all costs incident to inspection, rerouting, repackaging, subsequent movement, and any treatments.
§ 330.207
Cost and charges.
The inspection services of APHIS inspectors during regularly assigned hours of duty and at the usual places of duty will be furnished without cost. APHIS will not be responsible for any costs or charges incidental to inspections or compliance with the provisions of this subpart, other than for the inspection services of the inspector.
Subpart C—Movement of Soil, Stone, and Quarry Products [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Garbage

# Source:
71 FR 49314, Aug. 23, 2006, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 84 FR 2429, Feb. 7, 2019.
§ 330.400
Regulation of certain garbage.
(a)
Certain interstate movements and imports
—(1)
Interstate movements of garbage from Hawaii and U.S. territories and possessions to other States.
Hawaii, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau are hereby quarantined, and the movement of garbage therefrom to any other State is hereby prohibited except as provided in this subpart in order to prevent the introduction and spread of exotic plant pests and diseases.
(2)
Imports of garbage.
In order to protect against the introduction of exotic animal and plant pests and diseases, the importation of garbage from all foreign countries except Canada is prohibited except as provided in § 330.401(b).
(b)
Definitions
—
Agricultural waste.
Byproducts generated by the rearing of animals and the production and harvest of crops or trees. Animal waste, a large component of agricultural waste, includes waste (
e.g.
, feed waste, bedding and litter, and feedlot and paddock runoff) from livestock, dairy, and other animal-related agricultural and farming practices.
Approved facility.
A facility approved by the Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, upon his determination that it has equipment and uses procedures that are adequate to prevent the dissemination of plant pests and livestock or poultry diseases, and that it is certified by an appropriate Government official as currently complying with the applicable laws for environmental protection.
Approved sewage system.
A sewage system approved by the Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, upon his determination that the system is designed and operated in such a way as to preclude the discharge of sewage effluents onto land surfaces or into lagoons or other stationary waters, and otherwise is adequate to prevent the dissemination of plant pests and livestock or poultry diseases, and that is certified by an appropriate Government official as currently complying with the applicable laws for environmental protection.
Carrier.
The principal operator of a means of conveyance.
Garbage.
All waste material that is derived in whole or in part from fruits, vegetables, meats, or other plant or
animal (including poultry) material, and other refuse of any character whatsoever that has been associated with any such material.
Incineration.
To reduce garbage to ash by burning.
Interstate.
From one State into or through any other State.
Sterilization.
Cooking garbage at an internal temperature of 212 °F for 30 minutes.
Stores.
The food, supplies, and other provisions carried for the day-to-day operation of a conveyance and the care and feeding of its operators.
Yard waste.
Solid waste composed predominantly of grass clippings, leaves, twigs, branches, and other garden refuse.
§ 330.401
Garbage generated onboard a conveyance.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to garbage generated onboard any means of conveyance during international or interstate movements as provided in this section and includes food scraps, table refuse, galley refuse, food wrappers or packaging materials, and other waste material from stores, food preparation areas, passengers' or crews' quarters, dining rooms, or any other areas on the means of conveyance. This section also applies to meals and other food that were available for consumption by passengers and crew on an aircraft but were not consumed.
(1) Not all garbage generated onboard a means of conveyance is regulated for the purposes of this section. Garbage regulated for the purposes of this section is defined as “regulated garbage” in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(2) Garbage that is commingled with regulated garbage is also regulated garbage.
(b)
Garbage regulated because of movements outside the United States or Canada.
For purposes of this section, garbage on or removed from a means of conveyance is regulated garbage, if, when the garbage is on or removed from the means of conveyance, the means of conveyance has been in any port outside the United States and Canada within the previous 2-year period. There are, however, two exceptions to this provision. These exceptions are as follows:
(1)
Exception 1: Aircraft.
Garbage on or removed from an aircraft is exempt from requirements under paragraph (d) of this section if the following conditions are met when the garbage is on or removed from the aircraft:
(i) The aircraft had previously been cleared of all garbage and of all meats and meat products, whatever the country of origin, except meats that are shelf-stable; all fresh and condensed milk and cream from countries designated in 9 CFR 94.1 as those in which foot-and-mouth disease exists; all fresh fruits and vegetables; and all eggs; and the items previously cleared from the aircraft as prescribed by this paragraph have been disposed of according to the procedures for disposing of regulated garbage, as specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section.
(ii) After the garbage and stores referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section were removed, the aircraft has not been in a non-Canadian foreign port.
(2)
Exception 2: Other conveyances.
Garbage on or removed in the United States from a means of conveyance other than an aircraft is exempt from requirements under paragraph (d) of this section if the following conditions are met when the garbage is on or removed from the means of conveyance:
(i) The means of conveyance is accompanied by a certificate from an inspector stating the following:
(A) That the means of conveyance had previously been cleared of all garbage and of all meats and meat products, whatever the country of origin, except meats that are shelf-stable; all fresh and condensed milk and cream from countries designated in 9 CFR 94.1 as those in which foot-and-mouth disease exists; all fresh fruits and vegetables; and all eggs; and the items previously cleared from the means of conveyance as prescribed by this paragraph have been disposed of according to the procedures for disposing of regulated garbage, as specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section.
(B) That the means of conveyance had then been cleaned and disinfected in the presence of the inspector; and
(ii) Since being cleaned and disinfected, the means of conveyance has not been in a non-Canadian foreign port.
(c)
Garbage regulated because of certain movements to or from Hawaii, territories, or possessions.
For purposes of this section, garbage on or removed from a means of conveyance is regulated garbage, if at the time the garbage is on or removed from the means of conveyance, the means of conveyance has moved during the previous 1-year period, either directly or indirectly, to the continental United States from any territory or possession or from Hawaii, to any territory or possession from any other territory or possession or from Hawaii, or to Hawaii from any territory or possession. There are, however, two exceptions to this provision. These exceptions are as follows:
(1)
Exception 1: Aircraft.
Garbage on or removed from an aircraft is exempt from requirements under paragraph (d) of this section if the following two conditions are met when the garbage is on or removed from the aircraft:
(i) The aircraft had been previously cleared of all garbage and all fresh fruits and vegetables, and the items previously cleared from the aircraft as prescribed by this paragraph have been disposed of according to the procedures for disposing of regulated garbage, as specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section.
(ii) After the garbage and stores referred to in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section were removed, the aircraft has not moved to the continental United States from any territory or possession or from Hawaii; to any territory or possession from any other territory or possession or from Hawaii; or to Hawaii from any territory or possession.
(2)
Exception 2: Other conveyances.
Garbage on or removed from a means of conveyance other than an aircraft is exempt from requirements under paragraph (d) of this section if the following two conditions are met when the garbage is on or removed from the means of conveyance:
(i) The means of conveyance is accompanied by a certificate from an inspector stating that the means of conveyance had been cleared of all garbage and all fresh fruits and vegetables; and the items previously cleared from the means of conveyance as prescribed by this paragraph have been disposed of according to the procedures for disposing of regulated garbage, as specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section.
(ii) After being cleared of the garbage and stores referred to in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the means of conveyance has not moved to the continental United States from any territory or possession or from Hawaii; to any territory or possession from any other territory or possession or from Hawaii; or to Hawaii from any territory or possession.
(d)
Restrictions on regulated garbage.
(1) Regulated garbage may not be disposed of, placed on, or removed from a means of conveyance except in accordance with this section.
(2) Regulated garbage is subject to general surveillance for compliance with this section by inspectors and to disposal measures authorized by the Plant Protection Act and the Animal Health Protection Act to prevent the introduction and dissemination of pests and diseases of plants and livestock.
(3) All regulated garbage must be contained in tight, covered, leak-proof receptacles during storage on board a means of conveyance while in the territorial waters, or while otherwise within the territory of the United States. All such receptacles shall be contained inside the guard rail if on a watercraft. Such regulated garbage shall not be unloaded from such means of conveyance in the United States unless such regulated garbage is removed in tight, covered, leak-proof receptacles under the direction of an inspector to an approved facility for incineration, sterilization, or grinding into an approved sewage system, under direct supervision by such an inspector, or such regulated garbage is removed for other handling in such manner and under such supervision as may, upon request in specific cases, be approved by the Administrator as adequate to prevent the introduction and dissemination of plant pests and animal diseases and sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable laws for environmental protection.
Provided that
, a cruise ship
may dispose of regulated garbage in landfills at Alaskan ports only, if and only if the cruise ship does not have prohibited or restricted meat or animal products on board at the time it enters Alaskan waters for the cruise season, and only if the cruise ship, except for incidental travel through international waters necessary to navigate safely between ports, remains in Canadian and U.S. waters off the west coast of North America, and calls only at continental U.S. and Canadian ports during the entire cruise season.
(i) Application for approval of a facility or sewage system may be made in writing by the authorized representative of any carrier or by the official having jurisdiction over the port or place of arrival of the means of conveyance to the Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. The application must be endorsed by the operator of the facility or sewage system.
(ii) Approval will be granted if the Administrator determines that the requirements set forth in this section are met. Approval may be denied or withdrawn at any time, if the Administrator determines that such requirements are not met, after notice of the proposed denial or withdrawal of the approval and the reasons therefor, and an opportunity to demonstrate or achieve compliance with such requirements, has been afforded to the operator of the facility or sewage system and to the applicant for approval. However, approval may also be withdrawn without such prior procedure in any case in which the public health, interest, or safety requires immediate action, and in such case, the operator of the facility or sewage system and the applicant for approval shall promptly thereafter be given notice of the withdrawal and the reasons therefor and an opportunity to show cause why the approval should be reinstated.
(e) The Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs and Veterinary Services, Animal, and Plant Health Inspection Service, will cooperate with other Federal, State, and local agencies responsible for enforcing other statutes and regulations governing disposal of the regulated garbage to the end that such disposal shall be adequate to prevent the dissemination of plant pests and livestock or poultry diseases and comply with applicable laws for environmental protection. The inspectors, in maintaining surveillance over regulated garbage movements and disposal, shall coordinate their activities with the activities of representatives of the Environmental Protection Agency and other Federal, State, and local agencies also having jurisdiction over such regulated garbage
§ 330.402
Garbage generated in Hawaii.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to garbage generated in households, commercial establishments, institutions, and businesses prior to interstate movement from Hawaii, and includes used paper, discarded cans and bottles, and food scraps. Such garbage includes, and is commonly known as, municipal solid waste.
(1) Industrial process wastes, mining wastes, sewage sludge, incinerator ash, or other wastes from Hawaii that the Administrator determines do not pose risks of introducing animal or plant pests or diseases into the continental United States are not regulated under this section.
(2) The interstate movement from Hawaii to the continental United States of agricultural wastes and yard waste (other than incidental amounts (less than 3 percent) that may be present in municipal solid waste despite reasonable efforts to maintain source separation) is prohibited.
(3) Garbage generated onboard any means of conveyance during interstate movement from Hawaii is regulated under § 330.401.
(b)
Restrictions on interstate movement of garbage.
The interstate movement of garbage generated in Hawaii to the continental United States is regulated as provided in this section.
(1) The garbage must be processed, packaged, safeguarded, and disposed of using a methodology that the Administrator has determined is adequate to prevent the introduction or dissemination of plant pests into noninfested areas of the United States.
(2) The garbage must be moved under a compliance agreement in accordance
with § 330.403. APHIS will only enter into a compliance agreement when the Administrator is satisfied that the Agency has first satisfied all its obligations under the National Environmental Policy Act and all applicable Federal and State statutes to fully assess the impacts associated with the movement of garbage under the compliance agreement.
(3) All such garbage moved interstate from Hawaii to any of the continental United States must be moved in compliance with all applicable laws for environmental protection.
§ 330.403
Compliance agreement and cancellation.
(a) Any person engaged in the business of handling or disposing of garbage in accordance with this subpart must first enter into a compliance agreement with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS). Compliance agreement forms (PPQ Form 519) are available without charge from local USDA/APHIS/Plant Protection and Quarantine offices, which are listed in telephone directories.
(b) A person who enters into a compliance agreement, and employees or agents of that person, must comply with the following conditions and any supplemental conditions which are listed in the compliance agreement, as deemed by the Administrator to be necessary to prevent the dissemination into or within the United States of plant pests and livestock or poultry diseases:
(1) Comply with all applicable provisions of this subpart;
(2) Allow inspectors access to all records maintained by the person regarding handling or disposal of garbage, and to all areas where handling or disposal of garbage occurs;
(3)(i) If the garbage is regulated under § 330.401, remove garbage from a means of conveyance only in tight, covered, leak-proof receptacles;
(ii) If the garbage is regulated under § 330.402, transport garbage interstate in packaging approved by the Administrator;
(4) Move the garbage only to a facility approved by the Administrator; and
(5) At the approved facility, dispose of the garbage in a manner approved by the Administrator and described in the compliance agreement.
(c) Approval for a compliance agreement may be denied at any time if the Administrator determines that the applicant has not met or is unable to meet the requirements set forth in this subpart. Prior to denying any application for a compliance agreement, APHIS will provide notice to the applicant thereof, and will provide the applicant with an opportunity to demonstrate or achieve compliance with requirements.
(d) Any compliance agreement may be canceled, either orally or in writing, by an inspector whenever the inspector finds that the person who has entered into the compliance agreement has failed to comply with this subpart. If the cancellation is oral, the cancellation and the reasons for the cancellation will be confirmed in writing as promptly as circumstances allow. Any person whose compliance agreement has been canceled may appeal the decision, in writing, within 10 days after receiving written notification of the cancellation. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the compliance agreement was wrongfully canceled. As promptly as circumstances allow, the Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision. A hearing will be held to resolve any conflict as to any material fact. Rules of practice concerning a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator. This administrative remedy must be exhausted before a person can file suit in court challenging the cancellation of a compliance agreement.
(e) Where a compliance agreement is denied or canceled, the person who entered into or applied for the compliance agreement may be prohibited, at the discretion of the Administrator, from handling or disposing of regulated garbage.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0015, 0579-0054, and 0579-0292)
Pt. 331

# PART 331—POSSESSION, USE, AND TRANSFER OF SELECT AGENTS AND TOXINS
Sec.
331.1
Definitions.
331.2
Purpose and scope.
331.3
PPQ select agents and toxins.
331.4
[Reserved]
331.5
Exemptions.
331.6
[Reserved]
331.7
Registration and related security risk assessments.
331.8
Denial, revocation, or suspension of registration.
331.9
Responsible official.
331.10
Restricting access to select agents and toxins; security risk assessments.
331.11
Security.
331.12
Biocontainment.
331.13
Restricted experiments.
331.14
Incident response.
331.15
Training.
331.16
Transfers.
331.17
Records.
331.18
Inspections.
331.19
Notification of theft, loss, or release.
331.20
Administrative review.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8401; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.3.

# Source:
70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 331.1
Definitions.
Administrator.
The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Attorney General.
The Attorney General of the United States or any person authorized to act for the Attorney General.
Biological agent.
Any microorganism (including, but not limited to, bacteria, viruses, fungi, or protozoa), or infectious substance, or any naturally occurring, bioengineered, or synthesized component of any such microorganism or infectious substance, capable of causing:
(1) Death, disease, or other biological malfunction in a human, an animal, a plant, or another living organism;
(2) Deterioration of food, water, equipment, supplies, or material of any kind; or
(3) Deleterious alteration of the environment.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
Diagnosis.
The analysis of specimens for the purpose of identifying or confirming the presence or characteristics of a select agent or toxin, provided that such analysis is directly related to protecting the public health or safety, animal health or animal products, or plant health or plant products.
Entity.
Any government agency (Federal, State, or local), academic institution, corporation, company, partnership, society, association, firm, sole proprietorship, or other legal entity.
HHS Secretary.
The Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services or his or her designee, unless otherwise specified.
HHS select agent and/or toxin.
A biological agent or toxin listed in 42 CFR 73.3.
Import.
To move into, or the act of movement into, the territorial limits of the United States.
Information security.
Protecting information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide:
(1)
Integrity,
which means guarding against improper information modification or destruction, and includes ensuring information authenticity;
(2)
Confidentiality,
which means preserving authorized restrictions on access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information; and
(3)
Availability,
which means ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information.
Interstate.
From one State into or through any other State, or within the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
Permit.
A written authorization by the Administrator to import or move interstate select agents or toxins, under conditions prescribed by the Administrator.
PPQ.
The Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
Principal investigator.
The one individual who is designated by the entity to direct a project or program and who is responsible to the entity for the scientific and technical direction of that project or program.
Recombinant nucleic acids.
(1) Molecules that are constructed by joining nucleic acid molecules and that can replicate in a living cell; or
(2) Molecules that result from the replication of those described in paragraph (1) of this definition.
Responsible official.
The individual designated by an entity with the authority and control to ensure compliance with the regulations in this part.
Security barrier.
A physical structure that is designed to prevent entry by unauthorized persons.
Select agent and/or toxin.
A biological agent or toxin listed in § 331.3.
Specimen.
Samples of material from humans, animals, plants, or the environment, or isolates or cultures from such samples, for diagnosis, verification, or proficiency testing.
State.
Any of the several States of the United States, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
Synthetic nucleic acids.
(1) Molecules that are chemically or by other means synthesized or amplified, including those that are chemically or otherwise modified but can base pair with naturally occurring nucleic acid molecules (i.e., synthetic nucleic acids); or
(2) Molecules that result from the replication of those described in paragraph (1) of this definition.
Toxin.
The toxic material or product of plants, animals, microorganisms (including, but not limited to, bacteria, viruses, fungi, or protozoa), or infectious substances, or a recombinant or synthesized molecule, whatever their origin and method of production, and includes:
(1) Any poisonous substance or biological product that may be engineered as a result of biotechnology produced by a living organism; or
(2) Any poisonous isomer or biological product, homolog, or derivative of such a substance.
United States.
All of the States.
USDA.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Validated inactivation procedure.
A procedure, whose efficacy is confirmed by data generated from a viability testing protocol, to render a select agent non-viable but allows the select agent to retain characteristics of interest for future use; or to render any nucleic acids that can produce infectious forms of any select agent virus non-infectious for future use.
Verification.
The demonstration of obtaining established performance (
e.g.
, accuracy, precision, and the analytical sensitivity and specificity) specifications for any procedure used for diagnosis.
Viability testing protocol.
A protocol to confirm the validated inactivation procedure by demonstrating the material is free of all viable select agent.
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 61074, Oct. 5, 2012; 79 FR 26830, May 12, 2014; 82 FR 6204, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 331.2
Purpose and scope.
This part implements the provisions of the Agricultural Bioterrorism Protection Act of 2002 setting forth the requirements for possession, use, and transfer of select agents and toxins. The biological agents and toxins listed in this part have the potential to pose a severe threat to plant health or plant products.
§ 331.3
PPQ select agents and toxins.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, the Administrator has determined that the biological agents and toxins listed in this section have been determined to have the potential to pose a severe threat to plant health or to plant products.
(b) PPQ select agents and toxins:
Coniothyrium glycines,
(formerly
Phoma glycinicola, Pyrenochaeta glycines
);
Peronosclerospora philippinensis
(
Peronosclerospora sacchari
);
Ralstonia solanacearum;
Rathayibacter toxicus;j
Sclerophthora rayssiae;
Synchytrium endobioticum;
Xanthomonas oryzae.
(c) Genetic elements, recombinant and/or synthetic nucleic acids, and recombinant and/or synthetic organisms:
(1) Nucleic acids that can produce infectious forms of any of the select agent viruses listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Recombinant and/or synthetic nucleic acids that encode for the functional forms of any toxin listed in paragraph (b) of this section if the nucleic acids:
(i) Can be expressed
in vivo
or
in vitro
; or
(ii) Are in a vector or recombinant host genome and can be expressed
in vivo
or
in vitro.
(3) Select agents and toxins listed in paragraph (b) of this section that have been genetically modified.
(d) Select agents or toxins that meet any of the following criteria are excluded from the requirements of this part:
(1) Any select agent or toxin that is in its naturally occurring environment, provided that the agent or toxin has not been intentionally introduced, cultivated, collected, or otherwise extracted from its natural source.
(2) Nonviable select agents or nontoxic toxins.
(3) A select agent or toxin that has been subjected to decontamination or a destruction procedure when intended for waste disposal.
(4) A select agent or regulated nucleic acids that can produce infectious forms of any select agent virus that has been subjected to a validated inactivation procedure that is confirmed through a viability testing protocol. Surrogate strains that are known to possess equivalent properties with respect to inactivation can be used to validate an inactivation procedure; however, if there are known strain-to-strain variations in the resistance of a select agent to an inactivation procedure, then an inactivation procedure validated on a lesser resistant strain must also be validated on the more resistant strains.
(5) Material containing a select agent that is subjected to a procedure that removes all viable select agent cells, spores, or virus particles if the material is subjected to a viability testing protocol to ensure that the removal method has rendered the material free of all viable select agent.
(6) A select agent or regulated nucleic acids that can produce infectious forms of any select agent virus not subjected to a validated inactivation procedure or material containing a select agent not subjected to a procedure that removes all viable select agent cells, spores, or virus particles if the material is determined by the Administrator to be effectively inactivated or effectively removed. To apply for a determination an individual or entity must submit a written request and supporting scientific information to APHIS. A written decision granting or denying the request will be issued.
(7) A PPQ select toxin identified in an original food sample or clinical sample.
(8) Waste generated during the delivery of patient care by health care professionals from a patient diagnosed with an illness or condition associated with a select agent, where that waste is decontaminated or transferred for destruction by complying with State and Federal regulations within 7 calendar days of the conclusion of patient care.
(9) Any subspecies of
Ralstonia solanacearum
except race 3, biovar 2 and all subspecies of
Sclerophthora rayssiae
except var.
zeae,
provided that the individual or entity can identify that the agent is within the exclusion category.
(e) An attenuated strain of a select agent or a select toxin modified to be less potent or toxic may be excluded from the requirements of this part based upon a determination by the Administrator that the attenuated strain or modified toxin does not pose a severe threat to plant health or plant products.
(1) To apply for exclusion, an individual or entity must submit a written request and supporting scientific information. A written decision granting or denying the request will be issued. An exclusion will be effective upon notification to the applicant. Exclusions will be listed on the National Select Agent Registry Web site at
http://www.selectagents.gov/.
(2) If an excluded attenuated strain or modified toxin is subjected to any manipulation that restores or enhances its virulence or toxic activity, the resulting select agent or toxin will be subject to the requirements of this part.
(3) An individual or entity may make a written request to the Administrator for reconsideration of a decision denying an application for the exclusion of an attenuated strain of a select agent or a select toxin modified to be less potent or toxic. The written request for reconsideration must state the facts and reasoning upon which the individual or entity relies to show the decision was incorrect. The Administrator will grant or deny the request for reconsideration as promptly as circumstances allow and will state, in writing, the reasons for the decision.
(f) Any select agent or toxin seized by a Federal law enforcement agency will be excluded from the requirements of this part during the period between seizure of the agent or toxin and the transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin provided that:
(1) As soon as practicable, the Federal law enforcement agency transfers the seized agent or toxin to an entity eligible to receive such agent or toxin or destroys the agent or toxin by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process.
(2) The Federal law enforcement agency safeguards and secures the seized agent or toxin against theft, loss, or release, and reports any theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin.
(3) The Federal law enforcement agency reports the seizure of the select agent or toxin to APHIS or CDC. The seizure must be reported within 24 hours by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail. This report must be followed by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 within 7 calendar days after seizure of the select agent or toxin. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for 3 years.
(4) The Federal law enforcement agency reports the final disposition of the select agent or toxin to APHIS or CDC by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for 3 years.
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 61331, Oct. 16, 2008; 77 FR 61075, Oct. 5, 2012; 79 FR 26830, May 12, 2014; 82 FR 6204, Jan. 19. 2017; 83 FR 48201, Sept. 24, 2018]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 101845, Dec. 17, 2024, § 331.3 was amended by revising paragraph (b), effective Jan. 16, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 331.3
PPQ select agents and toxins.
(b) PPQ select agents and toxins are:
(1)
Coniothyrium glycines,
(formerly
Phoma glycinicola, Pyrenochaeta glycines
);
(2)
Ralstonia solanacearum;
(3)
Rathayibacter toxicus;
(4)
Sclerophthora rayssiae;
(5)
Synchytrium endobioticum;
and
(6)
Xanthomonas oryzae.
§ 331.4
[Reserved]
§ 331.5
Exemptions.
(a) Diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer a select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for diagnosis or verification will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:
(1) Unless directed otherwise by the Administrator, within 7 calendar days after identification of the select agent or toxin, the select agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with § 331.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process.
(2) The agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and any theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported.
(3) The identification of the agent or toxin is reported to APHIS or CDC, the specimen provider, and to other appropriate authorities when required by Federal, State, or local law by telephone, facsimile, or email. This report must be followed by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 to APHIS or CDC within 7 calendar days after identification.
(b) In addition to the exemption provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator may grant a specific exemption upon a showing of good cause and upon his or her determination that such exemption is consistent with protecting plant health or plant products. An individual or entity may request in writing an exemption from the requirements of this part. If granted, such exemptions are valid for a maximum of 3 years; thereafter, an individual or entity must request a new exemption. If a request for exemption is denied, an individual or entity may request reconsideration in writing to the Administrator. The request for reconsideration must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the individual or entity relies to show that the exemption was wrongfully denied. The Administrator will grant or deny the request for reconsideration as promptly as circumstances allow and will state, in writing, the reasons for the decision.
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 82 FR 6204, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 331.6
[Reserved]
§ 331.7
Registration and related security risk assessments.
(a) Unless exempted under § 331.5, an individual or entity shall not possess, use, or transfer any select agent or toxin without a certificate of registration issued by the Administrator.
(b) As a condition of registration, each entity is required to be in compliance with the requirements of this part for select agents and toxins listed on the registration regardless of whether the entity is in actual possession of the select agent or toxin. With regard to toxins, the entity registered for possession, use, or transfer of a toxin must be in compliance with the requirements of this part regardless of the amount of toxins currently in its possession.
(c) As a condition of registration, each entity must designate an individual to be its responsible official. While most registrants are likely to be entities, in the event that an individual applies for and is granted a certificate of registration, the individual will be considered the responsible official.
(d)(1) As a condition of registration, the following must be approved by the Administrator or the HHS Secretary based on a security risk assessment by the Attorney General:
(i) The individual or entity;
(ii) The responsible official; and
(iii) Unless otherwise exempted under this section, any individual who owns or controls the entity.
(2) Federal, State, or local governmental agencies, including public accredited academic institutions, are exempt from the security risk assessments for the entity and the individual who owns or controls such entity.
(3) An individual will be deemed to own or control an entity under the following conditions:
1
1
These conditions may apply to more than one individual.
(i) For a private institution of higher education, an individual will be deemed to own or control the entity if the individual is in a managerial or executive capacity with regard to the entity's select agents or toxins or with regard to the individuals with access to the select agents or toxins possessed, used, or transferred by the entity.
(ii) For entities other than institutions of higher education, an individual will be deemed to own or control the entity if the individual:
(A) Owns 50 percent or more of the entity, or is a holder or owner of 50 percent or more of its voting stock; or
(B) Is in a managerial or executive capacity with regard to the entity's select agents or toxins or with regard to the individuals with access to the select agents or toxins possessed, used, or transferred by the entity.
(4) An entity will be considered to be an institution of higher education if it is an institution of higher education as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)), or is an organization described in 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)).
(5) To obtain a security risk assessment, an individual or entity must submit the information necessary to conduct a security risk assessment to the Attorney General.
(e) To apply for a certificate of registration for only PPQ select agents or toxins, or for PPQ and VS select agents or toxins, an individual or entity must submit the information requested in the registration application package (APHIS/CDC Form 1) to APHIS. To apply for a certificate of registration for overlap select agents or toxins, overlap select agents or toxins and any combination of PPQ or VS select agents or toxins, or HHS select agents or toxins and any combination of PPQ or VS select agents or toxins, an individual or entity must submit the information requested in the registration application package (APHIS/CDC Form 1) to APHIS or CDC, but not both.
(f) Prior to the issuance of a certificate of registration, the responsible official must promptly provide notification of any changes to the application for registration by submitting the relevant page(s) of the registration application.
(g) The issuance of a certificate of registration may be contingent upon inspection or submission of additional information, such as the security plan, biosafety plan, incident response plan, or any other documents required to be prepared under this part.
(h) A certificate of registration will be valid for one physical location (a room, a building, or a group of buildings) where the responsible official will be able to perform the responsibilities required in this part, for specific select agents or toxins, and for specific activities.
(i) A certificate of registration may be amended to reflect changes in circumstances (
e.g.
, replacement of the responsible official or other personnel changes, changes in ownership or control of the entity, changes in the activities involving any select agents or toxins, or the addition or removal of select agents or toxins).
(1) Prior to any change, the responsible official must apply for an amendment to a certificate of registration by submitting the relevant page(s) of the registration application.
2
2
Depending on the change, a security risk assessment by the Attorney General may also be required (
e.g.
, replacement of the responsible official, changes in ownership or control of the entity, new researchers or graduate students, etc.).
(2) The responsible official will be notified in writing if an application to amend a certificate of registration has been approved. Approval of an amendment may be contingent upon an inspection or submission of additional information, such as the security plan, biosafety plan, incident response plan, or any other documents required to be prepared under this part.
(3) No change may be made without such approval.
(j) An entity must immediately notify APHIS or CDC if it loses the services of its responsible official. In the event that an entity loses the services of its responsible official, an entity may continue to possess or use select agents or toxins only if it appoints as the responsible official another individual who has been approved by the Administrator or the HHS Secretary following a security risk assessment by the Attorney General and who meets the requirements of this part.
(k) A certificate of registration will be terminated upon the written request of the entity if the entity no longer possesses or uses any select agents or toxins and no longer wishes to be registered.
(l) A certificate of registration will be valid for a maximum of 3 years.
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 82 FR 6205, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 331.8
Denial, revocation, or suspension of registration.
(a) An application may be denied or a certificate of registration revoked or suspended if:
(1) The individual or entity, the responsible official, or an individual who owns or controls the entity is within any of the categories described in 18 U.S.C. 175b;
(2) The individual or entity, the responsible official, or an individual who owns or controls the entity is reasonably suspected by any Federal law enforcement or intelligence agency of:
(i) Committing a crime set forth in 18 U.S.C. 2332b(g)(5); or
(ii) Knowing involvement with an organization that engages in domestic or international terrorism (as defined in
18 U.S.C. 2331) or with any other organization that engages in intentional crimes of violence; or
(iii) Being an agent of a foreign power as defined in 50 U.S.C. 1801;
(3) The individual or entity does not meet the requirements of this part;
3
or
3
If registration is denied for this reason, we may provide technical assistance and guidance.
(4) It is determined that such action is necessary to protect plant health or plant products.
(b) Upon revocation or suspension of a certificate of registration, the individual or entity must:
(1) Immediately stop all use of each select agent or toxin covered by the revocation or suspension order;
(2) Immediately safeguard and secure each select agent or toxin covered by the revocation or suspension order from theft, loss, or release; and
(3) Comply with all disposition instructions issued by the Administrator for each select agent or toxin covered by the revocation or suspension.
(c) Denial of an application for registration and revocation or suspension of registration may be appealed under § 331.20. However, any denial of an application for registration or revocation or suspension of a certificate of registration will remain in effect until a final agency decision has been rendered.
§ 331.9
Responsible official.
(a) An individual or entity required to register under this part must designate an individual to be the responsible official. The responsible official must:
(1) Be approved by the Administrator or the HHS Secretary following a security risk assessment by the Attorney General.
(2) Be familiar with the requirements of this part.
(3) Have authority and responsibility to act on behalf of the entity.
(4) Ensure compliance with the requirements of this part.
(5) Have a physical (and not merely a telephonic or audio/visual) presence at the registered entity to ensure that the entity is in compliance with the select agent regulations and be able to respond in a timely manner to onsite incidents involving select agents and toxins in accordance with the entity's incident response plan.
(6) Ensure that annual inspections are conducted of each registered space where select agents or toxins are stored or used in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part. The results of each inspection must be documented, and any deficiencies identified during an inspection must be corrected and the corrections documented.
(7) Ensure that individuals are provided the contact information for the USDA Office of Inspector General Hotline and the HHS Office of Inspector General Hotline so that they may anonymously report any biosafety/biocontainment or security concerns related to select agents and toxins.
(8) Investigate to determine the reason for any failure of a validated inactivation procedure or any failure to remove viable select agent from material. If the responsible official is unable to determine the cause of a deviation from a validated inactivation procedure or a viable select agent removal method; or receives any report of any inactivation failure after the movement of material to another location, the responsible official must report immediately by telephone or email the inactivation or viable agent removal method failure to APHIS or CDC.
(9) Review, and revise as necessary, each of the entity's validated inactivation procedures or viable select agent removal methods. The review must be conducted annually or after any change in principal investigator, change in the validated inactivation procedure or viable select agent removal method, or failure of the validated inactivation procedure or viable select agent removal method. The review must be documented and training must be conducted if there are any changes to the validated inactivation procedure, viable select agent removal method, or viability testing protocol.
(b) An entity may designate one or more individuals to serve as an alternate responsible official who acts for the responsible official in his/her absence. These individuals must have the
authority and control to ensure compliance with the regulations when acting as the responsible official.
(c) The responsible official must report the identification and final disposition of any select agent or toxin contained in a specimen for diagnosis or verification.
(1) The identification of the select agent or toxin must be immediately reported by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail. The final disposition of the agent or toxin must be reported by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 within 7 calendar days after identification. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for 3 years.
(2) Less stringent reporting may be required during agricultural emergencies or outbreaks, or in endemic areas.
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 61075, Oct. 5, 2012; 82 FR 6205, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 331.10
Restricting access to select agents and toxins; security risk assessments.
(a) An individual or entity required to register under this part may not provide an individual access to a select agent or toxin, and an individual may not access a select agent or toxin, unless the individual is approved by the Administrator or the HHS Secretary following a security risk assessment by the Attorney General.
(b) An individual will be deemed to have access at any point in time if the individual has possession of a select agent or toxin (
e.g.
, carries, uses, or manipulates) or the ability to gain possession of a select agent or toxin.
(c) Each individual with access to select agents or toxins must have the appropriate education, training, and/or experience to handle or use such agents or toxins.
(d) To apply for access approval, each individual must submit the information necessary to conduct a security risk assessment to the Attorney General.
(e) A person with valid approval from the HHS Secretary or Administrator to have access to select agents or toxins may request, through his or her Responsible Official, that the HHS Secretary or Administrator provide their approved access status to another registered individual or entity for a specified period of time. A responsible official must immediately notify the responsible official of the visiting entity if the person's access to select agents or toxins has been terminated.
(f) An individual's security risk assessment may be expedited upon written request by the responsible official and a showing of good cause (
e.g.
, agricultural emergencies, national security, or a short-term visit by a prominent researcher). A written decision granting or denying the request will be issued.
(g) An individual's access approval may be denied, limited, or revoked if:
(1) The individual is within any of the categories described in 18 U.S.C. 175b;
(2) The individual is reasonably suspected by any Federal law enforcement or intelligence agency of committing a crime set forth in 18 U.S.C. 2332b(g)(5); knowing involvement with an organization that engages in domestic or international terrorism (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2331) or with any other organization that engages in intentional crimes of violence; or being an agent of a foreign power as defined in 50 U.S.C. 1801; or
(3) It is determined that such action is necessary to protect plant health or plant products.
(h) An individual may appeal the Administrator's decision to deny, limit, or revoke access approval under § 331.20.
(i) Access approval is valid for a maximum of 3 years.
(j) The responsible official must immediately notify APHIS or CDC when an individual's access to select agents or toxins is terminated by the entity and the reasons therefore.
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 61075, Oct. 5, 2012; 82 FR 6205, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 331.11
Security.
(a) An individual or entity required to register under this part must develop and implement a written security plan. The security plan must be sufficient to safeguard the select agent or toxin against unauthorized access, theft, loss, or release.
(b) The security plan must be designed according to a site-specific risk assessment and must provide graded protection in accordance with the risk of the select agent or toxin, given its intended use. A current security plan must be submitted for initial registration, renewal of registration, or when requested.
(c) The security plan must:
(1) Describe procedures for physical security, inventory control, and information systems control;
(2) Contain provisions for the control of access to select agents and toxins, including the safeguarding of animals (including arthropods) or plants intentionally or accidentally exposed to or infected with a select agent, against unauthorized access, theft, loss or release.
(3) Contain provisions for routine cleaning, maintenance, and repairs;
(4) Establish procedures for removing unauthorized or suspicious persons;
(5) Describe procedures for addressing loss or compromise of keys, keycards, passwords, combinations, etc. and protocols for changing access permissions or locks following staff changes;
(6) Contain procedures for reporting unauthorized or suspicious persons or activities, loss or theft of select agents or toxins, release of select agents or toxins, or alteration of inventory records;
(7) Contain provisions for ensuring that all individuals with access approval from the Administrator or the HHS Secretary understand and comply with the security procedures;
(8) Describe procedures for how the Responsible Official will be informed of suspicious activity that may be criminal in nature and related to the entity, its personnel, or its select agents or toxins; and describe procedures for how the entity will notify the appropriate Federal, State, or local law enforcement agencies of such activity.
(9) Contain provisions for information security that:
(i) Ensure that all external connections to systems which manage security for the registered space are isolated or have controls that permit only authorized and authenticated users;
(ii) Ensure that authorized and authenticated users are only granted access to select agent and toxin related information, files, equipment (e.g., servers or mass storage devices), and applications as necessary to fulfill their roles and responsibilities, and that access is modified when the user's roles and responsibilities change or when their access to select agents and toxins is suspended or revoked;
(iii) Ensure that controls are in place that are designed to prevent malicious code (such as, but not limited to, computer viruses, worms, spyware) from compromising the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information systems which manage access to spaces registered under this part or records as specified in § 331.17;
(iv) Establish a robust configuration management practice for information systems to include regular patching and updates made to operating systems and individual applications; and
(v) Establish procedures that provide backup security measures in the event that access control systems, surveillance devices, and/or systems that manage the requirements of § 331.17 are rendered inoperable.
(10) Contain provisions and policies for shipping, receiving, and storage of select agents and toxins, including documented procedures for receiving, monitoring, and shipping of all select agents and toxins. These provisions must provide that an entity will properly secure containers on site and have a written contingency plan for unexpected shipments.
(d) An individual or entity must adhere to the following security requirements or implement measures to achieve an equivalent or greater level of security:
(1) Allow access only to individuals with access approval from the Administrator or the HHS Secretary;
(2) Allow individuals not approved for access by the Administrator or the HHS Secretary to conduct routine cleaning, maintenance, repairs, and other activities not related to select agents or toxins only when continuously escorted by an approved individual if the potential to access to select agents or toxins exists;
(3) Provide for the control of select agents and toxins by requiring freezers,
refrigerators, cabinets, and other containers where select agents or toxins are stored to be secured against unauthorized access (
e.g.
, card access system, lock boxes);
(4) Inspect all suspicious packages before they are brought into or removed from an area where select agents or toxins are used or stored;
(5) Establish a protocol for intra-entity transfers under the supervision of an individual with access approval from the Administrator or the HHS Secretary, including chain-of-custody documents and provisions for safeguarding against theft, loss, or release; and
(6) Require that individuals with access approval from the Administrator or the HHS Secretary refrain from sharing with any other person their unique means of accessing a select agent or toxin (
e.g.
, keycards or passwords);
(7) Require that individuals with access approval from the Administrator or the HHS Secretary immediately report any of the following to the responsible official:
(i) Any loss or compromise of keys, passwords, combinations, etc.;
(ii) Any suspicious persons or activities;
(iii) Any loss or theft of select agents or toxins;
(iv) Any release of a select agent or toxin;
(v) Any sign that inventory or use records for select agents or toxins have been altered or otherwise compromised; and
(vi) Any loss of computer, hard drive or other data storage device containing information that can be used to gain access to select agents or toxins; and
(8) Separate areas where select agents and toxins are stored or used from the public areas of the building.
(e) Entities must conduct complete inventory audits of all affected select agents and toxins in long-term storage when any of the following occur:
(1) Upon the physical relocation of a collection or inventory of select agents or toxins for those select agents or toxins in the collection or inventory;
(2) Upon the departure or arrival of a principal investigator for those select agents and toxins under the control of that principal investigator; or
(3) In the event of a theft or loss of a select agent or toxin, all select agents and toxins under the control of that principal investigator.
(f) [Reserved]
(g) In developing a security plan, an individual or entity should consider the document entitled, “ Security Plan Guidance.” This document is available on the National Select Agent Registry at
http://www.selectagents.gov/.
(h) The plan must be reviewed annually and revised as necessary. Drills or exercises must be conducted at least annually to test and evaluate the effectiveness of the plan. The plan must be reviewed and revised, as necessary, after any drill or exercise and after any incident. Drills or exercises must be documented to include how the drill or exercise tested and evaluated the plan, any problems that were identified and corrective action(s) taken, and the names of registered entity personnel participants.
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 61075, Oct. 5, 2012; 79 FR 26830, May 12, 2014; 82 FR 6205, Jan. 19, 2017; 83 FR 48202, Sept. 24, 2018]
§ 331.12
Biocontainment.
(a) An individual or entity required to register under this part must develop and implement a written biocontainment plan that is commensurate with the risk of the select agent or toxin, given its intended use.
4
The biocontainment plan must contain sufficient information and documentation to describe the biocontainment procedures for the select agent or toxin, including any animals (including arthropods) or plants intentionally or accidentally exposed to or infected with a select agent. The current biocontainment plan must be submitted for initial registration, renewal of registration, or when requested. The biocontainment plan must include the following provisions:
4
Technical assistance and guidance may be obtained by contacting APHIS.
(1) The hazardous characteristics of each agent or toxin listed on the entity's registration and the biocontainment risk associated with laboratory
procedures related to the select agent or toxin;
(2) Safeguards in place with associated work practices to protect entity personnel, the public, and the environment from exposure to the select agent or toxin including, but not limited to: Personal protective equipment and other safety equipment; containment equipment including, but not limited to, biological safety cabinets, animal caging systems, and centrifuge safety containers; and engineering controls and other facility safeguards;
(3) Written procedures for each validated method used for disinfection, decontamination, or destruction, as appropriate, of all contaminated or presumptively contaminated materials including, but not limited to: Cultures and other materials related to the propagation of select agents or toxins, items related to the analysis of select agents and toxins, personal protective equipment, arthropod containment systems, extracted plant and/or arthropod tissues, laboratory surfaces and equipment, and effluent material; and
(4) Procedures for the handling of select agents and toxins in the same spaces with non-select agents and toxins to prevent unintentional contamination.
(b) The biocontainment procedures must be sufficient to contain the select agent or toxin (
e.g.
, physical structure and features of the entity, and operational and procedural safeguards).
(c) In developing a biocontainment plan, an individual or entity should consider the following:
(1) “Containment Facilities and Safeguards for Exotic Plant Pathogens and Pests” (Robert P. Kahn and S.B. Mathur eds., 1999); and
(2) “A Practical Guide to Containment: Greenhouse Research with Transgenic Plants and Microbes” (Patricia L. Traynor ed., 2001).
(d) [Reserved]
(e) The plan must be reviewed annually and revised as necessary. Drills or exercises must be conducted at least annually to test and evaluate the effectiveness of the plan. The plan must be reviewed and revised, as necessary, after any drill or exercise and after any incident. Drills or exercises must be documented to include how the drill or exercise tested and evaluated the plan, any problems that were identified and corrective action(s) taken, and the names of registered entity personnel participants.
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 61076, Oct. 5, 2012; 79 FR 26830, May 12, 2014; 82 FR 6205, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 331.13
Restricted experiments.
(a) An individual or entity may not conduct or possess products resulting from the following experiments unless approved by and conducted in accordance with the conditions prescribed by the Administrator:
(1) Experiments that involve the deliberate transfer of, or selection for, a drug or chemical resistance trait to select agents that are not known to acquire the trait naturally, if such acquisition could compromise the control of disease agents in humans, veterinary medicine, or agriculture.
(2) Experiments involving the deliberate formation of synthetic or recombinant nucleic acids containing genes for the biosynthesis of select toxins lethal for vertebrates at an LD[50]
100 ng/kg body weight.
(b) The Administrator may revoke approval to conduct any of the experiments in paragraph (a) of this section, or revoke or suspend a certificate of registration, if the individual or entity fails to comply with the requirements of this part.
(c) To apply for approval to conduct any of the experiments in paragraph (a) of this section, an individual or entity must submit a written request and supporting scientific information to the Administrator. A written decision granting or denying the request will be issued.
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 61076, Oct. 5, 2012; 79 FR 26830, May 12, 2014]
§ 331.14
Incident response.
5
5
Nothing in this section is meant to supersede or preempt incident response requirements imposed by other statutes or regulations.
(a) An individual or entity required to register under this part must develop and implement a written incident response plan
6
based upon a site specific risk assessment. The incident response plan must be coordinated with any entity-wide plans, kept in the workplace, and available to employees for review. The current incident response plan must be submitted for initial registration, renewal of registration, or when requested.
6
Technical assistance and guidance may be obtained by contacting APHIS.
(b) The incident response plan must fully describe the entity's response procedures for the theft, loss, or release of a select agent or toxin; inventory discrepancies; security breaches (including information systems); severe weather and other natural disasters; workplace violence; bomb threats and suspicious packages; and emergencies such as fire, gas leak, explosion, power outage, and other natural and man-made events.
(c) The response procedures must account for hazards associated with the select agent or toxin and appropriate actions to contain such select agent or toxin, including any animals (including arthropods) or plants intentionally or accidentally exposed to or infected with a select agent.
(d) The incident response plan must also contain the following information:
(1) The name and contact information (
e.g.
, home and work) for the individual or entity (
e.g.
, responsible official, alternate responsible official(s), biosafety officer, etc.);
(2) The name and contact information for the building owner and/or manager, where applicable;
(3) The name and contact information for tenant offices, where applicable;
(4) The name and contact information for the physical security official for the building, where applicable;
(5) Personnel roles and lines of authority and communication;
(6) Planning and coordination with local emergency responders;
(7) Procedures to be followed by employees performing rescue or medical duties;
(8) Emergency medical treatment and first aid;
(9) A list of personal protective and emergency equipment, and their locations;
(10) Site security and control;
(11) Procedures for emergency evacuation, including type of evacuation, exit route assignments, safe distances, and places of refuge; and
(12) Decontamination procedures.
(e) [Reserved]
(f) The plan must be reviewed annually and revised as necessary. Drills or exercises must be conducted at least annually to test and evaluate the effectiveness of the plan. The plan must be reviewed and revised, as necessary, after any drill or exercise and after any incident. Drills or exercises must be documented to include how the drill or exercise tested and evaluated the plan, any problems that were identified and corrective action(s) taken, and the names of registered entity personnel participants.
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 61076, Oct. 5, 2012; 82 FR 6206, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 331.15
Training.
(a) An individual or entity required to register under this part must provide information and training on biocontainment, biosafety, security (including security awareness), and incident response to:
(1) Each individual with access approval from the Administrator or HHS Secretary. The training must address the particular needs of the individual, the work they will do, and the risks posed by the select agents or toxins. The training must be accomplished prior to the individual's entry into an area where a select agent is handled or stored, or within 12 months of the date the individual was approved by the Administrator or the HHS Secretary for access, whichever is earlier.
(2) Each individual not approved for access to select agents and toxins by the Administrator or HHS Secretary before that individual enters areas
under escort where select agents or toxins are handled or stored (
e.g.,
laboratories, growth chambers, animal rooms, greenhouses, storage areas, shipping/receiving areas, production facilities, etc.). Training for escorted personnel must be based on the risk associated with accessing areas where select agents and toxins are used and/or stored. The training must be accomplished prior to the individual's entry into where select agents or toxins are handled or stored (
e.g.,
laboratories, growth chambers, animal rooms, greenhouses, storage areas, shipping/receiving areas, production facilities, etc.).
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Refresher training must be provided annually for individuals with access approval from the HHS Secretary or Administrator or at such time as the registered individual or entity significantly amends its security, incident response, or biocontainment plans.
(d) The responsible official must ensure a record of the training provided to each individual with access to select agents and toxins and each escorted individual (e.g., laboratory workers, visitors, etc.) is maintained. The record must include the name of the individual, the date of the training, a description of the training provided, and the means used to verify that the employee understood the training.
(e) The responsible official must ensure and document that individuals are provided the contact information of the USDA Office of Inspector General Hotline and the HHS Office of Inspector General Hotline so that they may anonymously report any safety or security concerns related to select agents and toxins.
[77 FR 61076, Oct. 5, 2012, as amended at 82 FR 6206, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 331.16
Transfers.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a select agent or toxin may only be transferred to an individual or entity registered to possess, use, or transfer that agent or toxin. A select agent or toxin may only be transferred under the conditions of this section and must be authorized by APHIS or CDC prior to the transfer.
7
7
The requirements of this section do not apply to transfers within a registered entity (
i.e.
, the sender and the recipient are covered by the same certificate of registration).
(b) A transfer may be authorized if:
(1) The sender:
(i) Has at the time of transfer a certificate of registration that covers the particular select agent or toxin to be transferred and meets all the requirements of this part;
(ii) Meets the exemption requirements for the particular select agent or toxin to be transferred; or
(iii) Is transferring the select agent or toxin from outside of the United States and meets all import requirements.
(2) At the time of transfer, the recipient has a certificate of registration that includes the particular select agent or toxin to be transferred and meets all of the requirements of this part.
(c) On a case-by-case basis, the Administrator may authorize a transfer of a select agent or toxin not otherwise eligible for transfer under this part under conditions prescribed by the Administrator.
(d) To obtain authorization for a transfer, APHIS/CDC Form 2 must be submitted.
(e) After authorization is provided by APHIS or CDC, the packaging of the select agent(s) and toxin(s) is performed by an individual approved by the HHS Secretary or Administrator to have access to select agents and toxins and is in compliance with all applicable laws concerning packaging.
(f) The sender must comply with all applicable laws governing shipping.
(g) Transportation in commerce starts when the select agent(s) or toxin(s) are packaged for shipment and ready for receipt by a courier transporting select agent(s) or toxin(s) and ends when the package is received by the intended recipient who is an individual approved by the HHS Secretary or Administrator to have access to select agents and toxins, following a security risk assessment by the Attorney General.
(h) The recipient must submit a completed APHIS/CDC Form 2 within 2
business days of receipt of a select agent or toxin.
(i) The recipient must immediately notify APHIS or CDC if the select agent or toxin has not been received within 48 hours after the expected delivery time or if the package containing the select agent or toxin has been damaged to the extent that a release of the select agent or toxin may have occurred.
(j) An authorization for a transfer shall be valid only for 30 calendar days after issuance, except that such an authorization becomes immediately null and void if any facts supporting the authorization change (
e.g.
, change in the certificate of registration for the sender or recipient, change in the application for transfer).
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 61077, Oct. 5, 2012; 82 FR 6206, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 331.17
Records.
(a) An individual or entity required to register under this part must maintain complete records relating to the activities covered by this part. Such records must include:
(1) An accurate, current inventory for each select agent (including viral genetic elements, recombinant and/or synthetic nucleic acids, and organisms containing recombinant and/or synthetic nucleic acids) held in long-term storage (placement in a system designed to ensure viability for future use, such as in a freezer or lyophilized materials), including:
(i) The name and characteristics (
e.g.
, strain designation, GenBank Accession number, etc.);
(ii) The quantity acquired from another individual or entity (
e.g.
, containers, vials, tubes, etc.), date of acquisition, and the source;
(iii) Where stored (
e.g.
, building, room, and freezer or other storage container);
(iv) When moved from storage and by whom and when returned to storage and by whom;
(v) The select agent used, purpose of use, and, when applicable, final disposition;
(vi) Records created under § 331.16 (Transfers);
(vii) For intra-entity transfers (sender and the recipient are covered by the same certificate of registration), the select agent, the quantity transferred, the date of transfer, the sender, and the recipient; and
(viii) Records created under § 331.19 (Notification of theft, loss, or release);
(2) An accurate, current accounting of any animals or plants intentionally or accidentally exposed to or infected with a select agent (including number and species, location, and appropriate disposition);
(3) An accurate, current inventory for each toxin held, including:
(i) The name and characteristics;
(ii) The quantity acquired from another individual or entity (
e.g.
, containers, vials, tubes, etc.), date of acquisition, and the source;
(iii) The initial and current quantity amount (
e.g.
, milligrams, milliliters, grams, etc.);
(iv) The toxin used and purpose of use, quantity, date(s) of the use and by whom;
(v) Where stored (
e.g.
, building, room, and freezer or other storage container);
(vi) When moved from storage and by whom and when returned to storage and by whom, including quantity amount;
(vii) Records created under § 331.16 (Transfers);
(viii) For intra-entity transfers (sender and the recipient are covered by the same certificate of registration), the toxin, the quantity transferred, the date of transfer, the sender, and the recipient;
(ix) Records created under § 331.19 (Notification of theft, loss, or release);
(x) If destroyed, the quantity of toxin destroyed, the date of such action, and by whom.
(4) A current list of all individuals that have been granted access approval by the Administrator or the HHS Secretary;
(5) Information about all entries into areas containing select agents or toxins, including the name of the individual, name of the escort (if applicable), and the date and time of entry;
(6) Accurate, current records created under § 331.9(c) (Responsible official),
§ 331.11 (Security), § 331.12 (Biocontainment), § 331.14 (Incident response), and § 331.15 (Training);
(7) A written explanation of any discrepancies; and
(8) For select agents or material containing select agents or regulated nucleic acids that can produce infectious forms of any select agent virus that have been subjected to a validated inactivation procedure or a procedure for removal of viable select agent:
(i) A written description of the validated inactivation procedure or viable select agent removal method used, including validation data;
(ii) A written description of the viability testing protocol used;
(iii) A written description of the investigation conducted by the entity responsible official involving an inactivation or viable select agent removal failure and the corrective actions taken;
(iv) The name of each individual performing the validated inactivation or viable select agent removal method;
(v) The date(s) the validated inactivation or viable select agent removal method was completed;
(vi) The location where the validated inactivation or viable select agent removal method was performed; and
(vii) A certificate, signed by the principal investigator, that includes the date of inactivation or viable select agent removal, the validated inactivation or viable select agent removal method used, and the name of the principal investigator. A copy of the certificate must accompany any transfer of inactivated or select agent removed material.
(b) The individual or entity must implement a system to ensure that all records and databases created under this part are accurate and legible, have controlled access, and that their authenticity may be verified.
(c) The individual or entity must promptly produce upon request any information that is related to the requirements of this part but is not otherwise contained in a record required to be kept by this section. The location of such information may include, but is not limited to, biocontainment certifications, laboratory notebooks, institutional biosafety and/or animal use committee minutes and approved protocols, and records associated with occupational health and suitability programs. All records created under this part must be maintained for 3 years.
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 61077, Oct. 5, 2012; 82 FR 6206, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 331.18
Inspections.
(a) Without prior notification, APHIS must be allowed to inspect any site at which activities regulated under this part are conducted and must be allowed to inspect and copy any records relating to the activities covered by this part.
(b) Prior to issuing a certificate of registration to an individual or entity, APHIS may inspect and evaluate their premises and records to ensure compliance with this part.
§ 331.19
Notification of theft, loss, or release.
(a) An individual or entity must immediately notify APHIS or CDC upon discovery of the theft or loss of a select agent or toxin. Thefts or losses must be reported even if the select agent or toxin is subsequently recovered or the responsible parties are identified.
(1) The theft or loss of a select agent or toxin must be reported by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail. The following information must be provided:
(i) The name of the select agent or toxin and any identifying information (
e.g.
, strain or other characterization information);
(ii) An estimate of the quantity stolen or lost;
(iii) An estimate of the time during which the theft or loss occurred;
(iv) The location (building, room) from which the theft or loss occurred; and
(v) The list of Federal, State, or local law enforcement agencies to which the individual or entity reported, or intends to report, the theft or loss.
(2) A completed APHIS/CDC Form 3 must be submitted within 7 calendar days.
(b) An individual or entity must notify APHIS or CDC immediately upon discovery of a release of a select agent or toxin outside of the primary barriers of the biocontainment area.
(1) The release of a select agent or toxin must be reported by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail. The following information must be provided:
(i) The name of the select agent or toxin and any identifying information (
e.g.
, strain or other characterization information);
(ii) An estimate of the quantity released;
(iii) The time and duration of the release;
(iv) The location (building, room) from which the release occurred; and
(v) The number of individuals potentially exposed at the entity;
(vi) Actions taken to respond to the release; and
(vii) Hazards posed by the release.
(2) A completed APHIS/CDC Form 3 must be submitted within 7 calendar days.
[70 FR 13278, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 61077, Oct. 5, 2012]
§ 331.20
Administrative review.
(a) An individual or entity may appeal a denial, revocation, or suspension of registration under this part. The appeal must be in writing, state the factual basis for the appeal, and be submitted to the Administrator within 30 calendar days of the decision.
(b) An individual may appeal a denial, limitation, or revocation of access approval under this part. The appeal must be in writing, state the factual basis for the appeal, and be submitted to the Administrator within 180 calendar days of the decision.
(c) The Administrator's decision constitutes final agency action.
[77 FR 61077, Oct. 5, 2012]
PART 340

# PART 340—MOVEMENT OF ORGANISMS MODIFIED OR PRODUCED THROUGH GENETIC ENGINEERING
Sec.
340.1
Applicability of this part.
340.2
Scope of this part.
340.3
Definitions.
340.4
Regulatory status review.
340.5
Permits.
340.6
Record retention, compliance, and enforcement.
340.7
Confidential business information.
340.8
Costs and charges.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7701-7772 and 7781-7786; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.3.

# Source:
85 FR 29832, May 18, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 340.1
Applicability of this part.
(a) The regulations in this part apply to those organisms described in § 340.2, but not to any organism that is exempt from this part under paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section.
(b) The regulations in this part do not apply to plants that have been modified such that they contain either a single modification of a type listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, or additional modifications as determined by the Administrator, and described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(1) The genetic modification is a change resulting from cellular repair of a targeted DNA break in the absence of an externally provided repair template; or
(2) The genetic modification is a targeted single base pair substitution; or
(3) The genetic modification introduces a gene known to occur in the plant's gene pool, or makes changes in a targeted sequence to correspond to a known allele of such a gene or to a known structural variation present in the gene pool.
(4) The Administrator may propose to exempt plants with additional modifications, based on what could be achieved through conventional breeding. Such proposals may be Agency-initiated, and follow the process in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, or in response to a request made in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section.
(i)
APHIS-initiated proposals for exemptions.
APHIS will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
of the proposal by the Administrator to exempt plants with additional modifications. The notice will make available any supporting documentation, and will request public comment. After reviewing the comments, APHIS will publish a subsequent notice in the
Federal Register
announcing its final determination.
(ii)
Other parties' requests for exemptions.
Any person may request that the Administrator exempt plants developed with additional modifications that
could be achieved through conventional breeding. To submit a request, the person must provide, in writing, information supporting the modification(s). Supporting information must include the following:
(A) A description of the modification(s);
(B) The factual grounds demonstrating that the proposed modification(s) could be achieved through conventional plant breeding;
(C) Copies of scientific literature, unpublished studies, or other data that support the request; and
(D) Any information known to the requestor that would be unfavorable to the request.
(iii)
Timeframe for Agency review of requests for additional exemptions.
After APHIS receives all information required under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, APHIS will complete its review of the request and render a determination within 12 months, except in circumstances that could not reasonably have been anticipated.
(iv)
Denial of requests.
If APHIS disagrees with the conclusions of the request or determines that there is insufficient evidence that the modification could be achieved through conventional breeding methods, APHIS will deny the request and notify the requestor in writing regarding this denial.
(v)
Agreement with requests.
If APHIS initially determines that the modification could be achieved through conventional breeding methods, APHIS will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
and request public comments in accordance with the process set forth in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section. After reviewing the comments, APHIS will publish a subsequent notice in the
Federal Register
announcing its final determination.
(vi)
website posting.
A list specifying the additional modifications will be posted on the APHIS website at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/biotechnology.
(c) The regulations in this part do not apply to a plant with:
(1) A plant-trait-mechanism of action combination that has previously undergone an analysis by APHIS in accordance with § 340.4 and has been determined by APHIS not to be regulated under this part, or
(2) A plant-trait-mechanism of action combination found in a plant that APHIS determined to be deregulated in response to a petition submitted prior to October 1, 2021, pursuant to § 340.6 as that section was set forth prior to August 17, 2020. All plants determined by APHIS to be deregulated pursuant to § 340.6 as that section was set forth prior to August 17, 2020 will retain their nonregulated status under these regulations.
(d) The regulations in this part do not apply to plants determined by APHIS not to require regulation under this part pursuant to the “Am I Regulated” process. All plants determined by APHIS not to require regulation under this part pursuant to the “Am I Regulated” process will retain their nonregulated status under these regulations.
(e) Developers may request confirmation from APHIS that a plant is not within the scope of this part. APHIS will provide a written response (confirmation letter) within 120 days of receiving a sufficiently detailed confirmation request, except in circumstances that could not reasonably have been anticipated.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0471)
§ 340.2
Scope of this part.
Except under a permit issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 340.5, no person shall move any GE organism that:
(a) Is a plant that has a plant-trait-mechanism of action combination that has not been evaluated by APHIS in accordance with § 340.4 or that, as a result of such evaluation, is subject to the regulations; or
(b) Meets the definition of a
plant pest
in § 340.3; or
(c) Is not a plant but has received deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from a plant pest, as defined in § 340.3, and the DNA from the donor organism either is capable of producing an infectious agent that causes plant disease or encodes a compound that is capable of causing plant disease; or
(d) Is a microorganism used to control plant pests, or an invertebrate predator or parasite (parasitoid) used to control invertebrate plant pests, and could pose a plant pest risk; or
(e) Is a plant that encodes a product intended for pharmaceutical or industrial use.
§ 340.3
Definitions.
Terms used in the singular form in this part shall be construed as the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. The following terms, when used in this part, shall be construed, respectively, to mean:
Access.
The ability during regular business hours to enter, or pass to and from, a location, inspect, and/or obtain or make use or copies of any records, data, or samples necessary to evaluate compliance with this part and all conditions of a permit issued in accordance with § 340.5.
Administrator.
The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) or any other employee of APHIS to whom authority has been or may be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
Agent.
A person who is designated by the responsible person to act in whole or in part on behalf of the permittee to maintain control over an organism under permit during its movement and to ensure compliance with all applicable permit conditions and the requirements in this part. Multiple agents may be associated with a single responsible person or permit. Agents may be, but are not limited to, brokers, farmers, researchers, or site cooperators. An agent must be at least 18 years of age and be a legal resident of the United States.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).
An agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).
Article.
Any material or tangible object that could harbor plant pests.
Contained facility.
A structure for the storage and/or propagation of living organisms designed with physical barriers capable of preventing the escape of the organisms. Examples include but are not limited to laboratories, growth chambers, fermenters, and containment greenhouses.
Donor organism.
The organism from which genetic material is obtained for transfer to the recipient organism.
Environment.
All the land, air, and water; and all living organisms in association with land, air, and water.
Gene pool.
Germplasm within which sexual recombination is possible as a result of hybridization, including via methods such as embryo culture or bridging crosses.
Genetic engineering.
Techniques that use recombinant, synthesized, or amplified nucleic acids to modify or create a genome.
Import (importation).
To move into, or the act of movement into, the territorial limits of the United States.
Inspector.
Any individual authorized by the Administrator or by the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, to enforce the regulations in this part.
Interstate.
From one State into or through any other State or within the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
Mechanism of action (MOA).
The biochemical process(es) through which genetic material determines a trait.
Move (moving, movement).
To carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; aid, abet, cause, or induce the carrying, entering, importing, mailing, shipping, or transporting; to offer to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to receive to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to release into the environment; or to allow any of the above activities to occur.
Organism.
Any active, infective, or dormant stage of life form of an entity characterized as living, including vertebrate and invertebrate animals, plants, bacteria, fungi, mycoplasmas, mycoplasma-like organisms, as well as entities such as viroids, viruses, or any entity characterized as living, related to the foregoing.
Permit.
A written authorization, including by electronic methods, by the Administrator to move organisms regulated under this part and associated
articles under conditions prescribed by the Administrator.
Person.
Any individual, partnership, corporation, company, society, association, or other organized group.
Plant.
Any plant (including any plant part) for or capable of propagation, including a tree, a tissue culture, a plantlet culture, pollen, a shrub, a vine, a cutting, a graft, a scion, a bud, a bulb, a root, or a seed.
Plant pest.
Any living stage of a protozoan, nonhuman animal, parasitic plant, bacterium, fungus, virus or viroid, infectious agent or other pathogen, or any article similar to or allied with any of the foregoing, that can directly or indirectly injure, cause damage to, or cause disease in any plant or plant product.
Plant pest risk.
The potential for direct or indirect injury to, damage to, or disease in any plant or plant product resulting from introducing or disseminating a plant pest, or the potential for exacerbating the impact of a plant pest.
Plant product.
(1) Any flower, fruit, vegetable, root, bulb, seed, or other plant part that is not included in the definition of plant; or
(2) Any manufactured or processed plant or plant part.
Recipient organism.
The organism whose nucleic acid sequence will be modified through the use of genetic engineering.
Release into the environment (environmental release).
The use of an organism outside the physical constraints of a contained facility.
Responsible person.
The individual responsible for maintaining control over a GE organism under permit during its movement and for ensuring compliance with all conditions contained in any applicable permit as well as with other requirements in this part and in the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.
). This individual must sign the permit application, and must be at least 18 years of age, and must be a legal resident of the United States.
Secure shipment.
Shipment in a container or a means of conveyance of sufficient strength and integrity to withstand leakage of contents, shocks, pressure changes, and other conditions incident to ordinary handling in transportation.
State.
Any of the several States of the United States, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territories or possessions of the United States.
State or Tribal regulatory official.
State or Tribal official with responsibilities for plant health, or any other duly designated State or Tribal official, in the State or on the Tribal lands where the movement is to take place.
Trait.
An observable (able to be seen or otherwise identified) characteristic of an organism.
Unauthorized release.
The intentional or accidental movement of an organism under a permit issued pursuant to this part in a manner not authorized by the permit; or the intentional or accidental movement without a permit of an organism that is subject to the regulations in this part.
§ 340.4
Regulatory status review.
(a)(1) Any person may submit a request to APHIS for a regulatory status review, pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) Any person may request re-review of a GE plant previously found to be subject to this part after an initial review was conducted, provided that the request is supported by new, scientifically valid evidence bearing on the plant pest risk associated with movement of the plant.
(3) APHIS may also initiate a regulatory status review or re-review of a GE plant to identify whether it is subject to regulation under this part.
(4) Information submitted in support of a request for a regulatory status review or re-review must meet the requirements listed in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) A description of the comparator plant(s), to include genus, species, and any relevant subspecies information;
(ii) The genotype of the modified plant, including a detailed description of the differences in genotype between the modified and unmodified plant; and
(iii) A detailed description of the new trait(s) of the modified plant.
(iv) Detailed information on how to meet the above-listed requirements can be found on the APHIS website at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/biotechnology.
If APHIS proposes revisions to the detailed information on the APHIS website, APHIS will make the proposed revisions available for notice and public comment prior to implementation.
(b)(1) When APHIS receives a request for a regulatory status review of a GE plant, APHIS will conduct an initial review to determine whether there is a plausible pathway by which the GE plant, or any sexually compatible relatives that can acquire the engineered trait from the GE plant, would pose an increased plant pest risk relative to the plant pest risk posed by the respective non-GE or other appropriate comparator(s), based on the following factors:
(i) The biology of the comparator plant(s) and its sexually compatible relatives;
(ii) The trait and mechanism-of-action of the modification(s); and
(iii) The effect of the trait and mechanism-of-action on:
(A) The distribution, density, or development of the plant and its sexually compatible relatives;
(B) The production, creation, or enhancement of a plant pest or a reservoir for a plant pest;
(C) Harm to non-target organisms beneficial to agriculture; and
(D) The weedy impacts of the plant and its sexually compatible relatives.
(2) APHIS will complete the initial review within 180 days of receiving a request for a regulatory status review that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, except in circumstances that could not reasonably have been anticipated. If APHIS does not identify a plausible pathway by which the GE plant or its sexually compatible relatives would pose an increased plant pest risk relative to the comparator(s) in the initial review, the GE plant is not subject to the regulations in this part. APHIS will post the plant, trait, and general description of the MOA on its website.
(b)(3)(i) If APHIS does identify a plausible pathway by which the GE plant or its sexually compatible relatives would pose an increased plant pest risk relative to the comparator(s) in the initial review, the requestor may apply for a permit and/or request that APHIS conduct an evaluation of the factor(s) of concern identified in the initial review to determine the likelihood and consequence of the plausible increased plant pest risk. APHIS may request additional information as needed to evaluate the factor(s) of concern.
(ii) For those GE plants for which such an evaluation is conducted, APHIS will publish the results of the evaluation in the
Federal Register
and will solicit and review comments from the public. Except in circumstances that could not reasonably have been anticipated, APHIS will complete these steps within 15 months of receiving a request for a regulatory status review that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(iii) If APHIS finds that the GE plant and its sexually compatible relatives are unlikely to pose an increased plant pest risk relative to their comparator(s), the GE plant is not subject to this part. APHIS will publish its evaluation of the plant-trait-MOA combination in a subsequent
Federal Register
document and will also post it on the APHIS website. If APHIS does not make such a finding, the GE plant will remain regulated under this part, and its movement will be allowed only under permit in accordance with § 340.5.
(c) This section is applicable beginning April 5, 2021 for GE corn, soybean, cotton, potato, tomato, and alfalfa, and on October 1, 2021 for all GE plants.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0471)
§ 340.5
Permits.
(a)
Permit requirement.
A permit from APHIS is required for the movement of all GE organisms subject to the regulations under this part.
(b)
Permit application requirements.
All applications for permits must be submitted in accordance with the requirements of this section. The responsible person must apply for and obtain a permit through APHIS' website. The application must also include the following information:
(1)
General information requirements for all permit applications.
All permit applications must include the name, title, and contact information of the responsible person and agent (if any); the country (or countries) and locality (or localities) where the organism was collected, developed, manufactured, reared, cultivated, and cultured (as applicable); the organism's genus, species and any relevant subspecies and common name information; the intended activity (
i.e.,
importation, interstate movement, or release into the environment of the GE organism); and information on the intended trait and the genotype of the intended trait. All permit applications must be signed by the responsible person.
(2)
Information requirements for permit applications for interstate movement or importation.
Applications for permits for interstate movement or importation of GE organisms must include the following additional information:
(i) The origin and destination of the GE organism, including information on the addresses and contact details of the sender and recipient, if different from the responsible person;
(ii) The quantity of the GE organism, the method of shipment, and means of ensuring the security of the shipment against unauthorized release of the organism; and
(iii) The manner in which packaging material, shipping containers, and any other material accompanying the organism will be disposed of to prevent unauthorized release.
(3)
Information requirements for permit applications for release into the environment.
Applications for permits for release of GE organisms into the environment must include information on all proposed environmental release sites, including land area (size), Global Positioning System coordinates, addresses, and land use history of the site and adjacent areas; and the name and contact information of a person at each environmental release site, if different from the responsible person. In the event that additional release sites are requested after the issuance of a permit, APHIS will evaluate and amend permits as appropriate, in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section.
(c)
Exemption for GE Arabidopsis thaliana.
A permit for interstate movement is not required for GE
Arabidopsis thaliana,
provided that it is moved as a secure shipment, the modified genetic material is stably integrated into the plant genome, and the modified material does not include the complete infectious genome of a plant pest.
(d)
Exemption for GE disarmed Agrobacterium
species. A permit for importation or interstate movement is not required for any GE disarmed
Agrobacterium
species, provided that it is moved as a secure shipment, the modified genetic material is stably integrated into the genome, and the modified material does not include the complete infectious genome of a plant pest.
(e)
Exemption for Drosophila melanogaster.
A permit for importation or interstate movement is not required for GE
Drosophila melanogaster,
provided that it is moved as a secure shipment and that any introduced genetic material is not designed to propagate through a population by biasing the inheritance rate.
(f)
Exemption for certain microbial pesticides.
A permit is not required for the movement of any GE microorganism product that is currently registered with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as a microbial pesticide, so long as the microorganism is not a plant pest as defined in § 340.3.
(g)
Exemption of certain plant-incorporated protectants.
A permit is not required for the movement of any GE plant modified solely to contain a plant-incorporated protectant that is currently registered with EPA as a pesticide product pursuant to the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.,
FIFRA) or that is currently exempted from FIFRA pursuant to 40 CFR 174.21.
(h)
Administrative actions
—(1)
Review of permit applications.
APHIS will review the permit application to determine whether it is complete. APHIS will notify the applicant orally or in
writing if the application is incomplete, and the applicant will be provided the opportunity to revise the application. Once an application is complete, APHIS will review it to determine whether to approve or deny the application.
(2)
APHIS assignment of permit conditions.
If a permit application is approved, the Administrator will issue a permit with conditions as described in paragraph (i) of this section. Prior to issuance of a permit, the responsible person must agree in writing, in a manner prescribed by the Administrator, that the responsible person and all agents of the responsible person are aware of, understand, and will comply with the permit conditions. Failure to comply with this provision will be grounds for the denial of a permit.
(3)
Inspections.
All premises associated with the permit are subject to inspection before and after permit issuance, and all materials associated with the movement are subject to sampling after permit issuance. The responsible person and agents must provide inspectors access to premises, facilities, release locations, storage areas, waypoints, materials, equipment, means of conveyance, documents, and records related to the movement of organisms permitted under this part. Failure to provide access for inspection prior to the issuance of a permit will be grounds for the denial of a permit. Failure to provide access for inspection following permit issuance will be grounds for withdrawal of the permit.
(4)
State or Tribal review and comment.
The Administrator will submit for notification and review a copy of the permit application, without confidential business information (CBI), and any permit conditions to the appropriate State or Tribal regulatory official. Timely comments received from the State or Tribal regulatory official will be considered by the Administrator prior to permit issuance.
(5)
Approval or denial of a permit.
Except in circumstances that could not reasonably have been anticipated, APHIS will approve or deny the permit within:
(i) 45 days of receipt of a complete application for a permit for interstate movement or for importation; or
(ii) 120 days of receipt of a complete application for a permit for release into the environment.
(iii) The 120-day period may be extended if preparation of an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement is necessary.
(i)
Permit conditions.
The standard conditions listed in this paragraph (i) will be assigned to all permits issued under this section. The Administrator may assign supplemental permit conditions as deemed necessary to ensure confinement of the GE organism. Prior to issuance of a permit or an amended permit, the responsible person will be required to agree in writing or electronically that he or she and his or her agents will comply with the conditions of the permit, as described in this paragraph (i). If the responsible person does not agree to the conditions, the amendment will be denied.
(1) The organism under permit must be maintained and disposed of in a manner so as to prevent its unauthorized release, spread, dispersal, and/or persistence in the environment.
(2) The organism under permit must be kept separate from other organisms, except as specifically allowed in the permit.
(3) The organism under permit must be maintained only in areas and premises specified in the permit.
(4) The identity of the organism under permit must be maintained and verifiable at all times.
(5) Authorized activities may be engaged in only while the permit is valid; the duration for which the permit is valid will be listed on the permit itself.
(6) Records related to activities carried out under the permit must be maintained by the responsible person and must be of sufficient accuracy, quality, and completeness to demonstrate compliance with all permit conditions and requirements under this part. APHIS must be allowed access to all records, to include visual inspection and reproduction (
e.g.,
photocopying, digital reproduction). The responsible person must submit reports and notices to APHIS, containing the information specified within the permit, at the
times specified in the permit. At a minimum:
(i) Following an environmental release, environmental release reports must be submitted for all authorized release locations where the release occurred. Environmental release reports must contain details of sufficient accuracy, quality, and completeness to identify the location, shape, and size of the release and the organism(s) released into the environment. In the event no release occurs at an authorized location, an environmental release report of no environmental release must be submitted for all authorized locations where an environmental release did not occur. Unauthorized releases must be reported in accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section.
(ii) When the environmental release is of a plant, reports of volunteer monitoring activities and findings must be submitted for all authorized release locations where an environmental release occurred. If no monitoring activities are conducted, a volunteer monitoring report of no monitoring must be submitted indicating why no volunteer monitoring was done.
(7) Inspectors must be allowed access, during regular business hours, to all locations related to the permitted activities.
(8) The organism under permit must undergo the application of measures determined by the Administrator to be necessary to prevent its unauthorized release, spread, dispersal, and/or persistence in the environment.
(9) In the event of a possible or actual unauthorized release, the responsible person must contact APHIS as described in the permit within 24 hours of discovery and must subsequently supply a statement of facts in writing no later than 5 business days after discovery.
(10) The responsible person for a permit remains the responsible person for the permit unless a transfer of responsibility is approved by APHIS. The responsible person must contact APHIS to initiate any transfer. The new responsible person assumes all responsibilities for ensuring compliance with the existing permit and permit conditions and for meeting the requirements of this part.
(j)
Denial or withdrawal of a permit.
Permit applications may be denied, or permits withdrawn, in accordance with this paragraph.
(1)
Denial of permits.
The Administrator may deny, either orally or in writing, any application for a permit. If the denial is oral, the Administrator will then communicate, as promptly as circumstances allow, the denial, and the reasons for it, in writing. The Administrator may deny a permit application if:
(i) The Administrator concludes that the proposed actions,
e.g.,
movements under permit, may not prevent the unauthorized release, spread, dispersal, and/or persistence in the environment of the organism; or
(ii) The Administrator determines that the responsible person or any agent of the responsible person has failed to comply with any material provision of this part, any other regulations issued pursuant to the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.
) or the Plant Protection Act itself;
(iii) In addition, no permit will be issued if the responsible person and his or her agents do not agree in writing, in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section, to comply with the permit conditions or, in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section, to allow inspection by APHIS.
(2)
Withdrawal of permits.
The Administrator may withdraw, either orally or in writing, any permit that has been issued. If the withdrawal is oral, the Administrator will communicate, as promptly as circumstances allow, the withdrawal, and the reasons for it, in writing. The Administrator may withdraw a permit if:
(i) Following issuance of the permit, the Administrator receives information that would have provided grounds for APHIS to deny the original permit application;
(ii) The Administrator determines that actions taken under the permit have resulted in the unauthorized release, spread, dispersal, and/or persistence in the environment of the organism under permit; or
(iii) The Administrator determines that the responsible person or any agent of the responsible person has failed to comply at any time with any
material provision of this part or with any other regulations issued pursuant to the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.
). This includes failure to comply with the conditions of any permit issued.
(k)
Appeal of denial or withdrawal of permit.
Any person whose permit application has been denied or whose permit has been withdrawn may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator.
1
The applicant must submit in writing an acknowledgment of the denial or withdrawal, and a statement of intent to appeal, within 10 days after receiving written notification of the denial or withdrawal. The applicant may request additional time to prepare the appeal. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to assert that the permit was wrongfully denied or withdrawn. The Administrator will grant or deny the appeal in writing, stating the reasons for the decision as promptly as circumstances allow. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing shall be held to resolve such conflict.
1
The Office of the Administrator, as established in § 371.2 of this chapter, will review appeals involving the denial or withdrawal of a permit. Appeals may be sent to Office of the Administrator, United States Department of Agriculture, Jamie L. Whitten Building, Room 312-E, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Washington, DC 20250.
(l)
Amendment of permits
—(1)
Amendment at responsible person's request.
If the responsible person determines that circumstances have changed since the permit was initially issued and wishes the permit to be amended accordingly, the responsible person must request the amendment by contacting APHIS directly. The responsible person will have to provide supporting information justifying the amendment. APHIS will review the amendment request, and will amend the permit if APHIS determines that relatively minor changes are necessary. Requests for more substantive changes will require a new permit application. Prior to issuance of an amended permit, the responsible person will be required to agree in writing or electronically that he or she and his or her agents will comply with the conditions of the amended permit. If the responsible person does not agree to the conditions, the amendment will be denied.
(2)
Amendment initiated by APHIS.
APHIS may amend any permit and its conditions at any time, upon determining that the amendment is needed to address plant pest risks presented by the organism or the activities allowed under the permit. APHIS will notify the responsible person of the amendment to the permit and, as soon as circumstances allow, the reason(s) for it. The responsible person may have to agree in writing or electronically that he or she and his or her agents will comply with the conditions of the amended permit before APHIS will issue it. If APHIS requests such an agreement, and the responsible person does not accept it, the existing permit will be withdrawn.
(m)
Shipping under a permit.
(1) All shipments of organisms under permit must be secure shipments. Organisms under permit must be shipped in accordance with the regulations in 49 CFR part 178.
(2) The container must be accompanied by a document that includes the names and contact details for the sender and recipient.
(3) For any organism to be imported into the United States, the outmost container must bear information regarding the nature and quantity of the contents; the country (or countries) and locality (localities) where collected, developed, manufactured, reared, cultivated, and cultured (as applicable); the name and address of the shipper, owner, or person shipping or forwarding the organism; the name, address, and telephone number of the consignee; the identifying shipper's mark and number; and the permit number authorizing the importation. For organisms imported under permits by mail, the container must also be addressed to a plant inspection station listed in the USDA Plants for Planting Manual, which can be accessed at:
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/import_export/plants/manuals/ports/downloads/plants_for_planting.pdf.
All imported containers of organisms under permits must be accompanied by an invoice or packing list indicating the contents of the shipment.
(4) Following the completion of the shipment, all packaging material, shipping containers, and any other material accompanying the organism will be devitalized consistent with supplemental permit conditions, or disposed of to prevent unauthorized release.
(n)
Applicability date:
This section is applicable beginning April 5, 2021.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0471)
§ 340.6
Record retention, compliance, and enforcement.
(a)
Recordkeeping.
Responsible persons and their agents are required to establish, keep, and make available to APHIS the following records:
(1) Records and reports required under § 340.5(i);
(2) Addresses and any other information (
e.g.,
GPS coordinates, maps) needed to identify all locations where the organism under permit was stored or used, including all contained facilities and environmental release locations;
(3) A copy of the APHIS permit authorizing the permitted activity; and
(4) Legible copies of contracts (including amendments to contracts) between the responsible person and agents that conduct activities subject to this part for the responsible person, and copies of documents relating to agreements made without a written contract.
(b)
Record retention.
Records indicating that an organism under permit that was imported or moved interstate reached its intended destination must be retained for at least 2 years. All other records related to a permit must be retained for 5 years following the expiration of the permit, unless a longer retention period is determined to be needed by the Administrator and is documented in the supplemental permit conditions.
(c)
Compliance and enforcement.
(1) Responsible persons and their agents must comply with all of the requirements of this part. Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this part may result in any or all of the following:
(i) Denial of a permit application or withdrawal of a permit in accordance with § 340.5(j);
(ii) Application of remedial measures in accordance with the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.
); and
(iii) Criminal and/or civil penalties in accordance with the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.
).
(2) Prior to the issuance of a complaint seeking a civil penalty, the Administrator may enter into a stipulation, in accordance with § 380.10 of this chapter.
(d)
Liability for acts of an agent.
For purposes of enforcing this part, the act, omission, or failure of any agent for a responsible person may be deemed also to be the act, omission, or failure of the responsible person.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0471)
§ 340.7
Confidential business information.
Persons including confidential business information (CBI) in any document submitted to APHIS under this part should do so in the following manner. If there are portions of a document deemed to contain confidential business information, those portions must be identified, and each page containing such information must be marked “CBI Copy.” A second copy of the document must be submitted with all such CBI deleted, and each page where the CBI was deleted must be marked “CBI Deleted.” In addition, any person submitting CBI must justify how each piece of information requested to be treated as CBI is a trade secret or, if not a trade secret, is either commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential.
§ 340.8
Costs and charges.
The services of the inspector related to carrying out this part and provided during regularly assigned hours of duty and at the usual places of duty will be furnished by APHIS without cost to
the responsible person.
1
The U.S. Department of Agriculture will not be responsible for any costs or charges incidental to inspections or compliance with the provisions of this part, other than for the services of the inspector.
1
The Department's provisions relating to overtime charges for an inspector's services are set forth in part 354 of this chapter.
Pt. 351

# PART 351—IMPORTATION OF PLANTS OR PLANT PRODUCTS BY MAIL
Sec.
351.1
Joint treatment generally.
351.2
Location of inspectors.
351.3
Procedure on arrival.
351.4
Records.
351.5
Return or destruction.
351.6
Packages in closed mail dispatches.
351.7
Regulations governing importation by mail of plant material for immediate export.

# Cross Reference:
For customs regulations governing importation of plants and plant products, see 19 CFR part 12.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7701-7772 and 7781-7786; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.3.
§ 351.1
Joint treatment generally.
The entry into the United States of certain plants, plant products, and soil is prohibited or restricted through various orders, quarantines, and regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) under the authority of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701-7772). To assist in enforcing the aforementioned orders, quarantines, and regulations, the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs of APHIS have made provisions with the U.S. Postal and Customs Services to ensure closer inspection of prohibited or restricted imported articles.
[66 FR 21059, Apr. 27, 2001]
§ 351.2
Location of inspectors.
Inspectors of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs and customs officers are stationed at the following locations:
Anchorage, Alaska, Arlington, Va., Atlanta, Ga., Baltimore, Md., Baton Rouge, La., Blaine, Wash., Boston, Mass., Brownsville, Tex., Buffalo, N.Y., Calexico, Calif., Chantilly, Va., Charleston, S.C., Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, V.I., Chicago, Ill., Christiansted, St. Croix, V.I., Cleveland, Ohio., Corpus Christi, Tex., Dallas, Tex., Del Rio, Tex., Detroit, Mich., Douglas, Ariz., Dover, Del., Duluth, Minn., Eagle Pass, Tex., El Paso, Tex., Galveston, Tex., Hidalgo, Tex., Hilo, Hawaii, Hoboken, N.J., Honolulu, Hawaii, Houston, Tex., Jacksonville, Fla., Jamaica, L.I., N.Y., Key West, Fla., Laredo, Tex., McGuire AFB, N.J., Memphis, Tenn., Miami, Fla., Milwaukee, Wis., Mobile, Ala., New Orleans, La., New York, N.Y., Newport News, Va., Nogales, Ariz., Norfolk, Va., Pensacola, Fla., Philadelphia, Pa., Port Arthur, Tex., Port Canaveral, Fla., Port Everglades, Fla., Portland, Oreg., Presidio, Tex., Progreso, Tex., Ramey AFB, P.R., Roma, Tex., Rouses Point, N.Y., St. Paul, Minn., San Antonio, Tex., San Diego, Calif., San Francisco, Calif., San Juan, P.R., San Luis, Ariz., San Pedro, Calif., San Ysidro, Calif., Savannah, Ga., Seattle, Wash., Tampa, Fla., Toledo, Ohio, Washington, DC, West Palm Beach, Fla., Wilmington, N.C.
[28 FR 5203, May 24, 1963, as amended at 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971]
§ 351.3
Procedure on arrival.
All parcel post or other mail packages from foreign countries which, either from examination or external evidence, are found or are believed to contain plants or plant products, shall be dispatched for submission, or actually submitted, to the plant quarantine inspector at the most accessible location listed in § 351.2. The inspector shall pass upon the contents under the Plant Quarantine Act and Federal Plant Pest Act and with the cooperation of the customs and postal officers either
(a) Release the package from further plant quarantine examination and endorse his decision thereon; or
(b) Divert it to the Plant Quarantine Station at Washington, DC, Brownsville, Tex., Hoboken, N.J., Honolulu, Hawaii, Jamaica, L.I., N.Y., Laredo, Tex., Miami, Fla., New Orleans, La., San Francisco, Calif., San Juan, P.R., San Pedro, Calif., or Seattle, Wash., for whatever disposition is deemed warranted. If so diverted, the plant quarantine inspector shall attach to the package the yellow and green special mailing tag addressed to the proper quarantine station. A package so diverted shall be accompanied by customs card Form 3511 and transmitted to the appropriate Customs office for
referral to the Plant Quarantine Station. Envelopes containing customs card Form 3511 addressed to the collector of customs, New York, N.Y., shall contain a notation that the material is to be referred to the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, Hoboken, N.J.
[24 FR 9923, Dec. 9, 1959, as amended at 28 FR 5204, May 24, 1963, as amended at 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971]
§ 351.4
Records.
The customs officers at Washington, DC, Brownsville, Tex., Hoboken, N.J., Honolulu, Hawaii, Jamaica, L.I., N.Y., Laredo, Tex., Miami, Fla., New Orleans, La., San Francisco, Calif., San Juan, P.R., San Pedro, Calif., or Seattle, Wash., shall keep a record of such packages as may be delivered to representatives of the Department of Agriculture, and upon the return thereof shall prepare a mail entry to accompany the dutiable package and deliver it to the postmaster for delivery or onward dispatch or in appropriate cases subject the shipment to formal customs entry procedure.
[28 FR 5204, May 24, 1963]
§ 351.5
Return or destruction.
Where the plant quarantine inspector requires the entire shipment to be returned to the country of origin as a prohibited importation (in which event he shall endorse his action thereon) and delivers the shipment to the collector of customs, the collector shall in turn deliver it to the postmaster for dispatch to the country of origin. If, upon examination, the plant material is deemed dangerous to plant life, the collector of customs shall permit the plant quarantine inspector to destroy immediately both the container and its contents. In either case the plant quarantine inspector shall notify the addressee of the action taken and the reason therefor. If the objectionable plant material forms only a portion of the contents of the mail package and in the judgment of the inspector the package can safely be delivered to the addressee, after removing and destroying the objectionable material, such procedure is authorized. In the latter case the inspector shall place in the package a memorandum (Form AQI-387) informing the addressee of the action taken by the inspector and describing the matter which has been seized and destroyed and the reasons therefor.
[24 FR 9923, Dec. 9, 1959, as amended at 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971]
§ 351.6
Packages in closed mail dispatches.
The foregoing instructions shall be followed in the treatment of packages containing plants or plant products received in closed mail dispatches made up for transmission directly to a post office located at a customs port at which no plant quarantine inspector is stationed. Such packages (accompanied by customs card Form 3511) shall be forwarded by the collector of customs through the postmaster to the most accessible location listed in § 351.2 for appropriate treatment in the manner hereinbefore provided. This procedure shall also be followed in respect to such packages which are forwarded to unlisted post offices from the post office of original receipt, without having received plant quarantine examination. Packages discovered at post offices where no customs officer is located shall be forwarded by the postmaster under his official penalty envelope addressed to the collector of customs at the most accessible location listed for appropriate treatment as prescribed herein.
[24 FR 9923, Dec. 9, 1959, as amended at 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971]
§ 351.7
Regulations governing importation by mail of plant material for immediate export.
To collectors of customs and others concerned:
(a) Shipments of plant material may be imported by mail free of duty for immediate exportation by mail subject to the following regulations, which have been approved by the Department of Agriculture and the Post Office Department:
(1) Each shipment shall be dispatched in the mails from abroad, accompanied by a yellow and green special mail tag bearing the serial number of the permit for entry for immediate exportation or
immediate transportation and exportation, issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and also the postal form of customs declaration.
(2) Upon arrival, the shipment shall be detained by, or redispatched to, the postmaster at Washington, DC, Brownsville, Tex., Hoboken, N.J., Honolulu, Hawaii, Jamaica, L.I., N.Y., Laredo, Tex., Miami, Fla., New Orleans, La., San Francisco, Calif., San Juan, P.R., San Pedro, Calif., or Seattle, Wash., as may be appropriate, according to the address on the yellow and green tag, and there submitted to the customs officer and the Federal quarantine inspector. The merchandise shall under no circumstances be permitted to enter the commerce of the United States.
(3) After inspection by the customs and quarantine officers, and with their approval, the addressee, or his authorized agent, shall repack and readdress the mail parcel under customs supervision; affix to the parcel the necessary postage, and comply with other mailing requirements, after which the parcel shall be delivered to the postmaster for exportation by mail pursuant to 19 CFR 9.11(a). The contents of the original parcel may be subdivided and exported in separate parcels in like manner.
(4) It will not be necessary to issue a customs mail entry nor to require formal entry of the shipments.
(5) The mail shipments referred to shall be accorded special handling only at the points specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(6) The foregoing procedure shall not affect the movement of plant material in the international mails in transit through the United States.
[24 FR 9923, Dec. 9, 1959, as amended at 28 FR 5204, May 24, 1963]
Pt. 352

# PART 352—PLANT QUARANTINE SAFEGUARD REGULATIONS
Sec.
352.1
Definitions.
352.2
Purpose; relation to other regulations; applicability; preemption of State and local laws.
352.3
Enforcement and administration.
352.4
Documentation.
352.5
Permit; requirement, form and conditions.
352.6
Application for permit and approval or denial thereof.
352.7
Notice of arrival.
352.8
Marking requirements.
352.9
Ports.
352.10
Inspection; safeguards; disposal.
352.11
Mail.
352.12
Baggage.
352.13
Certain conditions under which change of Customs entry or diversion is permitted.
352.14
Costs.
352.15
Caution.
352.16-352.28
[Reserved]
352.29
Administrative instructions: Avocados from Mexico.
352.30
Untreated oranges, tangerines, and grapefruit from Mexico.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7701-7772 and 7781-7786; 21 U.S.C. 136 and 136a; 31 U.S.C. 9701; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.3.

# Source:
25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, unless otherwise noted.
§ 352.1
Definitions.
(a) This part may be cited by the short title: “Safeguard Regulations.” This title shall be understood to include both the regulations and administrative instructions in this part.
(b) Words used in the singular form in this part shall be deemed to import the plural and vice versa as the case may demand. For purposes of this part, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean:
Administrative instructions.
Published documents set forth in this part relating to the enforcement of this part, and issued under authority thereof by the Deputy Administrator.
Biological control organism.
Any enemy, antagonist, or competitor used to control a plant pest or noxious weed.
Brought in for temporary stay where unloading or landing is not intended.
Brought in by carrier but not intended to be unloaded or landed from such carrier. This phrase includes movement (i) departing from the United States on the same carrier directly from the point of arrival therein; and (ii) transiting a part of the United States before departure therefrom, and applies whether movement under Customs procedure is as residue cargo or follows some form of Customs entry.
Carrier; means of conveyance.
Automobile, truck, animal-drawn vehicle,
railway car, aircraft, ship, or other means of transportation.
Customs.
The U.S. Customs Service, Department of the Treasury, or, with reference to Guam, the Customs Office of the Government of Guam.
Deputy Administrator.
The Deputy Administrator of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs or any employee of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs delegated to act in his or her stead.
Foreign trade zone.
A formally prescribed area containing various physical facilities located in or adjacent to ports of entry under the jurisdiction of the United States and established, operated, and maintained as a foreign trade zone pursuant to the Foreign-Trade Zones Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 998-1003; 19 U.S.C. 81a-81u), as amended, wherein foreign merchandise, as well as domestic merchandise, may be deposited for approved purposes. Movement into and from such area is subject to applicable customs, plant quarantine, and other Federal requirements.
Immediate
(
export, trans-shipment, or transportation and exportation
). The period which, in the opinion of the inspector, is the shortest practicable interval of time between the arrival of an incoming carrier and the departure of the outgoing carrier transporting a consignment of prohibited or restricted products or articles.
Inspector.
Any individual authorized by the Administrator of APHIS or the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, to enforce the regulations in this part.
Intended for unloading and entry at a port other than the port of first arrival.
Brought in by carrier at a port for movement to the port of entry under residue cargo procedure of Customs.
Noxious weed.
Any plant or plant product that can directly or indirectly injure or cause damage to crops (including nursery stock or plant products), livestock, poultry, or other interests of agriculture, irrigation, navigation, the natural resources of the United States, the public health, or the environment.
Other product or article.
Any product or article of any character whatsoever (other than plants, plant products, soil, plant pests, and means of conveyance), which an inspector considers may be infested or infected by or contain a plant pest.
Owner.
The owner, or his agent (including the operator of a carrier), having responsible custody of a plant, plant product, plant pest, soil, or other product or article subject to this part.
Person.
Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint venture, society, or other legal entity.
Plant pest.
Any living stage of any of the following that can directly or indirectly injure, cause damage to, or cause disease in any plant or plant product: A protozoan, nonhuman animal, parasitic plant, bacterium, fungus, virus or viroid, infectious agent or other pathogen, or any article similar to or allied with any of the plant pests listed in this definition.
Plant Protection Act.
Title IV of Public Law 106-224, 114 Stat. 438, 7 U.S.C. 7701-7772, which was enacted June 20, 2000.
Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs.
The Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Plants and plant products.
Nursery stock, other plants, plant parts, roots, bulbs, seeds, fruits, nuts, vegetables, and other plant products, and any product constituted, in whole or in part, of plant material which has not been so manufactured or processed as to eliminate pest risk.
Port.
Any place designated by the President, Secretary of the Treasury, or Congress at which a Customs officer is assigned with authority to accept entries of merchandise, to collect duties, and to enforce the various provisions of the Customs and Navigation laws in force at that place.
Port of arrival.
Any port in the United States at which a prohibited or restricted product or article arrives.
Port of entry.
A port at which a specified shipment or means of conveyance is accepted for entry or admitted without entry into the United States.
Residue cargo.
Shipments authorized by Customs to be transported under the Customs bond of the carrier on which the shipments arrive, without
entry being filed, for direct export from the first port of arrival, or to another port for entry or for direct export at that port without entry being required.
Safeguard.
A procedure for handling, maintaining, or disposing of prohibited or restricted products and articles subject to this part so as to eliminate the risk of plant pest dissemination which the prohibited or restricted products and articles may present.
Ship.
Any means of transportation by water.
Soil.
The unconsolidated material from the earth's surface that consists of rock and mineral particles and that supports or is capable of supporting biotic communities.
Stores and furnishings.
Plants and plant products for use on board a carrier; e.g. as food or decorative material.
United States.
The States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the territorial waters of the United States adjacent to those land areas.
Unloaded or landed for transportation and exportation.
Brought in by carrier and transferred to another carrier for transportation to another port for exportation, whether or not some form of Customs entry is made.
Unloaded or landed for transshipment and exportation.
Brought in by carrier and transferred to another carrier for exportation from the same port, whether or not some form of Customs entry is made.
[25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, as amended at 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971; 37 FR 10554, May 25, 1972; 62 FR 65009, Dec. 10, 1997; 66 FR 21059, Apr. 27, 2001; 71 FR 49325, Aug. 23, 2006; 84 FR 29966, June 25, 2019]
§ 352.2
Purpose; relation to other regulations; applicability; preemption of State and local laws.
(a) Importations of plants, plant products, plant pests, biological control organisms, noxious weeds, soil, and other products and articles that may be infested or infected by or contain plant pests, biological control organisms, or noxious weeds are exempt from the prohibitions or restrictions contained in parts 319, 330, and 360 of this chapter if they meet one of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section and are moved into the United States and handled in compliance with this part.
Provided:
That these exemptions do not apply to cotton and covers imported into the United States from any country for exportation or transshipment and exportation or transportation and exportation as provided in §§ 319.8 through 319.8-26 of this chapter. Moreover, the applicable provisions of §§ 330.100 through 330.109 and 330.400 of this chapter also apply to products and articles subject to this part.
(1) They are brought in temporarily where loading and landing is not intended;
(2) They are unloaded or landed for transshipment and exportation;
(3) They are unloaded or landed for transportation and exportation; or
(4) They are intended for unloading and entry at a port other than the port of arrival.
(b) Prohibited or restricted products and articles offered for and refused entry into the United States under parts 319, 330, or 360 of this chapter are subject to the applicable provisions in this part regarding their subsequent handling in this country.
(c)(1) The provisions in this part apply whether the controls over arrival, temporary stay, unloading, landing, transshipment and exportation, or transportation and exportation, or other movement or possession in the United States and Guam are maintained by entry or other procedures of the U.S. Customs Service, Department of the Treasury, or the Customs Office of the Government of Guam, respectively. Such provisions will apply to arrivals in the United States, including arrivals in a foreign trade zone in the United States to which admission is sought in accordance with the Customs regulations in 19 CFR chapter I. Prohibited or restricted products and articles that have entered the United States, been exported pursuant to this part, and returned to the United States are subject to the applicable requirements of this part upon reentry.
(2) Any restrictions and requirements under this part with respect to the arrival, temporary stay, unloading, landing, transshipment, exportation, transportation and exportation, or other
movement or possession in the United States of any product or article shall apply to any person who, respectively, brings into, maintains, unloads, lands, transships, exports, transports and exports, or otherwise moves or possesses in the United States such product or article, whether he is the person who was required to have a permit for the product or article or a subsequent custodian of such product or article, and failure to comply with all applicable restrictions and requirements under this part by any such person shall be deemed to be a violation of this part.
(d) Under section 436 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7756), a State or political subdivision of a State may not regulate in foreign commerce any article, means of conveyance, plant, biological control organism, plant pest, noxious weed, or plant product in order to control a plant pest or noxious weed, to eradicate a plant pest or noxious weed, or to prevent the introduction or dissemination of a biological control organism, plant pest, or noxious weed.
[25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, as amended at 62 FR 65009, Dec. 10, 1997; 66 FR 21059, Apr. 27, 2001; 75 FR 68952, Nov. 10, 2010; 84 FR 29966, June 25, 2019]
§ 352.3
Enforcement and administration.
(a) Plants, plant products, plant pests, biological control organisms, noxious weeds, soil, and other products and articles subject to the regulations in this part that are unloaded, landed, or otherwise brought or moved into or through the United States in violation of this part may be seized, destroyed, or otherwise disposed of in accordance with section 414 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7714). Any person who unloads, lands, or otherwise brings or moves into or through the United States any regulated plants, plant products, plant pests, biological control organisms, noxious weeds, soil, or other products or articles in violation of this part will be subject to prosecution under the applicable provisions of law.
(b) Whenever the Deputy Administrator of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs shall find that existing conditions of danger of plant pest escape or dissemination involved in the arrival, unloading, landing, or other movement, or possession in the United States of plants, plant products, plant pests, biological control organisms, noxious weeds, soil, or other products or articles subject to the regulations in this part, make it safe to modify by making less stringent the restrictions contained in any such regulation, he shall publish such findings in administrative instructions, specifying the manner in which the regulations shall be made less stringent with respect thereto, whereupon such modification shall become effective; or he may, upon request in specific cases, when the public interests will permit, authorize arrival, unloading, landing, or other movement, or possession in the United States under conditions that are less stringent than those contained in the regulations in this part.
(c) The Deputy Administrator also may set forth and publish, in administrative instructions, requirements and conditions for any class of products or articles supplemental to the regulations in this part, and may promulgate interpretations of this part.
(d) The Deputy Administrator shall employ procedures to carry out the purposes of this part which will impose a minimum of impediment to foreign commerce, consistent with proper precaution against plant pest, noxious weed, or biological control organism dissemination.
[25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, as amended at 66 FR 21059, Apr. 27, 2001; 75 FR 68952, Nov. 10, 2010; 84 FR 29966, June 25, 2019]
§ 352.4
Documentation.
(a)
Manifest.
Immediately upon the arrival of a carrier in the United States the owner shall make available to the inspector for examination a complete manifest or other documentation from which the inspector may determine whether there are on board any prohibited or restricted products or articles subject to this part, other than accompanied baggage and mail.
(b)
Other documentation.
Any notifications, reports, and similar documentation not specified in the regulations in this part, but necessary to carry out the purpose of the regulations, will be prescribed in administrative instructions.
(c)
Procedure after examination of documents.
After examination of the carrier cargo manifest or other documentation the inspector may notify the owner and the Customs officer that certain products or articles on board the carrier are subject to this part and may not be unloaded or landed for any purpose pending plant quarantine inspection. In such case the owner shall not unload or land such products or articles without authorization by an inspector.
§ 352.5
Permit; requirement, form and conditions.
(a)
General.
(1) Permits are required for the arrival, unloading or landing, or other movement into or through the United States of plants, plant products, plant pests, biological control organisms, noxious weeds, and soil subject to this part. The permit may consist of a general authorization as set out in paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section or § 352.11, or it may be a specific permit. A specific permit may be formal or oral except as a formal permit is required by paragraph (c) or (e) of this section. The Deputy Administrator may in administrative instructions require specific or formal permits for any class of products or articles subject to this part.
(2) A formal permit may be issued in prescribed form, in letter form, or a combination thereof. A rubber stamp impression or other endorsement made by the inspector on pertinent Customs documents covering the products or articles involved may constitute the formal permit in appropriate cases.
(b)
Permit for prohibited or restricted products or articles brought in for temporary stay where unloading or landing in the United States is not intended.
No permit other than the authorization contained in this paragraph shall be required for bringing into the United States any plants, plant products, plant pests, biological control organisms, noxious weeds, or soil subject to this part for temporary stay where unloading or landing in the United States is not intended, e.g., in connection with residue cargo movement under Customs procedure, or in connection with Customs entry for exportation or for transportation and exportation. This authorization also includes transshipment of products and articles under this paragraph from a carrier directly to another carrier of the same company when necessitated by an emergency or operating requirement and effected in accordance with safeguards prescribed in writing or orally by the inspector under § 352.10.
(c)
Permit for prohibited or restricted products or articles unloaded or landed for immediate transshipment and exportation, or immediate transportation and exportation.
When in the opinion of the inspector it is unnecessary to specify in a formal permit the safeguards required to prevent plant pest dissemination, plants, plant products, plant pests, biological control organisms, noxious weeds, or soil subject to this part may be unloaded or landed for immediate transshipment and exportation or for immediate transportation and exportation, as provided in § 352.10, with the approval of the inspector and no further permit than the authorization contained in this paragraph; otherwise a formal permit shall be required for such unloading or landing.
(d)
Permit for restricted products or articles moving as residue cargo from port of first arrival to port of entry.
Restricted plants, plant products, plant pests, biological control organisms, noxious weeds, or soil subject to this part arriving in the United States for movement under residue cargo procedures of Customs from a port of first arrival to another port for Customs entry into the United States may be allowed to so move without permit other than the authorization contained in this paragraph, if the inspector finds that apparently they can meet the applicable requirements of parts 319, 330, and 360 of this chapter at the port where entry is to be made; otherwise a formal permit shall be required for such movement. Such restricted products and articles shall become subject to the applicable permit and other requirements of parts 319, 330, and 360 of this chapter upon arrival at the port where Customs entry is to be made and shall not be unloaded or landed unless they comply with the applicable requirements.
(e)
Formal permits required for certain prohibited or restricted products or articles brought into a foreign trade zone.
A
formal permit must be obtained to bring any prohibited or restricted plants, plant products, plant pests, biological control organisms, noxious weeds, or soil subject to the provisions in this part, into a foreign trade zone for storage, manipulation, or other handling, except for immediate transshipment and exportation or for immediate transportation and exportation. Special conditions to safeguard such storage, manipulation, or other possession or handling may be specified in the permit, and when so specified shall be in addition to any other applicable requirements of this part or the safeguards prescribed by the inspector or otherwise under this part.
[25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, as amended at 62 FR 65009, Dec. 10, 1997; 66 FR 21059, Apr. 27, 2001; 75 FR 68952, Nov. 10, 2010; 84 FR 29966, June 25, 2019]
§ 352.6
Application for permit and approval or denial thereof.
(a)
Plants and plant products (including noxious weeds).
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, any person desiring to unload or land, or otherwise move into or through the United States, any plants or plant products for which a specific permit is required by § 352.5, shall in the case of prohibited plants or plant products, and should in the case of restricted plants or plant products, in advance of arrival in the United States of the plants or plant products, submit an application for a permit to the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs,
1
stating such of the following information as is relevant: The name and address of the importer, the approximate quantity and kind of plants and plant products it is desired to import under this part, the country where grown, the United States port of arrival, the United States port of export, the proposed routing from the port of arrival to the port of exportation, means of transportation to be employed (
i.e.
, mail, air mail, express, air express, freight, air freight, baggage), and the name and address of the agent representing the importer. Applications may be made on forms provided for the purpose by the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, or orally, or by letter, telegram, or other means of communication furnishing all the information required by this paragraph. Applications need not be made for shipments handled under general authorizations set forth in § 352.5 (b), (c), or (d), or in § 352.11.
1
Application for such permits should be addressed to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine, Port Operations, Permit Unit, 4700 River Road, Unit 136, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1236.
(b)
Plant pests.
Any person desiring to unload or land, or otherwise move into or through the United States, any plant pest for which a specific permit is required by § 352.5 shall, in advance of the arrival of the plant pests in the United States, submit an application to the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs for a permit in accordance with § 330.201 of this chapter.
(c)
Soil.
Any person desiring to bring into or unload or land, or otherwise move into or through the United States, any soil for which a specific permit is required by § 352.5 shall, in advance of the arrival of the soil in the United States, submit an application for permit to the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs as specified by § 330.203 of this chapter.
(d)
Constructive oral application.
If a permit has not been issued in advance of arrival, application for any required permit (other than a formal permit) shall be considered to have been made orally to the inspector at the port of arrival by presentation of the shipment for entry or its listing on the manifest or other documentation, but this shall not excuse failure to make timely application as required by this section. Express application is required for a formal permit.
(e)
Approval or denial of permits.
Upon approval of the application, the permit will be issued. Any conditions necessary to eliminate danger of plant pest, noxious weed, or biological control organism dissemination may be specified in the permit, or otherwise as provided in § 352.10. Permits will be denied if, in the opinion of the Deputy Administrator, it is not possible to prescribe conditions adequate to prevent danger of plant pest, noxious weed, or
biological control organism dissemination by the plants, plant products, plant pests, or soil involved.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0049)
[25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, as amended at 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971; 37 FR 10554, May 25, 1972; 48 FR 57466, Dec. 30, 1983; 59 FR 67611, Dec. 30, 1994; 75 FR 68952, Nov. 10, 2010; 84 FR 29966, June 25, 2019]
§ 352.7
Notice of arrival.
Immediately upon arrival of any shipment of plants or plant products (including noxious weeds) subject to this part and covered by a specific permit, the importer shall submit to an inspector notice of such arrival using a form provided for that purpose (Form PPQ-368) and, where relevant, the proposed routing to the proposed U.S. port of exit. Forms will be submitted using a U.S. Government electronic information exchange system or other authorized method. Notice of arrival shall not be required for other products or articles subject to this part since other available documentation meets the requirement for this notice.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0049)
[81 FR 40150, June 21, 2016]
§ 352.8
Marking requirements.
Prohibited and restricted products and articles subject to this part shall be adequately marked or otherwise identified by documentation to indicate their nature.
§ 352.9
Ports.
The arrival, unloading, landing, or possession of plants, plant products,plant pests, biological control organisms, noxious weeds, soil, or other products or articles subject to this part shall not be allowed at points within the United States other than at the ports specified in the Customs Regulations in 19 CFR 1.1 and 19 CFR 6.13, and Agana, Guam, or such other ports as may be named in permits or administrative instructions. Restrictions on the ports which may be used for particular types of handling of any products or articles subject to this part may be specified generally in administrative instructions or in permits in specific cases. When ports are specified in permits or otherwise, the arrival, unloading, landing, or possession of the products or articles involved at other ports will not be allowed except as the inspector may authorize changes in the ports specified.
[25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, as amended at 75 FR 68952, Nov. 10, 2010; 84 FR 29966, June 25, 2019]
§ 352.10
Inspection; safeguards; disposal.
(a)
Inspection and release.
Prohibited and restricted products and articles subject to this part shall be subject to inspection at the port of first arrival in accordance with § 330.105(a) of this chapter and shall not be released by Customs officers for unloading, landing, or other onward movement or entry until released by an inspector or a Customs officer on behalf of an inspector in accordance with the procedure prescribed in § 330.105(a) of this chapter. If diversion or change of Customs entry is not permitted for any movements authorized under this part, the inspector at the original port of Customs entry shall appropriately endorse Customs documents to show that fact. However, the inspector at the U.S. port of export may approve diversion or change of Customs entry to permit movement to a different foreign country, or entry into the United States, subject to all other applicable requirements under this part or parts 319, 330, or 360 of this chapter. If diversion or change of Customs entry is desired at a Customs port in the United States where there is no inspector, the owner may apply to the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs
2
for information as to applicable conditions. If diversion or change of Customs entry is desired at port, confirmation will be given by the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs to the appropriate Customs officers and Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs inspectors.
2
The Deputy Administrator, Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
(b)
Safeguards.
(1) The unloading, landing, retention on board as stores
and furnishings or cargo, transshipment and exportation, transportation and exportation, onward movment to the port of entry as residue cargo or under a Customs entry for immediate transportation, and other movement or possession within the United States of prohibited or restricted products and articles under this part shall be subject to such safeguards as may be prescribed in the permits and this part and any others which, in the opinion of the inspector, are necessary and are specified by him to prevent plant pest, noxious weed, or biological control organism dissemination. In the case of prohibited or restricted products or articles subject to this part which are unloaded or landed for transshipment and exportation or transportation and exportation, or for onward movement to the port of entry as residue cargo or under a Customs entry for immediate transportation, this shall include necessary safeguards with respect to any movement within the port area between the point of arrival and the point of temporary storage, other handling, or point of departure, including a foreign trade zone. Prohibited and restricted products and articles subject to this part which are unloaded or landed for transshipment and exportation or transportation and exportation, or for onward movement as residue cargo or under a Customs entry for immediate transportation, shall be transshipped, or transported and exported from the United States, or moved onward immediately. This shall mean the shortest practicable interval of time commensurate with the risk of plant pest, noxious weed, or biological control organism dissemination required to transfer the products or articles from one carrier to another and to move them onward or from the United States. If, in the opinion of the inspector, considerations of risk of plant pest or noxious weed dissemination require, such movement shall be made without regard to the noncompetitive or competitive relations of the carriers concerned, and the inspector shall promptly report to the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs the circumstances when the emergency is so acute that subsequent movement is required on a carrier of a company other than the one bringing the products or articles to the United States or on which onward movement was contemplated by the shipper or forwarding carrier. Prohibited or restricted plants, plant products, plant pests, biological control organisms, and soil which were intended for entry into the United States under parts 319, 330, or 360 of this chapter, or for movement into or through the United States under this part, and which were refused such entry or movement before unloading or landing, or which were refused such entry or movement after unloading or landing and are immediately reloaded on the same carrier, may be retained on board pending removal from the United States or other disposal, but shall be subject to the safeguards specified under this section. Prohibited or restricted products and articles which were refused entry or movement under said parts after unloading or landing and which are not immediately reloaded in accordance with this section shall be subject to such safeguard action as the inspector deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this part.
(2) Safeguards prescribed by an inspector under this section shall be prescribed to the owner by the inspector in writing except that the inspector may prescribe the safeguards orally when, in his opinion, the circumstances and related Customs procedures do not require written notice to the owner of the safeguards to be followed by the owner. In prescribing safeguards, the relevant requirements of parts 319, 330, or 360 of this chapter and this part shall be considered. The safeguards prescribed shall be the minimum required to preventplant pest, noxious weed, or biological control organism dissemination. Destruction or exportation shall be required only when no less drastic measures are deemed by the inspector to be adequate to prevent plant pest, noxious weed, or biological control organism dissemination. The inspector may follow administrative instructions promulgated for certain situations, or he may follow a procedure selected by him from administratively approved methods known to be effective in similar situations. In the case of aircraft that are contaminated with insect pests, only an insecticidal formulation,
approved for use in aircraft, may be so applied as an emergency measure. If the application is not effective against the insect pests or if other pests must be safeguarded against, the inspector shall report the circumstances promptly to the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs and receive instructions as to safeguards that will not have a deleterious effect on the structure of the aircraft or its operating equipment. In prescribing safeguards consideration will be given to such factors as:
(i) The nature and habits of the plant pests or biological control organisms known to be, or likely to be, present with the plants, plant products, soil, or other products or articles.
(ii) Nature of the plants, plant products, plant pests, or biological control organisms, soil, or other products or articles.
(iii) Nature of containers or other packaging and adequacy thereof to preventplant pest, noxious weed, or biological control organism dissemination.
(iv) Climatic conditions as they may have a bearing on plant pest or biological control organism dispersal, and refrigeration if provided.
(v) Routing pending exportation.
(vi) Presence of soil.
(vii) Construction or physical condition and type of carrier.
(viii) Facilities for treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, or for incineration or other destruction.
(ix) Availability of transportation facilities for immediate exportation.
(x) Any other related factor which should be considered, such as intent to export to an adjacent or nearby country.
(c)
Disposal.
(1) If prohibited or restricted products or articles subject to this part are not safeguarded in accordance with measures prescribed under this part, or cannot be adequately safeguarded to prevent plant pest, noxious weed, or biological control organism dissemination, they shall be seized, destroyed, or otherwise disposed of according to law. Whenever disposal action is to be taken by the inspector he shall notify the local Customs officer in advance.
(2) When a shipment of any products or articles subject to this part has been handled in accordance with all conditions and safeguards prescribed in this part and in the permit and by the inspector, the inspector shall inform the local Customs officer concerned of the release of such products or articles, in appropriate manner.
[25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, as amended at 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971; 37 FR 10554, May 25, 1972; 62 FR 65009, Dec. 10, 1997; 66 FR 21059, Apr. 27, 2001; 75 FR 4253, Jan. 26, 2010; 75 FR 68952, Nov. 10, 2010; 84 FR 29966, June 25, 2019]
§ 352.11
Mail.
(a)
Transit mail.
(1) Plants, plant products, plant pests, biological control organisms, noxious weeds, soil, or other products or articles which arrive in the United States in closed dispatches by international mail or international parcel post and which are in transit through the United States to another country shall be allowed to move through the United States without further permit than the authorization contained in this section. Notice of arrival shall not be required as other documentation meets the requirement for this notice.
(2) Inspectors ordinarily will not inspect transit mail or parcel post, whether transmitted in open mail or in closed dispatches. They may do so if it comes to their attention that any such mail or parcel post contains prohibited or restricted products or articles which require safeguard action. Inspection and disposal in such cases will be made in accordance with this part and part 330 of this chapter, and in conformity with regulations and procedures of the Post Office Department for handling transit mail and parcel post.
(b)
Importation for exportation.
Plants and plant products to be imported for exportation, by mail, will be handled under permit in accordance with Part 351 of this chapter.
[25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, as amended at 75 FR 68952, Nov. 10, 2010; 84 FR 29966, June 25, 2019]
§ 352.12
Baggage.
Products or articles subject to this part which are contained in baggage shall be subject to the requirements of this part in the same manner as cargo.
§ 352.13
Certain conditions under which change of Customs entry or diversion is permitted.
When plants, plant products,plant pests, biological control organisms, noxious weeds, soil, or other products or articles released for exportation, transshipment and exportation, or transportation and exportation, under this part, have met all applicable permit and other requirements for importation, including inspection and treatment, as provided in part 319, 330, or 360 of this chapter, the form of Customs entry may be changed and the shipment may be diverted at any time to permit delivery of the products and articles to a destination in the United States, so far as the requirements in this part are involved. The Customs officer concerned at the original port of Customs entry shall be informed by the inspector that such release has been made and that such change of entry or diversion is approved under this part by appropriate endorsement of Customs documents.
[25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, as amended at 62 FR 65009, Dec. 10, 1997; 66 FR 21059, Apr. 27, 2001; 75 FR 68952, Nov. 10, 2010; 84 FR 29967, June 25, 2019]
§ 352.14
Costs.
All costs incident to the inspection, handling, safeguarding, or other disposal of prohibited or restricted products or articles under the provisons in this part shall be borne by the owner. Services of the inspector during regularly assigned hours of duty at the usual places of duty shall be furnished without cost to the person requesting the services, unless a user fee is payable under § 354.3 of this chapter.
[56 FR 14844, Apr. 12, 1991]
§ 352.15
Caution.
In applying safeguards or taking other measures prescribed under the provisions in this part, it should be understood that inexactness or carelessness may result in injury or damage. It should also be understood by the owners that emergency measures prescribed by the inspector to safeguard against plant pest, noxious weed, or biological control organism dissemination may have adverse effects on certain products and articles and that they will take the calculated risk of such adverse effects of authorized measures.
[25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, as amended at 75 FR 68952, Nov. 10, 2010; 84 FR 29967, June 25, 2019]
§§ 352.16-352.28
[Reserved]
§ 352.29
Administrative instructions: Avocados from Mexico.
Avocados from Mexico may be moved through the United States to destinations outside the United States only in accordance with this section.
(a)
Permits.
Before moving the avocados through the United States, the owner must obtain a formal permit in accordance with § 352.6 of this part.
(b)
Ports.
The avocados may enter the United States only at the following ports: Galveston or Houston, Texas; the border ports of Nogales, Arizona, or Brownsville, Eagle Pass, El Paso, Hidalgo, or Laredo, Texas; or at other ports within that area of the United States specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(c)
Notice of arrival.
At the port of arrival, the owner must provide notification of the arrival of the avocados in accordance with § 352.7 of this part.
(d)
Inspection.
The owner must make the avocados available for examination by an inspector. The avocados may not be moved from the port of arrival until released by an inspector.
(e)
Shipping requirements.
The avocados must be moved through the United States either by air or in a refrigerated truck or refrigerated rail car or in refrigerated containers on a truck or rail car. If the avocados are moved in refrigerated containers on a truck or rail car, an inspector must seal the containers with a serially numbered seal at the port of arrival. If the avocados are removed in a refrigerated truck or refrigerated rail car, an inspector must seal the truck or rail car with a serially numbered seal at the port of arrival. If the avocados are transferred to another vehicle or container in the United States, an inspector must be present to supervise the transfer and must apply a new serially numbered seal. The avocados must be moved through the United States under Customs bond.
(f)
Shipping areas.
Avocados moved by truck or rail car may transit only that area of the United States bounded on the west and south by a line extending from El Paso, Texas, to Salt Lake City, Utah, to Portland, Oregon, and due west from Portland; and on the east and south by a line extending from Brownsville, Texas, to Galveston, Texas, to Kinder, Louisiana, to Memphis, Tennessee, to Louisville, Kentucky, and due east from Louisville. All cities on these boundary lines are included in this area. If the avocados are moved by air, the aircraft may not land outside this area. Avocados that enter the United States at Nogales, Arizona, must be moved to El Paso, Texas, by the route specified on the formal permit.
[52 FR 27671, July 23, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 43167, Oct. 23, 1989]
§ 352.30
Untreated oranges, tangerines, and grapefruit from Mexico.
The following provisions shall apply to the movement into or through the United States under this part of untreated oranges, tangerines, and grapefruit from Mexico in transit to foreign countries via United States ports on the Mexican border.
(a)
Untreated fruit; general
—(1)
Permit and notice of arrival required.
The owner shall, in advance of shipment of untreated oranges, tangerines, or grapefruit from Mexico via United States ports to any foreign country, procure a formal permit as provided in § 352.6, or application for permit may be submitted to the inspector at the port in the United States through which the shipment will move. Notice of arrival of such fruit shall be submitted as required by § 352.7.
(2)
Origin: period of entry.
Such fruit may enter from any State in Mexico throughout the year, in accordance with requirements of this section and other applicable provisions in this part.
(3)
Cleaning refrigerated containers prior to return to the United States from Canada.
Refrigerated containers that have been used to transport untreated oranges, tangerines, or grapefruit from Mexico through the United States to Canada shall be carefully swept and freed from all fruit, as well as boxes and rubbish, by the carrier involved prior to reentry into the United States.
(4)
Inspection; safeguards.
(i) Each shipment under paragraph (a) of this section shall be subject to such inspections and safeguards as are required by this section and such others as may be prescribed by the inspector pursuant to § 352.10.
(ii) Untreated oranges, tangerines, and grapefruit arriving from Mexico at authorized ports in the United States for movement to a foreign country shall be loaded into refrigerated containers and preinspected by an inspector for freedom of citrus leaves before entry into the United States or be accompanied by an acceptable certificate from an inspector as to such freedom. Refrigerated containers loaded with untreated oranges, tangerines, and grapefruit that are not free of such leaves will be denied entry into the United States.
(iii) All refrigerated containers used to transport untreated fruit from Mexico through the United States to a foreign country under this paragraph (a) shall be subject to any treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter at the port of first arrival and elsewhere as may be required by the inspector, pursuant to this part, in order to prevent plant pest dissemination.
(b)
Additional conditions for overland movement of certain untreated fruit.
Untreated oranges, tangerines, and grapefruit from Mexico may move overland through the United States to a foreign country only in accordance with the following additional conditions:
(1)
Ports of entry.
Such fruit may enter only at Nogales, AZ, or Eagle Pass, El Paso, or Laredo, TX.
(2)
General transit conditions.
The following conditions apply to all shipments of untreated oranges, tangerines, and grapefruit from Mexico transiting the United States for movement to a foreign country:
(i) The fruit must be packed in insect-proof boxes or crates that prevent the escape or entry of adult, larval, or pupal fruit flies.
3
3
If there is a question as to whether packaging is adequate, send a request for approval of the packaging, together with a sample of the packaging, to the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine, Center for Plant Health Science and Technology, 1730 Varsity Drive, Suite 400, Raleigh, NC 27606.
(ii) Boxes or cartons of fruit must be enclosed in sealed, refrigerated containers of the type commonly used by the maritime or commercial trucking industry. An official seal must be applied to the container at the port of entry. The seal must not be removed except by an inspector, or after the shipment has left the United States.
(iii) The temperature in the refrigerated containers in which the fruit is transported must be maintained at 60 °F or lower.
(iv) If the seal on the containers in which such fruit is shipped is found to have been broken, for any reason, before the container leaves the United States, or if the cooling system in the containers fails at any point during transit, an inspector at the port of entry must be contacted immediately.
(v) A transportation and exportation permit must be issued by an inspector for each shipment. This permit can be obtained from APHIS headquarters.
4
4
To obtain this permit, contact the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine, Permit Unit, 4700 River Road Unit 133, Riverdale, MD 20737.
(vi) If untreated fruit is transloaded to another container while in the United States, the transloading must be supervised by an inspector and a replacement official seal must be applied to the container to which the fruit is moved.
(vii) Shipments of such fruit must move by direct route, in Customs bond and under official seal, without diversion or change of entry en route, from the port of entry to the port of exit or to an approved port in the United States for export to another foreign country.
(viii) Shipments of such fruit may not traverse the counties of Cameron, Hidalgo, Starr, or Willacy, TX. Shipments of such fruit may only traverse areas listed under each type of carrier listed below.
(3)
Truck movement.
Trucks may haul refrigerated containers of such fruit from Mexico to shipside, or to approved refrigerated storage pending lading aboard ship, in Corpus Christi, Galveston, or Houston, TX, or alongside railway carriers or aircraft at the ports named in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for movement to a foreign country. Shipments of such fruit via truck may traverse only the territory within the United States bounded on the west by a line starting at Laredo, TX, on to El Paso, TX, to Salt Lake City, UT, and then to Portland, OR, and on the east by a line drawn from Laredo, TX to Hebbronville, TX, to Corpus Christi, TX, to Galveston, TX, to Kinder, LA, to Memphis, TN, and then to Louisville, KY, and routes directly northward.
(4)
Rail movement.
Shipments must move by direct route from the port of entry to the port of exit or to an approved North Atlantic port in the United States for export to another foreign country, as follows: The fruit may be entered at Nogales, AZ, only for direct rail routing to El Paso, TX, after which it shall traverse only the territory bounded on the west by a line drawn from Laredo, TX, to El Paso, TX, to Salt Lake City, UT, and then to Portland, OR, and on the east by a line drawn from Laredo, TX, to Hebbronville, TX, to Corpus Christi, TX, to Galveston, TX, to Kinder, LA, to Memphis, TN, and then to Louisville, KY, and routes directly northward. Such fruit may also enter the United States from Mexico at any port listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, for direct eastward rail movement, without diversion en route, for reentry into Mexico.
(5)
Air cargo movement.
Shipments of such fruit may move by direct route as air cargo, without change of entry while in the United States en route from the port of entry, to Canada. If an emergency occurs en route to the port of export that will require transshipment to another carrier, an inspector at the port of entry must be contacted immediately.
(c)
Additional conditions for movement of certain untreated fruit by water route.
Untreated oranges, tangerines, and grapefruit from Mexico may move from Mexico to a foreign country by water route through the United States under this section only in accordance with the following additional conditions:
(1)
Ports of entry.
Such oranges, tangerines, and grapefruit may enter only at New York, Boston, or such other North Atlantic ports in the United States as may be named in permits, for exportation, or at Galveston, Texas, for exportation by water route.
(2)
Routing through North Atlantic ports.
Such fruit entering via North Atlantic ports in the United States shall move by direct water route to New York or Boston, or to such other North Atlantic ports as may be named in the permit only for immediate direct export by water route to any foreign country, or for immediate transportation and exportation in Customs bond by direct rail route to Canada.
(d)
Restriction on diversion or change of Customs entry.
Diversion or change of Customs entry shall not be permitted with movements authorized under paragraph (b) (4) or (5) or paragraph (c) of this section and the inspector at the original port of Customs entry shall appropriately endorse the Customs documents to show that fact:
Provided,
That the inspector at such port of entry may, when consistent with the purposes of this part, approve diversion or change of Customs entry to permit movement to a different foreign country or entry into the United States subject to all other applicable requirements under this part or part 319 of this chapter. If diversion or change of Customs entry is desired at a Customs port in the United States where there is no inspector, the owner may apply to the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs for information as to applicable conditions. If diversion or change of entry is approved at such a port, confirmation will be given by the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs to appropriate Customs officers and Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs inspectors.
(e)
Untreated fruit from certain municipalities in Mexico.
Oranges, tangerines, and grapefruit in transit to foreign countries may be imported from certain municipalities in Mexico that meet the criteria of § 319.56-5 for freedom from fruit flies in accordance with the applicable conditions in part 319 of this chapter.
(f)
Treated fruit.
Oranges, tangerines, and grapefruit from Mexico that have been treated in Mexico in accordance with part 305 of this chapter may be moved through the United States ports for exportation in accordance with the regulations in part 319 of this chapter.
(g)
Costs.
Costs shall be borne by the owner of the fruit as provided in § 352.14. This includes all costs for preinspection and convoying of loaded trucks and supervision of transloading from trucks to approved carriers or storage in United States ports when augmented inspection service has to be provided for such preinspection, convoying, and supervision.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0303)
[25 FR 1929, Mar. 5, 1960, as amended at 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971; 37 FR 10554, May 25, 1972; 55 FR 23066, June 6, 1990; 56 FR 13066, Mar. 29, 1991; 67 FR 46578, July 16, 2002; 71 FR 49325, Aug. 23, 2006; 72 FR 39528, July 18, 2007; 75 FR 4253, Jan. 26, 2010; 84 FR 29967, June 25, 2019]
Pt. 353

# PART 353—EXPORT CERTIFICATION
Sec.
353.1
Definitions.
353.2
Purpose and administration.
353.3
Where service is offered.
353.4
Products covered.
353.5
Application for certification.
353.6
Inspection.
353.7
Certificates.
353.8
Accreditation of non-government facilities.
353.9
Standards for accreditation of non-government facilities to perform laboratory seed health testing and seed crop phytosanitary inspection.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7701-7772 and 7781-7786; 21 U.S.C. 136 and 136a; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.3.

# Source:
61 FR 15368, Apr. 8, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 353.1
Definitions.
Administrator.
The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.
Agent.
An individual who meets the eligibility requirements set forth in § 353.6, and who is designated by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to conduct phytosanitary field inspections of seed crops to serve as a basis for the issuance of phytosanitary certificates.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
(APHIS). The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Consignment.
One shipment of plants or plant products, from one exporter, to one consignee, in one country, on one means of conveyance; or any mail shipment to one consignee.
Export certificate for processed plant products.
A certificate (PPQ Form 578 or an approved electronic equivalent) issued by an inspector, describing the plant health condition of processed or manufactured plant products based on inspection of submitted samples and/or by virtue of the processing received.
Family.
An inspector or agent and his or her spouse, their parents, children, and first cousins.
Industry-issued certificate.
A certificate issued by a representative of the concerned agricultural or forestry industry under the terms of a written agreement with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, giving assurance that a plant product has been handled, processed, or inspected in a manner required by a foreign government. An industry-issued certificate includes an ISPM 15 quality/treatment mark.
Inspector.
An employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or a State or county plant regulatory official designated by the Secretary of Agriculture to inspect and certify to shippers and other interested parties, as to the phytosanitary condition of plant products inspected under the Act.
Non-government facility.
A laboratory, research facility, inspection service, or other entity that is maintained, at least in part, for the purpose of providing laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services and that is not operated by the Federal Government or by the government of a State or a subdivision of a State.
Office of inspection.
The office of an inspector of plants and plant products covered by this part.
Phytosanitary certificate.
A certificate (PPQ Form 577 or an approved electronic equivalent) issued by an inspector, giving the phytosanitary condition of domestic plants or unprocessed or unmanufactured plant products based on inspection of the entire lot or representative samples drawn by a Federal or State employee authorized to conduct such sampling.
Phytosanitary certificate for reexport.
A certificate (PPQ Form 579 or an approved electronic equivalent) issued by an inspector, giving the phytosanitary condition of foreign plants and plant products legally imported into the United States and subsequently offered for reexport. The certificate certifies that, based on the original foreign phytosanitary certificate and/or additional inspection or treatment in the United States, the plants and plant products are considered to conform to the current phytosanitary regulations of the receiving country and have not been subjected to the risk of infestation or infection during storage in the United States. Plants and plant products which transit the United States under Customs bond are not eligible to receive the phytosanitary certificate for reexport.
Plant pests.
Any living stage of any insects, mites, nematodes, slugs, snails, protozoa, or other invertebrate animals, bacteria, fungi, other parasitic plants or reproductive parts thereof, viruses, or any organisms similar to or allied with any of the foregoing, or any infectious substances, which can directly or indirectly injure or cause disease or damage in any plants or parts thereof, or other products of plants.
Plant products.
Products derived from nursery stock, other plants, plant parts, roots, bulbs, seeds, fruits, nuts, and vegetables, including manufactured or processed products.
Plants and plant products.
Nursery stock, other plants, plant parts, roots, bulbs, seeds, fruits, nuts, vegetables and other plant products, including manufactured or processed products.
Reference Manual A.
The
Reference Manual for Administration, Procedures, and Policies of the National Seed Health System,
published by the National Seed Health System (NSHS). Reference Manual A describes the structure, administration, procedures, policies, and working practices of the NSHS and also contains relevant documentation, forms, and references for the NSHS. Reference Manual A is incorporated by reference at § 300.3 of this chapter, and
is available by writing to Phytosanitary Issues Management, Operational Support, PPQ, APHIS, 4700 River Road Unit 140, Riverdale, MD 20737-1236, and on the APHIS Web site at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/ppq/pim/accreditation.
Reference Manual B.
The
Reference Manual for Seed Health Testing and Phytosanitary Field Inspection Methods,
published by the National Seed Health System (NSHS). Reference Manual B contains the detailed seed health testing, seed sampling, and inspection procedures for the NSHS. Reference Manual B is incorporated by reference at § 300.4 of this chapter, and is available by writing to Phytosanitary Issues Management, Operational Support, PPQ, APHIS, 4700 River Road Unit 140, Riverdale, MD 20737-1236, and on the APHIS Web site at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/ppq/pim/accreditation.
State.
Any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands of the United States.
The Act.
Title IV of Public Law 106-224, 114 Stat. 438, 7 U.S.C. 7701-7772, which was enacted June 20, 2000.
[61 FR 15368, Apr. 8, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 1105, Jan. 8, 1999; 64 FR 72264, Dec. 27, 1999; 65 FR 50131, Aug. 17, 2000; 66 FR 21059, Apr. 27, 2001; 66 FR 37116, July 17, 2001; 66 FR 37400, July 18, 2001; 67 FR 8466, Feb. 25, 2002; 72 FR 35917, July 2, 2007; 81 FR 40151, June 21, 2016]
§ 353.2
Purpose and administration.
The export certification program does not require certification of any exports, but does provide certification of plants and plant products as a service to exporters. After assessing the phytosanitary condition of the plants or plant products intended for export, relative to the receiving country's regulations, an inspector issues an internationally recognized phytosanitary certificate, a phytosanitary certificate for reexport, or an export certificate for processed plant products if warranted. APHIS also enters into written agreements with industry to allow the issuance of industry-issued certificates giving assurance that a plant product has been handled, processed, or inspected in a manner required by a foreign government. An industry-issued certificate includes an ISPM 15 quality/treatment mark.
[61 FR 15368, Apr. 8, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 72264, Dec. 27, 1999; 72 FR 35917, July 2, 2007; 81 FR 40151, June 21, 2016]
§ 353.3
Where service is offered.
(a) Information concerning the location of inspectors who may issue certificates for plants and plant products may be obtained by contacting one of the following regional offices:
Region
States
Northeastern, Blason II, 1st Floor, 505 South Lenola Road, Moorestown, NJ 08057
CT, ME, MA, NH, RI, VT, NY, NJ, PA, MD, DE, VA, WI, MN, IL, IN, OH, MI, WV.
Southeastern, 3505 25th Avenue, Building 1, North, Gulfport, MS 39501
FL, AL, GA, KY, MS, TN, NC, SC, PR, US VI.
Central, 3505 Boca Chica Blvd., Suite 360, Brownsville, TX 78521-4065
TX, OK, NE, AR, KS, LA, IA, MO, ND, SD.
Western, 9580 Micron Avenue, Suite I, Sacramento, CA 95827
HI, CA, CO, ID, MT, UT, WY, WA, OR, NV, NM, AZ, AK.
(b) Inspectors who may issue phytosanitary certificates for terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR part 17 or 23 are available only at a port designated for export in 50 CFR part 24, or at a nondesignated port if allowed by the U.S. Department of the Interior pursuant to section 9 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1538). The following locations are designated in 50 CFR part 24 as ports for export of terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR part 17 or 23:
(1) Any terrestrial plant listed in 50 CFR part 17 or 23:
Nogales, AZ
Los Angeles, CA
San Diego, CA
San Francisco, CA
Miami, FL
Orlando, FL
Honolulu, HI
New Orleans, LA
Hoboken, NJ (Port of New York)
Jamaica, NY
San Juan, PR
Brownsville, TX
El Paso, TX
Houston, TX
Laredo, TX
Seattle, WA
(2) Any plant of the family Orchidaceae (orchids) listed in 50 CFR part 17 or 23:
Hilo, HI
Chicago, IL
(3) Roots of American ginseng (
Panax quinquefolius
) listed in 50 CFR 23.23:
Atlanta, GA
Chicago, IL
Baltimore, MD
St. Louis, MO
Milwaukee, WI
(4) Any plant listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23 and offered for exportation to Canada:
Detroit, MI
Buffalo, NY
Rouses Point, NY
Blaine, WA
(5) Any logs and lumber from trees listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23:
Mobile, AL
Savannah, GA
Baltimore, MD
Gulfport, MS
Wilmington and Morehead City, NC
Portland, OR
Philadelphia, PA
Charleston, SC
Norfolk, VA
Vancouver, WA
(6) Plants of the species
Dionaea muscipula
(Venus flytrap):
Wilmington, NC
§ 353.4
Products covered.
Plants and plant products when offered for export or re-export.
§ 353.5
Application for certification.
(a) To request the services of an inspector, a written application (PPQ Form 572) shall be made as far in advance as possible, and shall be filed in the office of inspection at the port of certification. Forms will be submitted using a U.S. Government electronic information exchange system or other authorized method.
(b) Each application shall be deemed filed when delivered to the proper office of inspection. When an application is filed, a record showing the date and time of filing shall be made in such office.
(c) Only one application for any consignment shall be accepted, and only one certificate for any consignment shall be issued.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0052)
[61 FR 15368, Apr. 8, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 72264, Dec. 27, 1999; 72 FR 35917, July 2, 2007; 81 FR 40151, June 21, 2016]
§ 353.6
Inspection.
Inspections shall be performed by agents, by inspectors, or by employees of a State plant protection agency who are authorized by the agency to perform field inspections in accordance with this part and who have successfully completed training in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section. Employees of a State plant protection agency who are not agents may perform field inspections only under the supervision of an inspector.
(a)
Agent.
(1) Agents may conduct phytosanitary field inspections of seed crops in cooperation with and on behalf of those State plant regulatory agencies electing to use agents and maintaining a Memorandum of Understanding with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in accordance with the regulations. The Memorandum of Understanding must state that agents shall be used in accordance with the regulations in this part. Agents are not authorized to issue Federal phytosanitary certificates, but are only authorized to conduct the field inspections of seed crops required as a basis for determining phytosanitary condition prior to the issuance of a phytosanitary certificate for the crops.
(2) To be eligible for designation as an agent, an individual must:
(i) Have the ability to recognize, in the crops he or she is responsible for inspecting, plant pests, including symptoms and/or signs of disease-causing organisms, of concern to importing countries.
(ii) Have a bachelor's degree in the biological sciences, and a minimum of 1 year's experience in identifying plant pests endemic to crops of commercial importance within the cooperating State, or a combination of higher education in the biological sciences and experience in identifying such plant pests, as follows:
0 years education and 5 years experience;
1 year education and 4 years experience;
2 years education and 3 years experience;
3 years education and 2 years experience; or
4 years education and 1 year experience.
The years of education and experience do not have to be acquired consecutively.
(iii) Successfully complete annual training provided by the State plant regulatory agency. The required training must include instruction in inspection procedures, identification of plant pests of quarantine importance to importing countries, methods of collection and submission of specimens (organisms and/or plants or plant parts) for identification, and preparation and submission of inspection report forms approved by the State plant regulatory agency.
(iv) Have access to Federal or State laboratories for the positive identification of plants pests detected.
(3) No agents shall inspect any plants or plant products in which they or a member of their family are directly or indirectly financially interested.
(b)
Inspector.
(1) An employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or a State or county regulatory official designated by the Secretary of Agriculture to inspect and certify to shippers and other interested parties, as to the phytosanitary condition of plants and plant products inspected under the Act.
(2) To be eligible for designation as an inspector, a State or county plant regulatory official must:
(i) Have a bachelor's degree in the biological sciences, and a minimum of 1 year's experience in Federal, State or county plant regulatory activities, or a combination of higher education in the biological sciences and experience in State plant regulatory activities, as follows:
0 years education and 5 years experience;
1 year education and 4 years experience;
2 years education and 3 years experience;
3 years education and 2 years experience; or
4 years education and 1 year experience.
The years of education and experience do not have to be acquired consecutively.
(ii) Successfully complete, as indicated by receipt of a passing grade, the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service training course on phytosanitary certification.
(3) No inspectors shall inspect any plants or plant products in which they or a member of their family are directly or indirectly financially interested.
(c)
Applicant responsibility.
(1) When the services of an agent or an inspector are requested, the applicant shall make the plant or plant product accessible for inspection and identification and so place the plant or plant product to permit physical inspection of the lot for plant pests.
(2) The applicant must furnish all labor involved in the inspection, including the moving, opening, and closing of containers.
(3) Certificates may be refused for failure to comply with any of the foregoing provisions.
§ 353.7
Certificates.
(a)
Phytosanitary certificate (PPQ Form 577).
(1) For each consignment of domestic plants or unprocessed plant products for which certification is requested, the inspector shall sign and issue a separate certificate based on the findings of the inspection.
(2) The original certificate shall immediately upon its issuance be delivered or mailed to the applicant or a person designated by the applicant.
(3) One copy of each certificate shall be filed in the office of inspection at the port of certification, and one forwarded to the Administrator.
(4) The Administrator may authorize inspectors to issue certificates on the basis of inspections made by cooperating Federal, State, and county agencies. The Administrator may also authorize inspectors to issue a certificate on the basis of a laboratory test or an inspection performed by a non-government facility accredited in accordance with § 353.8.
(5) Inspectors may issue new certificates on the basis of inspections for previous certifications when the previously issued certificates can be canceled before they have been accepted by the phytopathological authorities of the country of destination involved.
(b)
Export certificate for processed plant products (PPQ Form 578).
(1) For each consignment of processed plant products for which certification is requested, the inspector shall sign and
issue a certificate based on the inspector's findings after inspecting submitted samples and/or by virtue of processing received.
(2) The original certificate shall immediately upon its issuance be delivered or mailed to the applicant or a person designated by the applicant.
(3) One copy of each certificate shall be filed in the office of inspection at the port of certification.
(4) The Administrator may authorize inspectors to issue certificates on the basis of inspections made by cooperating Federal, State, and county agencies. The Administrator may also authorize inspectors to issue a certificate on the basis of a laboratory test or an inspection performed by a non-government facility accredited in accordance with § 353.8.
(5) Inspectors may issue new certificates on the basis of inspections/processing used for previous certifications.
(c)
Phytosanitary certificate for reexport (PPQ Form 579).
(1) For each consignment of foreign origin plants or unprocessed plant products for which certification is requested, the inspector shall sign and issue a certificate based on the original foreign phytosanitary certificate and/or additional inspection or treatment in the United States after determining that the consignment conforms to the current phytosanitary regulations of the receiving country and has not been subjected to the risk of infestation or infection during storage in the United States.
(2) The original certificate shall immediately upon its issuance be delivered or mailed to the applicant or a person designated by the applicant.
(3) One copy of each certificate shall be filed in the office of inspection at the port of certification, and one forwarded to the Administrator.
(4) The Administrator may authorize inspectors to issue certificates on the basis of inspections made by cooperating Federal, State, and county agencies. The Administrator may also authorize inspectors to issue a certificate on the basis of a laboratory test or an inspection performed by a non-government facility accredited in accordance with § 353.8.
(5) Inspectors may issue new certificates on the basis of inspections for previous certifications when the previously issued certificates can be canceled before they have been accepted by the phytopathological authorities of the country of destination involved.
(d)
Industry-issued certificate.
A certificate issued under the terms of a written agreement between the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and an agricultural or forestry company or association giving assurance that a plant product has been handled, processed, or inspected in a manner required by a foreign government. An industry-issued certificate includes an ISPM 15 quality/treatment mark. The certificate may be issued by the individual who signs the agreement or his/her delegate.
(1)
Contents of written agreement.
In each written agreement, APHIS shall agree to cooperate and coordinate with the signatory agricultural or forestry company or association to facilitate the issuance of industry-issued certificates and to monitor activities under the agreement, and the concerned agricultural or forestry company or association agrees to comply with the requirements of the agreement. Each agreement shall specify the articles subject to the agreement and any measures necessary to prevent the introduction and dissemination into specified foreign countries of specified injurious plant pests. These measures could include such treatments as refrigeration, heat treatment, kiln drying, etc., and must include all necessary preshipment inspections and subsequent sign-offs and product labeling as identified by Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ), APHIS, based on the import requirements of the foreign country.
(2)
Termination of agreement.
An agreement may be terminated by any signatory to the agreement by giving written notice of termination to the other party. The effective date of the termination will be 15 days after the date of actual receipt of the written notice. Any agreement may be immediately withdrawn by the Administrator if he or she determines that articles covered by the agreement were moved in violation of any requirement of this chapter or any provision of the agreement. If the withdrawal is oral,
the decision to withdraw the agreement and the reasons for the withdrawal of the agreement shall be confirmed in writing as promptly as circumstances permit. Withdrawal of an agreement may be appealed in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receipt of the written notification of the withdrawal. The appeal shall state all of the facts and reasons upon which the appellant relies to show that the agreement was wrongfully withdrawn. The Administrator shall grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for granting or denying the appeal as promptly as circumstances permit. If there is a conflict as to any material fact and the person from whom the agreement is withdrawn requests a hearing, a hearing shall be held to resolve the conflict. Rules of practice concerning the hearing shall be adopted by the Administrator. No written agreement will be signed with an individual or a company representative of the concerned agricultural or forestry company or association who has had a written agreement withdrawn during the 12 months following such withdrawal, unless the withdrawn agreement was reinstated upon appeal.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0052 and 0579-0147)
[61 FR 15368, Apr. 8, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 1105, Jan. 8, 1999; 64 FR 72265, Dec. 27, 1999; 66 FR 37116, July 17, 2001; 72 FR 35917, July 2, 2007]
§ 353.8
Accreditation of non-government facilities.
(a) The Administrator may accredit a non-government facility to perform specific laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services if the Administrator determines that the non-government facility meets the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section.
1
1
A list of accredited non-government facilities may be obtained by writing to Phytosanitary Issues Management, PPQ, APHIS, 4700 River Road, Unit 140, Riverdale, MD 20737-1236.
(1) A non-government facility's compliance with the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section shall be determined through an assessment of the facility and its fitness to conduct the laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services for which it seeks to be accredited. If, after evaluating the results of the assessment, the Administrator determines that the facility meets the accreditation criteria, the facility's application for accreditation will be approved.
(2) The Administrator may deny accreditation to, or withdraw the accreditation of, any non-government facility to conduct laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services upon a determination that the facility does not meet the criteria for accreditation or maintenance of accreditation under paragraph (b) of this section and has failed to take the remedial action recommended to correct identified deficiencies.
(i) In the case of a denial, the operator of the facility will be informed of the reasons for the denial and may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receiving notification of the denial. The appeal must include all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the facility was wrongfully denied accreditation. The Administrator will grant or deny the appeal in writing as promptly as circumstances permit, stating the reason for his or her decision. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflict. Rules of practice concerning the hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.
(ii) In the case of withdrawal, before such action is taken, the operator of the facility will be informed of the reasons for the proposed withdrawal. The operator of the facility may appeal the proposed withdrawal in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after being informed of the reasons for the proposed withdrawal. The appeal must include all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the reasons for the proposed withdrawal are incorrect or do not support the withdrawal of the accreditation of the facility. The Administrator will grant or deny the appeal in writing as promptly as circumstances permit, stating the reason for his or her decision. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflict. Rules of practice
concerning the hearing will be adopted by the Administrator. However, withdrawal shall become effective pending final determination in the proceeding when the Administrator determines that such action is necessary to protect the public health, interest, or safety. Such withdrawal will be effective upon oral or written notification, whichever is earlier, to the operator of the facility. In the event of oral notification, written confirmation will be given as promptly as circumstances allow. This withdrawal will continue in effect pending the completion of the proceeding, and any judicial review thereof, unless otherwise ordered by the Administrator.
(3) The Administrator will withdraw the accreditation of a non-government facility if the operator of the facility informs APHIS in writing that the facility wishes to terminate its accredited status.
(4) A non-government facility whose accreditation has been denied or withdrawn may reapply for accreditation using the application procedures in paragraph (b) of this section. If the facility's accreditation was denied or withdrawn under the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the facility operator must include with the application written documentation specifying what actions have been taken to correct the conditions that led to the denial or withdrawal of accreditation.
(5) All information gathered during the course of a non-government facility's assessment and during the term of its accreditation will be treated by APHIS with the appropriate level of confidentiality, as set forth in the U.S. Department of Agriculture's administrative regulations in § 1.11 of this title.
(b)
Criteria for accreditation of non-government facilities.
(1) Specific standards for accreditation in a particular area of laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection are set forth in this part and may be obtained by writing to APHIS. If specific standards for accreditation in a particular area of laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection have not been promulgated by APHIS, and the Administrator determines that accreditation in that area is practical, APHIS will develop appropriate standards applicable to accreditation in the area for which the non-government facility is seeking accreditation and publish a notice of proposed rulemaking in the
Federal Register
to inform the public and other interested persons of the opportunity to comment on and participate in the development of those standards.
(2) The operator of a non-government facility seeking accreditation to conduct laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection shall submit an application to the Administrator. The application must be completed and signed by the operator of the facility or his or her authorized representative and must contain the following:
(i) Legal name and full address of the facility;
(ii) Name, address, and telephone and fax number of the operator of the facility or his or her authorized representative;
(iii) A description of the facility, including its physical plant, primary function, scope of operation, and, if applicable, its relationship to a larger corporate entity; and
(iv) A description of the specific laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services for which the facility is seeking accreditation.
(3) Upon receipt of the application, APHIS will review the application to identify the scope of the assessment that will be required to adequately review the facility's fitness to conduct the laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services for which it is seeking accreditation. Before the assessment of the facility begins, the applicant's representative must agree, in writing, to fulfill the accreditation procedure, especially to receive the assessment team, to supply any information needed for the evaluation of the facility, and to enter into a trust fund agreement as provided by paragraph (c) of this section to pay the fees charged to the applicant facility regardless of the result of the assessment and to pay the charges of subsequent maintenance of the accreditation of the facility. Once the agreement has been signed, APHIS will assemble an assessment team and commence the assessment as soon as circumstances permit. The assessment
team will measure the facility's fitness to conduct the laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services for which it is seeking accreditation against the specific standards identified by the Administrator for those services by reviewing the facility in the following areas:
(i)
Physical plant.
The facility's physical plant (e.g., laboratory space, office space, greenhouses, vehicles, etc.) must meet the criteria identified in the accreditation standards as necessary to properly conduct the laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services for which it seeks accreditation.
(ii)
Equipment.
The facility's personnel must possess or have unrestricted access to the equipment (e.g., microscopes, computers, scales, triers, etc.) identified in the accreditation standards as necessary to properly conduct the laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services for which it seeks accreditation. The calibration and monitoring of that equipment must be documented and conform to prescribed standards.
(iii)
Methods of testing or inspection.
The facility must have a quality manual or equivalent documentation that describes the system in place at the facility for the conduct of the laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services for which the facility seeks accreditation. The manual must be available to, and in use by, the facility personnel who perform the services. The methods and procedures followed by the facility to conduct the laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services for which it seeks accreditation must be commensurate with those identified in the accreditation standards and must be consistent with or equivalent to recognized international standards for such testing or inspection.
(iv)
Personnel.
The management and facility personnel accountable for the laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services for which the facility is seeking accreditation must be identified and must possess the training, education, or experience identified in the accreditation standards as necessary to properly conduct the testing or inspection services for which the facility seeks accreditation, and that training, education, or experience must be documented.
(4) To retain accreditation, the facility must agree to:
(i) Observe the specific standards applicable to its area of accreditation;
(ii) Be assessed and evaluated on a periodic basis by means of proficiency testing or check samples;
(iii) Demonstrate on request that it is able to perform the tests or inspection services representative of those for which it is accredited;
(iv) Resolve all identified deficiencies;
(v) Notify APHIS as soon as possible, but no more than 10 days following its occurrence, of any change in key management personnel or facility staff accountable for the laboratory testing or phytosanitary inspection services for which the facility is accredited; and
(vi) Report to APHIS as soon as possible, but no more than 10 days following its occurrence, any change involving the location, ownership, physical plant, equipment, or other conditions that existed at the facility at the time accreditation was granted.
(c)
Fees and trust fund agreement.
The fees charged by APHIS in connection with the initial accreditation of a non-government facility and the maintenance of that accreditation shall be adequate to recover the costs incurred by the government in the course of APHIS' accreditation activities. To cover those costs, the operator of the facility seeking accreditation must enter into a trust fund agreement with APHIS under which the operator of the facility will pay in advance all estimated costs that APHIS expects to incur through its involvement in the pre-accreditation assessment process and the maintenance of the facility's accreditation. Those costs shall include administrative expenses incurred in those activities, such as laboratory fees for evaluating check test results, and all salaries (including overtime and the Federal share of employee benefits), travel expenses (including per diem expenses), and other incidental expenses incurred by the APHIS in performing those activities. The operator of the facility must deposit a certified or cashier's check with APHIS for the amount of the costs, as estimated by
APHIS. If the deposit is not sufficient to meet all costs incurred by APHIS, the operator of the facility must deposit another certified or cashier's check with APHIS for the amount of the remaining costs, as determined by APHIS, before APHIS' services will be completed. After a final audit at the conclusion of the pre-accreditation assessment, any overpayment of funds will be returned to the operator of the facility or held on account until needed for future activities related to the maintenance of the facility's accreditation.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0130)
[64 FR 1105, Jan. 8, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 37400, July 18, 2001]
§ 353.9
Standards for accreditation of non-government facilities to perform laboratory seed health testing and seed crop phytosanitary inspection.
(a)
Application for accreditation, certification of accreditation, and monitoring of accredited facilities.
A facility may apply to be accredited to perform laboratory seed health testing or seed crop phytosanitary inspection, or to renew such accreditation, by submitting an application in accordance with § 353.8(b)(2) of this part. If there are portions of the application deemed to contain trade secret or confidential business information (CBI), each page of the application containing such information should be marked “CBI Copy.” The application must be accompanied by a copy of the facility's quality manual and a nonrefundable application fee of $1,000. The applicant must make additional deposits to cover the costs of gaining and maintaining accreditation into a trust fund established in accordance with § 353.8(c) of this part upon request by the Administrator.
(1) Upon determining that a facility is eligible for accreditation, the Administrator will issue the facility a certificate of accreditation. Accreditation will be for a period of 3 years from the date of issuance of the certificate of accreditation and may be renewed by submitting a new application and application fee in accordance with this paragraph.
(2) The Administrator may deny or withdraw accreditation in accordance with § 353.8(a)(2) of this part. A facility may appeal denial of accreditation in accordance with § 353.8(a)(2)(i) of this part, and may appeal withdrawal of accreditation in accordance with § 353.8(a)(2)(ii) of this part.
(3) A facility that has been denied accreditation or had its accreditation withdrawn may not reapply within 60 days of the date the facility was notified in writing that accreditation was denied or withdrawn.
(4) After a facility is accredited, the facility must allow APHIS access to the facility and all of its equipment and records for the purpose of conducting unannounced audits to determine the facility's continuing eligibility for accreditation. Such audits will occur at least once a year and may be performed more frequently at the discretion of the Administrator.
(b)
Standards for accreditation.
A facility that, in accordance with § 353.8(b)(2) of this part, applies to be accredited to perform laboratory seed health testing or seed crop phytosanitary inspection will be evaluated for accreditation against these standards:
(1)
Physical plant.
The facility's physical plant (e.g., laboratory space, office space, greenhouses, vehicles, etc.) must:
(i) Have laboratory and office spaces enclosed by walls and locking doors to prevent unauthorized access;
(ii) Conform to all State and local zoning and other ordinances; and
(iii) Provide a work area that is dedicated to laboratory functions and has sufficient space to conduct the required tests and store the materials and samples required for the tests in a manner that prevents contamination by other samples in the laboratory and from other sources.
(2) The facility must have access to all equipment required to conduct the laboratory testing or seed crop phytosanitary inspections for which it is accredited. Specific test methodologies, materials, and the calibration and monitoring of the equipment must conform to Reference Manual B, which is incorporated by reference at § 300.4 of this chapter. The general requirements for each test category are as follows:
(i)
Seed crop phytosanitary inspections.
Seed crop phytosanitary inspection may also include related activities such as collection of seed samples for later laboratory testing, visual inspection of seed just prior to export, and inspection of greenhouses or growth chambers where plants are grown for seed production, as well as visual inspection of seed crops. In the field, inspectors must use accurate field maps, hand lenses, and secure containers for the collection, storage, and transportation of samples. Inspectors must have direct access to a laboratory that is fully equipped to carry out any necessary diagnostic tests needed for field samples.
(ii)
Direct visual examination.
Visual examination of seed requires a stereo microscope. Visual examination of tissue requires a compound light microscope. Visual examination of loosely attached or accompanying material requires a centrifuge and shaker.
(iii)
Incubation.
Required equipment includes incubation chambers, laminar flow hoods, media preparation equipment, scales, pH meters, distilled and sterile water, gas burners, an autoclave, and the appropriate media for the specified tests.
(iv)
Grow-out tests.
Grow-out tests require a greenhouse, growth chamber, or an outdoor quarantine location, and access to a laboratory that is fully equipped to carry out any required diagnostic tests.
(v)
Serological tests.
These tests require grinding, extraction, and sample purification equipment; fluorescent microscopes; plate readers; spectrophotometers; and the appropriate assay materials; or the appropriate equipment to use field ready test kits.
(vi)
DNA probes.
To conduct these tests, a laboratory must be equipped with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) equipment, including thermal cyclers, electrophoresis and gel blotting equipment, and the reagents and DNA polymerases necessary to conduct the PCR.
(3)
Methods of testing and inspection.
The facility must conduct its laboratory seed health testing and seed crop phytosanitary inspection procedures in accordance with Reference Manual B. The facility must have a quality manual documenting its quality system for laboratory seed health testing and seed crop phytosanitary inspection procedures. The quality system must follow the general guidelines described in ANSI/ASQC Q9001-1994,
American National Standard: Quality Systems-Model for Quality Assurance in Design, Development, Production, Installation and Servicing.
Acceptable models for quality systems for accredited facilities are also described in detail in Reference Manual A, which is incorporated by reference at § 300.3 of this chapter. The personnel who perform the testing and inspection services must comply with the quality manual, and management must enforce this compliance. The facility must maintain documented procedures for identification, collection, indexing, access, filing, storage, maintenance, and disposition of quality system records. The facility must maintain quality system records to demonstrate conformance to the quality manual and the effective operation of the quality system.
(4)
Personnel.
There must be a selection procedure and a training system to ensure technical competence of all staff members. The education, technical knowledge, and experience required to perform assigned test and inspection functions must be documented and clearly defined. In addition:
(i) Evaluation of plant or tissue samples must be undertaken by a plant pathologist or by laboratory technicians under the supervision of a plant pathologist, who may provide such supervision either on-site, or from a remote location. Where personnel are required to be trained at a facility to evaluate the particular types of plants or tissue samples handled by the facility, the training program must be evaluated by APHIS and determined to be effective.
(ii) All staff must have access to and be familiar with the reference materials, guides, and manuals required for the routine performance of the tests and inspections they conduct.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0130)
[66 FR 37400, July 18, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 8466, Feb. 25, 2002]
Pt. 354

# PART 354—OVERTIME SERVICES RELATING TO IMPORTS AND EXPORTS; AND USER FEES
Sec.
354.1
Overtime work at border ports, sea ports, and airports.
354.2
Administrative instructions prescribing commuted traveltime.
354.3
User fees for certain international services.
354.4
User fees for certain domestic services.
354.5
Penalties for nonpayment or late payment of user fees.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7701-7772, 7781-7786, and 8301-8317; 21 U.S.C. 136 and 136a; 49 U.S.C. 80503; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.3.
§ 354.1
Overtime work at border ports, sea ports, and airports.
(a)(1) Any person, firm, or corporation having ownership, custody, or control of plants, plant products, animals, animal byproducts, or other commodities or articles subject to inspection, laboratory testing, certification, or quarantine under this chapter and subchapter D of chapter I, title 9 CFR, who requires the services of an employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection on a Sunday or holiday, or at any other time outside the regular tour of duty of that employee, shall sufficiently in advance of the period of Sunday, holiday, or overtime service request the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection inspector in charge to furnish the service during the overtime or Sunday or holiday period, and shall pay the Government at the rate listed in the following table, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii), and (a)(3) of this section:
Overtime for Inspection, Laboratory Testing, Certification, or Quarantine of Plant, Plant Products, Animals, Animal Products or Other Regulated Commodities
Outside the employee's normal tour of duty
Overtime rates (per hour)
Nov. 2, 2015-Sept. 30, 2016
Oct. 1, 2016-Sept. 30, 2017
Beginning
Oct. 1, 2017
Monday through Saturday and holidays
$75
$75
$75
Sundays
99
99
100
(i) For any services performed on a Sunday or holiday, or at any time after 5 p.m. or before 8 a.m. on a weekday, in connection with the arrivals in or departure from the United States of a private aircraft or vessel, the total amount payable shall not exceed $25 for all inspection services performed by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Public Health Service, and the Department of Agriculture;
(ii) Owners and operators of aircraft will be provided service without reimbursement during regularly established hours of service on a Sunday or holiday; and
(iii) The overtime rate to be charged owners or operators of aircraft at airports of entry or other places of inspection as a consequence of the operation of the aircraft, for work performed outside of the regularly established hours of service is listed in the following table:
Overtime for Commercial Airline Inspection Services
1
Outside the employee's normal tour of duty
Overtime rates (per hour)
Nov. 2, 2015-Sept. 30, 2016
Oct. 1, 2016-Sept. 30, 2017
Beginning
Oct. 1, 2017
Monday through Saturday and holidays
$64
$65
$65
Sundays
85
86
86
1
These charges exclude administrative overhead costs.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, a minimum charge of 2 hours shall be made for any Sunday or holiday or unscheduled overtime duty performed by an employee on a day when no work was scheduled for him or her, or which is performed by an employee on his or her regular workday beginning either at least 1 hour before his or her scheduled tour of duty or which is not in direct continuation of the employee's regular tour of duty. In addition, each such period of Sunday or holiday or unscheduled overtime work to which the 2-hour minimum charge provision applies may include a commuted traveltime period (CTT) the amount of which shall be prescribed in administrative instructions to be issued by the Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection for the areas in which the Sunday or holiday or overtime work is performed and such period shall be established as nearly as may be practicable to cover the time necessarily spent in reporting to and returning from the place at which the employee performs such Sunday or holiday or overtime duty. With respect to places of duty within the metropolitan area of the employee's headquarters, such CTT period shall not exceed 3 hours. It shall be administratively determined from time to time which days constitute holidays. The circumstances under which such CTT periods shall be charged and the percentage applicable in each circumstance are as reflected in the following table:
Actual time
1
charge—no minimum
2-hour guarantee charge
Commuted
2
traveltime (CTT) charge
Charges for Inspection Within Metropolitan Area of Employee's Headquarters
Work beginning before daily tour begins:
8 to 59 minutes
Yes
No
None.
60 to 119 minutes
Yes
1/2
CTT.
120 minutes or more
Yes
Full CTT.
Work beginning after daily tour ends:
Direct continuation
Yes
No
None.
Break-in-service of:
2-29 minutes
Yes
None.
30-60 minutes
Yes
1/2
CTT.
61 minutes or more
Yes
Full CTT.
Charges for Inspection Services Performed Outside Metropolitan Area of Employee's Headquarters
Work beginning before daily tour begins:
8 to 59 minutes
Yes
No
1/2
CTT.
60 minutes or more
Yes
Full CTT.
Work beginning after daily tour ends:
Direct continuations
Yes
No
1/2
CTT.
2-59 minutes
No
Yes
1/2
CTT.
60 minutes or more
No
Yes
Full CTT.
Charges for Call Out Inspection Service on Holiday or Nonworkday
Work beginning at any time
No
Yes
Full CTT.
1
Actual time charged when work is contiguous with the daily tour will be in quarter hour multiples, with service time of 8 minutes or more rounded up to the next quarter hour and any time of less than 8 minutes will be disregarded.
2
The full CTT allowance will be the amount of commuted traveltime prescribed for the place at which the inspections are performed. See § 354.2. One-half CTT is
1/2
of the full CTT period.
(3) The overtime rate and all other charges, including minimum and commute compensation charges, to be billed for services provided by an employee of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall be charged according to the provisions of this section, 5 CFR part 551, or 19 CFR 24.16.
(b) The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection inspector in charge of honoring a request to furnish inspection, laboratory testing, quarantine or certification service, shall assign employees to such Sunday or holiday or overtime duty with due regard to the work program and availability of employees for duty.
(c) As used in this section—
(1) The term
private aircraft
means any civilian aircraft not being used to transport persons or property for compensation or hire, and
(2) The term
private vessel
means any civilian vessel not being used (i) to transport persons or property for compensation or hire, or (ii) in fishing operations or in processing of fish or fish products.
(d)(1) Any principal, or any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity acting as an agent or broker by requesting Sunday, holiday, or overtime services of an Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection inspector on behalf of any other person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity (principal), and who has not previously requested such service from an Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection inspector, must pay the inspector before service is provided.
(2) Since the payment must be collected before service can be provided, the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection inspector will estimate the amount to be paid. Any difference between the inspector's estimate and the actual amount owed to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection will be resolved as soon as reasonably possible following the delivery of service, with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection either returning the difference to the agent, broker, or principal, or billing the agent, broker, or principal for the difference.
(3) The prepayment must be in some guaranteed form, such as money order, certified check, or cash. Prepayment in guaranteed form will continue until the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection determines that the agent, broker, or principal has established an acceptable credit history.
(4) For security reasons, cash payments will be accepted only from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m., and only at a location designated by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection inspector.
(e)(1) Any principal, or any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity requesting Sunday, holiday, or overtime services of an Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection inspector, and who has a debt to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection more than 60 days delinquent, must pay the inspector before service is provided.
(2) Since the payment must be collected before service can be provided, the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection inspector will estimate the amount to be paid. Any difference between the inspector's estimate and the actual amount owed to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection will be resolved as soon as reasonably possible following the delivery of service, with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection either returning the difference to the agent, broker, or principal, or billing the agent, broker, or principal for the difference.
(3) The prepayment must be in some guaranteed form, such as money order, certified check, or cash. Prepayment in guaranteed form will continue until the debtor pays the delinquent debt.
(4) For security reasons, cash payments will be accepted only from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m., and only at a location designated by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection inspector.
(f) Reimbursable Sunday, holiday, or overtime services will be denied to any principal, or any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity who has a debt to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or U.S. Customs and Border Protection more than 90 days delinquent. Services will be denied until the delinquent debt is paid.
[49 FR 1173, Jan. 10, 1984, as amended at 49 FR 12186, Mar. 29, 1984; 49 FR 19441, May 8, 1984; 52 FR 16822, May 6, 1987; 53 FR 52975, Dec. 30, 1988; 54 FR 13506, Apr. 4, 1989; 55 FR 3198, Jan. 31, 1990; 55 FR 41059, Oct. 9, 1990; 56 FR 1082, Jan. 11, 1991; 58 FR 32434, June 10, 1993; 67 FR 48523, July 25, 2002; 68 FR 51882, Aug. 29, 2003; 80 FR 59566, Oct. 2, 2015]
§ 354.2
Administrative instructions prescribing commuted traveltime.
Each period of overtime and holiday duty, as defined in § 354.1 shall, in addition, include a commuted traveltime
period for the respective ports, stations, and areas in which employees are located. The prescribed commuted traveltime periods are set forth below:
Commuted Traveltime Allowances
[In hours]
Location covered
Served from—
Metropolitan area
Within
Outside
Alabama:
Birmingham (including Birmingham Municipal Airport)
Alabaster
2
Birmingham (including Birmingham Municipal Airport)
Pelham
2
Chickasaw
Mobile
2
Huntsville
1
Mobile
2
Montgomery
1
Undesignated ports
3
Alaska:
Anchorage
1
Seward
Anchorage
6
Undesignated ports
3
Arizona:
Davis-Monthan AFB, Tucson
Nogales
4
Douglas
1
Douglas
Nogales
6
Fort Huachuca Army Base, Sierra Vista
Douglas or Nogales
3
Fort Huachuca Army Base, Sierra Vista
Tucson
4
Nogales
2
Phoenix
2
Phoenix
Nogales
6
Phoenix
Tucson
5
San Luis
2
Sasabe
Nogales
4
Tucson
1
Tucson
Nogales
3
Yuma International airport
1
Undesignated ports
3
Arkansas:
Dardanelle
Conway
3
Dardanelle
Little Rock
3
Eaker AFB
Blytheville
1
Fort Smith
Conway
5
Fort Smith
Little Rock
6
Helena
Blytheville
5
Helena
Little Rock
5
Little Rock
1
Little Rock
Conway
2
Little Rock AFB
2
Little Rock AFB
Conway
2
Osceola
Blytheville
2
Pine Bluff
Conway
4
Pine Bluff
Little Rock
2
Undesignated ports
3
West Memphis
Blytheville
3
Bahamas:
Nassau
1
Freeport
1
Bermuda:
Ferry Reach
1
California:
Andrade
Calexico
2
Antioch
San Francisco
4
Bakersfield
Shafter
1
Beale AFB
Sacramento
4
Burbank
Los Angeles
3
Calexico
1
Camp Pendleton, USMC, Oceanside
San Diego
3
Castle AFB
Merced
1
Edwards AFB
Ontario
4
El Segundo
Los Angeles
2
El Toro MCAS
Los Angeles
3
Fairfield
Stockton
4
Fresno
Shafter
5
Fresno
Stockton
5
Hanford
Shafter
5
Lemoore
Shafter
5
George AFB
Los Angeles
4
Hamilton AFB, Novato
Travis AFB
3
Los Angeles (including San Pedro, Los Angeles Harbor, Los Angeles International Airport, Long Beach Harbor, and Long Beach Municipal Airport)
2
March AFB
Los Angeles
4
March AFB
Ontario
3
Martinez
San Francisco
3
Mather Field AFB
Travis AFB
3
Mather Airfield
Sacramento
3
Mather AFB
Stockton
3
McClellan AFB
Sacramento
3
McClellan AFB
Stockton
4
McClellan AFB
Travis AFB
3
Merced/Atwater (Old Castle AFB)
Stockton
3
Moffett Field NAS, Sunnyside
San Francisco
3
Moffett Field NAS, Sunnyside
San Jose
2
Monterey
San Jose
5
Monterey
San Francisco
6
Moss Beach Landing
San Jose
4
Norton AFB
Los Angeles
4
Ontario
Los Angeles
3
Palm Springs International Airport
Ontario
4
Pittsburg
San Francisco
4
Port Chicago
San Francisco
3
Port Hueneme
Port Hueneme
1
Port Hueneme
San Pedro
4
Redwood City
San Francisco
2
Richmond
San Francisco
3
Rodeo
San Francisco
3
Sacramento
1
Sacramento
San Francisco
5
Sacramento
San Jose
6
Sacramento
Stockton
3
Sacramento
Travis AFB
2
Sacramento International Airport
Sacramento
3
Sacramento Metropolitan Airport
Stockton
4
Sacramento Metropolitan Airport
Travis AFB
3
Sacramento Seaport
Sacramento
2
San Bernardino International Airport (Old Norton AFB)
Ontario
2
San Diego (including Mexican border at San Ysidro; Brown, Gillespie, and Lindbergh Fields, Imperial Beach; North Island, Miramar and Naval and Civilian Maritime within the San Diego Unified Port District)
2
San Diego
Los Angeles
6
San Francisco (including Alameda, Oakland, San Francisco International Airport, and Oakland International Airport)
2
San Francisco
San Jose
4
San Jose
2
San Jose
Sacramento
5
San Jose
San Francisco
4
San Jose
Stockton
5
San Luis Obispo Seaport
Port Hueneme
5
Santa Barbara Airport
Port Hueneme
2
Seal Beach
Los Angeles
2
Southern California International Airport (Old George AFB)
Ontario
3
Stockton
1
Stockton
Sacramento
3
Stockton
San Jose
4
1/2
Tecate
San Ysidro
3
Travis AFB
1
Travis AFB
San Francisco
4
Vallejo
San Francisco
2
Undesignated ports
3
Canada:
Vancouver, BC (including Richmond)
Blaine
4
Colorado:
Denver (including Stapleton International Airport)
2
Ent AFB (Peterson Field)
Denver
5
Stapleton International Airport
Ft. Collins
4
Connecticut:
Bridgeport
Groton
4
Bridgeport
Wallingford
2
Bridgeport
Warwick, RI
6
Bridgeport
Windsor Locks
4
Groton (including New London)
Wallingford
4
Groton (including New London)
Warwick, RI
4
Groton (including New London)
Windsor Locks
4
Groton (including New London)
2
New Haven
Groton
3
New Haven
Wallingford, CT
1
New Haven
Warwick, RI
6
New Haven
Windsor Locks
3
Windsor Locks (including Bradley Field)
1
Windsor Locks (including Bradley Field)
Boston, MA
6
Windsor Locks (including Bradley Field)
Groton
4
Windsor Locks (including Bradley Field)
Hadley, MA
2
Windsor Locks (including Bradley Field)
Wallingford
3
Windsor Locks (including Bradley Field)
Warwick, RI
6
Undesignated ports
3
Delaware:
Dover
1
Dover
Wilmington
3
1/2
Wilmington (including NCCA, Delaware City, and Claymont)
2
Wilmington (including NCCA, Delaware City, and Claymont)
Dover
3
Wilmington
Philadelphia, PA
3
Wilmington
Baltimore, MD
5
Wilmington
Bridgeton
3
Wilmington
Trenton
3
District of Columbia:
Washington, DC Metropolitan area (including Arlington and Alexandria, VA; Andrews AFB, MD; and Washington Navy Yard)
Andrews AFB, MD
2
Washington, DC Metropolitan area (including Arlington and Alexandria, VA; Andrews AFB, MD; and Washington Navy Yard)
Baltimore, MD
2
Washington, DC Metropolitan area (including Arlington and Alexandria, VA; Andrews AFB, MD; and Washington Navy Yard)
Beltsville, MD
2
Washington, DC Metropolitan area (including Arlington and Alexandria, VA; Andrews AFB, MD; and Washington Navy Yard)
Dulles International Airport, VA
2
1/2
Florida:
Apalachicola
Panama City
3
Apalachicola
Pensacola
6
Boca Grande
Tampa
5
Eglin AFB
Panama City
3
Eglin AFB
Pensacola
3
Fort Lauderdale
2
Fort Meyers
Tampa
5
Fort Myers
Fort Myers
2
Fort Myers
Palmetto
5
Fort Pierce
1
Fort Pierce
West Palm Beach
3
Jacksonville
2
Key West
1
Marathon
Key West
2
Miami
2
Orlando
2
Orlando
Port Canaveral
3
Orlando
Ocoee
2
Panama City
1
Panama City
Mobile, AL
7
Panama City
Pensacola
5
Patrick AFB
1
Pensacola
1
Pensacola
Mobile, AL
3
Pensacola
Panama City
5
Pompano Beach
Fort Lauderdale
3
Port Canaveral
1
Port Everglades
2
Port St. Joe
Panama City
2
Port St. Joe
Pensacola
6
St. Petersburg/Clearwater
Tampa
2
Tampa
2
West Palm Beach
1
Undesignated ports
3
Georgia:
Atlanta
2
Brunswick
2
Brunswick
Savannah
4
Columbus
Atlanta
4
Marietta
Atlanta
2
St. Mary's
Brunswick
3
St. Mary's
Jacksonville, FL
3
Savannah
2
Undesignated ports
3
Hawaii:
Barbers Point NAS
Honolulu
2
Barking Sands NAS
Lihue
3
Hakalau
Hilo
2
Hilo
1
Honolulu
2
Kaanapali, Lahaina, Maui
Kahului, Maui
2
Kaanapali, Lahaina (Maui)
Honolulu
6
Kahului, Maui
1
Kahului, Maui
Honolulu
4
Kailua, Kona
Hilo
5
Kailua, Kona
Keahole
1
Kalapana
Hilo
2
Kaneohi MCAS
Honolulu
2
Kapaa
Lihue
2
Kapahi
Lihue
2
Keaau
Hilo
1
Keahole
1
Keauhou
Honolulu
5
Keauhou
Keahole
2
Kurtistown
Hilo
2
Lihue Airport
Lihue
1
Lihue, Kauai
1
Lihue, Kauai
Honolulu
5
Mahaiula
Keahole
2
Mt. View
Hilo
2
Napili-Kapalua
Maui
3
Nawiliwili
Lihue
1
Pepeekeo
Hilo
2
Poipu
Lihue
3
Port Allen
Lihue
3
Princeville
Lihue
3
South Kohala
Hilo
4
Umauma
Hilo
2
Wahiawa, Oahu
Honolulu
2
Wailea-Makena
Maui
2
West Loch, Pearl Harbor
Honolulu
2
Undesignated ports
3
Idaho:
Mountain Home AFB
Caldwell
3
Mountain Home AFB
Twin Falls
4
Illinois:
Chicago
3
Undesignated ports
3
Indiana:
Burns Harbor (including Gary)
Frankfort
5
Evansville
Franklin
6
Gary
Hanna
2
Indianapolis
Frankfort
3
Indianapolis
Franklin
2
Indianapolis
1
Mount Vernon
Franklin
6
Undesignated ports
3
Iowa:
Davenport
Des Moines
6
Des Moines
1
Soiux City
Des Moines
6
Undesignated ports
Des Moines
6
Kansas:
Johnson County Industrial
Kansas City, MO
2
Topeka
Kansas City, MO
3
Topeka
Wichita
6
Wichita
1
1/2
Kentucky:
Covington
Lexington
4
Fort Campbell
Brentwood, TN
4
Fort Campbell
Jackson, TN
5
Greater Cincinnati Airport
Erlanger, KY
2
Greater Cincinnati Airport
Louisville, KY
1
Greater Cincinnati Airport
Louisville, KY
4
Louisville
Erlanger
4
Louisville
Lexington
4
Undesignated ports
3
Louisiana:
Barksdale AFB, Shreveport
Baton Rouge
6
Barksdale AFB, Shreveport
Monroe
4
Barksdale AFB
Shreveport
1
1/2
Baton Rouge (including Port Allen)
2
Buras
New Orleans
4
Burnside
Baton Rouge
3
Cameron
Lake Charles
3
Carlyss
Lake Charles
2
Clifton Ridge
Lake Charles
2
Convent
Baton Rouge
3
Donaldsonville
Baton Rouge
3
England Air Park
Baton Rouge
5
England Air Park
Shreveport
5
England Air Park
Monroe
4
Fouchon
New Orleans
5
Geismar
Baton Rouge
2
Hackberry
Lake Charles
2
Lake Charles
Baton Rouge
5
Lake Charles
Port Arthur, TX
3
Lake Charles
1
Morgan City
New Orleans
4
New Orleans
2
Ostrica
New Orleans
4
Plaquemine
Baton Rouge
2
Port of Tallulah
Baton Rouge
6
Port of Tallulah
West Monroe
3
St. Gabriel
Baton Rouge
2
St. James
Baton Rouge
3
Uncle Sam
Baton Rouge
3
Venice
New Orleans
4
Points on the Mississippi River above the St. Charles-Jefferson Parish boundary to and including Gramercy, LA: any point below Chalmette, LA, on the east bank; and Belle Chasse, LA, and points to and including Port Sulphur on the west bank
New Orleans
3
Undesignated ports
3
Maine:
Bangor
1
Bangor
Augusta
3
Bath
Portland
2
Brunswick NAS
Portland
2
Brunswick NAS
Augusta
2
Bucksport
Bangor
2
Cousins Island
Portland
1
Eastport
Bangor
6
Harpswell
Portland
2
Kittery
Portland
3
Portland
1
Portland
Augusta
3
Portland
Manchester, NH
6
Searsport
Augusta
4
Searsport
Bangor
3
Wiscasset
Portland
3
Winterport
Bangor
2
Undesignated ports
3
Maryland:
Aberdeen Proving Ground
Baltimore
3
Andrews AFB
2
Andrews AFB
Baltimore
3
1/2
Andrews AFB
Beltvsille
2
Andrews AFB
Dulles International Airport, VA
2
1/2
Annapolis
Baltimore
3
Baltimore
3
Baltimore
Andrews AFB
3
1/2
Cambridge
Baltimore
4
Cambridge
Dover, DE
4
Piney Point
Baltimore
5
Piney Point
Beltsville
4
Salisbury
Dover, DE
3
Salisbury
Baltimore
4
Undesignated ports
Dover, DE, or Dulles International Airport, VA
3
(For other points in Maryland, see DC listing)
Massachusetts:
Boston
3
Boston
New Bedford
5
Fall River
Boston
5
Fall River
New Bedford
2
Fall River
Warwick, RI
3
Gloucester
Boston
4
New Bedford
1
New Bedford
Boston
5
New Bedford
Warwick, RI
3
Otis ANG/CGNS
Boston
6
Otis ANG/CGNS
New Bedford
3
Otis ANG/CGNS
Warwick, RI
5
Plymouth
Warwick, RI
3
Provincetown
Warwick, RI
6
Sandwich
Boston
6
Sandwich
New Bedford
3
Sandwich
Warwick, RI
4
Somerset
Boston
4
Somerset
New Bedford
2
Westover AFB
Boston
6
Westover AFB
Hadley
1
1/2
Westover AFB
Windsor Locks, CT
2
Woods Hole
Boston
6
Woods Hole
New Bedford
3
Woods Hole
Warwick, RI
5
Undesignated ports
Boston, New Bedford, MA and Warwick, RI
3
Undesignated ports
Windsor Locks, CT
3
Mexico:
Camargo
Roma, TX
1
Ciudad Acuna
Del Rio, TX
1
Ciudad Acuna
Eagle Pass, TX
3
Ciudad Acuna
Laredo, TX
6
Ciudad Acuna
Pleasanton, TX
6
Ciudad Juarez
El Paso, TX
1
Matamoros
Brownsville, TX
1
Mier
Roma, TX
1
Nuevo Cd. Guerrero
Roma, TX
1
Nuevo Laredo
Del Rio, TX
4
Nuevo Laredo
Eagle Pass, TX
5
Nuevo Laredo
Laredo, TX
1
Nuevo Laredo
Pharr, TX
6
Nuevo Laredo
Pleasanton, TX
5
Nuevo Progreso
Progreso, TX
1
Ojinaga
El Paso, TX
6
Ojinago
Presidio
1
Piedras Negras
Eagle Pass, TX
1
Piedras Negras
Laredo, TX
5
Piedras Negras
Pharr, TX
10
Piedras Niegros
Pleasanton, TX
5
Reynosa Eagle
Pass, TX
12
Reynosa
Hidalgo, TX
1
Reynosa
Laredo, TX
5
Reynosa
Mission, TX
1
Reynosa
Pharr, TX
1
San Jeronimo
Presidio, TX
6
San Jeronimo
Santa Theresa, NM
1
Michigan:
Battle Creek
Grand Rapids
3
Bay City
Mt. Pleasant
3
Detroit (including Detroit Metropolitan Airport, and Willow Run Airport)
Romulus/Detroit
3
Kent County Airport
Grand Rapids
1
Muskegon
Grand Rapids
2
Pontiac
Romulus
4
Saginaw
Mt. Pleasant
3
Selfridge AFB
Port Huron
3
Minnesota:
Duluth
2
Duluth
Minneapolis
6
Minneapolis-St. Paul
2
Mississippi:
Greenville
Jackson
5
Gulfport
1
Jackson
1
Keesler AFB
Gulfport
1
Natchez
Brookhaven
4
Pascagoula
Gulfport
2
Pascagoula
Mobile, AL
3
Port Bienville
Gulfport
2
Vicksburg
Jackson
3
Undesignated ports
3
Missouri:
Kansas City
1
Kansas City
St. Charles
6
Kansas City International Airport
1
Kansas City International Airport
St. Louis
6
Richards-Gebaur AFB
Kansas City
2
Rosecrans AFB
Kansas City
3
St. Louis and St. Louis International Airport
St. Louis
2
Whiteman, AFB
Kansas City
4
Montana:
Butte International Airport
Billings
6
Great Falls International Airport
Great Falls
1
Nebraska:
Omaha (including Offutt AFB)
Lincoln
3
Nevada:
Las Vegas
1
Reno
1
New Hampshire:
Keene Airport, Keene
Groton
6
Lebanon
Manchester
5
Manchester
2
Newington
Manchester
4
Newington
Portland, ME
3
Pease AFB
Manchester
4
Pease AFB
Portland, ME
3
Portsmouth
Manchester
4
Portsmouth
Portland, ME
3
Undesignated ports
Manchester
3
New Jersey:
Atlantic City
McGuire AFB
3
Atlantic City
Mullica Hill
2
1/2
Burlington
Trenton
1
Coast Guard Station, Cape May
Mullica Hill
4
Deepwater
Mullica Hill
2
Hammonton
Mullica Hill
2
Hammonton
Trenton
3
Lakehurst NAS
McGuire AFB
2
Leonardo
McGuire AFB
4
Leonardo
Trenton
4
McGuire AFB
Mullica Hill
3
McGuire AFB
Trenton
2
McGuire AFB, Wrightstown
2
Paulsboro
Mullica Hill
1
1/2
Paulsboro
Philadelphia, PA
3
Salem
McGuire AFB
3
Salem
Trenton
3
Trenton
2
New Mexico:
Albuquerque
1
Columbus
Deming
1
1/2
Columbus
El Paso, TX
6
Columbus
Las Cruces
4
Holloman AFB, Alamogordo
El Paso, TX
4
Santa Teresa
El Paso, TX
1
1/2
Santa Teresa
Las Cruces
1
1/2
Undesignated ports
3
New York:
Alexandria Bay
Oneida
5
Buffalo
2
Chateaugay (including Churubusco and Cannon Corners)
Rouses Point
3
Corning
Avoca
2
Corning
Big Flats
1
Farmingdale
Westhampton Beach
3
Islip
Westhampton Beach
2
Jamaica, Long Island
2
Lewiston
Buffalo
2
Massena
Rouses Point
5
New York
3
Niagara Falls
Buffalo
2
Ogendsburg
Rouses Point
6
Oswego
Buffalo
6
Oswego
Canandaigua
4
Oswego
Oneida
3
Plattsburgh
Rouses Point
3
Rochester
Avoca
3
Rochester
Buffalo
4
Rochester
Canandaigua
2
Rooseveltown
Rouses Point
5
Rouses Point (including Champlain)
Rouses Point
2
Syracuse
1
Syracuse
Buffalo
6
Syracuse
Canandaigua
3
Syracuse
Oneida
2
Watertown
Oneida
4
Westhampton ANG
Westhampton
1
Undesignated ports
Buffalo or Rouses Point
3
North Carolina:
Camp Lejeune
Morehead City
2
Camp Lejeune
Wilmington
3
Charlotte
2
Charlotte
Burlington
5
Charlotte
Greensboro
4
Charlotte International Airport
Laurinburg
5
Cherry Point
Goldsboro
4
Cherry Point
Morehead City
2
Elizabeth City
1
Fort Bragg
Fayetteville
2
Greensboro
1
1/2
Greensboro
Charlotte
4
Greensboro
Fayetteville
4
1/2
Greensboro
Laurinburg
6
Morehead City
1
Morehead City
Clinton
4
Morehead City
Goldsboro
4
New River MCAS
Morehead City
3
Pope AFB
Clinton
2
1/2
Pope AFB
Fayetteville
1
1/2
Pope AFB
Goldsboro
4
Raleigh
Clinton
4
Raleigh
Fayetteville
4
Raleigh
Goldsboro
4
Raleigh
Raleigh
2
Seymour-Johnson AFB
Goldsboro
1
Sunny Point Army Terminal, Southport
Wilmington
2
Wilmington
1
Undesignated ports
3
Ohio:
Akron
Cleveland
2
Ashtabula
Cleveland
3
Cincinnati
Columbus
6
Cincinnati
Dayton
3
Cincinnati
Toledo
6
Cincinnati
Washington Court House
3
Cleveland
2
Cleveland
Toledo
5
Columbus
2
Columbus
Cleveland
6
Columbus
Dayton
4
Columbus
Toledo
6
Columbus
Washington Court House
3
Dayton
2
Dayton
Columbus
4
Dayton
Toledo
6
Dayton
Washington Court House
3
Fairport Harbor
Cleveland
2
Greater Cincinnati Airport (Boone County, KY)
Erlanger, KY
2
Lorraine
Cleveland
2
Lunken Airport
Erlanger, KY
1
Rickenbacker AFB
Cleveland
6
Rickenbacker AFB
Washington Court House
3
Toledo
2
Toledo
Cleveland
5
Toledo
Romulus, MI
4
Undesignated ports
3
Oklahoma:
Altus AFB
Oklahoma City
6
Altus AFB
Elk City
3
Oklahoma City
Tulsa
6
Port of Muskogee
Tulsa
2
Port Arrow
Tulsa
1
Port of Catoosa
Tulsa
1
Port of Rogers Terminal
Tulsa
1
Port of Verdigris
Tulsa
1
Tulsa
1
Tulsa International Airport
Oklahoma City
6
Tulsa International Airport
Tulsa
1
Tinker AFB, Oklahoma City
1
Will Rogers World Airport, Oklahoma City
1
Undesignated ports
Oklahoma City
3
Undesignated ports
3
Oregon:
Astoria
Portland
5
Portland
2
The Dalles
Ellensburg, WA
6
Undesignated ports
3
Pennsylvania:
Allentown-Bethlehem Easton Airport
Carlisle
5
Allentown-Bethlehem
Dallas
5
Chester
Philadelphia
3
Chester
Wilmington, DE
1
Easton Airport
Gap
5
Erie
Buffalo, NY, or Cleveland, OH
4
Erie
Meadville
3
Erie
Mercer
4
Erie
Pittsburgh
6
Greater Pittsburgh International Airport
Cleveland, OH
6
Greater Pittsburgh International Airport
Meadville
5
Greater Pittsburgh International Airport
Mercer
4
Greater Pittsburgh International Airport
Pittsburgh
3
Harrisburg International Airport
Carlisle
2
Harrisburg International Airport
Dallas
6
Harrisburg International Airport
Gap
4
Harrisburg International Airport
Philadelphia
5
Harrisburg International Airport
Williamsport
6
Lehigh Valley International Airport, Allentown
Gap
4
Lehigh Valley International Airport, Allentown
Sweet Valley
4
Marcus Hook
Philadelphia
3
Marcus Hook
Wilmington, DE
1
Philadelphia
3
Philadelphia
Bridgeton
3
Philadelphia
McGuire Air Force Base
3
Philadelphia
Trenton
3
Philadelphia
Wilmington, DE
3
Tullytown
Philadelphia
3
Wilkes-Barre/Scranton International Airport
Dallas
2
Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Airport
Williamsport
6
Willow Grove NAS
Philadelphia
3
Undesignated ports
Dallas or Gap
3
Puerto Rico:
Aguadilla
Mayaguez
2
Aguirre
Ponce
3
Arecibo
San Juan
3
Borinquen Field
Mayaguez
2
Fajardo
Roosevelt Road
1
Fajardo
San Juan
3
Guanica
Mayaguez
2
Guanica
Ponce
2
Guayama
Ponce
3
Guayanilla
Ponce
2
Humacao and Yabucoa
San Juan
4
Mayaguez (including points from Ramey to Cabo Rojo)
San Juan
5
Mayaguez and El Mani Airport
1
Ponce (including all subports in the Ponce customs district)
San Juan
4
Ponce and Mercedita Airport
1
Roosevelt Roads
1
San Juan
2
Tallaboa (Penuelas)
Ponce
2
Yabucoa
Roosevelt Roads
3
Undesignated ports
3
Rhode Island:
Davisville NSD
Boston, MA
4
Davisville NSD
Warwick
2
Melville
Warwick
3
Newport
Boston, MA
5
Newport
Warwick
4
Portsmouth
Warwick
3
Providence
Boston, MA
4
Providence
Warwick
2
Quonset Point
Boston, MA
4
Quonset Point
Warwick
2
Saunderstown
Warwick
3
Tiverton
Warwick
3
Warwick
2
Warwick
Groton, CT
4
Undesignated ports
3
South Carolina:
Beaufort-Port Royal
Charleston
4
Beaufort-Port Royal
Savannah
3
Beaufort-Port Royal
Yamassee
3
Charleston
2
Columbia
Charleston
4
Columbia
1
Georgetown
Charleston
3
Greenville-Spartanburg
1
McEntire NG Air Base
Columbia
2
McEntire NG Air Base, Eastover
Charleston
4
Myrtle Beach AFB
Charleston
4
Myrtle Beach AFB
Conway
1
Shaw AFB
Columbia and Florence
2
Shaw AFB, Sumter
Charleston
4
Undesignated ports
3
South Dakota:
Ellsworth AFB
Pierre
6
Tennessee:
Knoxville
1
Memphis
2
Memphis
Jackson
4
Memphis International Airport
Batesville, MS
2
1/2
Millington
Jackson
4
Millington
Memphis
2
Nashville
2
Nashville
Jackson
6
Undesignated ports
3
Texas:
Aransas Pass
Corpus Christi
2
1/2
Barbour's Cut
Houston
2
Bayport
Houston
2
Baytown
Houston
2
Beaumont
Port Arthur
2
Beaumont
Lake Charles
3
Brownsville
1
Brownsville
Pharr
3
Carswell Field, Fort Worth
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport
3
Columbia
Laredo
2
Corpus Christi
Corpus Christi
2
Corpus Christi NAS
Corpus Christi
2
Dallas
1
Dallas (including Love Field)
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport
1
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport
1
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport
Decatur
2
Del Rio
1
Del Rio
Eagle Pass
3
Donna
Hidalgo
2
Dyess AFB
Abilene
1
Eagle Pass
1
El Paso
1
Fabens
El Paso
2
Falcon Heights
Roma
1
1/2
Freeport
Galveston or Houston
3
Fort Hood
College Station
5
Fort Hood
Waco
3
Galveston
1
Galveston
Houston
4
Gregory
Corpus Christi
2
Houston (including Houston Intercontinental Airport)
Bellville
4
Houston (including Houston Intercontinental Airport)
Bryan
4
Houston (including Houston Intercontinental Airport)
Georgetown
8
Houston (including Houston Intercontinental Airport)
Pleasanton
8
Ingleside and Harbor Island (Port Aransas)
Corpus Christi
3
Harlingen
1
Harlingen
McAllen
2
Hidalgo
Brownsville
3
Houston (Including Houston Intercontinental Airport)
2
Kelly AFB
San Antonio
2
La Feria
Hidalgo
2
Laredo
1
Laughlin AFB
Del Rio
1
Meacham Field
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport
2
Mercedes
Hidalgo
2
Orange
Port Arthur
2
Pharr (Includes Hidalgo and McAllen International Airport
1
1/2
Point Comfort
1
Point Comfort
Victoria
2
Port Arthur
1
Port Arthur
Lake Charles, LA
3
Port Isabel
Brownsville
2
Presidio
1
Progreso
1
Progreso
Brownsville or Hidalgo
2
Progreso
Harlingen
1
1/2
Randolph AFB
San Antonio
2
Robert Grey Army Airfield
College Station
5
Robert Grey Army Airfield
San Antonio
6
Robert Grey Army Airfield
Waco
3
Rockport
Corpus Christi
3
Roma
Brownsville
5
Roma
Laredo
4
Roma (Includes Rio Grande City)
1
Roma
Pharr
3
Sabine Pass
Port Arthur
1
San Antonio
1
Texas City
Galveston
1
Weslaco
Hidalgo
2
Undesignated ports
3
Utah:
Salt Lake City International Airport
2
Hill Air Force Base, Ogden
Salt Lake City
4
Vermont:
Alburg
Berlin
5
Alburg
Rouses Point, NY
1
Alburg
St. Albans
2
Battleboro
Berlin
5
Battleboro
St. Albans
6
Burlington
Montpelier
3
Burlington
St. Albans
1
Derby Line
Berlin
5
Derby Line
St. Albans
5
Highgate Springs
Berlin
4
Highgate Springs
St. Albans
2
Montpelier
1
Richford
Berlin
5
Richford
St. Albans
3
St. Albans (including Highgate Springs and Morses Line)
Rouses Point, NY
3
Undesignated ports
Montpelier
3
Undesignated ports
Rouses Point, NY
3
Undesignated ports
St. Albans
3
Virgin Islands:
Alexander Hamilton Airport, St. Croix
1
Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas
1
Christiansted, St. Croix
1
Cruz Bay, St. John, USVI
St. Thomas, USVI
3
Frederiksted, St. Croix
1
Undesignated ports
3
Virginia:
Alexandria or Arlington
Andrews AFB, MD
2
Alexandria or Arlington
Dulles International Airport
2
1/2
Alexandria or Arlington
Beltsville, MD
2
Dulles International Airport
2
Dulles International Airport
Baltimore, MD
3
Dulles International Airport
Beltsville, MD
2
1/2
Dulles International Airport
Fredericksburg
3
Hopewell
Norfolk
5
Norfolk Metropolitan Area (including Chesapeake, Hampton, Newport News, Portsmouth and Virginia Beach)
2
Quantico MCAS
Dulles International Airport
3
Quantico MCAS
Fredericksburg
1
1/2
Richmond
Norfolk
5
Undesignated ports
3
(For other points in Virginia, see District of Columbia listing)
Washington:
Aberdeen
Seattle, maritime port
4
Anacortes
Blaine
3
Ault Field
Blaine
4
Bangor NSO
Seattle, maritime port
4
Bellingham
Blaine
2
Blaine
1
Brewster
Ellensberg
6
Brewster
Spokane
6
Brewster
Wenatchee
4
Cherry Point
Blaine
1
Edmonds
Seattle, maritime port
2
Ellensburg
1
Everett
Seattle, maritime port
3
Ferndale
Blaine
2
Fort Lewis
Tacoma
2
Grays Harbor
Seattle, maritime port
6
Grays Harbor
Tacoma
4
Hood River
Ellensburg
6
Lynden
Blaine
2
McChord AFB
Seattle, maritime port
3
McChord AFB
Tacoma
2
Moses Lake
Ellensburg
3
Moses Lake
Wenatchee
3
Olympia
Seattle, maritime port
3
Olympia
Tacoma
2
Oroville
1
Paine Field
Seattle, maritime port
3
Pasco
Ellensburg
5
Pasco
Spokane
6
Pasco
Wenatchee
6
Point Wells
Seattle, maritime port
2
Port Angeles
Seattle, maritime port
6
Port Angeles
Tacoma
6
Port Townsend
Seattle, maritime port
4
Sawyer
Ellensburg
3
Sawyer
Wenatchee
5
SEA TAC Airport
2
Seattle, maritime port
2
Sumas
Blaine
2
Tacoma
2
Wenatchee
1
Wenatchee
Ellensburg
4
Wenatchee
Spokane
6
Yakima
1
Yakima
Ellensburg
3
Yakima
Wenatchee
6
West Virginia:
Kanawha Airport
Charleston
1
Kanawha Airport
Clarksburg
6
Wisconsin:
Green Bay
Milwaukee
4
Kenosha
Milwaukee
2
Madison
Milwaukee
4
Milwaukee
1
Milwaukee
Madison
4
1/2
Milwaukee
O'Hare International Airport, Chicago, IL
5
Racine
Milwaukee
2
Superior
Duluth, MN
1
Undesignated ports
Duluth, MN or Milwaukee
3
Wyoming:
Cheyanne
1
Temporary detail:
Any inspection point to which an employee may be temporarily detailed
1
[49 FR 32332, Aug. 14, 1984]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 354.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 354.3
User fees for certain international services.
(a)
Definitions.
Whenever in this section the following terms are used, unless the context otherwise requires, they shall be construed, respectively, to mean:
APHIS.
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).
Arrival.
Arrival at a port of entry, as listed in 19 CFR 101.3 or as defined by 19 CFR 101.1, in the customs territory of the United States or at any place serviced by any such port of entry.
Calendar year.
The period from January 1 to December 31, inclusive, of any particular year.
Cascadia.
British Columbia and those ports of entry into the United States lying south of 59°26′59.316″ N, north of 43°23′34.152″ N, west of 122°20′31.2″ W, and east of 135°20′2.4″ W.”
Certificate.
Any certificate issued by or on behalf of APHIS describing the condition of a shipment of plants or plant products for export, including but not limited to Phytosanitary Certificate (PPQ Form 577), Export Certificate for Processed Plant Products (PPQ Form 578), and Phytosanitary Certificate for Reexport (PPQ Form 579).
Commercial aircraft.
Any aircraft used to transport persons or property for compensation or hire.
Commercial purpose.
The intention of receiving compensation or making a gain or profit.
Commercial railroad car.
Any carrying vehicle, measured from coupler to coupler and designed to operate on railroad tracks, other than a locomotive or a caboose.
Commercial shipment.
A shipment for gain or profit.
Commercial truck.
Any self-propelled vehicle, including an empty vehicle or a truck cab without a trailer, which is designed and used for the transportation of commercial merchandise or for the transportation of non-commercial merchandise on a for-hire basis.
Commercial vessel.
Any watercraft or other contrivance used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water to transport property for compensation or hire, with the exception of any aircraft or ferry.
Customs and Border Protection (CBP).
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
Customs territory of the United States.
The 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.
Designated State or county inspector.
A State or county plant regulatory official designated by the Secretary of Agriculture to inspect and certify to shippers and other interested parties as to the phytosanitary condition of plant products inspected under the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.
).
Great Lakes.
The Great Lakes of North America and the waters of the St. Lawrence River west of a rhumb line drawn from Cap de Rosiers to West Point, Anticosti Island, and west of a
line along 63° W. longitude from Anticosti Island to the north shore of the St. Lawrence River.
Passenger.
A natural person for whom transportation is provided, including infants, whether a separate ticket or travel document is issued for the infant, or the infant or toddler occupies a seat, or the infant or toddler is held or carried by another passenger.
Person.
An individual, corporation, partnership, trust, association, or any other public or private entity, or any officer, employee, or agent thereof.
(b)
Fee for inspection of commercial vessels of 100 net tons or more.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, the master, licensed deck officer, or purser of any commercial vessel which is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D, and which is either required to make entry at the customs house under 19 CFR 4.3 or is a U.S.-flag vessel proceeding coastwise under 19 CFR 4.85, shall, upon arrival, proceed to CBP and pay an agricultural quarantine and inspection (AQI) user fee. The base AQI user fee for each arrival is shown in table 1. The fee will be paid for each arrival regardless of the number of arrivals taking place in the course of a single voyage.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)(1)—Fee for Inspection of Commercial Vessels of 100 Net Tons or More
Effective date
Amount
October 1, 2024
$2,903.73
October 1, 2025
2,981.17
October 1, 2026
3,059.61
October 1, 2027
3,139.06
(2) The following categories of commercial vessels are exempt from paying an AQI user fee:
(i) Commercial cruise vessels carrying passengers paying fees under paragraph (f) of this section;
(ii) Any vessel which, at the time of arrival, is being used solely as a tugboat;
(iii) Vessels used exclusively in the governmental service of the United States or a foreign government, including any agency or political subdivision of the United States or a foreign government, so long as the vessel is not carrying persons or merchandise for commercial purposes;
(iv) Vessels arriving in distress or to take on fuel, sea stores, or ship's stores;
(v) Tugboats towing vessels on the Great Lakes; and
(vi) Vessels returning to the United States after traveling to Canada solely to take on fuel.
(3) If not otherwise exempt from paying the fee, a vessel traveling solely between the United States and Canada and within the Great Lakes or Cascadia may pay the AQI user fee for each arrival as the fee is shown in table 2, provided that the vessel:
(i) Is not carrying cargo originating from countries other than the United States or Canada.
(ii) Is not carrying plants or plant products.
(iii) Is not carrying animals or animal products.
(iv) Is not carrying soil or quarry products from areas in Canada listed in § 319.77-3 of this chapter as being infested with gypsy moth.
(v) Is not carrying wood packaging material as defined under § 319.40-1 of this chapter.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
b
)(3)—Fee for Inspection of Commercial Vessels Traveling Solely Between the United States and Canada and Within the Great Lakes or Cascadia, and Not Otherwise Exempt
Effective date
Amount
October 1, 2024
$837.51
October 1, 2025
850.03
October 1, 2026
862.54
October 1, 2027
875.06
(c)
Fee for inspection of commercial trucks
—(1)
On-arrival payment.
Upon arrival at a CBP port of entry, the driver
or other person in charge of a commercial truck that is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or under 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D, must tender the AQI user fees to CBP, unless they have been prepaid as provided for in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. APHIS strongly encourages electronic remittance of fees. The fee applies to all commercial trucks, regardless of what they are carrying, as well as empty trucks and truck cabs (see table 3).
Table 3 to Paragraph (
c
)(1)—Fee for Inspection of Commercial Trucks
Effective date
Amount
(per arrival)
Amount
(prepaid
annual fees)
October 1, 2024
$12.40
$622.00
October 1, 2025
13.45
808.20
October 1, 2026
14.50
870.60
October 1, 2027
15.55
935.40
Note:
The per arrival fee has been rounded down to the next $0.05 (five-cent) increment to facilitate border operations. Additionally, the prepaid fees are set at 50 times the unrounded fee rate of $12.44, and 60 times the unrounded fee rates of $13.47, $14.51, and $15.59, respectively.
(2)
Prepayment.
(i) The owner, their agent, or person in charge of a commercial vehicle may at any time prepay the commercial truck AQI fee as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for all arrivals of that vehicle during a calendar year or any remaining portion of a calendar year. The prepayment transponder fee is set at 50 times the unrounded per arrival fee for the period between October 1, 2024 and September 30, 2025, and 60 times the unrounded per arrival fee thereafter. Prepayment of the AQI fee must be made in accordance with the procedures and payment methods set forth in 19 CFR 24.22. The following information must be provided, together with the prepayment amount for each arrival:
(A) Vehicle make, model, and model year;
(B) Vehicle Identification Number (VIN);
(C) License numbers issued by State, Province, or country; and
(D) Owner's name and address.
(ii) Purchases of transponders may be made at any time during a calendar year; APHIS will not prorate for the portion of the calendar year already elapsed, nor refund single-crossing fees already paid.
(d)
Fee for inspection of commercial railroad cars
—(1)
General requirement.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, an AQI user fee will be charged for each commercial railroad car (loaded or empty) which is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or under 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D, upon each arrival, as indicated in table 4. The railroad company receiving a railroad car in interchange at a port of entry or, barring interchange, the company moving a car in line haul service into the customs territory of the United States, will be responsible for payment of the fee. Payment of the fee must be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (d)(3) or (4) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (d), the term “railroad car” means any carrying vehicle, measured from coupler to coupler and designed to operate on railroad tracks. If the AQI user fee is prepaid for all arrivals of a commercial railroad car during a calendar year or any remaining portion of a calendar year, the AQI user fee is an amount 48 times the AQI user fee for each arrival.
Table 4 to Paragraph (
d
)(1)—Fee for Inspection of Commercial Railroad Cars
Effective date
Amount
(per arrival)
Amount
(prepaid)
October 1, 2024
$6.51
$312.48
October 1, 2025
7.23
347.04
October 1, 2026
7.97
382.56
October 1, 2027
8.72
418.56
(2)
Exemptions.
The following categories of commercial railroad cars are exempt from paying an AQI user fee:
(i) Any commercial railroad car that is part of a train whose journey originates and terminates in Canada, if:
(A) The commercial railroad car is part of the train when the train departs Canada; and
(B) No passengers board or disembark from the commercial railroad car, and no cargo is loaded or unloaded from the commercial railroad car, while the train is within the United States.
(ii) Any commercial railroad car that is part of a train whose journey originates and terminates in the United States, if:
(A) The commercial railroad car is part of the train when the train departs the United States; and
(B) No passengers board or disembark from the commercial railroad car, and no cargo is loaded or unloaded from the commercial railroad car, while the train is within any country other than the United States; and
(iii) Locomotives and cabooses.
(3)
Prepayment.
The owner, agent, or person in charge of a railroad company may at any time prepay the commercial railroad car AQI fee as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section for all arrivals of that railroad car during a calendar year or any remaining portion of a calendar. This payment must be remitted in accordance with paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section.
(4)
Remittance procedures.
The Association of American Railroads (AAR), the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK), and railroad companies acting individually shall file monthly written statement with USDA, APHIS, FMD, within 90 days after the end of each calendar month. Each written statement shall indicate:
(i) The number of commercial railroad cars entering the customs territory of the United States during the relevant period by railroad company;
(ii) The total monthly AQI user fees due from each railroad company; and
(iii) In the case of prepayments to cover all annual arrivals of certain railroad car(s) in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section; include the number of railroad cars being prepaid for, railroad car number(s) covered by the prepayment and the calendar year to which the prepayment applies.
(iv) Railroad companies may include the written statement with their mailed payment as directed in this paragraph (d)(4). For all other payment types, the companies must email the written statement to
ABSHelpline@usda.gov.
Individual railroad companies must submit a written statement for periods with no fees collected. Detailed remittance instructions are located at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/business-services/aqi-user-fees.
Questions and correspondence may be directed to
ABSHelpline@usda.gov
or (612) 336-3400 (fax) or (877) 777-2128 (phone).
(5)
Payment procedures.
(i) If the railroad company intends to pay monthly, the owner, agent or person in charge of an individual railroad company shall pay the AQI user fees calculated by the Association of American Railroads (AAR), the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK), or the individual railroad company itself within 90 days after the end of each calendar month in which commercial railroad cars entered the customs territory of the United States.
(ii) If the owner, agent or person in charge of an individual railroad company intends to prepay for railroad car(s) for the entire calendar year, as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, prepayment may be made at any time during a calendar year; APHIS will not prorate for the portion of the calendar year already elapsed, nor refund or credit per arrival fees already paid.
(iii) Written statements as described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, are required to accompany all payments. Detailed payment instructions are located at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/business-services/aqi-user-fees.
Questions and correspondence may be sent to
ABSHelpline@usda.gov,
fax (612) 336-3400 or phone (877) 777-2128.
(6)
Compliance.
(i) AAR, AMTRAK, and each railroad company responsible for making AQI user fee payments must allow APHIS, CBP, and authorized representatives to verify the accuracy of AQI user fees collected and remitted and otherwise determine compliance with 21 U.S.C. 136a and this
paragraph (d). The AAR, AMTRAK, and each railroad company responsible for making AQI user fee payments must advise the USDA, APHIS, FMD of the name, address, and telephone number of an agent or other responsible person who is authorized to verify AQI user fee calculations, collections, and written statements, payments, as well as any changes in the identifying information submitted.
(ii) The agent or other responsible person for a payment remains the agent or responsible person until the railroad company notifies APHIS of a transfer of responsibility. The agent or responsible person must contact APHIS to initiate any transfer by contacting
ABSHelpline@usda.gov.
The new agent or responsible person assumes all responsibilities for ensuring compliance for meeting the requirements of this part.
(e)(1)
Fee for inspection of commercial aircraft.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, an AQI user fee will be charged for each commercial aircraft which is arriving, or which has arrived and is proceeding from one United States airport to another under a CBP “Permit to Proceed,” as specified in 19 CFR 122.81 through 122.85, or an “Agricultural Clearance or Safeguard Order” (PPQ Form 250), used pursuant to § 330.400 of this chapter and 9 CFR 94.5, and which is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D. Each carrier or their agent is responsible for paying the AQI user fee. The AQI user fee for each arrival is shown in table 5:
Table 5 to Paragraph (
e
)(1)—Fee for Inspection of Commercial Aircraft
Effective date
Amount
October 1, 2024
$281.39
October 1, 2025
300.78
October 1, 2026
320.61
October 1, 2027
340.90
(2)
Exemptions.
The following categories of commercial aircraft are exempt from paying an AQI user fee:
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Any aircraft used exclusively in the governmental services of the United States or a foreign government, including any Agency or political subdivision of the United States or a foreign government, as long as the aircraft is not carrying persons or merchandise for commercial purposes;
(iii) Any aircraft making an emergency or forced landing when the original destination of the aircraft was a foreign port;
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) Any aircraft moving from the U.S. Virgin Islands to Puerto Rico; and
(vi) Any aircraft making an in-transit stop at a port of entry, during which the aircraft does not proceed through any portion of the Federal clearance process, such as inspection or clearance by APHIS or CBP, no cargo is removed from or placed on the aircraft, no passengers get on or off the aircraft, no crew members get on or off the aircraft, no food is placed on the aircraft, and no garbage is removed from the aircraft.
(3)
Remittance and payment procedures.
(i) The carrier or their agent must pay the appropriate fees for receipt no later than 90 days after the close of the month in which the aircraft arrivals occurred. APHIS strongly encourages electronic payment of fees. To set up electronic payment refer to our detailed instructions at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/mrpbs/userfees/aqi-paymen
t-types.pdf or for further information relative to electronic remittance, or for further information relative to electronic remittance, contact
ABSHelpline@usda.gov.
In the event electronic remission is impractical, a check or money order can be mailed to the Agency lock box following detailed payment instructions at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/mrpbs/userfees/aqi-payment-types.pdf.
Questions and correspondence may be directed to
ABSHelpline@usda.gov
or to (612) 336-3400 (fax) or (877) 777-2128 (phone). For payment information, refer to our detailed payment instructions at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/business-services/aqi-user-fees.
Late payments will be subject to interest, penalty, and a charge to cover the cost of processing and handling a delinquent claim as provided in the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 3717).
(ii) The carrier or their agent must provide a written statement each
month stating the fees that are due for the month. Carriers or their agents must include a hard copy of the written statement with any mailed payment. For all other payment types, including for months with no fees collected, the carriers must email the written statement to
ABSHelpline@usda.gov.
(iii) The written statement must include the following information:
(A) Name and address of the person making the payment;
(B) Calendar month covered by the payment;
(C) Amount being paid, or a written statement stating that no fees were collected.
(iv) All fee payments required under this section must be made in U.S. dollars. For all payment types accepted, please visit
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/business-services/aqi-user-fees.
(4)
Compliance.
Each carrier subject to this section must allow APHIS, CBP, and authorized representatives to verify the accuracy of the AQI user fees paid and to otherwise determine compliance in accordance with this paragraph (e) and 21 U.S.C. 136a. Each carrier must advise USDA, APHIS, FMD, FOB of the name, address, and telephone number of an agent or responsible person who is authorized to verify AQI user fee calculations, payments, and written statements as well as any changes in the identifying information submitted. The agent or responsible person for a payment remains the agent or responsible person until the carrier notifies APHIS of a transfer of responsibility. The carrier or their agent or responsible person must contact APHIS at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/ppq-program-overview/ppq-cbp-aqi-user-fees-contacts
to initiate any transfer. The new agent or responsible person assumes all responsibilities for ensuring compliance for meeting the requirements of this part.
(5)
Limitations on charges.
(i) Airlines will not be charged reimbursable overtime for inspection of aircraft if the aircraft is subject to the AQI user fee for arriving aircraft as prescribed by this section.
(ii) Airlines will not be charged reimbursable overtime for inspection of cargo from an aircraft if:
(A) The aircraft is subject to the AQI user fee for arriving aircraft as prescribed by this section; and
(B) The cargo is inspected between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday; or
(C) The cargo is inspected concurrently with the aircraft.
(f)(1)
Fee for inspection of international passengers.
Except as specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, each passenger aboard a commercial aircraft or cruise ship who is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D, upon arrival from a place outside of the customs territory of the United States, must pay an AQI user fee. The fee covers one individual arriving into a port of entry within the customs territory of the United States from a foreign port. Each air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document for transportation into the customs territory of the United States is responsible for collecting from the passenger the applicable fee specified in this section, including the fee applicable to any infants or toddlers traveling without a separate ticket or travel document, whether in assigned seats or held in an adult passenger's lap. In the event that the air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document does not collect the AQI user fee when tickets are sold, the air carrier or cruise line must collect the user fee that is applicable at the time of departure from the passenger upon departure. The AQI user fee will apply to tickets purchased beginning October 1, 2024. The fees are shown in tables 6 and 7:
Table 6 to Paragraph (
f
)(1)—International Air Passenger
Effective date
Amount
October 1, 2024
$3.71
October 1, 2025
3.84
October 1, 2026
3.98
October 1, 2027
4.12
Table 7 to Paragraph (
f
)(1)—International Cruise (Sea) Passenger
Effective date
Amount
October 1, 2024
$1.25
October 1, 2025
1.29
October 1, 2026
1.34
October 1, 2027
1.39
(2)
Exemptions.
The following categories of passengers are exempt from paying an AQI user fee:
(i) Crew members onboard for purposes related to the operation of the vessel;
(ii) Crew members who are on duty on a commercial aircraft;
(iii) Airline employees, including “deadheading” crew members, who are traveling on official airline business;
(iv) Diplomats, except for U.S. diplomats, who can show that their names appear on the accreditation listing maintained by the U.S. Department of State. In lieu of the accreditation listing, an individual diplomat may present appropriate proof of diplomatic status to include possession of a diplomatic passport or visa, or diplomatic identification card issued by a foreign government;
(v) Passengers departing and returning to the United States without having touched a foreign port or place;
(vi) Passengers arriving on any commercial aircraft used exclusively in the governmental service of the United States or a foreign government, including any agency or political subdivision of the United States or a foreign government, so long as the aircraft is not carrying persons or merchandise for commercial purposes. Passengers on commercial aircraft under contract to the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) are exempted if they have been precleared abroad under the joint DOD/APHIS Military Inspection Program;
(vii) Passengers arriving on an aircraft due to an emergency or forced landing when the original destination of the aircraft was a foreign port;
(viii) Passengers transiting the United States and not subject to inspection; and
(ix) Passengers moving from the U.S. Virgin Islands to Puerto Rico.
(3)
Circumstances of user fee collections.
AQI user fees shall be collected under the following circumstances:
(i) When through tickets or travel documents are issued indicating travel to the customs territory of the United States that originates in any foreign country; and
(ii) When passengers arrive in the customs territory of the United States in transit from a foreign country and are inspected by APHIS or CBP.
(4)
Responsibility for collection of fees.
(i) Any air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document on or after May 13, 1991, is responsible for collecting the AQI user fee from all passengers transported into the customs territory of the United States to whom the AQI user fee applies.
(A) Tickets or travel documents must be marked by the person who collects the AQI user fee to indicate that the required AQI user fee has been collected from the passenger.
(B) If the AQI user fee applies to a passenger departing from the United States and if the passenger's tickets or travel documents were issued on or after May 13, 1991, but do not reflect collection of the AQI user fee at the time of issuance, then the carrier transporting the passenger from the United States must collect the AQI user fee upon departure.
(C) AQI user fees collected from international passengers pursuant to this paragraph (f) shall be held in trust for the United States by the person collecting such fees, by any person holding such fees, or by the person who is ultimately responsible for remittance of such fees to APHIS. AQI user fees collected from international passengers shall be accounted for separately and shall be regarded as trust funds held by the person possessing such fees as agents, for the beneficial interest of the United States. All such user fees held by any person shall be property in which the person holds only a possessory interest and not an equitable interest. As compensation for collecting, handling, and remitting the AQI user fees for international passengers, the person holding such user fees shall be entitled to any interest or other investment return earned on the user fees between the time of collection and the time the user fees are due to be remitted to APHIS under this
section. Nothing in this section shall affect APHIS' right to collect interest for late remittance.
(ii) [Reserved]
(5)
Remittance and payment procedures.
(i) The air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document or their own non-carrier related tickets or travel documents, must remit collections of AQI user fees from the passengers to APHIS.
(ii) The air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document must remit the passengers' fees to APHIS no later than 90 days after the close of the calendar month in which the ticket issuer collected the AQI user fees from the passengers. Late payments will be subject to interest, penalties, and a charge to cover the cost of processing and handling a delinquent claim as provided in the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 3717).
(iii) All fee payments required under this section must be made in U.S. dollars. For payment types accepted please visit
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/business-services/aqi-user-fees.
APHIS strongly encourages electronic remittance of fees. To set up electronic remittance refer to our detailed payment instructions at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/mrpbs/userfees/aqi-payment-types.pdf
or for further information relative to electronic remittance, contact
ABSHelpline@usda.gov.
In the event electronic remission is impractical, a check or money order can be mailed to the Agency lock box following detailed payment instructions at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/sites/default/files/aqi-payment-types.pdf.
Questions and correspondence may be sent to
ABSHelpline@usda.gov
or fax (612) 336-3400 or (877) 777-2128. For payment information, refer to our detailed payment instructions at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/sites/default/files/aqi-payment-types.pdf.
(iv) The air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document must provide a written statement each month stating the passenger fees that are due for the month or stating that no payments are due. The air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document must include the written statement with their mailed payment. For all other payment types, they must email the written statement separately to
ABSHelpline@usda.gov.
The written statement must include the following information:
(A) Name and address of the person remitting payment;
(B) Calendar month covered by the payment; and
(C) Amount collected and remitted.
(v) Refunds by a remitter of AQI user fees collected in conjunction with unused tickets or travel documents shall be netted against the next subsequent remittance. The ticket or travel document-issuing entity must submit a revised written statement indicating the revised number of passengers and international passenger AQI user fees amount collected. The revised written statement must be completed and filed for each month during which the ticket or travel document-issuing entity certifies that there was a decrease in the number of passengers and international passenger AQI user fees collected.
(6)
Notification.
Carriers contracting with U.S.-based tour wholesalers are responsible for notifying the USDA, APHIS, FMD, FOB at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/ppq-program-overview/ppq-cbp-aqi-user-fees-contacts
of all journeys contracted, the number of spaces contracted for, and the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the United States-based tour wholesaler, within 90 days after the close of the calendar month in which such a journey occurred;
except that,
carriers are not required to make notification if tickets, marked to show collection of the AQI user fee, are issued for the individual contracted spaces.
(7)
Compliance.
Each carrier, travel agent, U.S.-based tour wholesaler, or other entity subject to this section must allow APHIS, CBP, and authorized representatives to verify the accuracy of the AQI user fees collected and remitted and to otherwise determine compliance with 21 U.S.C. 136a and this paragraph (f). Each carrier, travel agent, U.S.-based tour wholesaler, or
other entity must advise USDA, APHIS, FMD, at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/ppq-program-overview/ppq-cbp-aqi-user-fees-contacts
of the name, address, and telephone number of a responsible officer who is authorized to verify AQI user fee calculations, payments, and remittance, as well as any changes in the identifying information submitted. The responsible person for a payment remains the responsible person until the air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document notifies APHIS of a transfer of responsibility. The responsible person must contact APHIS to initiate any transfer. The new responsible person assumes all responsibilities for ensuring compliance for meeting the requirements of this part.
(8)
Limitation on charges.
Airlines and cruise lines will not be charged reimbursable overtime for passenger inspection services required for any aircraft or cruise ship on which a passenger arrived who has paid the international passenger AQI user fee for that flight or cruise.
(g)
Fees for export certification of plants and plant products.
(1) For each certificate issued by APHIS personnel, the recipient must pay the applicable AQI user fee at the time and place the certificate is issued.
(2) When the work necessary for the issuance of a certificate is performed by APHIS personnel on a Sunday or holiday, or at any other time outside the regular tour of duty of the APHIS personnel issuing the certificate, in addition to the applicable user fee, the recipient must pay the applicable overtime rate in accordance with § 354.1.
(3)(i) Each exporter who receives a certificate issued on behalf of APHIS by a designated State or county inspector must pay an administrative user fee, as shown in table 8. The administrative fee can be remitted by the exporter directly to APHIS through the Phytosanitary Certificate Issuance and Tracking System (PCIT), provided that the exporter has a PCIT account and submits the application for the export certificate through the PCIT. If the PCIT is not used, the State or county issuing the certificate is responsible for collecting the fee and remitting it monthly to the U.S. Bank, United States Department of Agriculture, APHIS, AQI, P.O. Box 979043, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000.
Table 8 to Paragraph (
g
)(3)(
i
)—Administrative User Fee
Effective dates
Amount per shipment
PCIT used
PCIT not used
October 1, 2009, through September 30, 2010
$3
$6
October 1, 2010, through September 30, 2011
6
12
Beginning October 1, 2011
6
12
(ii) The AQI user fees for an export or reexport certificate for a commercial shipment are shown in table 9.
Table 9 to Paragraph (
g
)(3)(
ii
)—Export or Reexport Certificate for Commercial Shipment
Effective dates
Amount per
shipment
October 1, 2009, through September 30, 2010
$77
October 1, 2010, through September 30, 2011
104
Beginning October 1, 2011
106
(iii) The AQI user fees for an export or reexport certificate for a low-value commercial shipment are shown in table 10. A commercial shipment is a low-value commercial shipment if the items being shipped are identical to those identified on the certificate; the shipment is accompanied by an invoice
which states that the items being shipped are worth less than $1,250; and the shipper requests that the user fee charged be based on the low value of the shipment.
Table 10 to Paragraph (
g
)(3)(
iii
)—Export or Reexport Certificate for Low-Value Commercial Shipment
Effective dates
Amount per
shipment
October 1, 2009, through September 30, 2010
$42
October 1, 2010, through September 30, 2011
60
Beginning October 1, 2011
61
(iv) The AQI user fees for an export or reexport certificate for a noncommercial shipment are shown in table 11.
Table 11 to Paragraph (
g
)(3)(
iv
)—Export or Reexport Certificate for Noncommercial Shipment
Effective dates
Amount per
shipment
October 1, 2009, through September 30, 2010
$42
October 1, 2010, through September 30, 2011
60
Beginning October 1, 2011
61
(v) The AQI user fees for replacing any certificate are shown in table 12.
Table 12 to Paragraph (
g
)(3)(
v
)—Replacement Fee
Effective dates
Amount per
certificate
October 1, 2009, through September 30, 2010
$11
October 1, 2010, through September 30, 2011
15
Beginning October 1, 2011
15
(4) If a designated State inspector issues a certificate, the State where the certificate is issued may charge for inspection services provided in that State.
(5) Any State which wishes to charge a fee for services it provides to issue certificates must establish fees in accordance with one of the following guidelines:
(i)
Calculation of a “cost-per-certificate” fee.
The State must:
(A) Estimate the annual number of certificates to be issued;
(B) Determine the total cost of issuing certificates by adding together delivery,
1
support,
2
and administrative costs;
3
and
1
Delivery costs are costs such as employee salary and benefits, transportation, per diem, travel, purchase of specialized equipment, and user fee costs associated with maintaining field offices. Delivery hours are similar hours taken by inspectors, including travel time, inspection time, and time taken to complete paperwork.
2
Support costs are costs at supervisory levels which are similar to delivery costs, and user fee costs such as training, automated data processing, public affairs, enforcement, legal services, communications, postage, budget and accounting services, and payroll, purchasing, billing, and collecting services. Support hours are similar hours taken at supervisory levels, as well as hours taken in training, automated data processing, enforcement, legal services, communication, budgeting and accounting, payroll purchasing, billing, and collecting.
3
Administrative costs are costs incurred as a direct result of collecting and monitoring Federal phytosanitary certificates. Administrative hours are hours taken as a direct result of collecting and monitoring Federal phytosanitary certificates.
(C) Divide the cost of issuing certificates by the estimated number of certificates to be issued to obtain a “raw” fee. The State may round the “raw” fee up to the nearest quarter, if necessary for ease of calculation, collection, or billing; or
(ii)
Calculation of a “cost-per-hour” fee.
The State must:
(A) Estimate the annual number of hours taken to issue certificates by adding together delivery,
4
support,
5
and administrative
6
hours;
4
Delivery costs are costs such as employee salary and benefits, transportation, per diem, travel, purchase of specialized equipment, and user fee costs associated with maintaining field offices. Delivery hours are similar hours taken by inspectors, including travel time, inspection time, and time taken to complete paperwork.
5
Support costs are costs at supervisory levels which are similar to delivery costs, and user fee costs such as training, automated data processing, public affairs, enforcement, legal services, communications, postage, budget and accounting services, and payroll, purchasing, billing, and collecting services. Support hours are similar hours taken at supervisory levels, as well as hours taken in training, automated data processing, enforcement, legal services, communication, budgeting and accounting, payroll purchasing, billing, and collecting.
6
Administrative costs are costs incurred as a direct result of collecting and monitoring Federal phytosanitary certificates. Administrative hours are hours taken as a direct result of collecting and monitoring Federal phytosanitary certificates.
(B) Determine the total cost of issuing certificates by adding together delivery,
1
support,
2
and administrative costs; and
(C) Divide the cost of issuing certificates by the estimated number of hours taken to issue certificates to obtain a “cost-per-hour” fee. The State may round the “cost-per-hour” fee up to the nearest quarter, if necessary for ease of calculation, collection, or billing.
(6) For payment of any of the AQI user fees required in this paragraph (g), we will accept personal checks for amounts less than $100, and checks drawn on commercial accounts, cashier's checks, certified checks, traveler's checks, and money orders for any amount. All payments must be for the exact amount due.
(h)(1)
Fee for conducting and monitoring treatments.
(1) Each importer of a consignment of articles that require treatment upon arrival from a place outside of the customs territory of the United States, either as a preassigned condition of entry or as a remedial measure ordered following the inspection of the consignment, must pay an AQI user fee. The AQI user fee is charged on a per-treatment basis,
i.e.,
if two or more consignments are treated together, only a single fee will be charged, and if a single consignment is split or must be retreated, a fee will be charged for each separate treatment conducted. The AQI user fee for each treatment is shown in table 13:
Table 13 to Paragraph (
h
)(1)—Fee for Conducting and Monitoring Treatments
Effective date
Amount
October 1, 2024
$240.60
October 1, 2025
244.19
October 1, 2026
247.79
October 1, 2027
251.38
(2)
Treatment provider.
(i) Private entities that provide AQI treatment services to importers are responsible for collecting the AQI treatment user fee from the importer for whom the service is provided. Treatment providers must collect the AQI treatment fee applicable at the time the treatment is applied.
(ii) When AQI treatment services are provided by APHIS, APHIS will collect the AQI treatment fee applicable at the time the treatment is applied from the person receiving the services. Remittances must be made by check or money order, payable in United States dollars, through a United States bank, to “The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.”
(3)
Collection of fees.
(i) In cases where APHIS is not providing the AQI treatment and collecting the associated fee, AQI user fees collected from importers pursuant to this paragraph (h) shall be held in trust for the United States by the person collecting such fees, by any person holding such fees, or by the person who is ultimately responsible for remittance of such fees to APHIS. AQI user fees collected from importers shall be accounted for separately and shall be regarded as trust funds held by the person possessing such fees as agents, for the beneficial interest of the United States. All such user fees held by any person shall be property in which the person holds only a possessory interest and not an equitable interest. As compensation for collecting, handling, and remitting the AQI treatment user fees, the person holding such user fees shall be entitled to any interest or other investment return earned on the user fees between the time of collection and the time the user fees are due to be remitted to APHIS under this section. Nothing in this section shall affect APHIS' right to collect interest from the person holding such user fees for late remittance.
(ii) [Reserved]
(4)
Remittance and statement procedures.
(i) The treatment provider that collects the AQI treatment user fee must remit the fee to USDA, APHIS, AQI, PO Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000.
(ii) AQI treatment user fees must be remitted for receipt no later than 31 days after the close of the calendar quarter in which the AQI user fees were collected. Late payments will be subject to interest, penalty, and handling charges as provided in the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 3717).
(iii) The remitter must mail with the remittance a written statement to USDA, APHIS, AQI, PO Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000. The statement must include the following information:
(A) Name and address of the person remitting payment;
(B) Taxpayer identification number of the person remitting payment;
(C) Calendar quarter covered by the payment; and
(D) Amount collected and remitted.
(iv) Remittances must be made by check or money order, payable in United States dollars, through a United States bank, to “The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.”
(i)
Consequences for nonpayment or late payment of user fees
—(1)
Unpaid debt.
In cases of delinquent debts, the government is required to charge and collect interest, penalties, and costs. See 31 U.S.C. 3717(a) (interest); 3717(e)(1) (costs); and 3717(e)(2) (penalties). If any person for whom the service is provided fails to pay when due any debt to APHIS, including any user fee due under chapter I or chapter III of this title, then:
(i)
Subsequent user fee payments.
Payment must be made for subsequent user fees before the service is provided if:
(A) For unbilled fees, the user fee is unpaid 60 days after the date the pertinent regulatory provision indicates payment is due;
(B) For billed fees, the user fee is unpaid 60 days after date of bill;
(C) The person for whom the service is provided or the person requesting the service has not paid the late payment penalty charges, interest charges, or charges for the cost of processing and handling the delinquent bill on any delinquent APHIS user fee; or
(D) Payment has been dishonored.
(ii)
Resolution of difference between estimate and actual.
APHIS will estimate the user fee to be paid; any difference between the estimate and the actual amount owed to APHIS will be resolved as soon as reasonably possible following the delivery of the service, with APHIS returning any excess to the payor or billing the payor for the additional amount due.
(iii)
Prepayment form.
The prepayment must be in guaranteed form of payment, such as money order or certified check. Prepayment in guaranteed form will continue until the debtor pays the delinquent debt.
(iv)
Denied service.
Service will be denied until the debt is paid if:
(A) For unbilled fees, the user fee is unpaid 90 days after date the pertinent regulatory provision indicates payment is due;
(B) For billed fees, the user fee is unpaid 90 days after date of bill;
(C) The person for whom the service is provided or the person requesting the service has not paid the late payment penalty charges, interest charges, or charges for the cost of processing and handling the delinquent bill on any delinquent APHIS user fee; or
(D) Payment has been dishonored.
(2)
Unpaid debt during service.
If APHIS is in the process of providing a service for which an APHIS user fee is due, and the user has not paid the fee within the time required, or if the payment offered by the user is inadequate or unacceptable, then APHIS will take the following action: If regulated articles in quarantine at a treatment facility cannot be released from quarantine, APHIS may seize and dispose of them, as determined by the Administrator, and may recover all expenses of handling the articles from persons liable for user fees under paragraph (h)(1) of this section. If regulated articles can be released from quarantine, the articles will be released, and any unpaid debt will be handled in accordance with procedures for unpaid debt in this section.
(3)
Late payments.
If for unbilled user fees, the user fees are unpaid 30 days after the date the pertinent regulatory provisions indicates payment is due, or if billed, are unpaid 30 days after the date of the bill, APHIS will impose late payment penalty charges, interest charges, and charges for the cost of processing and handling the delinquent bill in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717.
(4)
Dishonored payment.
User fees paid with dishonored forms of payment, such as a check returned for insufficient funds, will be subject to interest and penalty charges in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717. Administrative charges will be assessed at $20.00 per dishonored payment to be paid in addition to the original amount owed. Payment must be in guaranteed form, such as a money order or certified check.
(5)
Debt collection management.
In accordance with applicable debt collection law, the following provisions apply:
(i)
Taxpayer identification number.
APHIS will collect a taxpayer identification number from all persons, other than Federal agencies, who are liable for a user fee.
(ii)
Offset.
APHIS takes appropriate action to collect debts through offset under applicable law, including by notifying the Department of the Treasury of debts that are over 120 days delinquent for the purposes of offset through the Treasury Offset Program. Through the Treasury Offset Program, the Department of the Treasury will offset eligible Federal and State payments to satisfy the debt to APHIS.
(iii)
Cross-servicing.
APHIS will transfer debts that are over 120 days delinquent to the Department of the Treasury's Cross-Servicing program. Through the Cross-Servicing program, the Department of the Treasury will collect debts on behalf of APHIS. Exceptions may be made for debts that
meet certain requirements, for example, debts that are already at a collection agency or in payment plans.
(6)
Report delinquent debt.
APHIS will report all unpaid debts to credit reporting bureaus.
(
j
)
Recordkeeping and record retention.
(1) Entities responsible for paying AQI user fees and their agents are required to establish, keep, and make available to APHIS the following records:
(i) Records and reports required under this section, including written statements, if applicable; and
(ii) Legible copies of contracts (including amendments to contracts) between the responsible entity or their agents and agents that conduct activities subject to this part for the responsible entity, and copies of documents relating to agreements made without a written contract.
(2) Responsible entities or their agents must maintain sufficient documentation for APHIS, CBP, and representatives to verify the accuracy of the fee collections and, if applicable, written statements. Such information must be made available for inspection upon APHIS and CBP's demand. Such documentation shall be maintained in the United States for a period of 5 years from the date of remittance calculation, unless a longer retention period is determined to be needed by the Administrator. Each such affected entity shall provide to APHIS and CBP the name, address, and telephone number of a responsible officer who is able to verify any statements or records required to be filed or maintained under this section and shall promptly notify APHIS and CBP of any changes in the identifying information previously submitted.
(k)
Severability.
The sections of this part are separate and severable from one another. If any section or portion therein is stayed or determined to be invalid, or the applicability of any section to any person or entity is held invalid, it is the APHIS' intention that the validity of the remainder of those parts shall not be affected, with the remaining sections to continue in effect.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 1651-0019, 0579-0052, 0579-0094, and 0579-0489).
[89 FR 38636, May 7, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 38636, May 7, 2024, § 354.3 was amended by removing (e)(2)(iv), effective Apr. 1, 2025.
§ 354.4
User fees for certain domestic services.
(a)
Individual agreements for inspection services at ports of entry.
(1) Operators and owners of vessels or aircraft, or their agents, may enter into agreements with APHIS to receive, at points of entry in the United States inspection services in addition to the regular or on-call services available in connection with such vessels or aircraft.
(2) Agreements may be made to cover the following types of services;
(i) Opening and operating a new inspection station at a port of entry; and
(ii) Providing one-time or occasional inspection services at a location where APHIS does not normally provide such services.
(3) Owners and operators of vessels or aircraft, or their agents, must contact the Regional Director, USDA, APHIS, Plant Protection and Quarantine,
5
for the State where they want APHIS to provide services, to make an agreement.
5
A list of the Regional Directors, USDA, APHIS, Plant Protection and Quarantine and the States for which they are responsible, may be obtained from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine, Operational Support—Director's Office, 4700 River Road, Unit 131, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1236.
(4) All agreements must include the following:
(i) Name, mailing address, and telephone number of the operator or owner of the vessel or aircraft, or, if applicable, the operator's or owner's agent;
(ii) Explanation of inspection services to be provided;
(iii) Date(s) and time(s) inspection services will be provided;
(iv) Location (street address, port of entry, berth, dock, gate, etc.) and if applicable, identity (identification number, name, etc.) of vessel or aircraft or other thing to be inspected;
(v) An estimate of the actual cost, as calculated by APHIS, to provide the
described inspection services for 6 months;
(vi) A statement that APHIS agrees to provide the described inspection services;
(vii) A statement that the owner or operator of the vessel or aircraft, or if appropriate, his or her agent, agrees to pay, at the time the agreement is entered into, a user fee equal to the estimated cost of providing the described inspection services for 6 months;
(viii) A statement that APHIS will credit an amount equal to all user fees received for services provided at the location to the owner or operator's account, until the total amount of user fees credited to the account is equal to the amount of money paid into the account by the owner or operator of the vessel or aircraft, or if appropriate, his or her agent, at the time the agreement was entered into; and
(ix) A statement that the owner or operator of the vessel or aircraft, or if appropriate, his or her agent, agrees to maintain a balance in the user fee payment account equal to the cost of providing the services described for 6 months, as calculated monthly by APHIS.
(5) APHIS will enter into an agreement only if qualified personnel can be made available to provide the services to be provided.
(6) An agreement can be terminated by either party on 30 days written notice.
(7) If, at the time an agreement is terminated, any unobligated funds remain in the user fee account, APHIS will return them to the owner or operator, or his or her agent.
[57 FR 770, Jan. 9, 1992, as amended at 57 FR 14475, Apr. 21, 1992; 58 FR 38269, July 16, 1993; 59 FR 67611, Dec. 30, 1994]
§ 354.5
Penalties for nonpayment or late payment of user fees.
(a) If a person requesting a service for which an APHIS user fee is payable, is delinquent in paying any APHIS user fee due under either title 7 or title 9, Code of Federal Regulations, or is delinquent in paying the interest on any delinquent APHIS user fee, then APHIS will not provide the service requested.
(b) If APHIS is in the process of providing a service for which an APHIS user fee is due, and the user has not paid the fee within the time required, or if the payment offered by the user is insufficient or not in compliance with the regulations in this part, then APHIS will take the following action:
(1) If an APHIS user fee is due for a certificate or a certificate for reexport, APHIS will not issue the certificate.
(2) If an APHIS user fee is past due by more than 30 days, APHIS will impose a late payment penalty and interest charges in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717.
[57 FR 771, Jan. 9, 1992]
Pt. 355

# PART 355—ENDANGERED SPECIES REGULATIONS CONCERNING TERRESTRIAL PLANTS

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
Sec.
355.1
Purpose.
355.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Permission to Engage in Business
355.10
Permission to engage in business concerning nonlisted terrestrial plants.
355.11
General permits.

# Subpart C—Inspections and Related Provisions
355.20
Marking and notification requirements for plants imported, exported, or reexported by means other than mail.
355.21
Marking and mailing requirements for plants imported, exported, or reexported by mail.
355.22
Validation of documentation.
355.23
Recordkeeping, access, and reports.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1532, 1538, and 1540; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.3.

# Source:
49 FR 42912, Oct. 25, 1984, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions

# Source:
Redesignated at 84 FR 2430, Feb. 7, 2019.
§ 355.1
Purpose.
Pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
), the Secretary is responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of the Act and Convention that pertain to the importation, exportation, or reexportation of terrestrial plants.
1
The regulations in this part are for the purpose of implementing this authority. Regulations of the U.S. Department of the Interior that correlate with the regulations in this part are contained in 50 CFR chapter I.
2
1
Under section 11 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1540), it is unlawful for any person to knowingly violate any provision of the Act, any permit or certificate issued under the Act, or any regulation promulgated under the Act. Section 11 of the Act also provides for criminal, civil, and administrative penalties for any such violation.
2
Plant Protection and Quarantine also administers programs under the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3371 through 3378), 7 U.S.C. 2814, and the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701-7772), which authorize additional prohibitions and restrictions on the importation of plants subject to this part (see other parts of 7 CFR chapter III for regulations containing prohibitions and restrictions under these authorities).
[66 FR 21060, Apr. 27, 2001]
§ 355.2
Definitions.
Terms used in the singular form in this part shall be construed as the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. The following terms, when used in this part, shall be construed, respectively, to mean:
Act.
The Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
).
Convention.
The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, TIAS 8249, 27 U.S.T. 1087, signed on March 3, 1973, and the Appendices thereto.
Deputy Administrator.
The Deputy Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service for Plant Protection and Quarantine, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom authority to act in his or her stead has been or may hereafter be delegated.
Engage in business as an importer, exporter, or reexporter of terrestrial plants.
To import, export, or reexport terrestrial plants for the purpose of selling, bartering, collecting, or otherwise exchanging or acquiring the plants as a livelihood or enterprise engaged in for gain or profit. This term shall not include persons engaged in business merely as carriers or customhouse brokers.
Export (exported, exporting, exportation).
To carry, send, take, transport or otherwise remove, or to attempt to carry, send, take, transport or otherwise remove from any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
Import (imported, importing, importation).
To land on, bring into, or introduce into, or attempt to land on, bring into, or introduce into, any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, whether or not such landing, bringing, or introduction constitutes an importation within the meaning of the customs laws of the United States.
Inspector.
Any employee of Plant Protection and Quarantine, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or other person, authorized by the Deputy Administrator in accordance with law to enforce the provisions of the Act and Convention, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Person.
Any individual, corporation, partnership, trust, association, or any other private entity; or any officer, employee, agent, department, or instrumentality of the Federal Government, of any State or political subdivision thereof or of any foreign government.
Plant.
Any member of the plant kingdom, including seeds, roots and other parts thereof.
Plant Protection and Quarantine.
The organizational unit within the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, delegated responsibility for enforcing provisions of the Act and Convention, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Protected plant permit.
PPQ Form 622, “Protected Plant Permit to Engage in the Business of Importing, Exporting, or Reexporting Terrestrial Plants Regulated by 50 CFR 17.12 and 23.23.”
Reexport (reexported, reexportation).
To export following importation.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Agriculture, or any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom authority to act in his
or her stead has been or may hereafter be delegated.
Terrestrial plants.
Any plants (including epiphytic plants), except marine plants.
Validation.
An original stamp, signature, and date of inspection placed upon documentation required by 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 by an inspector at the port where the terrestrial plants are to be imported, exported or reexported.
United States.
Any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
[49 FR 42912, Oct. 25, 1984, as amended at 70 FR 57995, Oct. 5, 2005]

# Subpart B—Permission to Engage in Business

# Source:
Redesignated at 84 FR 2430, Feb. 7, 2019.
§ 355.10
Permission to engage in business concerning nonlisted terrestrial plants.
The Secretary hereby grants permission for any person engaged in business as an importer, exporter, or reexporter of terrestrial plants, other than terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23, to engage in such business without a protected plant permit issued under § 355.11.
[49 FR 42912, Oct. 25, 1984, as amended at 70 FR 57995, Oct. 5, 2005]
§ 355.11
Protected plant permits.
(a) On or after March 26, 1985 no person shall engage in business as an importer, exporter, or reexporter of any terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23 unless such person has obtained a protected plant permit for engaging in such business from Plant Protection and Quarantine.
(b) An application for a protected plant permit shall be submitted to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine, Permit Services, 4700 River Road Unit 133, Riverdale, MD 20737-1236. The completed application shall include the following information:
3
3
Application forms are available on the Internet (
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/ppq/permits
), by calling (877) 770-5990, or by writing to the address in this paragraph. Application forms may also be obtained from local offices at any of the ports designated in 50 CFR part 24. Telephone numbers and addresses of local offices are listed in telephone directories.
(1) Date of application;
(2) Applicant's name, mailing address, and telephone number;
(3) If the applicant is an individual, the business affiliation, if any, having to do with the importation, exportation, or reexportation of terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23;
(4) If the applicant is in the name of a business or if the applicant is affiliated with a business which imports, exports, or reexports terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23, the form of the business, e.g., corporation, firm, partnership; and the name and address of each partner, officer, director, holder, and owner of 10 percent or more of the voting stock, and employee in a managerial or executive capacity;
(5) The address of all applicants' business locations, including but not limited to locations of nurseries, growing fields, propagating beds, holding beds and similar facilities where activities relating to terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23 would be conducted;
(6) A brief and complete description of the nature of the applicant's business as it relates to engaging in business as an importer, exporter, or reexporter of terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23;
(7) Any address where books or records concerning the importation, exportation, or reexportation of terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23 would be kept;
(8) Name, address, and telephone number of the person authorized to make records or plant inventories available for examination by inspectors or other duly authorized representatives of the Secretary; and
(9) Certification by signature of the applicant (must be a partner or officer if the applicant is a business) after the following language: “I hereby certify
that the information in this application is complete and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief.”
(c) Each application for a protected plant permit must be accompanied by a check or money order for $70 made payable to Plant Protection and Quarantine. The fee shall not be refunded if the application is denied or abandoned.
(d) After receipt and review of the application by Plant Protection and Quarantine, a protected plant permit for the importation, exportation, and reexportation of terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23 shall be issued if the applicant has submitted an application containing all information requested in paragraph (b) of this section, if the applicant has paid the fee in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, and if a protected plant permit of the applicant or anyone responsibly connected with the business of the applicant has not been and is not denied, suspended or revoked pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section.
(e) The applicant shall be notified in writing by Plant Protection and Quarantine of the approval or denial of any request for a protected plant permit. If a protected plant permit is denied, the notification shall state the reasons therefor. If a protected plant permit is denied, the applicant may request a hearing pursuant to paragraph (i)(1) of this section and may submit to Plant Protection and Quarantine, in writing, reasons why the permit should not have been denied. Such submissions of the applicant shall not be considered a new application if submitted within 60 days following the receipt of notification of the denial by the applicant.
(f) Upon receipt of an incomplete or improperly executed application, the applicant shall be notified by Plant Protection and Quarantine of the deficiency of the application. If the applicant fails to supply the deficient information or otherwise fails to correct the deficiency within 60 days following the receipt of the notification by the applicant, the application shall be considered abandoned.
(g) Upon receipt of an application filed with an insufficient fee, or without a fee, the application and any fee submitted will be returned to the applicant.
(h) A protected plant permit shall be valid for 2 years from the date of issuance unless suspended or revoked pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section. A new application must be submitted for the renewal of the protected plant permit. A protected plant permit shall not be transferred, tampered with, amended or otherwise altered in any manner or form by any person.
(i)(1) Any application for a protected plant permit may be denied and any protected plant permit which has been issued may be suspended or revoked for a time specified by the Deputy Administrator for any of the reasons provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section. Before such action is taken, the applicant or permittee will be informed of the reasons for the proposed action, and upon request, shall be afforded an opportunity for a hearing with respect to the merits or validity of such action, in accordance with rules of practice which shall be adopted for the proceeding. However, such denial, suspension or revocation may become effective pending final determination in the proceeding, if the permittee has been convicted or a criminal violation of the Act, or of any regulation, permit, or certificate issued under the Act. Such denial, suspension or revocation shall be effective upon oral or written notification, whichever is earlier, to the permittee. In the event of oral notification of the denial, suspension or revocation, written confirmation shall be given to the permittee as promptly as circumstances allow. This denial, suspension or revocation shall continue in effect pending the completion of the proceeding and any judicial review thereof, unless otherwise ordered by the Deputy Administrator.
(2) An application for a protected plant permit may be denied and any protected plant permit which has been issued may be suspended or revoked if:
(i) Any requirement of this subpart is not complied with, or
(ii) The applicant, permittee, or a person responsibly connected with the business of the applicant or permittee has been criminally convicted or had a civil penalty imposed for a violation of the Act or of any regulation, permit, or certificate issued under the Act, or
(iii) The applicant, permittee, or a person responsibly connected with the business of the applicant or permittee has been convicted of any crime involving fraud, bribery, extortion, or any other crime involving a lack of integrity needed for the conduct of operations concerning the importation, exportation, or reexportation of terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23.
(3) For the purposes of this section, a person shall be deemed to be responsibly connected with the business of the applicant or permittee if the person is a partner, officer, director, holder, or owner of 10 percent or more or its voting stock, or an employee in a managerial or executive capacity.
(Information collection requirements were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0076)
[49 FR 42912, Oct. 25, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 67611, Dec. 30, 1994; 66 FR 21060, Apr. 27, 2001; 70 FR 57995, Oct. 5, 2005]

# Subpart C—Inspections and Related Provisions

# Source:
Redesignated at 84 FR 2430, Feb. 7, 2019.
§ 355.20
Marketing and notification requirements for plants imported, exported, or reexported by means other than mail.
4
4
Certain terrestrial plants listed in Appendices I, II, or III of the Convention or determined by the U.S. Department of the Interior to be endangered or threatened or similar in appearance to endangered or threatened species are required to be accompanied by documentation at the time of importation, exportation, or reexportation (see 50 CFR chapter I). Plants are allowed to be imported, exported or reexported only at ports authorized for such purposes by the U.S. Department of the Interior, or, under certain circumstances as determined by the U.S. Department of the Interior, at nondesignated ports, pursuant to section 9(f) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1538(f)). (see 50 CFR part 24 for a list of designated ports.)
(a) Any terrestrial plant which is to be imported, exported, or reexported by means other than mail and which may be imported, exported, or reexported under 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 only if accompanied by documentation, shall at the time of importation, exportation, or reexportation plainly and correctly bear on the outer container or on a tag, invoice, packing list, or other document accompanying the plant, the following information:
(1) Genus and species, and quantity of each (if a hybrid, genus of each parent, and quantity of each hybrid),
(2) Country and locality where collected from the wild or where produced from cultivated stock,
(3) Name and address (in the United States if exported or reexported) of shipper, owner or person shipping or forwarding the plants,
(4) Name and address (in the United States if imported) of consignee,
(5) Identifying shipper's mark and number, and
(6) Serial number and type (e.g., permit, certificate) of document issued for the importation, exportation, or reexportation of the plant.
(b) Promptly upon arrival at a port of import (listed in 50 CFR part 24, or, if allowed by the U.S. Department of the Interior, at a nondesignated port) of any terrestrial plant which is imported by means other than mail and which may be imported under 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 only if accompanied by documentation, the importer shall notify Plant Protection and Quarantine of the arrival and of the genus and species of the plant by such means as a manifest, Customs entry document, commercial invoice, waybill, broker's document, or notice form provided for that purpose.
(c) Prior to the exportation or reexportation of any terrestrial plant which is to be exported or reexported by other than mail and which may be exported or reexported under 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 only if accompanied by documentation, the exporter or reexporter shall notify Plant Protection and Quarantine of the intended exportation or reexportation and of the genus and species of the plant by such means as a manifest, commercial invoice, waybill, broker's document, or notice form provided for that purpose.
(Information collection requirements were approved by the Office of Budget and Management under control number 0579-0076)
[49 FR 42912, Oct. 25, 1984, as amended at 70 FR 57995, Oct. 5, 2005]
§ 355.21
Marking and mailing requirements for plants imported, exported, or reexported by mail.
5
(a) Any terrestrial plant which is to be imported by mail and which may be imported under 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 only if accompanied by documentation, shall be mailed to Plant Protection and Quarantine (at a port authorized for such purpose by the U.S. Department of the Interior in 50 CFR part 24 pursuant to section 9(f) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1538 (f))); and shall be accompanied by a separate sheet of paper within the package plainly and correctly bearing the name, address, and telephone number of the intended recipient in the United States; and shall plainly and correctly bear on the outer container the following information:
(1) Genus and species, and quantity of each (if a hybrid, genus of each parent, and quantity of each hybrid),
(2) Country and locality where collected from the wild or where produced from cultivated stock,
(3) Name and address of shipper, owner, or person shipping or forwarding the plants, and
(4) Serial number and type (e.g. permit, certificate) of document issued for the importation of the plant.
(b) Any terrestrial plant which is to be exported or reexported by mail and which may be exported or reexported under 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 only if accompanied by documentation, shall be mailed to Plant Protection and Quarantine (at a port authorized for such purpose by the U.S. Department of the Interior in 50 CFR part 24 pursuant to section 9(f) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1538(f))); shall be wrapped in double wrapping, with an unsealed inner wrapping addressed to the foreign recipient and bearing sufficient postage for mailing to the foreign destination; shall be accompanied by a separate sheet of paper within the package plainly and correctly bearing the following information:
(1) Genus and species, and quantity of each (if a hybrid, genus of each parent, and quantity of each hybrid),
(2) Country and locality where collected from the wild or where produced from cultivated stock,
(3) Name and address in the United States of shipper, owner, or person shipping or forwarding the plants, and
(4) Serial number and type (e.g. permit, certificate) of document issued for the exportation or reexportation of the plant.
(Information collection requirements were approved by the Office of Budget and Management under control number 0579-0076)
§ 355.22
Validation of documentation.
(a) Documentation for any mailed or nonmailed terrestrial plant which is required to have documentation under 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 at the time of importation, must be validated by an inspector prior to movement of such plant from the Customs inspection area at the port of entry. The original documentation must be surrendered to the inspector at the time of validation.
(b) Documentation for any mailed or nonmailed terrestrial plant which is listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23 and which is required to have documentation under 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 at the time of exportation or reexportation, must be validated at the port of export or reexport by an inspector prior to the exportation or reexportation of such plant.
5
The original and one copy of
the documentation must be submitted for validation, and the copy must be surrendered to the inspector at the time of validation.
5
It is the policy of the Department of Agriculture to allow, if inspectors are available, terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23 which are intended for export to be inspected at the premises where such plants are grown. However, the documentation required for the export of such plants by 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 shall only be validated at the port of export and only when such plants are presented at the port for export together with the documents required by 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 and a certified statement by the inspector who inspected the plants that the plants are apparently eligible for exportation in accordance with the provisions of this part and provisions of 50 CFR chapter I relating to the Act and Convention. Plants which have been previously inspected must be exported through a designated port (unless allowed by the United States Department of the Interior to be exported through a nondesignated port) in order to comply with section 9(f) of the Act [16 U.S.C. 1538(f)]. Plants which are inspected at the premises of origin must be available at the port of export for monitoring inspections and for other inspections deemed need
for enforcement purposes, but, unless so inspected, will not need to be unpacked, inspected and repacked at the port. Information concerning the availability of inspectors to conduct inspections at the premise of origin may be obtained by calling local offices of Plant Protection and Quarantine, which are listed in telephone directories, or by writing the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine, Operational Support—Director's Office, 4700 River Road, Unit 131, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1236.
(c) Documentation for a plant shall be validated under this section upon endorsement of the documentation by an inspector when he or she determines that the plant was apparently eligible for importation, exportation, or reexportation in accordance with the provisions of this part and the provisions of 50 CFR chapter I relating to the Act and Convention.
(d) To obtain validation of documentation, the importer, exporter, or reexporter, or agent thereof, shall make available to an inspector:
(1) All shipping documents (including bills of lading, waybills, packing lists, and invoices):
(2) All documents required by the Act and Convention; and
(3) The plant being imported, exported, or reexported.
(Information collection requirements were approved by the Office of Budget and Management under control number 0579-0076)
[49 FR 42912, Oct. 25, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 67611, Dec. 30, 1994; 70 FR 57995, Oct. 5, 2005]
§ 355.23
Recordkeeping, access, and reports.
(a) Any person engaged in business as an importer, exporter, or reexporter of terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 shall keep such records as will fully and correctly disclose each importation, exportation, or reexportation of terrestrial plants made by such person and the subsequent disposition made by such person of the plants. Such records shall include shipping documents for each shipment of plants imported, exported, or reexported; a description of the form of the plants (such as whole live plants, cuttings, seeds, or other specific parts or derivatives of plants); the scientific and common names of the plants; the country or place of origin of the plants; the date and place of importation, exportation, or reexportation of the plants; the number (weight if the plants cannot be quantified by number) and specific location of plants; the date and means of subsequent disposition of the plants, whether by sale, barter, consignment, loan, delivery, destruction, or other means; and names and addresses of persons to whom the plants were disposed, if applicable.
(b) Every record required to be kept under this section shall be kept for a period of 5 years after the occurrence of the transactions to which the records relate, and for such further time as the Deputy Administrator may require by written notice to the person required to keep such records under this part for purposes of any investigation, litigation, or other proceeding under the Act or this part.
(c) Any person engaged in business as an importer, exporter, or reexporter of terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR part 17 or part 23 shall, upon presentation of credentials by an inspector or duly authorized representatives of the Secretary; during ordinary business hours of the person given notice, afford such inspector access to the person's place of business, the opportunity to examine the person's inventory of plants and the records required to be kept under paragraph (a) of this section, and the opportunity to copy such records. The use of a room, table, or other facilities (other than reproduction equipment) necessary for examination and copying of records and for such examination of inventory shall be afforded such inspector.
(d) Any person engaged in business as an importer, exporter, or reexporter of terrestrial plants listed in 50 CFR part 17 or part 23, upon written request by the Deputy Administrator, shall submit within 60 days of such request, a
report concerning any of the information required to be maintained under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(Information collection requirements were approved by the Office of Budget and Management under control number 0579-0076)
Pt. 356

# PART 356—FORFEITURE PROCEDURES
Sec.
356.1
Property subject to forfeiture procedures.
356.2
Appraisement.
356.3
Property valued at greater than $10,000; notice of seizure and civil action to obtain forfeiture.
356.4
Property valued at $10,000 or less; notice of seizure and administrative action to obtain forfeiture.
356.5
Bonded release.
356.6
Storage of property.
356.7
Petition for remission or mitigation of forfeiture.
356.8
Return procedure.
356.9
Filing of documents.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 1540(f), 16 U.S.C. 3374); 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, 371.3.

# Source:
49 FR 42916, Oct. 25, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 356.1
Property subject to forfeiture procedures.
This part sets forth procedures relating to the forfeiture of any plant, equipment, means of conveyance or other property
1
seized under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
) or the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3371
et seq.
),
2
in possession (actual or constructive) of the United States Department of Agriculture, and subject to forfeiture under these Acts because of activities pertaining to the importation, exportation, or reexportation of terrestrial plants.
1
Under section 11(e)(4) of the Endangered Species Act (“Act”; 16 U.S.C. 1540(e)(4)) any such equipment and means of conveyance would be subject to forfeiture upon conviction of a criminal violation pursuant to section 11(b)(1) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1540(b)(1)); however, such a plant may be subject to forfeiture regardless of whether a criminal conviction is obtained.
2
Under section 5(a)(2) of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3374(a)(2)) USDA has authority to initiate forfeiture proceedings against all vessels, vehicles, aircraft, and other equipment used to aid in the importation or exportation of plants in a criminal violation of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 for which a felony conviction has been obtained if (a) the owner of such vessel, vehicle, aircraft, or equipment was at the time of the alleged illegal act a consenting part or privy thereto or in the exercise of due care should have known that such vessel, vehicle, aircraft, or equipment would be used in a criminal violation of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, and (b) the violation involved the sale or purchase of, the offer of sale or purchase of, or the intent to sell or purchase plants. However, under section 5(a)(1) of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3474(a)(1) plants seized for violations of the Amendments are subject to forfeiture regardless of whether a civil penalty assessment or criminal conviction is obtained.
[49 FR 46336, Nov. 26, 1984]
§ 356.2
Appraisement.
Promptly following the seizure or other receipt of property specified in § 356.1, the Deputy Administrator shall determine the retail value of such property in the same quantity or quantities as seized. If the property may lawfully be sold in the United States, the value thereof shall be determined by ascertaining the price at which the property or similar property in the ordinary course of trade is freely offered for sale at the time of appraisement, and at a principal market as close as possible to the place of appraisement. If the property may not lawfully be sold in the United States, the value thereof shall be determined by other reasonable means.
§ 356.3
Property valued at greater than $10,000; notice of seizure and civil action to obtain forfeiture.
Promptly following the seizures or other receipt of any property specified in § 356.1 and determined under § 356.2 to have a value greater than $10,000, the Deputy Administrator shall mail a notice of seizure by registered or certified mail to the current or last known or reasonable ascertainable address, return receipt requested, to persons known or reasonably ascertained to be the owner or agent of the seized property and to any other person having an interest in the property. Such notice shall describe the seized property, shall
state the time, date, place, and reason for the seizure, that there is a right to petition for remission or mitigation of forfeiture pursuant to § 356.7, and shall state that action shall be taken in accordance with this part. Promptly following the seizure of such property, the Secretary shall also submit a report concerning such property to the U.S. Attorney for the district in which the seizure was made for institution of forfeiture proceedings in the U.S. District Court. The report shall provide a statement of all the relevant facts and circumstances of the case, including the names of the witnesses, and a citation to the laws believed to have been violated and on which reliance may be had for forfeiture.
§ 356.4
Property valued at $10,000 or less; notice of seizure administrative action to obtain forfeiture.
(a)
When authorized.
The Secretary shall take measures to obtain forfeiture in accordance with this section of any property specified in § 356.1 and determined under § 356.2 to have a value of $10,000 or less.
(b)
Waiver of forfeiture procedures by owner of seized property.
A person claiming to be an owner or to have an interest in any property specified in § 356.1 with a value of $10,000 or less may waive any rights to any procedures relating to forfeiture under this subpart by signing a statement providing for waiver of such rights.
(1) The Deputy Administrator shall publish a copy of the notice of seizure and proposed forfeiture as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, by posting for 21 days in a conspicuous place accessible to the public at the Plant Protection and Quarantine Enforcement office nearest the place of seizure. The time and date of posting shall be indicated on the notice.
(2) Upon the execution of such statement and following publication of the notice for 21 days as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, any interest in such property by such owner shall become forfeited under the Act without further action under this subpart, and the Deputy Administrator shall not be required to send such owner any notices or declarations otherwise required by this subpart.
(c)
Procedure absent waiver of forfeiture procedures by owner.
(1) Notice of seizure and proposed forfeiture. Promptly following seizure of property, the Deputy Administrator shall issue a notice of seizure and proposed forfeiture. The notice shall be in substantially the same form as a complaint for forfeiture filed in the U.S. District Court. The notice shall describe the seized property, including any identification numbers, such as the license, registration, motor, and serial numbers for a motor vehicle. The notice shall state the time, date, and place of seizure; the reason for seizure; and shall specify the value of the property as determined under § 356.2. The notice shall contain specific reference to the provisions of the Act, permit, certificate, or regulations allegedly violated and under which the property is subject to forfeiture. The notice shall state that any person desiring to claim the property must file a claim and a bond in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and shall state that if a proper claim and bond are not received by the specified office within the time prescribed by such paragraph, the property will be declared forfeited to the United States and disposed of according to law. The notice shall also advise interested persons of their right to file a petition for remission or mitigation of forfeiture in accordance with § 356.7.
(i) Promptly following the seizure, The Deputy Administrator shall mail a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to persons known or reasonably ascertained to be the owner or agent of the seized property, and to any other person having an interest in the property, if such owner or agent or other person and their address is known or reasonably ascertainable.
(ii)
Publication.
Promptly following the seizure, the Deputy Administrator shall publish a copy of the notice by posting for 21 days in a conspicuous place accessible to the public at the Plant Protection and Quarantine enforcement office nearest the place of seizure. The time and date of posting shall be indicated on the notice.
(2)
Filing a claim and bond.
Upon issuance of the notice of proposed forfeiture, any person claiming ownership
of or other interest in the seized property may file with the office specified in the notice a claim to the property and a bond in the amount of $250, with sureties to be approved by the Deputy Administrator, conditioned that in case of condemnation of the articles so claimed, the obligor shall pay all the costs and expenses of the proceedings to obtain such condemnation. Any claim and bond must be received in such office within 20 days after posting of the notice of proposed forfeiture, and shall state claimant's interest in the property. The Deputy Administrator may extend the 20 day period with an appropriate statement on the posted notice of proposed forfeiture, if necessary, to allow a person deemed to have an interest in the property at least 10 days to file such a claim and bond after receipt of a notice of proposed forfeiture. The bond shall be on a U.S. Customs Form 4615 or on a similar form provided by Plant Protection and Quarantine. There shall be endorsed on the bond a list or schedule in substantially the following form which shall be signed by the claimant in the presence of the witnesses to the bond, and attested by the witnesses:
List or schedule containing a description of seized articles, claim for which is covered by the bond:
The foregoing list is correct.
Claimant
Attest:
The claim and bond referred to in the paragraph shall not entitle the claimant or any other person to possession of the property.
(3)
Transmittal to U.S. Attorney.
As soon as practicable after timely receipt by the specified office of a proper claim and bond in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Secretary shall transmit such claim, bond (with a duplicate list and description of the articles seized), and a report as described in § 356.3 to the U.S. Attorney for the district in which seizure was made for forfeiture proceedings in the U.S. District Court.
(d)
Summary forfeiture.
If a proper claim and bond are not received by the specified office within the time periods as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the property shall be forfeited and the Deputy Administrator shall prepare a declaration of forfeiture. The declaration of forfeiture shall be in writing, and the Deputy Administrator shall send such declaration by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to each person whose whereabouts and prior interests in the seized property are known or reasonably ascertainable. The declaration shall be in substantially the same form as a default judgment of forfeiture entered in U.S. District Court. The declaration shall describe the property and state the time, date, place, and reason for its seizure. The declaration shall identify the notice of proposed forfeiture, describing the dates and manner of publication of the notice and any efforts made to serve the notice personally or by mail. The declaration shall state that in response to the notice a proper claim and bond were not timely received by the proper office from any claimant, and that, therefore, all potential claimants are deemed to admit the truth of the allegations of the notice. The declaration shall conclude with an order of condemnation and forfeiture of the property to the United States for disposition according to law.
(Information collection requirements were approved by the Office of Budget and Management under control number 0579-0076)
§ 356.5
Bonded release.
(a) The Deputy Administrator may accept a bond or other security, in the amount of the value of the property as determined under § 356.3, in place of any property specified in § 356.1 and release the property to the owner or agent of the property, if such action would not frustrate the purposes of the Act and Convention. As an example, this section does not allow the release of terrestrial plants that are without documentation required under 50 CFR chapter I.
(b) Any request for the return of property based on the acceptance of a bond or other security shall be submitted in writing to the Deputy Administrator. The request shall include
evidence to establish that the person making the request is the sole owner of the property referred to in the request or is the agent of the sole owner of such property. A response in writing, granting or denying the request, and the reasons therefor, shall be sent to the person making the request.
§ 356.6
Storage of property.
Following the seizure or other receipt of any property specified in § 356.1 and valued at $10,000 or less, the property shall remain in the custody of the Deputy Administrator pending disposition. Pending such disposition, the property shall be stored in such place, as, in the opinion of the Deputy Administrator, is most convenient and appropriate with due regard to the expense involved, whether or not the place of storage is within the judicial district in which the property was seized.
§ 356.7
Petition for remission or mitigation of forfeiture.
(a) Any person who has an interest in any property specified in § 356.1 and valued at $10,000 or less, or any person who has incurred or is alleged to have incurred a forfeiture of any such property, may file with the Deputy Administrator a petition for remission or mitigation of forfeiture while the property is in the custody of the Deputy Administrator.
(b) A petition filed with the Deputy Administrator need not be in any particular form, but must contain the following:
(1) A description of the property:
(2) The time, date, and place of seizure;
(3) Evidence of the petitioner's interest in the property such as contracts, bills of sale, invoices, security interests, certificates of title; and
(4) A statement of all facts and circumstances relied upon by the petitioners to justify remission or mitigation of the forfeiture.
(c) The petition shall be signed by the petitioner or the petitioner's attorney at law. If the petitioner is a business, the petition must be signed by a partner, officer, or petitioner's attorney at law.
(d) Upon receiving the petition, the Deputy Administrator shall decide whether or not to grant relief. In making a decision, the Deputy Administrator shall consider the information submitted by the petitioner, as well as any other available information relating to the matter, and may require that testimony be taken concerning the petition.
(e) If the Deputy Administrator finds that the forfeiture was incurred without willful negligence or without any intention on the part of the petitioner to violate the law or finds the existence of such mitigating circumstances as to justify remission or mitigation of the forfeiture or alleged forfeiture, the Deputy Administrator may remit or mitigate the same upon terms and conditions as he deems reasonable and just. However, remission or mitigation will not be made if such action would frustrate the purposes of the Act or Convention. As an example, this section does not allow remission or mitigation with respect to terrestrial plants that are without documentation required under 50 CFR chapter I.
(f) The Deputy Administrator shall notify the petitioner in writing concerning whether the petition was granted or denied, and shall state the reasons therefor. If the petition is denied fully or in part, the petitioner may then file a supplemental petition, but no supplemental petition shall be considered unless it is received within 60 days from the date of the Deputy Administrator's notification concerning the original petition. The Deputy Administrator shall notify the petitioner in writing concerning the action taken in response to the supplemental petition, and shall state the reasons therefor.
(Information collection requirements were approved by the Office of Budget and Management under control number 0579-0076)
§ 356.8
Return procedure.
If, at the conclusion of proceedings, seized property is to be returned to the person determined to be the owner or agent thereof, the Deputy Administrator shall issue a letter or other document to the person determined to be owner or agent thereof authorizing its return. This letter shall be delivered
personally or sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall identify the person determined to be the owner or agent, the seized property, and if appropriate, the bailee of the seized property. It shall also provide that upon presentation of the letter or other document and proper identification, and the signing of a receipt provided by Plant Protection and Quarantine, the seized property is authorized to be released.
§ 356.9
Filing of documents.
(a) Any document required by this subpart to be filed or served within a certain period of time, will be considered filed or served as of the time of receipt by the party with or upon whom filing or service is required.
(b) Saturdays, Sundays, and federal holidays shall be included in computing the time allowed for the filing or serving of any document or paper; except that when such time expires on a Saturday, Sunday or federal holiday, such period shall be extended to include the next following business day.
Pt. 357

# PART 357—CONTROL OF ILLEGALLY TAKEN PLANTS
Sec.
357.1
Purpose and scope.
357.2
Definitions.
357.3
Declaration requirement.
357.4
Exceptions from the declaration requirement.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 3371
et seq.;
7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.2(d).

# Source:
78 FR 40944, July 9, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 357.1
Purpose and scope.
The Lacey Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3371
et seq.
), makes it unlawful to, among other things, import, export, transport, sell, receive, acquire, or purchase in interstate or foreign commerce any plant, with some limited exceptions, taken, possessed, transported or sold in violation of any Federal or Tribal law, or in violation of a State or foreign law that protects plants or that regulates certain specified plant-related activities. The Lacey Act also makes it unlawful to make or submit any false record, account, or label for, or any false identification of, any plant covered by the Act. Common cultivars (except trees) and common food crops are among the categorical exclusions to the provisions of the Act. The Act does not define the terms “common cultivar” and “common food crop” but instead authorizes the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Department of the Interior to define these terms by regulation. The regulations in this part provide the required definitions. Additionally, the regulations in this part address the declaration requirement of the Act.
[85 FR 12212, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 357.2
Definitions.
Artificial selection.
The process of selecting plants for particular traits, through such means as breeding, cloning, or genetic modification.
Commercial scale.
Production, in individual products or markets, that is typical of commercial activity, regardless of the production methods or amount of production of a particular facility or the purpose of an individual shipment.
Common cultivar.
A plant (except a tree) that:
(1) Has been developed through artificial selection for specific morphological or physiological characteristics; and
(2) Is a species or hybrid, or a selection thereof, that is produced on a commercial scale; and
(3) Is not listed:
(i) In an appendix to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (27 UST 1087; TIAS 8249);
(ii) As an endangered or threatened species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
); or
(iii) Pursuant to any State law that provides for the conservation of species that are indigenous to the State and are threatened with extinction.
Common food crop.
A plant that:
(1) Is raised, grown, or cultivated for human or animal consumption; and
(2) Is a species or hybrid, or a selection thereof, that is produced on a commercial scale; and
(3) Is not listed:
(i) In an appendix to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (27 UST 1087; TIAS 8249);
(ii) As an endangered or threatened species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
); or
(iii) Pursuant to any State law that provides for the conservation of species that are indigenous to the State and are threatened with extinction.
Import.
To land on, bring into, or introduce into, any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, whether or not such landing, bringing, or introduction constitutes an importation within the meaning of the customs laws of the United States.
Person.
Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, trust, or any officer, employee, agent, department, or instrumentality of the Federal Government or of any State or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
Plant.
Any wild member of the plant kingdom, including roots, seeds, parts or products thereof, and including trees from either natural or planted forest stands. The term plant excludes:
(1) Common cultivars, except trees, and common food crops (including roots, seeds, parts, or products thereof);
(2) A scientific specimen of plant genetic material (including roots, seeds, germplasm, parts, or products thereof) that is to be used only for laboratory or field research; and
(3) Any plant that is to remain planted or to be planted or replanted.
(4) A plant is not eligible for these exclusions if it is listed:
(i) In an appendix to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (27 UST 1087; TIAS 8249);
(ii) As an endangered or threatened species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
); or
(iii) Pursuant to any State law that provides for the conservation of species that are indigenous to the State and are threatened with extinction.
Taken.
Captured, killed, or collected, and with respect to a plant, also harvested, cut, logged, or removed.
Tree.
A woody perennial plant that has a well-defined stem or stems and a continuous cambium, and that exhibits true secondary growth.
[78 FR 40944, July 9, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 12212, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 357.3
Declaration requirement.
(a) Any person importing any plant shall file upon importation a declaration that contains:
(1) The scientific name of any plant (including the genus and species of the plant) contained in the importation;
(2) A description of the value of the importation and the quantity, including the unit of measure, of the plant; and
(3) The name of the country from which the plant was taken.
(b) The declaration relating to a plant product shall also contain:
(1) If the species of plant used to produce the plant product that is the subject of the importation varies, and the species used to produce the plant product is unknown, the name of each species of plant that may have been used to produce the plant product;
(2) If the species of plant used to produce the plant product that is the subject of the importation is commonly taken from more than one country, and the country from which the plant was taken and used to produce the plant product is unknown, the name of each country from which the plant may have been taken; and
(3) If a paper or paperboard plant product includes recycled plant product, the average percent recycled content without regard for the species or country of origin of the recycled plant product, in addition to the information for the non-recycled plant content otherwise required by this section.
(c) Guidance on completion and submission of the declaration form can be found on the APHIS website at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/plant_health/lacey_act
.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0349)
[85 FR 12212, Mar. 2, 2020]
§ 357.4
Exceptions from the declaration requirement.
Plants and products containing plant materials are excepted from the declaration requirement if:
(a) The plant is used exclusively as packaging material to support, protect, or carry another item, unless the packaging material itself is the item being imported; or
(b) The plant material in a product represents no more than 5 percent of the total weight of the individual product unit, provided that the total weight of the plant material in an entry of products in the same 10-digit provision of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States does not exceed 2.9 kilograms.
(c) A product will not be eligible for an exception under paragraph (b) of this section if it contains plant material listed:
(1) In an appendix to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (27 UST 1087; TIAS 8249);
(2) As an endangered or threatened species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
); or
(3) Pursuant to any State law that provides for the conservation of species that are indigenous to the State and are threatened with extinction.
[85 FR 12212, Mar. 2, 2020]
Pt. 360

# PART 360—NOXIOUS WEED REGULATIONS
Sec.
360.100
Definitions.
360.200
Designation of noxious weeds.
360.300
Notice of restrictions on movement of noxious weeds.
360.301
Information required for applications for permits to move noxious weeds.
360.302
Consideration of applications for permits to move noxious weeds.
360.303
Approval of an application for a permit to move a noxious weed; conditions specified in permit.
360.304
Denial of an application for a permit to move a noxious weed; revocation of a permit to move a noxious weed.
360.305
Disposal of noxious weeds when permits are revoked.
360.400
Treatments.
360.500
Petitions to add a taxon to the noxious weed list.
360.501
Petitions to remove a taxon from the noxious weed lists.
360.600
Preemption of State and local laws.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7701-7772 and 7781-7786; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.3.
§ 360.100
Definitions.
As used in this part, words in the singular form shall be deemed to import the plural and vice versa, as the case may require.
Administrator.
The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any individual authorized to act for the Administrator.
APHIS.
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture.
Department.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Interstate.
From one State into or through any other State; or within the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
Move.
To carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to aid, abet, cause, or induce the carrying, entering, importing, mailing, shipping, or transporting; to offer to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to receive to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to release into the environment; or to allow any of the activities described in this definition.
Noxious weed.
Any plant or plant product that can directly or indirectly injure or cause damage to crops (including nursery stock or plant products), livestock, poultry, or other interests of agriculture, irrigation, navigation, the natural resources of the United States, the public health, or the environment.
Permit.
A written authorization, including by electronic methods, by the Administrator to move plants, plant products, biological control organisms, plant pests, noxious weeds, or articles under conditions prescribed by the Administrator.
Person.
Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint venture, or other legal entity.
Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs.
The Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the Department.
Responsible person.
The person who has control over and will maintain control over the movement of the noxious weed and assure that all conditions
contained in the permit and requirements in this part are complied with. A responsible person must be at least 18 years of age and must be a legal resident of the United States or designate an agent who is at least 18 years of age and a legal resident of the United States.
State.
Any of the several States of the United States, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
Taxon (taxa).
Any grouping within botanical nomenclature, such as family, genus, species, or cultivar.
Through the United States.
From and to places outside the United States.
United States.
All of the States.
[41 FR 49988, Nov. 12, 1976, as amended at 75 FR 68953, Nov. 102, 2010]
§ 360.200
Designation of noxious weeds.
The Administrator has determined that it is necessary to designate the following plants
1
as noxious weeds to prevent their introduction into the United States or their dissemination within the United States:
1
One or more of the common names of weeds are given in parentheses after most scientific names to help identify the weeds represented by such scientific names; however, a scientific name is intended to include all subordinate taxa within the taxon. For example, taxa listed at the genus level include all species, subspecies, varieties, and forms within the genus; taxa listed at the species level include all subspecies, varieties, and forms within the species.
(a)
Aquatic and wetland weeds:
Azolla pinnata
R. Brown (mosquito fern, water velvet)
Caulerpa taxifolia
(Vahl) C. Agardh, Mediterranean strain (killer algae)
Eichhornia azurea
(Swartz) Kunth
Hydrilla verticillata
(Linnaeus f.) Royle (hydrilla)
Hygrophila polysperma
T. Anderson (Miramar weed)
Ipomoea aquatica
Forsskal (water-spinach, swamp morning-glory)
Lagarosiphon major
(Ridley) Moss
Limnophila sessiliflora
(Vahl) Blume (ambulia)
Melaleuca quinquenervia
(Cavanilles) S.T. Blake
Monochoria hastata
(Linnaeus) Solms-Laubach
Monochoria vaginalis
(Burman f.) C. Presl
Ottelia alismoides (L.) Pers.
Sagittaria sagittifolia
Linnaeus (arrowhead)
Salvinia auriculata
Aublet (giant salvinia)
Salvinia biloba
Raddi (giant salvinia)
Salvinia herzogii
de la Sota (giant salvinia)
Salvinia molesta
D.S. Mitchell (giant salvinia)
Solanum tampicense
Dunal (wetland nightshade)
Sparganium erectum
Linnaeus (exotic bur-reed)
(b)
Parasitic weeds:
Aeginetia
spp.
Alectra
spp.
Cuscuta
spp. (dodders), other than following species:
Cuscuta americana
Linnaeus
Cuscuta applanata
Engelmann
Cuscuta approximata
Babington
Cuscuta attenuata
Waterfall
Cuscuta boldinghii
Urban
Cuscuta brachycalyx
(Yuncker) Yuncker
Cuscuta californica
Hooker
Arnott
Cuscuta campestris
Yuncker
Cuscuta cassytoides
Nees ex Engelmann
Cuscuta ceanothi
Behr
Cuscuta cephalanthi
Engelmann
Cuscuta compacta
Jussieu
Cuscuta coryli
Engelmann
Cuscuta cuspidata
Engelmann
Cuscuta decipiens
Yuncker
Cuscuta dentatasquamata
Yuncker
Cuscuta denticulata
Engelmann
Cuscuta epilinum
Weihe
Cuscuta epithymum
(Linnaeus) Linnaeus
Cuscuta erosa
Yuncker
Cuscuta europaea
Linnaeus
Cuscuta exaltata
Engelmann
Cuscuta fasciculata
Yuncker
Cuscuta glabrior
(Engelmann) Yuncker
Cuscuta globulosa
Bentham
Cuscuta glomerata
Choisy
Cuscuta gronovii
Willdenow
Cuscuta harperi
Small
Cuscuta howelliana
Rubtzoff
Cuscuta indecora
Choisy
Cuscuta leptantha
Engelmann
Cuscuta mitriformis
Engelmann
Cuscuta obtusiflora
Kunth
Cuscuta odontolepis
Engelmann
Cuscuta pentagona
Engelmann
Cuscuta planiflora
Tenore
Cuscuta plattensis
A. Nelson
Cuscuta polygonorum
Engelmann
Cuscuta rostrata
Shuttleworth ex Engelmann
Gray
Cuscuta runyonii
Yuncker
Cuscuta salina
Engelmann
Cuscuta sandwichiana
Choisy
Cuscuta squamata
Engelmann
Cuscuta suaveolens
Seringe
Cuscuta suksdorfii
Yuncker
Cuscuta tuberculata
Brandegee
Cuscuta umbellata
Kunth
Cuscuta umbrosa
Beyrich ex Hooker
Cuscuta veatchii
Brandegee
Cuscuta warneri
Yuncker
Orobanche
spp. (broomrapes), other than the following species:
Orobanche bulbosa
(Gray) G. Beck
Orobanche californica
Schlechtendal
Chamisso
Orobanche cooperi
(Gray) Heller
Orobanche corymbosa
(Rydberg) Ferris
Orobanche dugesii
(S. Watson) Munz
Orobanche fasciculata
Nuttall
Orobanche ludoviciana
Nuttall
Orobanche multicaulis
Brandegee
Orobanche parishii
(Jepson) Heckard
Orobanche pinorum
Geyer ex Hooker
Orobanche uniflora
Linnaeus
Orobanche valida
Jepson
Orobanche vallicola
(Jepson) Heckard
Striga
spp. (witchweeds)
(c)
Terrestrial weeds:
Acacia nilotica
(Linnaeus) Wildenow ex Delile (gum arabic tree, thorny acacia
Ageratina adenophora
(Sprengel) King
Robinson (crofton weed)
Ageratina riparia
(Regel) R.M. King and H. Robinson (creeping croftonweed, mistflower)
Alternanthera sessilis
(Linnaeus) R. Brown ex de Candolle (sessile joyweed)
Arctotheca calendula
(Linnaeus) Levyns (capeweed)
Asphodelus fistulosus
Linnaeus (onionweed)
Avena sterilis
Linnaeus (including
Avena ludoviciana
Durieu) (animated oat, wild oat)
Carthamus oxyacantha
M. Bieberstein (wild safflower)
Chrysopogon aciculatus
(Retzius) Trinius (pilipiliula)
Commelina benghalensis
Linnaeus (Benghal dayflower)
Crupina vulgaris
Cassini (common crupina)
Digitaria abyssinica
(Hochstetter ex A. Richard) Stapf (African couchgrass, fingergrass)
Digitaria velutina
(Forsskal) Palisot de Beauvois (velvet fingergrass, annual couchgrass)
Drymaria arenariodes
Humboldt
Bonpland ex J.A. Schultes (lightning weed)
Emex australis
Steinheil (three-cornered jack)
Emex spinosa
(Linnaeus) Campdera (devil's thorn)
Euphorbia terracina
Linnaeus (false caper, Geraldton carnation weed)
Galega officinalis
Linnaeus (goatsrue)
Heracleum mantegazzianum
Sommier
Levier (giant hogweed)
Imperata brasiliensis
Trinius (Brazilian satintail)
Imperata cylindrica
(Linnaeus) Palisot de Beauvois (cogongrass)
Inula britannica
Linnaeus (British elecampane, British yellowhead)
Ischaemum rugosum
Salisbury (murainograss)
Leptochloa chinensis
(Linnaeus) Nees (Asian sprangletop)
Lycium ferocissimum
Miers (African boxthorn)
Lygodium flexuosum
(Linnaeus) Swartz (maidenhair creeper)
Lygodium microphyllum
(Cavanilles) R. Brown (Old World climbing fern)
Melastoma malabathricum
Linnaeus
Mikania cordata
(Burman f.) B. L. Robinson (mile-a-minute)
Mikania micrantha
Kunth
Mimosa diplotricha
C. Wright (giant sensitive-plant)
Mimosa pigra
Linneaus var.
pigra
(catclaw mimosa)
Moraea collina
Thunberg (apricot Cape-tulip)
Moraea flaccida
(Sweet) Steudel (one-leaf Cape-tulip)
Moraea miniata
Andrews (two-leaf Cape-tulip)
Moraea ochroleuca
(Salisbury) Drapiez (red Cape-tulip)
Moraea pallida
(Baker) Goldblatt (yellow Cape-tulip)
Nassella trichotoma
(Nees) Hackel ex Arechavaleta (serrated tussock)
Onopordum acaulon
Linnaeus (stemless thistle)
Onopordum illyricum
Linnaeus (Illyrian thistle)
Opuntia aurantiaca
Lindley (jointed prickly pear)
Oryza longistaminata
A. Chevalier
Roehrich (red rice)
Oryza punctata
Kotschy ex Steudel (red rice)
Oryza rufipogon
Griffith (red rice)
Paspalum scrobiculatum
Linnaeus (Kodo-millet)
Pennisetum clandestinum
Hochstetter ex Chiovenda (kikuyugrass)
Pennisetum macrourum
Trinius (African feathergrass)
Pennisetum pedicellatum
Trinius (kyasumagrass)
Pennisetum polystachion
(Linnaeus) Schultes (missiongrass, thin napiergrass)
Prosopis alpataco
R. A. Philippi
Prosopis argentina
Burkart
Prosopis articulata
S. Watson
Prosopis burkartii
Munoz
Prosopis caldenia
Burkart
Prosopis calingastana
Burkart
Prosopis campestris
Griseback
Prosopis castellanosii
Burkart
Prosopis denudans
Bentham
Prosopis elata
(Burkart) Burkart
Prosopis farcta
(Banks
Solander) J.F. Macbride
Prosopis ferox
Grisebach
Prosopis fiebrigii
Harms
Prosopis hassleri
Harms
Prosopis humilis
Gillies ex Hooker
Arnott
Prosopis kuntzei
Harms
Prosopis pallida
(Humboldt
Bonpland ex Willdenow) Kunth
Prosopis palmeri
S. Watson
Prosopis reptans
Bentham var.
reptans
Prosopis rojasiana
Burkart
Prosopis ruizlealii
Burkart
Prosopis ruscifolia
Grisebach
Prosopis sericantha
Gillies ex Hooker
Arnott
Prosopis strombulifera
(Lamarck) Bentham
Prosopis torquata
(Cavanilles ex Lagasca y Segura) de Candolle
Rottboellia cochinchinensis
(Lour.) W. Clayton
Rubus fruticosus
Linnaeus (complex) (wild blackberry)
Rubus moluccanus
Linnaeus (wild raspberry)
Saccharum spontaneum
Linnaeus (wild sugarcane)
Salsola vermiculata
Linnaeus (wormleaf salsola)
Senecio inaequidens
DC. (South African ragwort)
Senecio madagascariensis
Poir. (Madagascar ragwort)
Setaria pumila
(Poir.) Roem.
Schult. subsp.
pallidefusca
(Schumach.) B.K. Simon (cattail grass)
Solanum torvum
Swartz (turkeyberry)
Solanum viarum
Dunal (tropical soda apple)
Spermacoce alata
Aublet
Tridax procumbens
Linnaeus (coat buttons)
Urochloa panicoides
Beauvois (liverseed grass)
[48 FR 20039, May 4, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 25223, June 20, 1984; 57 FR 8838, Mar. 13, 1992; 60 FR 35832, July 12, 1995; 64 FR 12883, Mar. 16, 1999; 65 FR 33743, May 25, 2000; 66 FR 21060, Apr. 27, 2001; 71 FR 35381, June 20, 2006; 74 FR 53400, Oct. 19, 2009; 75 FR 68953, Nov. 10, 2010]
§ 360.300
Notice of restrictions on movement of noxious weeds.
No person may move a Federal noxious weed into or through the United States, or interstate, unless:
(a) He or she applies for a permit to move a noxious weed in accordance with § 360.301;
(b) The permit application is approved; and
(c) The movement is consistent with the specific conditions contained in the permit.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0054)
[75 FR 68954, Nov. 10, 2010]
§ 360.301
Information required for applications for permits to move noxious weeds.
(a)
Permit to import a noxious weed into the United States.
A responsible person must apply for a permit to import a noxious weed into the United States.
2
The application must include the following information:
2
Information on applying for a permit to import a noxious weed into the United States is available at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/plant_health/permits/plantproducts.shtml.
(1) The responsible person's name, address, telephone number, and (if available) e-mail address;
(2) The taxon of the noxious weed;
(3) Plant parts to be moved;
(4) Quantity of noxious weeds to be moved per shipment;
(5) Proposed number of shipments per year;
(6) Origin of the noxious weeds;
(7) Destination of the noxious weeds;
(8) Whether the noxious weed is established in the State of destination;
(9) Proposed method of shipment;
(10) Proposed port of first arrival in the United States;
(11) Approximate date of arrival;
(12) Intended use of the noxious weeds;
(13) Measures to be employed to prevent danger of noxious weed dissemination; and
(14) Proposed method of final disposition of the noxious weeds.
(b)
Permit to move noxious weeds interstate.
A responsible person must apply for a permit to move a noxious weed interstate.
3
The application must include the following information:
3
Information on applying for a permit to move a noxious weed interstate is available at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/plant_health/permits/plantproducts.shtml.
(1) The responsible person's name, address, telephone number, and (if available) e-mail address;
(2) The taxon of the noxious weed;
(3) Plant parts to be moved;
(4) Quantity of noxious weeds to be moved per shipment;
(5) Proposed number of shipments per year,
(6) Origin of the noxious weeds;
(7) Destination of the noxious weeds;
(8) Whether the noxious weed is established in the State of destination;
(9) Proposed method of shipment,
(10) Approximate date of movement;
(11) Intended use of the noxious weeds;
(12) Measures to be employed to prevent danger of noxious weed dissemination; and
(13) Proposed method of final disposition of the noxious weeds.
(c)
Permits to move noxious weeds through the United States.
Permits to move noxious weeds through the United States must be obtained in accordance with part 352 of this chapter.
[75 FR 68954, Nov. 10, 2010]
§ 360.302
Consideration of applications for permits to move noxious weeds.
Upon the receipt of an application made in accordance with § 360.301 for a permit for movement of a noxious weed into the United States or interstate, the Administrator will consider the application on its merits.
(a)
Consultation.
The Administrator may consult with other Federal agencies or entities, States or political subdivisions of States, national governments, local governments in other nations, domestic or international organizations, domestic or international associations, and other persons for views on the danger of noxious weed dissemination into the United States, or interstate, in connection with the proposed movement.
(b)
Inspection of premises.
The Administrator may inspect the site where noxious weeds are proposed to be handled in connection with or after their movement under permit to determine whether existing or proposed facilities will be adequate to prevent noxious weed dissemination if a permit is issued.
[75 FR 68954, Nov. 10, 2010]
§ 360.303
Approval of an application for a permit to move a noxious weed; conditions specified in permit.
The Administrator will approve or deny an application for a permit to move a noxious weed. If the application is approved, the Administrator will issue the permit including any conditions that the Administrator has determined are necessary to prevent dissemination of noxious weeds into the United States or interstate. Such conditions may include requirements for inspection of the premises where the noxious weed is to be handled after its movement under the permit, to determine whether the facilities there are adequate to prevent noxious weed dissemination and whether the conditions of the permit are otherwise being observed. Before the permit is issued, the Administrator will require the responsible person to agree in writing to the conditions under which the noxious weed will be safeguarded.
[75 FR 68954, Nov. 10, 2010]
§ 360.304
Denial of an application for a permit to move a noxious weed; revocation of a permit to move a noxious weed.
(a) The Administrator may deny an application for a permit to move a noxious weed when the Administrator determines that:
(1) No safeguards adequate or appropriate to prevent dissemination of the noxious weed can be implemented; or
(2) The destructive potential of the noxious weed, should it escape despite proposed safeguards, outweighs the probable benefits to be derived from the proposed movement and use of the noxious weed; or
(3) The responsible person, or the responsible person's agent, as a previous permittee, failed to maintain the safeguards or otherwise observe the conditions prescribed in a previous permit and failed to demonstrate the ability or intent to observe them in the future; or
(4) The movement could impede an APHIS eradication, suppression, control, or regulatory program; or
(5) A State plant regulatory official objects to the issuance of the permit on the grounds that granting the permit will pose a risk of dissemination of the noxious weed into the State; or
(6) The application for the permit contains information that is found to be materially false, fraudulent, or deceptive; or
(7) APHIS may deny a permit to a person who has previously failed to comply with any APHIS regulation.
(b) The Administrator may revoke any outstanding permit when:
(1) After the issuance of the permit, information is received that constitutes cause for the denial of an application for permit under paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) The responsible person has not maintained the safeguards or otherwise observed the conditions specified in the permit.
(c) If a permit is orally revoked, APHIS will provide the reasons for the withdrawal of the permit in writing within 10 days. Any person whose permit has been revoked or any person who has been denied a permit may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receiving the written notification of the revocation or denial. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the permit was wrongfully revoked or denied. The Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision as promptly as circumstances allow. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflict. Rules of practice concerning such a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.
[75 FR 68954, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 19812, Apr. 10, 2014]
§ 360.305
Disposal of noxious weeds when permits are revoked.
When a permit for the movement of a noxious weed is revoked by the Administrator and not reinstated under § 360.304(c), further movement of the noxious weed covered by the permit into or through the United States, or interstate, is prohibited unless authorized by another permit. The responsible person must arrange for disposal of the noxious weed in question in a manner that the Administrator determines is adequate to prevent noxious weed dissemination. The Administrator may seize, quarantine, treat, apply other remedial measures to, destroy, or otherwise dispose of, in such manner as the Administrator deems appropriate, any noxious weed that is moved without compliance with any conditions in the permit or after the permit has been revoked whenever the Administrator deems it necessary in order to prevent the dissemination of any noxious weed into or within the United States.
[75 FR 68954, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 19812, Apr. 10, 2014]
§ 360.400
Treatments.
(a) Seeds of
Guizotia abyssinica
(niger seed) are commonly contaminated with noxious weed seeds listed in § 360.200, including (but not limited to)
Cuscuta
spp. Therefore,
Guizotia abyssinica
seeds may be imported into the United States only if:
(1) They are treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter at the time of arrival at the port of first arrival in the United States; or
(2) They are treated prior to shipment to the United States at a facility that is approved by APHIS
4
and that operates in compliance with a written agreement between the treatment facility owner and the plant protection service of the exporting country, in which the treatment facility owner agrees to comply with the provisions of § 319.37-9(c) of this chapter and allow inspectors and representatives of the plant protection service of the exporting country access to the treatment facility as necessary to monitor compliance with the regulations. Treatments must be certified in accordance with the conditions described in § 319.37-9(c) of this chapter.
4
Criteria for the approval of heat treatment facilities are contained in part 305 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
[75 FR 68955, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 83 FR 11867, Mar. 19, 2018]
§ 360.500
Petitions to add a taxon to the noxious weed list.
A person may petition the Administrator to have a taxon added to the noxious weeds lists in § 360.200. Details of the petitioning process for adding a taxon to the lists are available on the Internet at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/plant_health/plant_pest_info/weeds/downloads/listingguide.pdf.
Persons who submit a petition to add a taxon to the noxious weed lists must provide their name, address, telephone number, and (if available) e-mail address. Persons who submit a petition to add a taxon to the noxious weed lists are encouraged to provide the following information, which can help speed up the review process and help APHIS determine whether the specified plant taxon should be listed as a noxious weed:
(a)
Identification of the taxon.
(1) The taxon's scientific name and author;
(2) Common synonyms;
(3) Botanical classification;
(4) Common names;
(5) Summary of life history;
(6) Native and world distribution;
(7) Distribution in the United States, if any (specific States, localities, or Global Positioning System coordinates);
(8) Description of control efforts, if established in the United States; and
(9) Whether the taxon is regulated at the State or local level.
(b)
Potential consequences of the taxon's introduction or spread.
(1) The taxon's habitat suitability in the United States (predicted ecological range);
(2) Dispersal potential (biological characteristics associated with invasiveness);
(3) Potential economic impacts (
e.g.,
potential to reduce crop yields, lower commodity values, or cause loss of markets for U.S. goods); and
(4) Potential environmental impacts (e.g., impacts on ecosystem processes, natural community composition or structure, human health, recreation patterns, property values, or use of chemicals to control the taxon).
(c)
Likelihood of the taxon's introduction or spread.
(1) Potential pathways for the taxon's movement into and within the United States; and
(2) The likelihood of survival and spread of the taxon within each pathway.
(d) List of references.
[75 FR 68955, Nov. 10, 2010]
§ 360.501
Petitions to remove a taxon from the noxious weed lists.
A person may petition the Administrator to remove a taxon from the noxious weeds lists in § 360.200. Details of the petitioning process for removing a taxon from the lists are available at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/plant_health/plant_pest_info/weeds/downloads/delistingguide.pdf.
Persons who submit a petition to remove a taxon from the noxious weed lists would be required to provide their name, address, telephone number, and (if available) e-mail address. Persons who submit a petition to remove a taxon from the noxious weed lists are encouraged to provide the following information, which can help speed up the review process and help APHIS determine whether the specified plant taxon should not be listed as a noxious weed:
(a) Evidence that the species is distributed throughout its potential range or has spread too far to implement effective control.
(b) Evidence that control efforts have been unsuccessful and further efforts are unlikely to succeed.
(c) For cultivars of a listed noxious weed, scientific evidence that the cultivar has a combination of risk elements that result in a low pest risk. For example, the cultivar may have a narrow habitat suitability, low dispersal potential, evidence of sterility, inability to cross-pollinate with introduced wild types, or few if any potential negative impacts on the economy or environment of the United States.
(d) List of references.
[75 FR 68955, Nov. 10, 2010]
§ 360.600
Preemption of State and local laws.
(a) Under section 436 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7756), a State or political subdivision of a State may not regulate in foreign commerce any noxious weed in order to control it, eradicate it, or prevent its dissemination. A State or political subdivision of a State also may not impose prohibitions or restrictions upon the movement in interstate commerce of noxious weeds if the Secretary has issued a regulation or order to prevent the dissemination of the noxious weed within the United States. The only exceptions to this are:
(1) If the prohibitions or restrictions issued by the State or political subdivision of a State are consistent with and do not exceed the regulations or orders issued by the Secretary; or
(2) If the State or political subdivision of a State demonstrates to the Secretary and the Secretary finds that there is a special need for additional prohibitions or restrictions based on sound scientific data or a thorough risk assessment.
(b) Therefore, in accordance with section 436 of the Plant Protection Act, the regulations in this part preempt all
State and local laws and regulations that are inconsistent with or exceed the regulations in this part unless a special need request has been granted in accordance with the regulations in §§ 301.1 through 301.13 of this chapter.
[74 FR 53400, Oct. 19, 2009. Redesignated at 75 FR 68955, Nov. 10, 2010]
Pt. 361

# PART 361—IMPORTATION OF SEED AND SCREENINGS UNDER THE FEDERAL SEED ACT
Sec.
361.1
Definitions.
361.2
Preemption of State and local laws; general restrictions on the importation of seed and screenings.
361.3
Declarations and labeling.
361.4
Inspection at the port of first arrival.
361.5
Sampling of seeds.
361.6
Noxious weed seeds.
361.7
Special provisions for Canadian-origin seed and screenings.
361.8
Cleaning of imported seed and processing of certain Canadian-origin screenings.
361.9
Recordkeeping.
361.10
Costs and charges.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1581-1610; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.3.

# Source:
62 FR 48460, Sept. 16, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 361.1
Definitions.
Terms used in the singular form in this part shall be construed as the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. The following terms, when used in this part, shall be construed, respectively, to mean:
Administrator.
The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or any other individual to whom the Administrator delegates authority to act in his or her stead.
Agricultural seed.
The following kinds and varieties of grass, forage, and field crop seed that are used for seeding purposes in the United States:
Agrotricum—x
Agrotriticum
Ciferri and Giacom.
Alfalfa—
Medicago sativa
L.
Alfilaria—
Erodium cicutarium
(L.) L'Her.
Alyceclover—
Alysicarpus vaginalis
(L.) DC.
Bahiagrass—
Paspalum notatum
Fluegge
Barley—
Hordeum vulgare
L.
Barrelclover—
Medicago truncatula
Gaertn.
Bean, adzuki—
Vigna angularis
(Willd.) Ohwi and Ohashi
Bean, field—
Phaseolus vulgaris
L.
Bean, mung—
Vigna radiata
(L.) Wilczek
Beet, field—
Beta vulgaris
L. subsp.
vulgaris
Beet, sugar—
Beta vulgaris
L. subsp.
vulgaris
Beggarweed, Florida—
Desmodium tortuosum
(Sw.) DC.
Bentgrass, colonial—
Agrostis capillaris
L.
Bentgrass, creeping—
Agrostis stolonifera
L. var.
palustris
(Huds.) Farw.
Bentgrass, velvet—
Agrostis canina
L.
Bermudagrass—
Cynodon dactylon
(L.) Pers. var.
dactylon
Bermudagrass, giant—
Cynodon dactylon
(L.) Pers. var.
aridus
Harlan and de Wet
Bluegrass, annual—
Poa annua
L.
Bluegrass, bulbous—
Poa bulbosa
L.
Bluegrass, Canada—
Poa compressa
L.
Bluegrass, glaucantha—
Poa glauca
Vahl
Bluegrass, Kentucky—
Poa pratensis
L.
Bluegrass, Nevada—
Poa secunda
J.S. Presl
Bluegrass, rough—
Poa trivialis
L.
Bluegrass, Texas—
Poa arachnifera
Torr.
Bluegrass, wood—
Poa nemoralis
L.
Bluejoint—
Calamagrostis canadensis
(Michx.) P. Beauv.
Bluestem, big—
Andropogon gerardii
Vitm. var. gerardii
Bluestem, little—
Schizachyrium scoparium
(Michx.) Nash
Bluestem, sand—
Andropogon hallii
Hack.
Bluestem, yellow—
Bothriochloa ischaemum
(L.) Keng
Bottlebrush-squirreltail—
Elymus elymoides
(Raf.) Swezey
Brome, field—
Bromus arvensis
L.
Brome, meadow—
Bromus biebersteinii
Roem. and Schult.
Brome, mountain—
Bromus marginatus
Steud.
Brome, smooth—
Bromus inermis
Leyss.
Broomcorn—
Sorghum bicolor
(L.) Moench
Buckwheat—
Fagopyrum esculentum
Moench
Buffalograss—
Buchloe dactyloides
(Nutt.) Engelm.
Buffelgrass—
Cenchrus ciliaris
L.
Burclover, California—
Medicago polymorpha
L.
Burclover, spotted—
Medicago arabica
(L.) Huds.
Burnet, little—
Sanguisorba minor
Scop.
Buttonclover—
Medicago orbicularis
(L.) Bartal.
Canarygrass—
Phalaris canariensis
L.
Canarygrass, reed—
Phalaris arundinacea
L.
Carpetgrass—
Axonopus fissifolius
(Raddi) Kuhlm.
Castorbean—
Ricinus communis
L.
Chess, soft—
Bromus hordeaceus
L.
Chickpea—
Cicer arietinum
L.
Clover, alsike—
Trifolium hybridum
L.
Clover, arrowleaf—
Trifolium vesiculosum
Savi
Clover, berseem—
Trifolium alexandrinum
L.
Clover, cluster—
Trifolium glomeratum
L.
Clover, crimson—
Trifolium incarnatum
L.
Clover, Kenya—
Trifolium semipilosum
Fresen.
Clover, ladino—
Trifolium repens
L.
Clover, lappa—
Trifolium lappaceum
L.
Clover, large hop—
Trifolium campestre
Schreb.
Clover, Persian—
Trifolium resupinatum
L.
Clover, red or
Red clover, mammoth—
Trifolium pratense
L.
Red clover, medium—
Trifolium pratense
L.
Clover, rose—
Trifolium hirtum
All.
Clover, small hop or suckling—
Trifolium dubium
Sibth.
Clover, strawberry—
Trifolium fragiferum
L.
Clover, sub or subterranean—
Trifolium subterraneum
L.
Clover, white—
Trifolium repens
L. (also see Clover, ladino)
Clover—(also see Alyceclover, Burclover, Buttonclover, Sourclover,
Sweetclover)
Corn, field—
Zea mays
L.
Corn, pop—
Zea mays
L.
Cotton—
Gossypium
spp.
Cowpea—
Vigna unguiculata
(L.) Walp. subsp.
unguiculata
Crambe—
Crambe abyssinica
R.E. Fries
Crested dogtail—
Cynosurus cristatus
L.
Crotalaria, lance—
Crotalaria lanceolata
E. Mey.
Crotalaria, showy—
Crotalaria spectabilis
Roth
Crotalaria, slenderleaf—
Crotalaria brevidens
Benth. var.
intermedia
(Kotschy) Polh.
Crotalaria, striped or smooth—
Crotalaria pallida
Ait.
Crotalaria, sunn—
Crotalaria juncea
L.
Crownvetch—
Coronilla varia
L.
Dallisgrass—
Paspalum dilatatum
Poir.
Dichondra—
Dichondra repens
Forst. and Forst. f.
Dropseed, sand—
Sporobolus cryptandrus
(Torr.) A. Gray
Emmer—
Triticum dicoccon
Schrank
Fescue, chewings—
Festuca rubra
L. subsp.
commutata
Gaud.
Fescue, hair—
Festuca tenuifolia
Sibth.
Fescue, hard—
Festuca brevipila
Tracey
Fescue, meadow—
Festuca pratensis
Huds.
Fescue, red—
Festuca rubra
L. subsp.
rubra
Fescue, sheep—
Festuca ovina
L. var.
ovina
Fescue, tall—
Festuca arundinacea
Schreb.
Flax—
Linum usitatissimum
L.
Galletagrass—
Hilaria jamesii
(Torr.) Benth.
Grama, blue—
Bouteloua gracilis
(Kunth) Steud.
Grama, side-oats—
Bouteloua curtipendula
(Michx.) Torr.
Guar—
Cyamopsis tetragonoloba
(L.) Taub.
Guineagrass—
Panicum maximum
Jacq. var.
maximum
Hardinggrass—
Phalaris stenoptera
Hack.
Hemp—
Cannabis sativa
L.
Indiangrass, yellow—
Sorghastrum nutans
(L.) Nash
Indigo, hairy—
Indigofera hirsuta
L.
Japanese lawngrass—
Zoysia japonica
Steud.
Johnsongrass—
Sorghum halepense
(L.) Pers.
Kenaf—
Hibiscus cannabinus
L.
Kochia, forage—
Kochia prostrata
(L.) Schrad.
Kudzu—
Pueraria montana
(Lour.) Merr. var.
lobata
(Willd.) Maesen and S. Almeida
Lentil—
Lens culinaris
Medik.
Lespedeza, Korean—
Kummerowia stipulacea
(Maxim.) Makino
Lespedeza, sericea or Chinese—
Lespedeza cuneata
(Dum.-Cours.) G. Don
Lespedeza, Siberian—
Lespedeza juncea
(L. f.) Pers.
Lespedeza, striate—
Kummerowia striata
(Thunb.) Schindler
Lovegrass, sand—
Eragrostis trichodes
(Nutt.) Wood
Lovegrass, weeping—
Eragrostis curvula
(Schrad.) Nees
Lupine, blue—
Lupinus angustifolius
L.
Lupine, white—
Lupinus albus
L.
Lupine, yellow—
Lupinus luteus
L.
Manilagrass—
Zoysia matrella
(L.) Merr.
Meadow foxtail—
Alopecurus pratensis
L.
Medic, black—
Medicago lupulina
L.
Milkvetch or cicer milkvetch—
Astragalus cicer
L.
Millet, browntop—
Brachiaria ramosa
(L.) Stapf
Millet, foxtail—
Setaria italica
(L.) Beauv.
Millet, Japanese—
Echinochloa frumentacea
Link
Millet, pearl—
Pennisetum glaucum
(L.) R. Br.
Millet, proso—
Panicum miliaceum
L.
Molassesgrass—
Melinis minutiflora
Beauv.
Mustard, black—
Brassica nigra
(L.) Koch
Mustard, India—
Brassica juncea
(L.) Czernj. and Coss.
Mustard, white—
Sinapis alba
L.
Napiergrass—
Pennisetum purpureum
Schumach.
Needlegrass, green—
Stipa viridula
Trin.
Oat—
Avena byzantina
C. Koch,
A. sativa
L.,
A. nuda
L.
Oatgrass, tall—
Arrhenatherum elatius
(L.) J.S. Presl and K.B. Presl
Orchardgrass—
Dactylis glomerata
L.
Panicgrass, blue—
Panicum antidotale
Retz.
Panicgrass, green—
Panicum maximum
Jacq. var.
trichoglume
Robyns
Pea, field—
Pisum sativum
L.
Peanut—
Arachis hypogaea
L.
Poa trivialis—(see Bluegrass, rough)
Rape, annual—
Brassica napus
L. var.
annua
Koch
Rape, bird—
Brassica rapa
L. subsp.
rapa
Rape, turnip—
Brassica rapa
L. subsp.
silvestris
(Lam.) Janchen
Rape, winter—
Brassica napus
L. var.
biennis
(Schubl. and Mart.) Reichb.
Redtop—
Agrostis gigantea
Roth
Rescuegrass—
Bromus catharticus
Vahl
Rhodesgrass—
Chloris gayana
Kunth
Rice—
Oryza sativa
L.
Ricegrass, Indian—
Oryzopsis hymenoides
(Roem. and Schult.) Ricker
Roughpea—
Lathyrus hirsutus
L.
Rye—
Secale cereale
L.
Rye, mountain—
Secale strictum
(K.B. Presl) K.B. Presl subsp.
strictum
Ryegrass, annual or Italian—
Lolium multiflorum
Lam.
Ryegrass, intermediate—
Lolium
×
hybridum
Hausskn.
Ryegrass, perennial—
Lolium perenne
L.
Ryegrass, Wimmera—
Lolium rigidum
Gaud.
Safflower—
Carthamus tinctorius
L.
Sagewort, Louisiana—
Artemisia ludoviciana
Nutt.
Sainfoin—
Onobrychis viciifolia
Scop.
Saltbush, fourwing—
Atriplex canescens
(Pursh) Nutt.
Sesame—
Sesamum indicum
L.
Sesbania—
Sesbania exaltata
(Raf.) A.W. Hill
Smilo—
Piptatherum miliaceum
(L.) Coss.
Sorghum—
Sorghum bicolor
(L.) Moench
Sorghum almum—
Sorghum
×
almum
L. Parodi
Sorghum-sudangrass—
Sorghum
×
drummondii
(Steud.) Millsp. and Chase
Sorgrass—
Rhizomatous
derivatives of a johnsongrass × sorghum cross or a johnsongrass × sudangrass cross Southernpea—(See Cowpea)
Sourclover—
Melilotus indicus
(L.) All.
Soybean—
Glycine max
(L.) Merr.
Spelt—
Triticum spelta
L.
Sudangrass—
Sorghum
×
drummondii
(Steud.) Millsp. and Chase
Sunflower—
Helianthus annuus
L.
Sweetclover, white—
Melilotus albus
Medik.
Sweetclover, yellow—
Melilotus officinalis
Lam.
Sweet vernalgrass—
Anthoxanthum odoratum
L.
Sweetvetch, northern—
Hedysarum boreale
Nutt.
Switchgrass—
Panicum virgatum
L.
Timothy—
Phleum pratense
L.
Timothy, turf—
Phleum bertolonii
DC.
Tobacco—
Nicotiana tabacum
L.
Trefoil, big—
Lotus uliginosus
Schk.
Trefoil, birdsfoot—
Lotus corniculatus
L.
Triticale—x
Triticosecale
Wittm. (Secale × Triticum)
Vaseygrass—
Paspalum urvillei
Steud.
Veldtgrass—
Ehrharta calycina
J.E. Smith
Velvetbean—
Mucuna pruriens
(L.) DC. var.
utilis
(Wight) Burck
Velvetgrass—
Holcus lanatus
L.
Vetch, common—
Vicia sativa
L. subsp.
sativa
Vetch, hairy—
Vicia villosa
Roth subsp.
villosa
Vetch, Hungarian—
Vicia pannonica
Crantz
Vetch, monantha—
Vicia articulata
Hornem.
Vetch, narrowleaf or blackpod—
Vicia sativa
L. subsp.
nigra
(L.) Ehrh.
Vetch, purple—
Vicia benghalensis
L.
Vetch, woollypod or winter—
Vicia villosa
Roth subsp.
varia
(Host) Corb.
Wheat, common—
Triticum aestivum
L.
Wheat, club—
Triticum compactum
Host
Wheat, durum—
Triticum durum
Desf.
Wheat, Polish—
Triticum polonicum
L.
Wheat, poulard—
Triticum turgidum
L.
Wheat × Agrotricum—
Triticum
×
Agrotriticum
Wheatgrass, beardless—
Pseudoroegneria spicata
(Pursh) A. Love
Wheatgrass, crested or fairway crested—
Agropyron cristatum
(L.) Gaertn.
Wheatgrass, crested or standard crested—
Agropyron desertorum
(Link) Schult.
Wheatgrass, intermediate—
Elytrigia intermedia
(Host) Nevski subsp.
intermedia
Wheatgrass, pubescent—
Elytrigia intermedia
(Host) Nevski subsp.
intermedia
Wheatgrass, Siberian—
Agropyron fragile
(Roth) Candargy subsp.
sibiricum
(Willd.) Meld.
Wheatgrass, slender—
Elymus trachycaulus
(Link) Shinn.
Wheatgrass, streambank—
Elymus lanceolatus
(Scribn. and J.G. Smith) Gould subsp.
lanceolatus
Wheatgrass, tall—
Elytrigia elongata
(Host) Nevski
Wheatgrass, western—
Pascopyrum smithii
(Rydb.) A. Love
Wildrye, basin—
Leymus cinereus
(Scribn. and Merr.) A. Love
Wildrye, Canada—
Elymus canadensis
L.
Wildrye, Russian—
Psathyrostachys juncea
(Fisch.) Nevski
Zoysia japonica—(see Japanese lawngrass)
Zoysia matrella—(see Manilagrass)
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
(
APHIS
). The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
APHIS inspector.
Any employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or any other individual authorized by the Administrator to enforce this part.
Coated Seed.
Any seed unit covered with any substance that changes the size, shape, or weight of the original seed. Seeds coated with ingredients such as, but not limited to, rhizobia, dyes, and pesticides are excluded.
Declaration.
A written statement of a grower, shipper, processor, dealer, or importer giving for any lot of seed the kind, variety, type, origin, or the use for which the seed is intended.
Hybrid.
When applied to kinds or varieties of seed means the first generation seed of a cross produced by controlling the pollination and by combining two or more inbred lines; one inbred or a single cross with an open-pollinated variety; or two selected clones, seed lines, varieties, or species. “Controlling the pollination” means to use a method of hybridization that will produce pure seed that is at least 75 percent hybrid seed. Hybrid designations shall be treated as variety names.
Import/importation.
To bring into the territorial limits of the United States.
Kind.
One or more related species or subspecies that singly or collectively is known by one common name, e.g., soybean, flax, or carrot.
Lot of seed.
A definite quantity of seed identified by a lot number, every portion or bag of which is uniform, within permitted tolerances, for the factors that appear in the labeling.
Mixture.
Seeds consisting of more than one kind or variety, each present in excess of 5 percent of the whole.
Official seed laboratory.
An official laboratory member of the Association of Official Seed Analysts.
Pelleted seed.
Any seed unit covered with a substance that changes the size, shape, or weight of the original seed in order to improve the plantability or singulation of the seed.
Person.
Any individual, partnership, corporation, company, society, association, receiver, trustee, or other legal entity or organized group.
Port of first arrival.
The land area (such as a seaport, airport, or land border station) where a person, or a land, water, or air vehicle, first arrives after entering the territorial limits of the United States, and where inspection of articles is carried out by APHIS inspectors.
Registered seed technologist.
A registered member of the Society of Commercial Seed Technologists.
Screenings.
Chaff, sterile florets, immature seed, weed seed, inert matter, and any other materials removed in any way from any seeds in any kind of cleaning or processing and which contains less than 25 percent of live agricultural or vegetable seeds.
State.
Any State, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
United States.
All of the States.
Variety.
A subdivision of a kind which is characterized by growth, plant, fruit, seed, or other characteristics by which it can be differentiated from other sorts of the same kind.
Vegetable seed.
The seed of the following kinds and varieties that are or may be grown in gardens or on truck farms and are or may be generally known and sold under the name of vegetable seed:
Artichoke—
Cynara cardunculus
L. subsp.
cardunculus
Asparagus—
Asparagus officinalis
Baker
Asparagusbean or yard-long bean—
Vigna unguiculata
(L.) Walp. subsp.
sesquipedalis
(L.) Verdc.
Bean, garden—
Phaseolus vulgaris
L.
Bean, lima—
Phaseolus lunatus
L.
Bean, runner or scarlet runner—
Phaseolus coccineus
L.
Beet—
Beta vulgaris
L. subsp.
vulgaris
Broadbean—
Vicia faba
L.
Broccoli—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
botrytis
L.
Brussels sprouts—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
gemmifera
DC.
Burdock, great—
Arctium lappa
L.
Cabbage—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
capitata
L.
Cabbage, Chinese—
Brassica rapa
L. subsp.
pekinensis
(Lour.) Hanelt
Cabbage, tronchuda—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
costata
DC.
Cantaloupe—(see Melon)
Cardoon—
Cynara cardunculus
L. subsp.
cardunculus
Carrot—
Daucus carota
L. subsp.
sativus
(Hoffm.) Arcang.
Cauliflower—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
botrytis
L.
Celeriac—
Apium graveolens
L. var.
rapaceum
(Mill.) Gaud.
Celery—
Apium graveolens
L. var.
dulce
(Mill.) Pers.
Chard, Swiss—
Beta vulgaris
L. subsp.
cicla
(L.) Koch
Chicory—
Cichorium intybus
L.
Chives—
Allium schoenoprasum
L.
Citron—
Citrullus lanatus
(Thunb.) Matsum. and Nakai var.
citroides
(Bailey) Mansf.
Collards—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
acephala
DC.
Corn, sweet—
Zea mays
L.
Cornsalad—
Valerianella locusta
(L.) Laterrade
Cowpea—
Vigna unguiculata
(L.) Walp. subsp.
unguiculata
Cress, garden—
Lepidium sativum
L.
Cress, upland—
Barbarea verna
(Mill.) Asch.
Cress, water—
Rorippa nasturtium-aquaticum
(L.) Hayek
Cucumber—
Cucumis sativus
L.
Dandelion—
Taraxacum officinale
Wigg.
Dill—
Anethum graveolens
L.
Eggplant—
Solanum melongena
L.
Endive—
Cichorium endivia
L.
Gherkin, West India—
Cucumis anguria
L.
Kale—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
acephala
DC.
Kale, Chinese—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
alboglabra
(Bailey) Musil
Kale, Siberian—
Brassica napus
L. var.
pabularia
(DC.) Reichb.
Kohlrabi—
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
gongylodes
L.
Leek—
Allium porrum
L.
Lettuce—
Lactuca sativa
L.
Melon—
Cucumis melo
L.
Muskmelon—(see Melon).
Mustard, India—
Brassica juncea
(L.) Czernj. and Coss.
Mustard, spinach—
Brassica perviridis
(Bailey) Bailey
Okra—
Abelmoschus esculentus
(L.) Moench
Onion—
Allium cepa
L.
Onion, Welsh—
Allium fistulosum
L.
Pak-choi—
Brassica rapa
L. subsp.
chinensis
(L.) Hanelt
Parsley—
Petroselinum crispum
(Mill.) A.W. Hill
Parsnip—
Pastinaca sativa
L.
Pea—
Pisum sativum
L.
Pepper—
Capsicum
spp.
Pe-tsai—(see Chinese cabbage).
Pumpkin—
Cucurbita pepo
L., C.
moschata
(Duchesne) Poiret, and C.
maxima
Duchesne
Radish—
Raphanus sativus
L.
Rhubarb—
Rheum rhabarbarum
L.
Rutabaga—
Brassica napus
L. var.
napobrassica
(L.) Reichb.
Sage—
Salvia officinalis
L.
Salsify—
Tragopogon porrifolius
L.
Savory, summer—
Satureja hortensis
L.
Sorrel—
Rumex acetosa
L.
Southernpea—(see Cowpea).
Soybean—
Glycine max
(L.) Merr.
Spinach—
Spinacia oleracea
L.
Spinach, New Zealand—
Tetragonia tetragonioides
(Pall.) Ktze.
Squash—
Cucurbita pepo
L., C.
moschata
(Duchesne) Poiret, and
C. maxima
Duchesne
Tomato—
Lycopersicon esculentum
Mill.
Tomato, husk—
Physalis pubescens
L.
Turnip—
Brassica rapa
L. subsp.
rapa
Watermelon—
Citrullus lanatus
(Thunb.) Matsum. and Nakai var.
lanatus
§ 361.2
Preemption of State and local laws; general restrictions on the importation of seed and screenings.
(a) The regulations in this part preempt State and local laws regarding seed and screenings imported into the United States while the seed and screenings are in foreign commerce. Seed and screenings imported for immediate distribution and sale to the consuming public remain in foreign commerce until sold to the ultimate consumer. The question of when foreign commerce ceases in other cases must be considered on a case-by-case basis.
(b) No person shall import any agricultural seed, vegetable seed, or screenings into the United States unless the importation is in compliance with this part.
(c) Any agricultural seed, vegetable seed, or screenings imported into the United States not in compliance with this part shall be subject to exportation, destruction, disposal, or any remedial measures that the Administrator determines are necessary to prevent the dissemination into the United States of noxious weeds.
(d) Except as provided in § 361.7(b), and in addition to the permit requirements of § 319.37-5 of this chapter, coated or pelleted seed, or seed that is embedded in a substrate that obscures visibility may enter the United States only if each lot of seed is accompanied by an officially drawn and sealed sample of seed drawn from the lot before the seed was coated or pelleted. The sample must be drawn in a manner consistent with that described in § 361.5 of this part.
(e) Except as provided in §§ 361.4(a)(3) and 361.7(c), screenings of all agricultural seed and vegetable seed are prohibited entry into the United States.
[62 FR 48460, Sept. 16, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 53400, Oct. 19, 2009; 79 FR 74594, Dec. 16, 2014; 83 FR 11867, Mar. 19, 2018]
§ 361.3
Declarations and labeling.
(a) All lots of agricultural seed, vegetable seed, and screenings imported into the United States must be accompanied by a declaration from the importer of the seed or screenings. The declaration must state the kind, variety, and origin of each lot of seed or screenings and the use for which the seed or screenings are being imported.
(b) Each container of agricultural seed and vegetable seed imported into the United States for seeding (planting) purposes must be labeled to indicate the identification code or designation for the lot of seed; the name of each kind or kind and variety of agricultural seed or the name of each kind and variety of vegetable seed present in the lot in excess of 5 percent of the whole; and the designation “hybrid” when the lot contains hybrid seed. Kind and variety names used on the label shall conform to the kind and variety names used in the definitions of “agricultural seed” and “vegetable seed” in § 361.1. If any seed in the lot has been treated, each container must be further labeled, in type no smaller than 8 point, as follows:
(1) The label must indicate that the seed has been treated and provide the name of the substance or process used
to treat the seed. Substance names used on the label shall be the commonly accepted coined, chemical (generic), or abbreviated chemical name.
(i) Commonly accepted coined names are commonly recognized as names of particular substances, e.g., thiram, captan, lindane, and dichlone.
(ii) Examples of commonly accepted chemical (generic) names are blue-stone, calcium carbonate, cuprous oxide, zinc hydroxide, hexachlorobenzene, and ethyl mercury acetate. The terms “mercury” or “mercurial” may be used in labeling all types of mercurials.
(iii) Examples of commonly accepted abbreviated chemical names are BHC (1,2,3,4,5,6-Hexachlorocyclohexane) and DDT (dichloro diphenyl trichloroethane).
(2) If the seed has been treated with a mercurial or similarly toxic substance harmful to humans and vertebrate animals, the label must include a representation of a skull and crossbones and a statement indicating that the seed has been treated with poison. The skull and crossbones must be at least twice the size of the type used for the information provided on the label, and the poison warning statement must be written in red letters on a background of distinctly contrasting color. Mercurials and similarly toxic substances include the following:
Aldrin, technical
Demeton
Dieldrin
p-Dimethylaminobenzenediazo sodium sulfonate
Endrin
Ethion
Heptachlor
Mercurials, all types
Parathion
Phorate
Toxaphene
O-O-Diethyl-O-(isopropyl-4-methyl-6-pyrimidyl) thiophosphate
O,O-Diethyl-S-2-(ethylthio) ethyl phosphorodithioate
(3) If the seed has been treated with a substance other than one classified as a mercurial or similarly toxic substance under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and the amount remaining with the seed is harmful to humans or other vertebrate animals, the label must indicate that the seed is not to be used for food, feed, or oil purposes. Any amount of any substance used to treat the seed that remains with the seed will be considered harmful when the seed is in containers of more than 4 ounces, except that the following substances will not be deemed harmful when present at a rate less than the number of parts per million (p/m) indicated:
Allethrin—2 p/m
Malathion—8 p/m
Methoxyclor—2 p/m
Piperonyl butoxide—20 p/m (8 p/m on oat and sorghum)
Pyrethrins—3 p/m (1 p/m on oat and sorghum)
(c) In the case of seed in bulk, the information required under paragraph (b) of this section shall appear in the invoice or other records accompanying and pertaining to such seed. If the seed is in containers and in quantities of 20,000 pounds or more, regardless of the number of lots included, the information required on each container under paragraph (b) of this section need not be shown on each container if each container has stenciled upon it or bears a label containing a lot designation and the invoice or other records accompanying and pertaining to such seed bear the various statements required for the respective seeds.
(d) Each container of agricultural seed and vegetable seed imported into the United States for cleaning need not be labeled to show the information required under paragraph (b) of this section if:
(1) The seed is in bulk;
(2) The seed is in containers and in quantities of 20,000 pounds or more, regardless of the number of lots involved, and the invoice or other records accompanying and pertaining to the seed show that the seed is for cleaning; or
(3) The seed is in containers and in quantities of less than 20,000 pounds, and each container carries a label that bears the words “Seed for cleaning.”
§ 361.4
Inspection at the port of first arrival.
(a) All agricultural seed, vegetable seed, and screenings imported into the United States shall be made available for examination by an APHIS inspector
at the port of first arrival and shall remain at the port of first arrival until released by an APHIS inspector. Lots of agricultural seed, vegetable seed, or screenings may enter the United States without meeting the sampling requirements of paragraph (b) of this section if the lot is:
(1) Seed that is not being imported for seeding (planting) purposes and the declaration required by § 361.3(a) states the purpose for which the seed is being imported;
(2) Seed that is being shipped in bond through the United States;
(3) Screenings from seeds of wheat, oats, barley, rye, buckwheat, field corn, sorghum, broomcorn, flax, millet, proso, soybeans, cowpeas, field peas, or field beans that are not being imported for seeding (planting) purposes and the declaration accompanying the screenings as required under § 361.2(a) indicates that the screenings are being imported for processing or manufacturing purposes;
(4) Seed that is being imported for sowing for experimental or breeding purposes, is not for sale, is limited in quantity to the amount indicated in column 3 of table 1 of § 361.5, and is accompanied by a declaration stating the purpose for which it is being imported (seed imported for increase purposes only will not be considered as being imported for experimental or breeding purposes); or
(5) Seed that was grown in the United States, exported, and is now returning to the United States, provided that the person importing the seed into the United States furnishes APHIS with the following documentation:
(i) Export documents indicating the quantity of seed and number of containers, the date of exportation from the United States, the distinguishing marks on the containers at the time of exportation, and the name and address of the United States exporter;
(ii) A document issued by a Customs or other government official of the country to which the seed was exported indicating that the seed was not admitted into the commerce of that country; and
(iii) A document issued by a Customs or other government official of the country to which the seed was exported indicating that the seed was not commingled with other seed after being exported to that country.
(b) Except as provided in §§ 361.5(a)(2) and 361.7, samples will be taken from all agricultural seed and vegetable seed imported into the United States for seeding (planting) purposes prior to being released into the commerce of the United States.
(1) Samples of seed will be taken from each lot of seed in accordance with § 361.5 to determine whether any seeds of noxious weeds listed in § 361.6(a) are present. If seeds of noxious weeds are present at a level higher than the tolerances set forth in § 361.6(b), the lot of seed will be deemed to be adulterated and will be rejected for entry into the United States for seeding (planting) purposes. Once deemed adulterated, the lot of seed must be:
(i) Exported from the United States;
(ii) Destroyed under the monitoring of an APHIS inspector;
(iii) Cleaned under APHIS monitoring at a seed-cleaning facility that is operated in accordance with § 361.8(a); or
(iv) If the lot of seed is adulterated with the seeds of a noxious weed listed in § 361.6(a)(2), the seed may be allowed entry into the United States for feeding or manufacturing purposes, provided the importer withdraws the original declaration and files a new declaration stating that the seed is being imported for feeding or manufacturing purposes and that no part of the seed will be used for seeding (planting) purposes.
(2) Seed deemed adulterated may not be mixed with any other seed unless the Administrator determines that two or more lots of seed deemed adulterated are of substantially the same quality and origin. In such cases, the Administrator may allow the adulterated lots of seed to be mixed for cleaning as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(3) If the labeling of a lot of seed is false or misleading in any respect, the seed will be rejected for entry into the United States. A falsely labeled lot of seed must be:
(i) Exported from the United States;
(ii) Destroyed under the monitoring of an APHIS inspector; or
(iii) The seed may be allowed entry into the United States if the labeling is corrected under the monitoring of an APHIS inspector to accurately reflect the character of the lot of seed.
§ 361.5
Sampling of seeds.
(a)
Sample sizes.
As provided in § 361.4(b), samples of seed will be taken from each lot of seed being imported for seeding (planting) purposes to determine whether any seeds of noxious weeds listed in § 361.6(a) are present. The samples shall be drawn in the manner described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Unused portions of samples of rare or expensive seeds will be returned by APHIS upon request of the importer.
(1) A minimum sample of not less than 1 quart shall be drawn from each lot of agricultural seed; a minimum sample of not less than 1 pint shall be drawn from each lot of vegetable seed, except that a sample of
1/4
pint will be sufficient for a vegetable seed importation of 5 pounds or less. The minimum sample shall be divided repeatedly until a working sample of proper weight has been obtained. If a mechanical divider cannot be used or is not available, the sample shall be thoroughly mixed, then placed in a pile; the pile shall be divided repeatedly into halves until a working sample of the proper weight remains. The weights of the working samples for noxious weed examination for each lot of seed are shown in column 1 of table 1 of this section. If the lot of seed is a mixture, the following methods shall be used to determine the weight of the working sample:
(i) If the lot of seed is a mixture consisting of one predominant kind of seed or a group of kinds of similar size, the weight of the working sample shall be the weight shown in column 1 of table 1 of this section for the kind or group of kinds that comprises more than 50 percent of the sample.
(ii) If the lot of seed is a mixture consisting of two or more kinds or groups of kinds of different sizes, none of which comprises over 50 percent of the sample, the weight of the working sample shall be the weighted average (to the nearest half gram) of the weight shown in column 1 of table 1 of this section for each of the kinds that comprise the sample, as determined by the following method:
(A) Multiply the percentage of each component of the mixture (rounded off to the nearest whole number) by the sample sizes shown in column 1 of table 1 of this section;
(B) Add all these products;
(C) Total the percentages of all components of the mixtures; and
(D) Divide the sum in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section by the total in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(C) of this section.
(2) It is not ordinarily practical to sample and test small lots of seed offered for entry. The maximum sizes of lots of each kind of seed not ordinarily sampled are shown in column 2 of table 1 of this section.
(3) The maximum sizes of lots of each kind of seed allowed entry without sampling for sowing for experimental or breeding purposes as provided in § 361.4(a)(4) are shown in column 3 of table 1 of this section.
Table 1
Name of seed
Working weight for noxious weed examination
(grams)
(1)
Maximum weight of seed lot not ordinarily sampled
(pounds)
(2)
Maximum weight of seed lot permitted entry for experimental or breeding purposes without sampling
(pounds)
(3)
VEGETABLE SEED:
Artichoke
500
25
50
Asparagus
500
25
50
Asparagusbean
500
25
50
Bean
25
200
Garden
500
100
500
Lima
500
25
200
Runner
500
25
200
Beet
300
25
50
Broadbean
500
25
200
Broccoli
50
5
10
Brussels sprouts
50
5
10
Burdock, great
150
10
50
Cabbage
50
5
10
Cabbage, Chinese
50
5
10
Cabbage, tronchuda
100
5
10
Cantaloupe (see Melon)
Cardoon
500
25
50
Carrot
50
5
10
Cauliflower
50
5
10
Celeriac
25
5
10
Celery
25
5
10
Chard, Swiss
300
25
50
Chicory
50
5
10
Chives
50
5
10
Citron
500
25
50
Collards
50
5
10
Corn, sweet
500
25
200
Cornsalad
50
5
10
Cowpea
500
25
200
Cress, garden
50
5
10
Cress, upland
35
5
10
Cress, water
25
5
10
Cucumber
500
25
50
Dandelion
35
5
10
Dill
50
5
10
Eggplant
50
5
10
Endive
50
5
10
Gherkin, West India
160
25
50
Kale
50
5
10
Kale, Chinese
50
5
10
Kale, Siberian
80
5
10
Kohlrabi
50
5
10
Leek
50
5
10
Lettuce
50
5
10
Melon
500
25
50
Mustard, India
50
25
100
Mustard, spinach
50
5
10
Okra
500
25
50
Onion
50
5
10
Onion, Welsh
50
5
10
Pak-choi
50
5
10
Parsley
50
5
10
Parsnip
50
5
10
Pea
500
25
200
Pepper
150
5
10
Pumpkin
500
25
50
Radish
300
25
50
Rhubarb
300
5
10
Rutabaga
50
5
10
Sage
150
25
50
Salsify
300
25
50
Savory, summer
35
5
10
Sorrel
35
5
10
Soybean
500
25
200
Spinach
150
25
50
Spinach, New Zealand
500
25
50
Squash
500
25
50
Tomato
50
5
10
Tomato, husk
35
5
10
Turnip
50
5
10
Watermelon
500
25
50
AGRICULTURAL SEED:
Agrotricum
500
100
500
Alfalfa
50
25
100
Alfilaria
50
25
100
Alyceclover
50
25
100
Bahiagrass
50
25
100
Barrelclover
100
25
100
Barley
500
100
500
Bean, adzuki
500
100
500
Bean, field
500
100
500
Bean, mung
500
100
500
Bean (see Velvetbean)
Beet, field
500
100
500
Beet, sugar
500
100
1,000
Beggarweed
50
25
100
Bentgrass, colonial
2.5
25
100
Bentgrass, creeping
2.5
25
100
Bentgrass, velvet
2.5
25
100
Bermudagrass
10
25
100
Bermudagrass, giant
10
25
100
Bluegrass, annual
10
25
100
Bluegrass, bulbous
40
25
100
Bluegrass, Canada
5
25
100
Bluegrass, glaucantha
10
25
100
Bluegrass, Kentucky
10
25
100
Bluegrass, Nevada
10
25
100
Bluegrass, rough
5
25
100
Bluegrass, Texas
10
25
100
Bluegrass, wood
5
25
100
Bluejoint
5
25
100
Bluestem, big
70
25
100
Bluestem, little
50
25
100
Bluestem, sand
100
25
100
Bluestem, yellow
10
25
100
Bottlebrush-squirreltail
90
25
100
Brome, field
50
25
100
Brome, meadow
130
25
100
Brome, mountain
200
25
100
Brome, smooth
70
25
100
Broomcorn
400
100
500
Buckwheat
500
100
500
Buffalograss:
(Burs)
200
25
100
(Caryopses)
30
25
100
Buffelgrass:
(Fascicles)
66
25
100
(Caryopses)
20
25
100
Burclover, California:
(In bur)
500
100
500
(Out of bur)
70
25
100
Burclover, spotted:
(In bur)
500
100
500
(Out of bur)
50
25
100
Burnet, little
250
25
100
Buttonclover
70
25
100
Canarygrass
200
25
100
Canarygrass, reed
20
25
100
Carpetgrass
10
25
100
Castorbean
500
100
500
Chess, soft
50
25
100
Chickpea
500
100
500
Clover, alsike
20
25
100
Clover, arrowleaf
40
25
100
Clover, berseem
50
25
100
Clover, cluster
10
25
100
Clover, crimson
100
25
100
Clover, Kenya
20
25
100
Clover, Ladino
20
25
100
Clover, Lappa
20
25
100
Clover, large hop
10
25
100
Clover, Persian
20
25
100
Clover, red
50
25
100
Clover, rose
70
25
100
Clover, small hop (suckling)
20
25
100
Clover, strawberry
50
25
100
Clover, sub (subterranean)
250
25
100
Clover, white
20
25
100
Corn, field
500
100
1,000
Corn, pop
500
100
1,000
Cotton
500
100
500
Cowpea
500
100
500
Crambe
250
25
100
Crested dogtail
20
25
100
Crotalaria, lance
70
25
100
Crotalaria, showy
250
25
100
Crotalaria, slenderleaf
100
25
100
Crotalaria, striped
100
25
100
Crotalaria, Sunn
500
25
100
Crownvetch
100
25
100
Dallisgrass
40
25
100
Dichondra
50
25
100
Dropseed, sand
2.5
25
100
Emmer
500
100
500
Fescue, Chewings
30
25
100
Fescue, hair
10
25
100
Fescue, hard
20
25
100
Fescue, meadow
50
25
100
Fescue, red
30
25
100
Fescue, sheep
20
25
100
Fescue, tall
50
25
100
Flax
150
25
100
Galletagrass:
(Other than caryopses)
100
25
100
(Caryopses)
50
25
100
Grama, blue
20
25
100
Grama, side-oats:
(Other than caryopses)
60
25
100
(Caryopses)
20
25
100
Guar
500
25
100
Guineagrass
20
25
100
Hardinggrass
30
25
100
Hemp
500
100
500
Indiangrass, yellow
70
25
100
Indigo, hairy
70
25
100
Japanese lawngrass
20
25
100
Johnsongrass
100
25
100
Kenaf
500
100
500
Kochia, forage
20
25
100
Kudzu
250
25
100
Lentil
500
25
100
Lespedeza, Korean
50
25
100
Lespedeza, sericea or Chinese
30
25
100
Lespedeza, Siberian
30
25
100
Lespedeza, striate
50
25
100
Lovegrass, sand
10
25
100
Lovegrass, weeping
10
25
100
Lupine, blue
500
100
500
Lupine, white
500
100
500
Lupine, yellow
500
100
500
Manilagrass
20
25
100
Meadow foxtail
30
25
100
Medick, black
50
25
100
Milkvetch
90
25
100
Millet, browntop
80
25
100
Millet, foxtail
50
25
100
Millet, Japanese
90
25
100
Millet, pearl
150
25
100
Millet, proso
150
25
100
Molassesgrass
5
25
100
Mustard, black
20
25
100
Mustard, India
50
25
100
Mustard, white
150
25
100
Napiergrass
50
25
100
Needlegrass, green
70
25
100
Oat
500
100
500
Oatgrass, tall
60
25
100
Orchardgrass
30
25
100
Panicgrass, blue
20
25
100
Panicgrass, green
20
25
100
Pea, field
500
100
500
Peanut
500
100
500
Poa trivialis (see bluegrass, rough)
Rape, annual
70
25
100
Rape, bird
70
25
100
Rape, turnip
50
25
100
Rape, winter
100
25
100
Redtop
2.5
25
100
Rescuegrass
200
25
100
Rhodesgrass
10
25
100
Rice
500
100
500
Ricegrass, Indian
70
25
100
Roughpea
500
100
500
Rye
500
100
500
Rye, mountain
280
25
100
Ryegrass, annual
50
25
100
Ryegrass, intermediate
80
25
100
Ryegrass, perennial
50
25
100
Ryegrass, Wimmera
50
25
100
Safflower
500
100
500
Sagewort, Louisiana
5
25
100
Sainfoin
500
100
500
Saltbush, fourwing
150
25
100
Seasame
70
25
100
Sesbania
250
25
100
Smilo
20
25
100
Sorghum
500
100
1,000
Sorghum almum
150
25
100
Sorghum-sudangrass hybrid
500
100
1,000
Sorgrass
150
25
100
Sourclover
50
25
100
Soybean
500
100
500
Spelt
500
100
500
Sudangrass
250
25
100
Sunflower
500
100
500
Sweetclover, white
50
25
100
Sweetclover, yellow
50
25
100
Sweet vernalgrass
20
25
100
Sweetvetch, northern
190
25
100
Switchgrass
40
25
100
Timothy
10
25
100
Timothy, turf
10
25
100
Tobacco
5
1
1
Trefoil, big
20
25
100
Trefoil, birdsfoot
30
25
100
Triticale
500
100
500
Vaseygrass
30
25
100
Veldtgrass
40
25
100
Velvetbean
500
100
500
Velvetgrass
10
25
100
Vetch, common
500
100
500
Vetch, hairy
500
100
500
Vetch, Hungarian
500
100
500
Vetch, Monantha
500
100
500
Vetch, narrowleaf
500
100
500
Vetch, purple
500
100
500
Vetch, woolypod
500
100
500
Wheat, common
500
100
500
Wheat, club
500
100
500
Wheat, durum
500
100
500
Wheat, Polish
500
100
500
Wheat, poulard
500
100
500
Wheat × Agrotricum
500
100
500
Wheatgrass, beardless
80
25
100
Wheatgrass, fairway crested
40
25
100
Wheatgrass, standard crested
50
25
100
Wheatgrass, intermediate
150
25
100
Wheatgrass, pubescent
150
25
100
Wheatgrass, Siberian
50
25
100
Wheatgrass, slender
70
25
100
Wheatgrass, streambank
50
25
100
Wheatgrass, tall
150
25
100
Wheatgrass, western
100
25
100
Wildrye, basin
80
25
100
Wild-rye, Canada
110
25
100
Wild-rye, Russian
60
25
100
Zoysia Japonica (see Japanese lawngrass)
Zoysia matrella (see Manilagrass)
(b)
Method of sampling.
(1) When an importation consists of more than one lot, each lot shall be sampled separately.
(2) For lots of six or fewer bags, each bag shall be sampled. A total of at least five trierfuls shall be taken from the lot.
(3) For lots of more than six bags, five bags plus at least 10 percent of the number of bags in the lot shall be sampled. (Round off numbers with decimals to the nearest whole number, raising 0.5 to the next whole number.) Regardless of the lot size, it is not necessary to sample more than 30 bags.
(4) When the lot of seed to be sampled is comprised of seed in small containers that cannot practically be sampled as described in paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, entire unopened containers may be taken in sufficient number to supply a sample that meets the minimum size requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(c)
Drawing samples.
Samples will not be drawn unless each container is labeled to show the lot designation and the name of the kind and variety of each agricultural seed, or kind and variety of each vegetable seed, appearing on the invoice and other entry papers, and a declaration has been filed by the importer as required under § 361.2(a). In order to secure a representative sample, an APHIS inspector will draw equal portions from evenly distributed parts of the quantity of seed to be sampled; the APHIS inspector, therefore,
must be given access to all parts of that quantity.
(1) For free-flowing seed in bags or in bulk, a probe or trier shall be used. For small free-flowing seed in bags, a probe or trier long enough to sample all portions of the bag shall be used. When drawing more than one trierful of seed from a bag, a different path through the seed shall be used when drawing each sample.
(2) For non-free-flowing seed in bags or bulk that may be difficult to sample with a probe or trier, samples shall be obtained by thrusting one's hand into the seed and withdrawing representative portions. The hand shall be inserted in an open position with the fingers held closely together while the hand is being inserted and the portion withdrawn. When more than one handful is taken from a bag, the handfuls shall be taken from well-separated points.
(3) When more than one sample is drawn from a single lot, the samples may be combined into a composite sample unless it appears that the quantity of seed represented as a lot is not of uniform quality, in which case the separate samples shall be forwarded together, but without being combined into a composite sample.
(d) In most cases, samples will be drawn and examined by an APHIS inspector at the port of first arrival. The APHIS inspector may release a shipment if no contaminants are found and the labeling is sufficient. If contaminants are found or the labeling of the seed is insufficient, the APHIS inspector may forward the sample to the USDA Seed Examination Facility (SEF), Beltsville, MD, for analysis, testing, or examination. APHIS will notify the owner or consignee of the seed that samples have been drawn and forwarded to the SEF and that the shipment must be held intact pending a decision by APHIS as to whether the seed is within the noxious weed seed tolerances of § 361.6 and is accurately labeled. If the decision pending is with regard to the noxious weed seed content of the seed and the seed has been determined to be accurately labeled, the seed may be released for delivery to the owner or consignee under the following conditions:
(1) The owner or consignee executes with Customs either a Customs single-entry bond or a Customs term bond, as appropriate, in such amount as is prescribed by applicable Customs regulations;
(2) The bond must contain a condition for the redelivery of the seed or any part thereof upon demand of the Port Director of Customs at any time;
(3) Until the seed is approved for entry upon completion of APHIS' examination, the seed must be kept intact and not tampered with in any way, or removed from the containers except under the monitoring of an APHIS inspector; and
(4) The owner or consignee must keep APHIS informed as to the location of the seed until it is finally entered into the commerce of the United States.
§ 361.6
Noxious weed seeds.
(a) Seeds of the plants listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall be considered noxious weed seeds.
(1) Seeds with no tolerances applicable to their introduction:
Acacia nilotica
(Linnaeus) Wildenow ex Delile
Aeginetia
spp.
Ageratina adenophora
(Sprengel) King
Robinson
Ageratina riparia
(Regel) R.M. King and H. Robinson
Alectra
spp.
Alternanthera sessilis
(L.) R. Brown ex de Candolle
Arctotheca calendula
(Linnaeus) Levyns
Asphodelus fistulosus L.
Avena sterilis
L. (including
Avena ludoviciana
Durieu)
Azolla pinnata
R. Brown
Carthamus oxyacantha
M. Bieberstein
Chrysopogon aciculatus
(Retzius) Trinius
Commelina benghalensis
L.
Crupina vulgaris
Cassini
Cuscuta
spp.
Digitaria abyssinica
(Hochstetter ex A. Richard) Stapf
Digitaria velutina
(Forsskal) Palisot de Beauvois
Drymaria arenariodes
Humboldt
Bonpland ex J.A. Schultes
Eichhornia azurea
(Swartz) Kunth
Emex australis
Steinheil
Emex spinosa
(L.) Campdera
Euphorbia terracina
Linnaeus
Galega officinalis
L.
Heracleum mantegazzianum
Sommier
Levier
Hydrilla verticillata
(Linnaeus f.) Royle
Hygrophila polysperma
T. Anderson
Imperata brasiliensis
Trinius
Imperata cylindrica
(Linnaeus) Palisot de Beauvois
Inula britannica
Linnaeus
Ipomoea aquatica
Forsskal
Ischaemum rugosum
Salisbury
Lagarosiphon major
(Ridley) Moss
Leptochloa chinensis
(L.) Nees
Limnophila sessiliflora
(Vahl) Blume
Lycium ferocissimum
Miers
Lygodium flexuosum
(Linnaeus) Swartz (maidenhair creeper)
Lygodium microphyllum
(Cavanilles) R. Brown (Old World climbing fern)
Melaleuca quinquenervia
(Cav.) Blake
Melastoma malabathricum
L.
Mikania cordata
(Burman f.) B. L. Robinson
Mikania micrantha
Kunth
Mimosa diplotricha
C. Wright
Mimosa pigra
L. var.
pigra
Monochoria hastata
(L.) Solms-Laubach
Monochoria vaginalis
(Burman f.) C. Presl
Moraea collina
Thunberg
Moraea flaccida
(Sweet) Steudel
Moraea miniata
Andrews
Moraea ochroleuca
(Salisbury) Drapiez
Moraea pallida
(Baker) Goldblatt
Nassella trichotoma
(Nees) Hackel ex Arechavaleta
Onopordum acaulon
Linnaeus
Onopordum illyricum
Linnaeus
Opuntia aurantiaca
Lindley
Orobanche
spp.
Oryza longistaminata
A. Chevalier
Roehrich
Oryza punctata
Kotschy ex Steudel
Oryza rufipogon
Griffith
Ottelia alismoides
(L.) Pers.
Paspalum scrobiculatum
L.
Pennisetum clandestinum
Hochstetter ex Chiovenda
Pennisetum macrourum
Trinius
Pennisetum pedicellatum
Trinius
Pennisetum polystachion
(L.) Schultes
Prosopis alapataco
R. A. Philippi
Prosopis argentina
Burkart
Prosopis articulata
S. Watson
Prosopis burkartii
Munoz
Prosopis caldenia
Burkart
Prosopis calingastana
Burkart
Prosopis campestris
Grisebach
Prosopis castellanosii
Burkart
Prosopis denudans
Bentham
Prosopis elata
(Burkart) Burkart
Prosopis farcta
(Banks
Solander) J.F. Macbride
Prosopis ferox
Grisebach
Prosopis fiebrigii
Harms
Prosopis hassleri
Harms
Prosopis humilis
Gillies ex Hooker
Arnott
Prosopis kuntzei
Harms
Prosopis pallida
(Humboldt
Bonpland ex Willdenow) Kunth
Prosopis palmeri
S. Watson
Prosopis reptans
Bentham var.
reptans
Prosopis rojasiana
Burkart
Prosopis ruizlealii
Burkart
Prosopis ruscifolia
Grisebach
Prosopis sericantha
Gillies ex Hooker
Arnott
Prosopis strombulifera
(Lamarck) Bentham
Prosopis torquata
(Cavanilles ex Lagasca y Segura) de Candolle
Rottboellia cochinchinensis
(Lour.) W. Clayon
Rubus fruticosus
L. (complex)
Rubus moluccanus
L.
Saccharum spontaneum
L.
Sagittaria sagittifolia
L.
Salsola vermiculata
L.
Salvinia auriculata
Aublet
Salvinia biloba
Raddi
Salvinia herzogii
de la Sota
Salvinia molesta
D.S. Mitchell
Senecio inaequidens
DC.
Senecio madagascariensis
Poir.
Setaria pumila
(Poir.) Roem.
Schult. subsp.
pallidefusca
(Schumach.) B.K. Simon
Solanum tampicense
Dunal (wetland nightshade)
Solanum torvum
Swartz
Solanum viarum
Dunal
Sparganium erectum
L.
Spermacoce alata
Aublet
Striga
spp.
Tridax procumbens
L.
Urochloa panicoides
Beauvois
(2) Seeds with tolerances applicable to their introduction:
Acroptilon repens
(L.) DC. (=
Centaurea repens
L.) (=
Centaurea picris
)
Cardaria draba
(L.) Desv.
Cardaria pubescens
(C. A. Mey.) Jarmol.
Convolvulus arvensis
L.
Cirsium arvense
(L.) Scop.
Elytrigia repens
(L.) Desv. (=
Agropyron repens
(L.) Beauv.)
Euphorbia esula
L.
Sonchus arvensis
L.
Sorghum halepense
(L.) Pers.
(b) The tolerance applicable to the prohibition of the noxious weed seeds listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be two seeds in the minimum amount required to be examined as shown in column 1 of table 1 of § 361.5. If fewer than two seeds are found in an initial examination, the shipment from which the sample was drawn may be entered. If two seeds are found in an initial examination, a second sample must be examined. If two or fewer seeds are found in the second examination, the shipment from which the samples were drawn may be entered. If three or more seeds are found in the second examination, the shipment from which the samples were drawn may not be entered. If three or more seeds are found in an initial examination, the
shipment from which the sample was drawn may not be entered.
(c) Any seed of any noxious weed that can be determined by visual inspection (including the use of transmitted light or dissection) to be within one of the following categories shall be considered inert matter and not counted as a weed seed:
(1) Damaged seed (other than grasses) with over one half of the embryo missing;
(2) Grass florets and caryopses classed as inert:
(i) Glumes and empty florets of weedy grasses;
(ii) Damaged caryopses, including free caryopses, with over one-half the root-shoot axis missing (the scutellum excluded);
(iii) Immature free caryopses devoid of embryo or endosperm;
(iv) Free caryopses of quackgrass (
Elytrigia repens
) that are 2 mm or less in length; or
(v) Immature florets of quackgrass (
Elytrigia repens
) in which the caryopses are less than one-third the length of the palea. The caryopsis is measured from the base of the rachilla.
(3) Seeds of legumes (
Fabaceae
) with the seed coats entirely removed.
(4) Immature seed units, devoid of both embryo and endosperm, such as occur in (but not limited to) the following plant families: buckwheat (
Polygonaceae
), morning glory (
Convolvulaceae
), nightshade (
Solanaceae
), and sunflower (
Asteraceae
).
(5) Dodder (
Cuscuta
spp.) seeds devoid of embryos and seeds that are ashy gray to creamy white in color are inert matter. Dodder seeds should be sectioned when necessary to determine if an embryo is present, as when the seeds have a normal color but are slightly swollen, dimpled, or have minute holes.
[62 FR 48460, Sept. 16, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 12884, Mar. 16, 1999; 65 FR 33743, May 25, 2000; 71 FR 35381, June 20, 2006; 74 FR 53400, Oct. 19, 2009; 75 FR 68956, Nov. 10, 2010]
§ 361.7
Special provisions for Canadian-origin seed and screenings.
(a) In addition to meeting the declaration and labeling requirements of § 361.2 and all other applicable provisions of this part, all Canadian-origin agricultural seed and Canadian-origin vegetable seed imported into the United States from Canada for seeding (planting) purposes or cleaning must be accompanied by a certificate of analysis issued by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency or by a private seed laboratory accredited by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency. Samples of seed shall be drawn using sampling methods comparable to those detailed in § 361.5 of this part. The seed analyst who examines the seed at the laboratory must be accredited to analyze the kind of seed covered by the certificate.
(1) If the seed is being imported for seeding (planting) purposes, the certificate of analysis must verify that the seed meets the noxious weed seed tolerances of § 361.6. Such seed will not be subject to the sampling requirements of § 361.3(b).
(2) If the seed is being imported for cleaning, the certificate of analysis must name the kinds of noxious weed seeds that are to be removed from the lot of seed. Seed being imported for cleaning must be consigned to a facility operated in accordance with § 361.8(a).
(b) Coated or pelleted agricultural seed and coated or pelleted vegetable seed of Canadian origin may be imported into the United States if the seed was analyzed prior to being coated or pelleted and is accompanied by a certificate of analysis issued in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Screenings otherwise prohibited under this part may be imported from Canada if the screenings are imported for processing or manufacture and are consigned to a facility operating under a compliance agreement as provided by § 361.8(b).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0124)
§ 361.8
Cleaning of imported seed and processing of certain Canadian-origin screenings.
(a) Imported seed that is found to contain noxious weed seeds at a level higher than the tolerances set forth in § 361.6(b) may be cleaned under the monitoring of an APHIS inspector. The cleaning will be at the expense of the owner or consignee.
(1) At the location where the seed is being cleaned, the identity of the seed must be maintained at all times to the satisfaction of the Administrator. The refuse from the cleaning must be placed in containers and securely sealed and identified. Upon completion of the cleaning, a representative sample of the seed will be analyzed by a registered seed technologist, an official seed laboratory, or by APHIS; if the seed is found to be within the noxious weed tolerances set forth in § 361.6(b), the seed may be allowed entry into the United States;
(2) The refuse from the cleaning must be destroyed under the monitoring of an APHIS inspector at the expense of the owner or consignee of the seed.
(3) Any person engaged in the business of cleaning imported seed may enter into a compliance agreement under paragraph (c) of this section to facilitate the cleaning of seed imported into the United States under this part.
(b) Any person engaged in the business of processing screenings who wishes to process screenings imported from Canada under § 361.7(c) that are otherwise prohibited under this part must enter into a compliance agreement under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) A compliance agreement for the cleaning of imported seed or processing of otherwise prohibited screenings from Canada shall be a written agreement
1
between a person engaged in such a business, the State in which the business operates, and APHIS, wherein the person agrees to comply with the provisions of this part and any conditions imposed pursuant thereto. Any compliance agreement may be canceled orally or in writing by the APHIS inspector who is monitoring its enforcement whenever the inspector finds that the person who entered into the compliance agreement has failed to comply with the provisions of this part or any conditions imposed pursuant thereto. If the cancellation is oral, the decision and the reasons for the decision shall be confirmed in writing, as promptly as circumstances permit. Any person whose compliance agreement has been canceled may appeal the decision to the Administrator, in writing, within 10 days after receiving written notification of the cancellation. The appeal shall state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the compliance agreement was wrongfully canceled. The Administrator shall grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for such decision, as promptly as circumstances permit. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing shall be held to resolve such conflict. Rules of practice concerning such a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.
1
Compliance Agreement forms are available without charge from Permit Unit, PPQ, APHIS, 4700 River Road Unit 136, Riverdale, MD 20737-1236, and from local offices of the Plant Protection and Quarantine. (Local offices are listed in telephone directories).
§ 361.9
Recordkeeping.
(a) Each person importing agricultural seed or vegetable seed under this part must maintain a complete record, including copies of the declaration and labeling required under this part and a sample of seed, for each lot of seed imported. Except for the seed sample, which may be discarded 1 year after the entire lot represented by the sample has been disposed of by the person who imported the seed, the records must be maintained for 3 years following the importation.
(b) Each sample of vegetable seed and each sample of agricultural seed must be at least equal in weight to the sample size prescribed for noxious weed seed examination in table 1 of § 361.5.
(c) An APHIS inspector shall, during normal business hours, be allowed to inspect and copy the records.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0124)
§ 361.10
Costs and charges.
Unless a user fee is payable under § 354.3 of this chapter, the services of an APHIS inspector during regularly assigned hours of duty and at the usual places of duty will be furnished without cost. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's provisions relating to overtime charges for an APHIS inspector's services are set forth in part 354 of this chapter. The U.S. Department of Agriculture will not be responsible for any costs or charges incident to inspections or compliance with this part, other
than for the services of the APHIS inspector during regularly assigned hours of duty and at the usual places of duty. All expenses incurred by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (including travel, per diem or subsistence, and salaries of officers or employees of the Department) in connection with the monitoring of cleaning, labeling, other reconditioning, or destruction of seed, screenings, or refuse under this part shall be reimbursed by the owner or consignee of the seed or screenings.
Pt. 370

# PART 370—FREEDOM OF INFORMATION
Sec.
370.1
Scope and purpose.
370.2
Published materials.
370.3
Index.
370.4
Facilities for inspection and copying.
370.5
Requests for records.
370.6
Appeals.
370.7
Agency response to requests.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552.

# Source:
40 FR 43223, Sept. 19, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 370.1
Scope and purpose.
These regulations are issued pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552), and in accordance with the requirements of the Department of Agriculture regulations in part 1, subpart A of this title. The availability of records of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), and the procedures by which the public may obtain such information, shall be governed by the Department regulations as implemented by the regulations in this part. It is the policy of APHIS to be an open agency and to promptly make available for public inspection any records or information which are required to be released under the Act. Material which is exempt from disclosure will also be promptly made available when the Agency in its discretion determines that release of such material is in the public interest.
§ 370.2
Published materials.
Rules and regulations of APHIS relating to its regulatory responsibilities are continuously published in the
Federal Register,
and codified in this chapter III, title 7, and in 9 CFR chapter I. APHIS issues publications explaining animal and plant health programs and the laws and regulations, including quarantines, under which the programs are conducted. These publications are, for the most part available free from the Office of Governmental and Public Affairs, USDA, Washington, DC 20250; or, in some cases from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, at established rates.
[44 FR 53490, Sept. 14, 1979]
§ 370.3
Index.
Pursuant to the regulations in § 1.4(b) of this title, APHIS will maintain and make available for public inspection and copying a current index providing identifying information regarding the materials required to be published or made available under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2)). Notice is hereby given that publication of this index is unnecessary and impracticable, since the material is voluminous and does not change often enough to justify the expense of publication.
§ 370.4
Facilities for inspection and copying.
Facilities for public inspection and copying of the index and materials required to be made available under 5 U.S.C. 552(c)(2) will be provided by APHIS, on business days between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Requests for this information should be made to the FOIA Coordinator at the following address:
Freedom of Information Act Coordinator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Legislative and Public Affairs, Freedom of Information, 4700 River Road, Unit 50, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1231.
Copies of such material may be obtained in person or by mail. Applicable fees for copies will be charged in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the Office of Operations and Finance, USDA, pursuant to § 2.75 of this title. See § 1.10 and appendix A—Fee Schedule in part 1, subtitle A of this title.
[44 FR 53490, Sept. 14, 1979, as amended at 51 FR 30836, Aug. 29, 1986; 59 FR 67611, Dec. 30, 1994]
§ 370.5
Requests for records.
(a) Requests for APHIS records or information other than material published or made available under the preceding sections, shall be made in writing in accordance with 7 CFR 1.3(a) and submitted to the APHIS Freedom of Information Act Coordinator at the following address:
Freedom of Information Act Coordinator, (FOIA Request), Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Legislative and Public Affairs, Freedom of Information, 4700 River Road, Unit 50, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1231.
The request shall identify each record with reasonable specificity as prescribed in § 1.3(b) of this title. The APHIS FOIA Coordinator is hereby delegated authority to make determinations with respect to such requests in accordance with 7 CFR.
(b) The FOIA Coordinator or his designee is authorized to receive requests and to exercise the authority under § 1.4(c) of this title to:
(1) Make determinations to grant or deny requests,
(2) Extend the administrative deadline,
(3) Make discretionary releases of exempt records, and
(4) Make determinations regarding charges pursuant to the fee schedule.
(c) In exercising his authority under § 1.4(c) of this title to grant and deny requests, the Coordinator will comply with subsection (b) of the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552(b)), which requires that any reasonably segregable portion of a document shall be provided to a person requesting such document after deletion of any portions which are exempt under the Act. Therefore, unless the disclosable and non-disclosable portions are so inextricably linked that it is not reasonably possible to separate them, the document will be released with the non-disclosable portions deleted, except that the Coordinator may exercise discretion as limited by § 1.11 of this title, to release the entire document, or to make only a minimum number of deletions, e.g., the names of individuals.
[40 FR 43223, Sept. 19, 1975, as amended at 44 FR 53490, Sept. 14, 1979; 51 FR 30837, Aug. 29, 1986; 59 FR 67611, Dec. 30, 1994]
§ 370.6
Appeals.
If the request for information made under § 370.5 is denied in whole or in part, the requester may file an appeal pursuant to § 1.3(e) of this title. The appeal should be in writing and should be addressed as follows:
Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (FOIA Appeal), Room 313-E, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
[44 FR 53490, Sept. 14, 1979]
§ 370.7
Agency response to requests.
(a) The response to requests for information and to appeals shall be made in accordance with the Department regulations in § 1.5 of this title and the regulations in this part.
(b) Requests for records and information which have customarily been directed to field stations and agency headquarters may continue to be directed to those locations, notwithstanding the provisions of these regulations. If the information is not available at the location at which the request is made, or the official receiving the request is in doubt as to whether the information should be released, the official shall (1) promptly forward the request to the FOIA Coordinator, or (2) inform the requester of the procedures established in these regulations by which the request may be sent directly to the FOIA Coordinator. The date of receipt of the request by the Coordinator shall be the determining date for purposes of the time limitations under the Freedom of Information Act and the regulations.
Pt. 371

# PART 371—ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
Sec.
371.1
General Statement.
371.2
The Office of the Administrator.
371.3
Plant Protection and Quarantine.
371.4
Veterinary Services.
371.5
Marketing and Regulatory Programs Business Services.
371.6
Wildlife Services.
371.7
Animal Care.
371.8
International Services.
371.9
Policy and Program Development.
371.10
Legislative and Public Affairs.
371.11
Delegations of authority.
371.12
Concurrent authority and responsibility to the Administrator.
371.13
Reservation of authority.
371.14
Availability of information and records.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
65 FR 1299, Jan. 10, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 371.1
General statement.
(a)
The creation of APHIS.
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) was created by the Secretary of Agriculture on April 2, 1972 (37 FR 6327, March 28, 1972).
(b)
Central offices.
APHIS is headquartered in Washington, DC, and Riverdale, MD. The APHIS Management Team at these locations consists of the following:
Administrator
Associate Administrator
Deputy Administrator, Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ)
Deputy Administrator, Veterinary Services (VS)
Deputy Administrator, Marketing and Regulatory Programs Business Services (MRPBS)
Deputy Administrator, Wildlife Services (WS)
Deputy Administrator, Animal Care (AC)
Deputy Administrator, International Services (IS)
Director, Policy and Program Development (PPD)
Director, Legislative and Public Affairs (LPA)
(c)
Field organization.
AC, MRPBS, PPQ, VS, and WS all have field offices located throughout the United States. IS has field offices located throughout the world. A list of APHIS' field offices with addresses and telephone numbers is in the blue pages of local telephone books.
§ 371.2
The Office of the Administrator.
(a)
The Administrator.
(1) The Administrator of APHIS formulates, directs, and supervises the execution of APHIS policies, programs, and activities.
(2) The Administrator is authorized to take any action authorized by law and deemed necessary to carry out APHIS functions. Delegations of authority by the Administrator and provisions for redelegations of authority are stated in § 371.11.
(b)
The Associate Administrator.
The Associate Administrator of APHIS shares responsibility with the Administrator for general direction and supervision of APHIS programs and activities. The Associate Administrator may act for the Administrator.
§ 371.3
Plant protection and quarantine.
(a)
General statement.
Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ) protects and safeguards the Nation's plant resources through programs and activities to prevent the introduction and spread of plant pests and diseases.
(b)
Deputy Administrator of PPQ.
The Deputy Administrator of PPQ is responsible for:
(1) Participating with the Administrator of APHIS and other officials in the planning and formulation of policies, programs, procedures, and activities of APHIS.
(2) Providing direction and coordination for PPQ programs and activities. The authorities for PPQ programs include:
(i) The Terminal Inspection Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 166);
(ii) The Honeybee Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 281 through 286);
(iii) Sections 1 and 15 of the Federal Noxious Weed Act of 1974, (7 U.S.C. 2801 note and 7 U.S.C. 2814);
(iv) The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1544);
(v) Executive Order 13112;
(vi) The responsibilities of the United States under the International Plant Protection Convention;
(vii) Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3371 through 3378);
(viii) Title III (and Title IV to the extent that it relates to activities under Title III) of the Federal Seed Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1581 through 1610);
(ix) Authority to prescribe and collect fees under The Act of August 31, 1951, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9701), and sections 2508 and 2509 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act
of 1990, as amended (21 U.S.C. 136 and 136a);
(x) Plant Protection Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 7701-7786).
(xi) Authority to collect reimbursement for overtime paid to employees for inspection or quarantine services (7 U.S.C. 2260).
(xii) Title V of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 2279e and 2279f).
(xiii) title II, Subtitle B, of the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8401 not and 8401).
(3) Developing of regulations (including quarantines) regarding noxious weeds and plant pests and diseases.
(4) Cooperating with and providing technical assistance to State and local governments, farmer's associations, and individuals with regard to plant pest control. Cooperating with and providing technical assistance to foreign governments with regard to plant pests and diseases.
(5) Assisting in the development of sanitary and phytosanitary measures.
(6) Regulating the field release into the environment, interstate movement, and importation of genetically modified organisms.
(7) Serving as a member of the North American Plant Protection Organization (NAPPO). NAPPO is composed of plant protection officials and industry cooperators from Canada, Mexico, and the United States.
(8) Administering plant and animal pest and disease exclusion policies, procedures, and regulations at international ports of entry (land, sea, and air) relative to all plants and plant and animal products and associated materials (excluding live animals).
(9) Providing laboratory support, diagnostic services, methods development, and research activities in support of PPQ programs.
[65 FR 1299, Jan. 10, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 49471, Aug. 14, 2000; 66 FR 21060, Apr. 27, 2001; 68 FR 27449, May 20, 2003; 70 FR 55706, Sept. 23, 2005]
§ 371.4
Veterinary Services.
(a)
General statement.
Veterinary Services (VS) protects and safeguards the Nation's livestock and poultry through programs and activities to prevent the introduction and spread of pests and disease of livestock and poultry. VS also provides leadership and coordinates activities pertaining to veterinary biologics.
(b)
Deputy Administrator of VS.
The Deputy Administrator of VS is responsible for:
(1) Participating with the Administrator of APHIS and other officials in the planning and formulation of policies, programs, procedures, and activities of APHIS.
(2) Providing direction and coordination for the activities of the Center for Veterinary Biologics.
(3) Providing direction and coordination for VS programs and activities.
The authorities for VS programs include:
(i) Section 18 of the Federal Meat Inspection Act, as amended, as it pertains to the issuance of certificates of condition of live animals intended and offered for export (21 U.S.C. 618).
(ii) 28 Hour Law, as amended (49 U.S.C. 80502);
(iii) Act of August 26, 1983, as amended (46 U.S.C. 3901 through 3902);
(iv) Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States;
(v) Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151 through 159);
(vi) Sections 203 and 205 of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended, with respect to voluntary inspection and certification of animal products; inspection, testing, treatment, and certification of animals; and a program to investigate and develop solutions to the problems resulting from the use of sulfonamides in swine (7 U.S.C. 1622 and 1624);
(vii) Section 101(d) of the Organic Act of September 21, 1944 (7 U.S.C. 430);
(viii) The Swine Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 3801 through 3813);
(ix) Conducting diagnostic and related activities necessary to prevent, detect, control, or eradicate foot-and-mouth disease and other animal diseases (21 U.S.C. 113a);
(x) Authority to prescribe and collect fees under the Act of August 31, 1951, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9701), and sections 2508 and 2509 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, as amended (21 U.S.C. 136 and 136a); and
(xi) Transportation of horses to slaughter under sections 901-905 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 note).
(xii) Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8301-8317).
(xiii) Section 10504 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8318).
(xiv) The responsibilities of the United States related to activities of the Office International des Epizooties.
(xv) Title II, Subtitles B and C, of the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8401 note, 8401, 8411).
(4) Directing and coordinating animal health information systems and maintaining a Federal-State program operation capable of responding to exotic livestock and poultry disease outbreaks.
(5) Cooperating with and providing technical assistance to State and local governments, farmer's associations and similar organizations, and individuals with regard to VS programs and activities. Cooperating with and providing technical assistance to foreign governments with regard to pests and diseases of livestock and poultry.
(6) Providing laboratory support, diagnostic services, methods development, and research activities in support of VS programs.
[65 FR 1299, Jan. 10, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 27449, May 20, 2003; 70 FR 55706, Sept. 23, 2005]
§ 371.5
Marketing and Regulatory Programs Business Services.
(a)
General statement.
Marketing and Regulatory Programs Business Services (MRPBS) plans and provides for the agency's human, financial, and physical resources.
(b)
Deputy Administrator of MRPBS.
The Deputy Administrator of MRPBS is responsible for:
(1) Assisting the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, and the Administrators of APHIS, the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS), and the Grain Inspection and Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA), and other APHIS, AMS, and GIPSA officials in the planning and formulation of MRP policies, programs, and activities. Providing human resource, certain financial, and management services for AMS, APHIS, and GIPSA.
(2) Planning, formulating and coordinating policies, and directing management support functions for APHIS and designated functions for other MRP agencies, including finance, personnel, and management services.
(3) Conducting administrative reviews and inspections in APHIS to assess the implementation of policies and procedures and to assess the accomplishments of program objectives.
(4) Evaluating and issuing administrative directives.
(5) Serving as APHIS' liaison official with the General Accounting Office and the Office of the Inspector General.
(6) Preparing cooperative agreements, memoranda of understanding, agreements between APHIS and other agencies, and agreements that require the signature of more than one Deputy Administrator or Director.
(7) Directing and coordinating investigations related to APHIS program laws and regulations and coordinating enforcement of program laws and regulations with the Office of the General Counsel.
(8) Supporting and enforcing APHIS program activities, which include:
(i) Title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, §§ 371.3(b)(2)(i) through (xiv);
(ii) Title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, §§ 371.4(b)(3)(i) through (xx);
(iii) The Animal Welfare Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2131 through 2159); and
(iv) The Virus-Serum Toxin Act, as amended (21 U.S.C. 159).
(9) Formulating and recommending employee development and training policies.
(10) Developing, delivering, and administering organizational development, training, recruitment, and employee development programs for MRP agencies.
(11) Providing computer support and related services for APHIS.
§ 371.6
Wildlife Services.
(a)
General statement.
Wildlife Services (WS) manages problems caused by wildlife.
(b)
Deputy Administrator of WS.
The Deputy Administrator of WS is responsible for:
(1) Participating with the Administrator of APHIS and other officials in the planning and formulation of policies, programs, procedures, and activities of APHIS.
(2) Providing direction and coordination for programs authorized by the Act of March 2, 1931 (7 U.S.C. 426 and 426b, as amended) and the Act of December 22, 1987 (7 U.S.C. 426c).
(3) Assisting Federal, State, local, and foreign agencies and individuals with regard to wildlife damage and control.
(4) Conducting research to develop wildlife damage management methods.
[65 FR 1299, Jan. 10, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 76379, Dec. 21, 2004]
§ 371.7
Animal Care.
(a)
General statement.
Animal Care (AC) establishes acceptable standards of humane care and treatment for regulated animals and monitors and achieves compliance through inspections, enforcement, education, and cooperative efforts under the Animal Welfare and Horse Protection Acts.
(b)
Deputy Administrator of AC.
The Deputy Administrator of AC is responsible for:
(1) Participating with the Administrator of APHIS and other officials in the planning and formulation of policies, programs, and activities of APHIS.
(2) Directing activities to ensure compliance with and enforcement of animal welfare and horse protection laws and regulations. These laws are:
(i) The Animal Welfare Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2131 through 2159); and
(ii) The Horse Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1821 through 1831).
(3) Providing recommendations for policy and program changes and promulgating requirements, procedures, and guidelines for the conduct of field activities relating to AC programs.
§ 371.8
International Services.
(a)
General statement.
International Services (IS) protects U.S. agriculture and enhances agricultural trade with foreign countries.
(b)
Deputy Administrator of IS.
The Deputy Administrator of IS is responsible for:
(1) Participating with the Administrator of APHIS and other officials in the planning and formulation of international policies, programs, and activities of APHIS.
(2) Maintaining and administering the foreign service personnel system for employees of APHIS in accordance with section 202(a)(2) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3922), E.O. 12363, dated May 21, 1982, and the provisions of § 2.51(a)(1) of this title.
(3) Developing and maintaining systems for monitoring and reporting the presence and movement of plant and animal diseases and pests in foreign countries.
(4) Developing and maintaining cooperative relationships and programs with other Federal agencies, foreign governments, industry, and international organizations, such as the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, with regard to APHIS activities in foreign countries.
(5) Developing and maintaining systems for observing the effects of plant and animal diseases in foreign countries and evaluating their effect on the agriculture industry.
(6) Developing and directing programs to enhance the trade in U.S. plants, animals, and their products in compliance with established international sanitary and phytosanitary standards.
(7) Providing recommendations for policy and program changes, and promulgating requirements, procedures, and guidelines for the conduct of field activities relating to IS programs.
§ 371.9
Policy and Program Development.
(a)
General statement.
Policy and Program Development (PPD) provides analytical support for agency decisions and plans.
(b)
Director of PPD.
The Director of PPD is responsible for:
(1) Participating with the Administrator of APHIS and other officials in the planning and formulation of APHIS policies, programs, and activities.
(2) Providing planning and evaluations; regulations development; and
policy, risk, and economic analysis for APHIS programs.
(3) Analyzing the environmental effects of APHIS programs to ensure their compliance with environmental laws and regulations and providing support for pesticide registration and drug approval.
(4) Coordinating registration of chemicals and other substances used in APHIS control and eradication programs.
§ 371.10
Legislative and Public Affairs.
(a)
General statement.
Legislative and Public Affairs (LPA) is the communications arm of APHIS.
(b)
Director of LPA.
The Director of LPA is responsible for:
(1) Advising and assisting the Administrator and other officials on matters relating to agency legislative and media affairs.
(2) Preparing legislative proposals for APHIS programs and responsibilities. Assisting in compiling support material for agency witnesses for congressional hearings. Preparing legislative reports.
(3) Establishing and maintaining liaison with Members of Congress, various congressional committees and subcommittees, and their staffs on matters pertaining to APHIS.
(4) Planning and conducting an information program to promote interest in and increase the public knowledge of APHIS programs and activities.
(5) Drafting and administering policy guidelines on press contacts, photography, audiovisual activities, graphic design, radio-TV, and policy/editorial/graphics clearances for publications. Planning and conducting a program to explain APHIS policies in written form to Members of Congress, State and industry leaders, officials of foreign governments, and private citizens.
(6) Preparing replies to written inquiries and establishing and maintaining a system for the control of written inquiries referred by the Office of the Secretary or sent directly to the agency.
(7) Assisting in the preparation of position papers regarding APHIS programs.
(8) Assisting in the preparation of directives, procedural manuals, articles for publication, and agency correspondence. Coordinating APHIS activities within the scope of the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act.
§ 371.11
Delegations of authority.
(a)
Associate Administrator.
The Associate Administrator is delegated the authority to perform the duties and to exercise the functions and powers that are now, or that may become, vested in the Administrator, including the power of redelegation except where prohibited, and including authority reserved to the Administrator in § 371.14 of this part. The Associate Administrator is also authorized to act for the Administrator in the absence of the Administrator.
(b)
Deputy Administrators and Directors.
The Deputy Administrators of Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ), Veterinary Services (VS), Wildlife Services (WS), Marketing and Regulatory Programs Business Services (MRPBS), Animal Care (AC), and International Services (IS); the Directors of Policy and Program Development (PPD) and Legislative and Public Affairs (LPA); and the officers they designate to act for them, with prior specific approval of the Administrator, are delegated the authority, severally, to perform duties and to exercise the functions and powers that are now, or that may become vested in the Administrator (including the power of redelegation, except where prohibited) except authority that is reserved to the Administrator. Each Deputy Administrator or Director shall be responsible for the programs and activities in APHIS assigned to that Deputy Administrator or Director.
§ 371.12
Concurrent authority and responsibility to the Administrator.
(a)
Delegations that preclude the Administrator or each Deputy Administrator or Director from exercising powers or functions.
No delegation or authorization in this part shall preclude the Administrator or each Deputy Administrator or Director from exercising any of the powers or functions or from performing any of the duties conferred upon each, respectively. Any delegation or authorization is subject, at all times, to withdrawal or amendment by
the Administrator, and in their respective fields, by each Deputy Administrator or Director. The officers to whom authority is delegated in this part shall:
(1) Maintain close working relationships with the officers to whom they report.
(2) Keep them advised with respect to major problems and developments.
(3) Discuss with them proposed actions involving major policy questions or other important considerations or questions, including matters involving relationships with other Federal agencies, other agencies of the Department, other divisions, staffs, or offices of the agency, or other governmental, private organizations, or groups.
(b)
Prior authorizations and delegations.
All prior delegations and redelegations of authority relating to any function, program, or activity covered by the statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority, shall remain in effect except as they are inconsistent with this part or are amended or revoked. Nothing in this part shall affect the validity of any action taken previously under prior delegations or redelegations of authority or assignments of functions.
§ 371.13
Reservation of authority.
The following are reserved to the Administrator, or to the individual designated to act for the Administrator:
(a) The initiation, change, or discontinuance of major program activities.
(b) The issuance of regulations pursuant to law.
(c) The transfer of functions between Deputy Administrators and Directors.
(d) The transfer of funds between Deputy Administrators and Directors.
(e) The transfer of funds between work projects within each Deputy Administrator's or Director's area, except those not exceeding 10 percent of base funds or $50,000 in either work project, whichever is less.
(f) The approval of any change in the formal organization, including a section, its equivalent, or higher level.
(g) The making of recommendations to the Department concerning establishment, consolidation, change in location, or abolishment of any regional, State, area, and other field headquarters, and any region or other program area that involves two or more States, or that crosses State lines.
(h) Authority to establish, consolidate, change a location, abolish any field office, or change program area boundaries not included in paragraph (g) of this section.
(i) Approval of all appointments, promotions, and reassignments at the GS-14 level and above.
(j) Authorization for foreign travel and for attendance at foreign and international meetings, including those held in the United States.
(k) Approval of all appointments, promotions, and reassignments of employees to foreign countries.
(l) Approval of program budgets.
(m) Authority to determine the circumstances under which commuted traveltime allowances may be paid to employees performing inspections and necessary auxiliary services after normal working hours or on holidays, when these services come within the scope of the Act of August 28, 1950 (7 U.S.C. 2260).
§ 371.14
Availability of information and records.
Any person desiring information or to comment on the programs and functions of the agency should address correspondence to the appropriate Deputy Administrator or Director, APHIS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. The availability of information and records of the agency is governed by the rules and regulations in part 370 of this chapter.
Pt. 372

# PART 372—NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT IMPLEMENTING PROCEDURES
Sec.
372.1
Purpose.
372.2
Designation of responsible APHIS official.
372.3
Information and assistance.
372.4
Definitions.
372.5
Classification of actions.
372.6
Early planning.
372.7
Planning and decision points and public involvement.
372.8
Processing and use of environmental documents.
372.9
Supplementing environmental impact statements.
372.10
Process for rapid response to emergencies.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.;
40 CFR 1500-1508; 7 CFR 1b, 2.22, 2.80, and 371.9.

# Source:
60 FR 6002, Feb. 1, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 372.1
Purpose.
These procedures implement section 102(2) of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) by assuring early and adequate consideration of environmental factors in Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service planning and decisionmaking and by promoting the effective, efficient integration of all relevant environmental requirements under the NEPA. The goal of timely, relevant environmental analysis will be secured principally by adhering to the NEPA implementing regulations (40 CFR parts 1500-1508), especially provisions pertaining to timing (§ 1502.5), integration (§ 1502.25), and scope of analysis (§ 1508.25).
[60 FR 6002, Feb. 1, 1995, as amended at 83 FR 24009, May 24, 2018]
§ 372.2
Designation of responsible APHIS official.
The Administrator of APHIS, or an agency official to whom the Administrator may formally delegate the task, is responsible for overall review of APHIS' NEPA compliance.
§ 372.3
Information and assistance.
Information, including the status of studies, and the availability of reference materials, as well as the informal interpretations of APHIS' NEPA procedures and other forms of assistance, will be made available upon request to the APHIS NEPA contact at: Policy and Program Development, APHIS, USDA, Attention: NEPA Contact, 4700 River Road Unit 149, Riverdale, MD 20737-1238, (301) 851-3043.
[83 FR 24010, May 24, 2018]
§ 372.4
Definitions.
The terminology and definitions set forth in the Council on Environmental Quality's (CEQ) implementing regulations at 40 CFR part 1508 are incorporated herein. In addition, the following terms, as used in these procedures, are defined as follows:
APHIS.
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).
Decisionmaker.
The agency official responsible for signing the document based on a categorical exclusion or findings of no significant impact (FONSI) and environmental assessment or the record of decision following the environmental impact statement (EIS) process.
Department.
The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).
Environmental unit.
The analytical unit in Policy and Program Development responsible for coordinating APHIS' compliance with NEPA and other environmental laws and regulations.
[60 FR 6002, Feb. 1, 1995, as amended at 83 FR 24010, May 24, 2018]
§ 372.5
Classification of actions.
(a)
Actions normally requiring environmental impact statements.
This class of policymakings and rulemakings seeks to establish programmatic approaches to animal and plant health issues. Actions in this class typically involve the agency, an entire program, or a substantial program component and are characterized by their broad scope (often global or nationwide) and potential effect (impacting a wide range of environmental quality values or indicators, whether or not affected individuals or systems may be completely identified at the time). Ordinarily, new or untried methodologies, strategies, or techniques to deal with pervasive threats to animal and plant health are the subjects of this class of actions. Alternative means of dealing with those threats usually have not been well developed. Actions in this class include:
(1) Formulation of contingent response strategies to combat future widespread outbreaks of animal and plant diseases; and
(2) Adoption of strategic or other long-range plans that purport to adopt for future program application a preferred course of action.
(b)
Actions normally requiring environmental assessments but not necessarily environmental impact statements.
This class of APHIS actions may involve the
agency as a whole or an entire program, but generally is related to a more discrete program component and is characterized by its limited scope (particular sites, species, or activities) and potential effect (impacting relatively few environmental values or systems). Potential environmental impacts associated with the proposed action are not considered potentially significant at the outset of the planning process. Any effects of the action on environmental resources (such as air, water, soil, plant communities, animal populations, or others) or indicators (such as dissolved oxygen content of water) can be reasonably identified, and mitigation measures are generally available and have been successfully employed. Unless the actions are categorically excluded as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, actions in this class include:
(1) Policymakings and rulemakings that seek to remedy specific animal and plant health risks or that may affect opportunities on the part of the public to influence agency environmental planning and decisionmaking. Examples of this category of actions include:
(i) Development of program plans that seek to adopt strategies, methods, and techniques as the means of dealing with particular animal and plant health risks that may arise in the future; and
(ii) Implementation of program plans at the site-specific, action level.
(2) Planning, design, construction, or acquisition of new facilities, or proposals for modifications to existing facilities.
(3) Disposition of waste and other hazardous or toxic materials at laboratories and other APHIS facilities.
(4) Approvals and issuance of permits for proposals involving regulated genetically engineered organisms or products, or regulated nonindigenous species.
(5) Programs or statewide activities to reduce damage or harm by a specific wildlife species or group of species, such as deer or birds, or to reduce a specific type of damage or harm, such as protection of agriculture from wildlife depredation and disease; for the management of rabies in wildlife; or for the protection of threatened or endangered species.
(6) Research or testing that will be conducted outside of a laboratory or other containment area or reaches a stage of development (e.g., formulation of premarketing strategies) that forecasts an irretrievable commitment to the resulting products or technology.
(c)
Categorically excluded actions.
This class of APHIS actions shares many of the same characteristics—particularly in terms of the extent of program involvement, as well as the scope, effect of, and the availability of alternatives to proposed actions—as the class of actions that normally requires environmental assessments but not necessarily environmental impact statements. The major difference is that the means through which adverse environmental impacts may be avoided or minimized have actually been built right into the actions themselves. The efficacy of this approach generally has been established through testing and/or monitoring. The Department of Agriculture has also promulgated a listing of categorical exclusions that are applicable to all agencies within the department unless their procedures provide otherwise. Those categorical exclusions, codified at 7 CFR 1b.3(a), are entirely appropriate for APHIS. Other actions in this class include:
(1)
Routine measures.
(i) Routine measures, such as identifications, inspections, surveys, sampling that does not cause physical alteration of the environment, testing, seizures, quarantines, removals, sanitizing, inoculations, control, and monitoring employed by agency programs to pursue their missions and functions. Such measures may include the use—according to any label instructions or other lawful requirements and consistent with standard, published program practices and precautions—of chemicals, pesticides, or other potentially hazardous or harmful substances, materials, and target-specific devices or remedies, provided that such use meets all of the following criteria (insofar as they may pertain to a particular action):
(A) The use is localized or contained in areas where humans are not likely to be exposed, and is limited in terms
of quantity, i.e., individualized dosages and remedies;
(B) The use will not cause contaminants to enter water bodies, including wetlands;
(C) The use does not adversely affect any federally protected species or critical habitat; and
(D) The use does not cause bioaccumulation.
(ii) Examples of routine measures include:
(A) Inoculation or treatment of discrete herds of livestock or wildlife undertaken in contained areas (such as a barn or corral, a zoo, an exhibition, or an aviary);
(B) Use of vaccinations or inoculations including new vaccines (e.g., genetically engineered vaccines) and applications of existing vaccines to new species provided that the project is conducted in a controlled and limited manner, and the impacts of the vaccine can be predicted; and
(C) Isolated (for example, along a highway) weed control efforts.
(2)
Research and development activities.
(i) Activities limited in magnitude, frequency, and scope that occur in laboratories, facilities, pens, or field sites. Examples are:
(A) Vaccination trials that occur on groups of animals in areas designed to limit interaction with similar animals, or include other controls needed to mitigate potential risk.
(B) Laboratory research involving the evaluation and use of chemicals in a manner not specifically listed on the product label pursuant to applicable Federal authorizations.
(C) The development and/or production (including formulation, packaging or repackaging, movement, and distribution) of articles such as program materials, devices, reagents, and biologics that were approved and/or licensed in accordance with existing regulations, or that are for evaluation in confined animal, plant, or insect populations under conditions that prevent exposure to the general population.
(D) Research evaluating wildlife management products or tools, such as animal repellents, frightening devices, or fencing, that is carried out in a manner and area designed to eliminate the potential for harmful environmental effects and in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
(ii) Development, production, and release of sterile insects.
(3)
Licensing and permitting.
(i) Issuance of a license, permit, authorization, or approval to ship or field test previously unlicensed veterinary biologics, including veterinary biologics containing genetically engineered organisms (such as vector-based vaccines and nucleic acid-based vaccines);
(ii) Issuance of a license, permit, authorization, or approval for movement or uses of pure cultures of organisms (relatively free of extraneous micro-organisms and extraneous material) that are not strains of quarantine concern and occur, or are likely to occur, in a State's environment; or
(iii) Permitting for confined field releases of genetically engineered organisms and products; and
(iv) Permitting of:
(A) Importation of nonindigenous species into containment facilities,
(B) Interstate movement of nonindigenous species between containment facilities, or
(C) Releases into a State's environment of pure cultures of organisms that are either native or are established introductions.
(4) [Reserved]
(5)
Minor renovation, improvement, and maintenance of facilities.
Examples are:
(i) Renovation of existing laboratories and other facilities.
(ii) Functional replacement of parts and equipment.
(iii) Minor additions to existing facilities.
(iv) Minor excavations of land and repairs to properties.
(d)
Exceptions for categorically excluded actions.
Whenever the decisionmaker determines that a categorically excluded action may have the potential to affect “significantly” the quality of the “human environment,” as those terms are defined at 40 CFR 1508.27 and 1508.14, respectively, an environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement will be prepared. For example:
(1) When any routine measure, the incremental impact of which, when added to other past, present, and reasonably
foreseeable future actions (regardless of what agency or person undertakes such actions), has the potential for significant environmental impact;
(2) When a previously licensed or approved biologic has been subsequently shown to be unsafe, or will be used at substantially higher dosage levels or for substantially different applications or circumstances than in the use for which the product was previously approved; or
(3) When a confined field release of genetically engineered organisms or products involves new species or organisms or novel modifications that raise new issues.
[60 FR 6002, Feb. 1, 1995; 60 FR 13212, Mar. 10, 1995; 83 FR 24010, May 24, 2018; 85 FR 29838, May 18, 2020]
§ 372.6
Early planning.
Prospective applicants are encouraged to contact APHIS program officials to determine what types of environmental analyses or documentation, if any, need to be prepared.
[83 FR 24011, May 24, 2018]
§ 372.7
Planning and decision points and public involvement.
(a)
Major planning and decisions points.
The NEPA process will be fully coordinated with APHIS planning in cooperation with program personnel. Specific decision points or milestones will be identified and communicated to the public and others in a notice of intent and in the context of the public scoping process.
(b)
Public involvement.
There will be an early and open process for determining the scope of issues to be addressed in the environmental impact statement process.
(1) A notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement will be published in the
Federal Register
as soon as it is determined that a proposed major Federal action has the potential to affect significantly the quality of the human environment. The notice may include a preliminary scope of environmental study. All public and other involvement in APHIS' environmental impact statement process, including the scoping process, commenting on draft documents, and participation in the preparation of any supplemental documents, will be pursuant to CEQ's implementing regulations.
(2) Opportunities for public involvement in the environmental assessment process will be announced in the same fashion as the availability of environmental assessments and findings of no significant impact.
(3) Notification of the availability of environmental assessments and findings of no significant impact for proposed activities will be published in the
Federal Register,
unless it is determined that the effects of the action are primarily of regional or local concern. Where the effects of the action are primarily of regional or local concern, notice will normally be provided through publication in a local or area newspaper of general circulation and/or the procedures implementing Executive Order 12372, “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.”
(4) All environmental documents and comments received will be made available to the public via
Regulations.gov
.
[60 FR 6002, Feb. 1, 1995, Redesignated and amended at 83 FR 24011, May 24, 2018]
§ 372.8
Processing and use of environmental documents.
(a) Environmental assessments will be forwarded immediately upon completion to the decisionmaker for a determination of whether the proposed action may have significant effects on the quality of the human environment, and for the execution, as appropriate, of a finding of no significant impact or a notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. This determination is based on information provided in the NEPA document and available in the record.
(1) The availability of environmental assessments will be announced by publishing a notice consistent with the notification provisions of § 372.7.
(2) Comments, if any, will be transmitted, together with any analyses and recommendations, to the APHIS decisionmaker who may then take appropriate action.
(3) Changes to environmental assessments and findings of no significant impact that are prompted by comments, new information, or any other
source, will normally be announced in the same manner as the notice of availability prior to implementing the proposed action or any alternative. APHIS will mail notice upon request.
(b) Environmental impact statements will be processed from inception (publication of the notice of intent) to completion (publication of a final environmental impact statement or a supplement) according to the Council on Environmental Quality implementing regulations.
(c) For rulemaking or adjudicatory proceedings, relevant environmental documents, comments, and responses will be a part of the administrative record.
(d) For all APHIS activity that is subject to the NEPA process, relevant environmental documents, comments, and responses will accompany proposals through the review process.
(e) The APHIS decisionmaker will consider the alternatives discussed in environmental documents in reaching a determination on the merits of proposed actions.
(f) APHIS will implement mitigation and other conditions established in environmental documentation and committed to as part of the decisionmaking process.
[60 FR 6002, Feb. 1, 1995. Redesignated and amended at 83 FR 24011, May 24, 2018]
§ 372.9
Supplementing environmental impact statements.
Once a decision to supplement an environmental impact statement is made, a notice of intent will be published. The supplemental document will then be processed in the same fashion (exclusive of scoping) as a draft and a final statement (unless alternative procedures are approved by CEQ) and will become part of the record.
[60 FR 6002, Feb. 1, 1995. Redesignated and amended at 83 FR 24011, May 24, 2018]
§ 372.10
Process for rapid response to emergencies.
When it is determined (by the Administrator or the delegated Agency official responsible for environmental review) that an emergency exists that requires immediate action before preparing and completing the usual NEPA review, then the provisions of this section apply.
(a) The Administrator or the delegated Agency official responsible for environmental review may take actions that are necessary to control the immediate impacts of the emergency and that are urgently needed to prevent imminent damage to public health or safety, or prevent threats to valuable resources. When taking such actions, the Administrator or the delegated Agency official responsible for environmental review will consider the probable environmental consequences of the emergency action and mitigate foreseeable adverse environmental effects to the extent practicable.
(b) If a proposed emergency action is normally analyzed in an environmental assessment as described in § 372.5 and the nature and scope of proposed emergency actions are such that there is insufficient time to prepare an EA and FONSI before commencing the proposed action, the Administrator shall consult with APHIS' Chief of Environmental and Risk Analysis Services about alternative arrangements for NEPA compliance. APHIS' Chief of Environmental and Risk Analysis Services may authorize emergency alternative arrangements for completing the required NEPA compliance documentation. Any alternative arrangements must be documented and notice of their use provided to CEQ.
(c) If a proposed emergency action is likely to result in significant environmental impacts, then APHIS will immediately consult with CEQ and request alternative arrangements in accordance with CEQ regulations at 40 CFR 1506.11. Such alternative arrangements will apply only to the proposed actions necessary to control the immediate impacts of the emergency. Other proposed actions remain subject to NEPA analysis and documentation in accordance with the CEQ regulations and these regulations.
[83 FR 24011, May 24, 2018]
Pt. 380

# PART 380—RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS UNDER CERTAIN ACTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
380.1
Scope and applicability of rules of practice.

# Subpart B—Supplemental Rules of Practice
380.10
Stipulations.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7701-7772 and 7781-7786; 16 U.S.C. 1540(a), 3373(a) and (b); 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.3.

# Subpart A—General
§ 380.1
Scope and applicability of rules of practice.
(a) The Uniform Rules of Practice for the Department of Agriculture promulgated in subpart H of part 1, subtitle A, title 7 CFR are the Rules of Practice applicable to adjudicatory administrative proceedings under the following statutory provisions:
(1) The Plant Protection Act, section 424 (7 U.S.C. 7734),
(2) Endangered Species Act Amendments of 1973, as amended, section 11(a), 16 U.S.C. 1540(a), and
(3) Lacey Act Amendments of 1981, as amended, section 4(a) and (b), (16 U.S.C. 3373 (a) and (b)).
(b) In addition, the Supplemental Rules of Practice set forth in subpart B of this part are applicable to such proceedings.
[66 FR 21061, Apr. 27, 2001]

# Subpart B—Supplemental Rules of Practice
§ 380.10
Stipulations.
(a) At any time prior to the issuance of a complaint seeking a civil penalty under any of the Acts listed in § 380.1, the Administrator, in his discretion, may enter into a stipulation with any person in which:
(1) The Administrator or the Administrator's delegate gives notice of an apparent violation of the applicable Act, or the regulations issued thereunder, by such person and affords such person an opportunity for a hearing regarding the matter as provided by such Act;
(2) Such person expressly waives hearing and agrees to pay a specified penalty within a designated time; and
(3) The Administrator agrees to accept the specified penalty in settlement of the particular matter involved if the penalty is paid within the designated time.
(b) If the specified penalty is not paid within the time designated in such a stipulation, the amount of the stipulated penalty shall not be relevant in any respect to the penalty which may be assessed after issuance of a complaint.
[48 FR 33468, July 22, 1983]
PARTS 381-399 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
7 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
7 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter III
301.50—301.50-10 (Subpart G) Removed
61809
301.53-1—301.53-9 (Subpart J) Removed; eff. 1-15-21
81095
301.86-3 (a) amended; (c)(1) and (d) revised; eff. 1-28-21
85503
319.40-3 (a)(1)(i)(A) amended; (a)(1)(i)(B) removed; (a)(1)(i)(C) redesignated as new (a)(1)(i)(B)
61809
319.40-5 (m) removed
61809
330.200 (b) and (d) revised
29832
340 Revised; eff. date 4-5-21 in part
29832
354 Policy statement
2621
357.1 Revised
12212
357.2 Amended
12212
357.3 Added
12212
357.4 Added
12212
372.5 (b)(7) and (c)(4) removed; (c)(3)(iii) amended
29838
2021
7 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter III
319 Notification
62465
2022
7 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter III
301.32-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80003
301.32-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80003
301.32-4 Introductory text footnote 2 redesignated as introductory text footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80004
301.32-5 (a) introductory text footnote 3 and (b) introductory text footnote 4 redesignated as (a) introductory text footnote 1 and (b) introductory text footnote 2; eff. 1-30-23
80004
301.32-6 (a) footnote 5 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80004
301.32-7 (a) footnote 6 redesignated as (a) footnote 1 and revised; eff. 1-30-23
80004
301.38-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80004
301.38-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80004
301.38-3 (a) and (f) amended; (c) footnote 4 redesignated as (c) footnote 1; (d) revised; eff. 1-30-23
80004
301.38-4 (b)(1)(ii), (2) introductory text, (i), and (ii) amended; eff 1-30-23
80005
301.38-5 (a) footnote 5 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80005
301.38-6 (a) footnote 6 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80005
301.38-8 Footnote 4 redesignated as footnote 1; footnote 1 added; eff. 1-30-23
80005
301.45—301.45-12 (Subpart E) Nomenclature change; eff. 1-30-23
80005
301.45 (a) revised; eff. 1-30-23
80005
301.45-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80005
301.45-2 (a) revised; (c) and (d) amended; eff. 1-30-23
80005
301.45-3 Removed; eff. 1-30-23
80006
301.45-4 (a)(1) footnote 3 redesignaed as (a)(1) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80006
301.48-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80006
301.51-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80006
301.51-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80006
301.51-3 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80006
301.51-6 (a) footnote 3 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80006
301.51-7 (a) footnote 4 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80006
301.52 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80006
301.52-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80007
301.52-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80007
301.52-2a Removed; eff. 1-30-23
80007
301.52-3 Heading amended; introductory text revised; eff. 1-30-23
80007
301.55-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80007
301.55-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80007
301.55-3 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80007
301.55-4 Introductory text footnote 3 redesignated as introductory text footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80008
301.55-5 (a) introductory text footnote 4 redesignated as introductory text footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80008
301.55-6 (a) footnote 5 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80008
301.55-7 (a) footnote 6 redesingated as (a) footnote 1 and revised; eff. 1-30-23
80008
301.74-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80008
301.74-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80008
301.74-3 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80008
301.74-4 Introductory text footnote 2 redesignated as introductory text footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80009
301.75-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80009
301.75-3 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80009
301.75-4 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80009
301.75-8 (c) amended; eff. 1-30-23
80010
301.75-10 (b) amended; eff. 1-30-23
80010
301.76-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80010
301.76-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80010
301.76-5 (a)(1) footnote 2 redesignated as (a)(1) footnote 1; (e) amended; eff. 1-30-23
80011
301.76-6 (a)(1) footnote 3, (b)(1) footnote 4, (d) introductory text footnote 5 redesignated as (a)(1) footnote 1, (b)(1) footnote 2, and (d) introductory text footnote 3; (c)(2)(i), (d)(1), and (2) amended; eff. 1-30-23
80011
301.76-7 (a)(1) footnote 6 redesignated as (a)(1) footnote 1; (b)(1) amended; eff. 1-30-23
80011
301.76-8 (a) footnote 7 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80011
301.76-9 Footnote 8 redesignated as footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80011
301.80 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80011
301.80-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80011
301.80-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80012
301.80-2a Removed; eff. 1-30-23
80012
301.80-2b Removed; eff. 1-30-23
80012
301.80-3 Heading, (a)(2)(i), (3)(ii)(A), (b) amended; (b)footnote 4 redesignated as (b) footnote 2; (a) introductory text and new (b) footnote 2 revised; (b) footnote 5 removed; eff. 1-30-23
80012
301.81-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80012
301.81-3 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80012
301.81-4 (a)(1) amended; (a)(3) footnote 3 redesignated as (a)(3) footnote 1 and revised; eff. 1-30-23
80013
301.81-5 (a) introductory text footnote 4 and (2) footnote 5 redesignated as (a) introductory text footnote 1 and (2) footnote 2; (c) amended; eff. 1-30-23
80013
301.81-6 Footnote 6 redesignated as footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80013
301.81-8 (a) footnote 7 redesignated as footnote 1 and revised; eff. 1-30-23
80013
301.85 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80013
301.85-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80014
301.85-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80014
301.85-2a Removed; eff. 1-30-23
80014
301.85-2b Removed; eff. 1-30-23
80014
301.85-3 Heading, (a)(2)(i), and (b) amended; (b) footnote 3 redesignated as (b) footnote 2; introductory text, (a)(3)(ii), and (b) footnote 2 revised; eff. 1-30-23
80014
301.86-2 (a) footnote 2 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80015
301.86-5 (a) introductory text footnote 3, (1) footnote 4, (b)(1) introductory text footnote 5 redesignated as (a) footnote 1, (1) footnote 2, (b)(1) introductory text footnote 3; new (b)(1) introductory text footnote 3 amended; eff. 1-30-23
80015
301.86-6 (a) footnote 6 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80015
301.86-7 (a) footnote 7 redesignated as (a) footnote 1 and revised; eff. 1-30-23
80015
301.87 Heading amended; (a) revised; eff. 1-30-23
80015
301.87-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80015
301.87-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80015
301.87-3 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80015
301.87-4 Heading and (a) amended; introductory text revised; eff. 1-30-23
80016
301.87-5 (a)(1)(i) and (c) amended; (a)(1)(i) footnote 4, (2) footnote 6, and (b)(2) footnote 6 redesignated as (a)(1)(i) footnote 1, (a)(2) footnote 2, and (b)(2) footnote 2; (a)(1)(ii) revised; eff. 1-30-23
80016
301.87-6 (a) footnote 7 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80016
301.87-7 (a) amended; (a) footnote 8 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80016
301.89-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80016
301.89-3 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80016
301.89-7 Footnote 3 redesignated as footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80017
301.89-9 (a) footnote 4 redesignated as (a) footnote 1 and revised; eff. 1-30-23
80017
301.91 Heading amended; eff. 1-30-23
80017
301.91-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80017
301.91-2 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80017
301.91-3 Revised; eff. 1-30-23
80017
301.91-4 Heading amended; eff. 1-30-23
80018
301.91-5 (a)(2) footnote 3 and (b)(2) footnote 3 redesignated as (a)(2) footnote 1 and (b)(2) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80018
301.91-6 (a) footnote 4 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80018
301.91-7 (a) footnote 5 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80018
301.92-1 Amended; eff. 1-30-23
80018
301.92-2 (a)(1), (2), (b)(1), and (c) amended; (a)(1) footnote 3 and (b)(1) footnote 4 removed; (d) and (e) revised; eff. 1-30-23
80018
301.92-3 (a) revised; eff. 1-30-23
80019
301.92-4 (a) introductory text footnote 5 redesignated as (a) introductory text footnote 1; (b) introductory text footnote 6 removed; (c)(2) introductory text amended; (c)(2)(ii)(B) revised; eff. 1-30-23
80019
301.92-5 (a)(1) introductory text footnote 8, footnote 9, (ii) footnote 10, and (v) footnote 11 redesignated as (a)(1) introductory text footnote 1, footnote 2, (ii) footnote 3, and (v) footnote 4; new (a)(1)(ii) footnote 3 revised; eff. 1-30-23
80019
301.92-6 (a) footnote 12 redesignated as (a) footnote 1; eff. 1-30-23
80019
301.92-7 (a) footnote 13 redesignated as (a) footnote 1 and revised; eff. 1-30-23
80019
319 Notification
31937
2023
7 CFR
88 FR
Page
Subtitle A
Chapter III
301.75-1 Amended
85470
301.75-5 (a) revised
85470
301.75-6 OMB number
85470
301.75-7 OMB number
85470
301.75-12 OMB number
85470
301.75-13 OMB number
85470
354.3 (c)(1) table and (f)(1) revised
16372
2024
7 CFR
89 FR
Page
Subtitle A
Chapter III
301.38-2 (a) amended
23501
305.1 Amended
79734
319.5 (c) amended
79734
319.37-2 Amended
79734
319.56-4 (c)(1) amended
79734
331.3 (b) revised; eff. 1-16-25
101845
354.3 Revised
38636
354.3 Correction: (h)(1) amended
66543
○
