experimental or specialty packs of raisins shall submit to the Committee on a copy of the approved application for exemption a report showing the quantity of raisins shipped or disposed of under such exemption. The handler shall submit the report promptly after the end of the crop year or after completion by him of all shipments of such exempted raisins, whichever is earlier.
(f)
Organically-produced raisins.
For purposes of this section, organically-produced raisins means raisins that have been certified by an organic certification organization currently registered with the California Department of Food and Agriculture or such certifying organization accredited under the National Organic Program. Handlers of such raisins shall submit the following reports to the Committee by varietal type:
Provided:
That, for the Other Seedless varietal type, handlers shall report such information for the different types of Other Seedless raisins.
(1)
Inventory report of organically-produced raisins.
Each handler shall submit to the Committee by the close of business on July 31 of each crop year, and not later than the following August 6, on an appropriate form provided by the Committee, a report showing, with respect to the organically-produced raisins held by such handler:
(i) The quantity of raisins, segregated as to locations where they are stored and whether they are natural condition or packed;
(ii) The quantity of off-grade raisins segregated as to those for reconditioning and those for disposition as such.
(2)
Acquisition report of organically-produced standard raisins.
Each handler shall submit to the Committee for each week (Sunday through Saturday or such other 7-day period for which the handler has submitted a proposal to and received approval from the Committee) and not later than the following Wednesday, on an appropriate form provided by the Committee, a report showing the following:
(i) The total net weight of the standard raisins acquired during the reporting period; and
(ii) The location of the reserve tonnage; and
(iii) The cumulative totals of such acquisitions (as so segregated) from the beginning of the current crop year.
(iv) Upon request of the Committee, each handler shall provide copies of the organic certificate(s) applicable to the quantity of raisins reported as acquired.
(3)
Disposition report of organically-produced raisins.
No later than the seventh day of each month, handlers who are not processors shall submit to the Committee, on an appropriate form provided by the Committee, a report showing the aggregate quantity of packed raisins and standard natural condition raisins which were shipped or otherwise disposed of by such handler during the preceding month (exclusive of transfer within the State of California between the plants of any such handler and from such handler to other handlers). Such information shall include:
(i) Domestic outlets (exclusive of Federal government purchases) according to the quantity shipped in consumer cartons, the quantity of bags having a net weight content of 4 pounds or less, and the quantity shipped in bulk packs (including, but not limited to those in bags having a net weight content of more than 4 pounds);
(ii) Federal government purchases;
(iii) Export outlets according to quantity shipped in consumer cartons, the quantity shipped in bags having a net weight of 4 pounds or less, and the quantity shipped in bulk packs (including, but not limited to those in bags having a net weight content of more than 4 pounds);
(iv) Export outlets, by countries of destination; and
(v) Each of any other outlets in which the handler disposed of such raisins other than by any transfer which is excluded by the preceding sentence.
(g) [Reserved]
(h)
Certification of report.
All reports submitted to the Committee pursuant to this part shall be dated, and certified to the United States Department of Agriculture and to the Raisin Administrative Committee as to the truthfulness, accuracy and completeness of the information shown thereon.
(i)
Reporting by non-profit cooperative associations.
Non-profit cooperative associations need not submit door tags, door receipts, weight certificates or other similar documents with its report as to raisins received or acquired from its members.
(j)
Exemption from filing report.
A handler may be relieved by the Committee of submitting any of the reports required pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section which he shall specify in a written application therefor to the Committee stating that no transactions subject to such reports are contemplated for the balance of the crop year:
Provided,
That any such exemption shall remain in effect only so long as said handler has no such transactions subject to such reports.
[27 FR 3112, Mar. 31, 1962]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 989.173, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 989.176
Records.
Each handler shall maintain complete, accurate, and current records of all of his business affairs concerning which he is required to submit reports with the Committee, and shall maintain such records for at least two years after the termination of the crop year in which the transactions occurred.

# Subpart C—Supplementary Requirements
§ 989.210
Handling of varietal types of raisins acquired pursuant to a weight dockage system.
(a)
General.
A handler may acquire as standard raisins lots of Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Monukka, Other Seedless, Sultana, Zante Currant, Muscat (including other raisins with seeds), and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins under the weight dockage provisions described in §§ 989.212 and 989.213. The creditable weight of each lot of raisins acquired in this manner shall be that obtained by multiplying the net weight of the raisins in the lot by the applicable factor(s) from the appropriate dockage table(s) included in those sections.
(b)
Assessments.
Assessments on any lot of raisins of the varietal types specified in paragraph (a) of this section acquired by a handler pursuant to a weight dockage system shall be applicable to the creditable weight of such lot.
(c)
Identification.
Any lot of raisins of the varietal types specified in paragraph (a) of this section acquired pursuant to a weight dockage system shall be so identified by the inspection service affixing to one container on each pallet, or to each bin, in such lot, a prenumbered RAC control card (to be furnished by the Committee) which shall remain affixed to the container or bin until the raisins are processed or disposed of as natural condition raisins. The control card shall only be removed by, or under the supervision of an inspector of, the inspection service, or authorized Committee personnel.
(d)
Application of dockage factors.
A lot of raisins acquired which may be subject to both a substandard and maturity dockage factor shall have only the highest of the two dockage factors applied to determine the creditable weight.
[53 FR 49296, Dec. 7, 1988, as amended at 67 FR 36792, May 28, 2002; 68 FR 42947, July 21, 2003; 83 FR 53973, Oct. 26, 2018]
§ 989.212
Substandard dockage.
(a)
General.
Subject to prior agreement between handler and tenderer, Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Monukka, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins containing from 5.1 through 17.0 percent, by weight, of substandard raisins may be acquired by a handler under a weight dockage system: Provided, That, for the 2023-2024 crop year, such raisins containing from 5.1 through 21.0 percent, by weight, of substandard raisins may be acquired by a handler under a weight dockage system. A handler may also, subject to prior agreement, acquire as standard raisins any lot of Muscat (including other raisins with seeds), Sultana, and Zante Currant raisins containing from 12.1 through 20.0 percent, by weight, of substandard raisins under a weight dockage system: Provided, That, for the 2023-2024 crop year, a handler may acquire such raisins containing from
12.1 through 25.0 percent, by weight, of substandard raisins under a weight dockage system. The creditable weight of each lot of raisins acquired under the substandard dockage system shall be obtained by multiplying the net weight of the lot of raisins by the applicable dockage factor from the appropriate dockage table prescribed in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
(b)
Substandard dockage table applicable to Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Monukka, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins.
Percent substandard
Dockage factor
5.0 or less
(
1
)
5.1
.999
5.2
.998
5.3
.997
5.4
.996
5.5
.995
1
No dockage.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
Percentages in excess of the last percentage shown in the table shall be expressed in the same increments as the foregoing, and the dockage factor for each such increment shall be .001 less than the dockage factor for the preceding increment. Deliveries in excess of 17.0 percent would be off-grade; therefore, the dockage factor does not apply: Provided, That, for the 2023-2024 crop year, deliveries in excess of 21.0 percent would be off-grade; therefore, the dockage factor does not apply.
(c)
Substandard dockage table applicable to Muscat (including other raisins with seeds), Sultana and Zante Currant raisins.
Percent substandard
Dockage factor
12.0 or less
(
1
)
12.1
.999
12.2
.998
12.3
.997
12.4
.996
12.5
.995
1
No dockage.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# ):
Percentages in excess of the last percentage shown in the table shall be expressed in the same increments as the foregoing, and the dockage factor for each increment shall be .001 less than the dockage factor for the preceding increment. Deliveries in excess of 20.0 percent would be off grade; therefore, the dockage factor does not apply. Provided, That, for the 2023-2024 crop year, deliveries in excess of 25.0 percent would be off-grade; therefore, the dockage factor does not apply.
[57 FR 28597, June 26, 1992, as amended at 63 FR 56785, Oct. 23, 1998; 67 FR 36792, May 28, 2002; 68 FR 42947, July 21, 2003; 88 FR 85823, Dec. 11, 2023]
§ 989.213
Maturity dockage.
(a)
General.
Subject to prior agreement between handler and tenderer, Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Monukka, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins containing from 35.0 percent through 49.9 percent, by weight, of well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins may be acquired by a handler under a weight dockage system. Provided, That, for the 2023-2024 crop year, such raisins containing from 30.0 through 49.9 percent, by weight, of well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins may be acquired by a handler under a weight dockage system. The creditable weight of each lot of raisins acquired under the maturity dockage system shall be obtained by multiplying the net weight of the lot of raisins by the applicable dockage factor from the dockage table prescribed in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section.
(b) Maturity dockage table applicable to lots of Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Monukka, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins which contain 45.0 percent through 49.9 percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins:
Percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured:
Dockage factor
50.0 or more
(
1
)
49.9
0.9995
49.8
.9990
49.7
.9985
49.6
.9980
49.5
.9975
1
No dockage.

# Note:
Percentages less than the last percentage shown in the table, down to 45.0 percent, shall be expressed in the same increments as the foregoing, and the dockage for each such increment shall be .0005 less than the dockage factor for the preceding increment.
(c) Maturity dockage table applicable to lots of Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless,
Monukka, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins which contain 40.0 percent through 44.9 percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins:
Percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured:
Dockage factor
44.9
0.974
44.8
.973
44.7
.972
44.6
.971
44.5
.970
44.4
.969

# Note:
Percentages less than the last percentage shown in the table, down to 40.0 percent, shall be expressed in the same increments as the foregoing, and the dockage factor for each such increment shall be .001 less than the dockage factor for the preceding increment.
(d) Maturity dockage table applicable to lots of Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Monukka, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins which contain 35.0 percent through 39.9 percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins:
Percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured:
Dockage factor
39.9
0.9235
39.8
.9220
39.7
.9205
39.6
.9190
39.5
.9175
39.4
.9160

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Percentages less than the last percentage shown in the table shall be expressed in the same increments as the foregoing, and the dockage factor for each such increment shall be .0015 less than the dockage factor for the preceding increment.
(e) For the 2023-2024 crop year, maturity dockage table applicable to lots of Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Monukka, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins which contain 30.0 percent through 34.9 percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins:
Percent well-matured or
reasonably well-matured
Dockage
factor
34.9
.8480
34.8
.8460
34.7
.8440
34.6
.8420
34.5
.8400
34.4
.8380

# Note to paragraph (
e

# ):
Percentages less than the last percentage shown in the table shall be expressed in the same increments as the foregoing, and the dockage factor for each such increment shall be .002 less than the dockage factor for the preceding increment.
[25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960; 27 FR 2506, Mar. 16, 1962, as amended at 52 FR 32776, Aug. 31, 1987; 53 FR 34715, Sept. 8, 1988; 53 FR 49296, Dec. 7, 1988; 54 FR 43041, Oct. 20, 1989; 63 FR 56785, Oct. 23, 1998; 67 FR 36792, May 28, 2002; 68 FR 42947, July 21, 2003; 88 FR 85824, Dec. 11, 2023]
§§ 989.221—989.257
[Reserved

# Subpart D—Assessment Rates
§ 989.347
Assessment rate.
On and after August 1, 2023, an assessment rate of $24 per ton is established for assessable raisins produced from grapes in California.
[89 FR 24339, Apr. 8, 2024]

# Subpart E—Conversion Factors
§ 989.601
Conversion factors for raisin weight.
The following factors for the named varietal types of raisins shall be used to convert the net weight of reconditioned raisins acquired by handlers as packed raisins to natural condition weight. The net weight of the raisins after the completion of processing shall be divided by the applicable factor to obtain the natural condition weight:
Provided,
That the adjusted weight does not exceed the original weight of the raisins prior to reconditioning; and
Provided further,
That, if the adjusted weight exceeds the original weight, the original weight will be used.
Varietal type
Conversion factor
Natural (sun-dried) Seedless
0.92
Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured
0.95
Muscats (including raisins with seeds):
Seeded
0.80
Unseeded
0.92
Sultana
0.92
Zante Currant
0.91
[54 FR 41587, Oct. 11, 1989, as amended at 67 FR 36792, May 28, 2002; 68 FR 42947, July 21, 2003]

# Subpart F—Quality Control
§ 989.701
Minimum grade and condition standards for natural condition raisins.
Effective pursuant to § 989.58, raisins meeting the varietal standards hereinafter set forth shall be considered as standard raisins and those failing to meet such standards shall be considered as off-grade raisins. Where the raisins in any lot consist of two or more varietal types commingled within their containers, the lot shall be considered as a mixed lot and as standard raisins if they meet for each defect the most restrictive requirements for the varietal types of raisins comprising the lot. In the event layered Muscats (including other raisins with seeds) or Cluster Seedless raisins are commingled within their containers with loose Muscats (including other raisins with seeds) or loose Cluster Seedless raisins respectively, the entire lot shall be considered as loose Muscats (including other raisins with seeds) or Natural (sun-dried) Seedless raisins. The raisins shall be considered as standard raisins if the lot as a whole meets the minimum standards for loose Muscats (including other raisins with seeds) or Natural (sun-dried) Seedless raisins:
Provided,
That with respect to the requirements peculiar to a varietal type such as possessing characteristic color, flavor, or odor, the raisins shall be considered as meeting such requirements if they have been properly prepared as raisins. In each category, only those raisins which have been properly dried and cured in original natural condition, are free from active infestation, and are in such condition that they are capable of being received, stored, and packed without undue deterioration or spoilage, shall be considered as storable raisins.
(a)
Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Monukka and Other Seedless raisins.
Natural condition Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Monukka and Other Seedless raisins shall have been prepared from sound, wholesome, matured grapes properly dried and cured, and shall meet the following additional requirements: (1) Shall be fairly free from damage by sugaring, mechanical injury, sunburn, or other similar injury; (2) shall have a normal characteristic color, flavor, and odor of properly prepared raisins; (3) shall contain not more than 5 percent, by weight, of substandard raisins (raisins that show development less than that characteristic of raisins prepared from fairly well-matured grapes), and shall also contain at least 50 percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins; (4) shall not exceed 16 percent moisture as determined by the dried fruit moisture tester method, except that there shall be no maximum moisture content for Cluster Seedless raisins; and (5) shall be of such quality and condition as can be expected to withstand storage as provided in the order and that when processed in accordance with good commercial practice will meet the minimum standards for processed raisins established by the Committee, and that with respect to Cluster Seedless raisins, in addition to the above requirements the raisins shall be fairly free from shattered (or loose end) berries, and be uniformly cured; shall contain 30 percent or more “2 Crown” or larger size berries; and shall be of such quality and condition that when processed in accordance with good commercial practice will, except for moisture content, meet the minimum standards for processed raisins established by the Committee.
(b)
Dipped Seedless, Oleate and Related Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins.
Natural condition Dipped Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins shall have been prepared from sound, wholesome, matured grapes properly dried and cured, and shall meet the following additional requirements:
(1) Shall be fairly free from damage by sugaring, mechanical injury, sunburn, or other similar injury;
(2) Shall have a normal characteristic flavor and odor of properly prepared raisins;
(3) Shall contain not more than 5 percent, by weight, of substandard raisins (raisins that show development less than that characteristic of raisins prepared from fairly well-matured grapes), and for the 1985-86 and subsequent crop years also contain at least 50 percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins;
(4) Shall not exceed 14 percent moisture as determined by the dried fruit moisture tester method,
(5) Shall be of such quality and condition as can be expected to withstand storage as provided in the order and that when processed in accordance with good commercial practice will meet the minimum standards for processed raisins established by the Committee.
(c)
Golden Seedless.
Natural condition Golden Seedless raisins shall have been prepared from sound, wholesome, matured grapes properly dried and cured, and shall meet the following additional requirements: (1) Shall be fairly free from damage by sugaring, mechanical injury, sunburn, or other similar injury; (2) shall have a normal characteristic flavor and odor of properly prepared raisins; (3) shall contain not more than 5 percent, by weight, of substandard raisins (raisins that show development less than that characteristic of raisins prepared from fairly well-matured grapes), and for the 1985-86 and subsequent crop years also contain at least 50 percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins; (4) shall not exceed 14 percent moisture as determined by the dried fruit moisture tester method, (5) shall be of such quality and condition as can be expected to withstand storage as provided in the order and that when processed in accordance with good commercial practice will meet the minimum standards for processed raisins established by the Committee; and (6) shall possess a color varying from yellowish green to dark amber or dark greenish amber with not more than 15 percent, by weight, of all the raisins being definitely dark berries.
Definitely dark berries
means raisins which are definitely darker than dark amber and characteristic of “naturally” raisined grapes.
(d)
Muscats (including other raisins with seeds).
Natural condition Muscat raisins (including other raisins with seeds) shall have been prepared from sound, wholesome, matured grapes properly dried and cured, and shall meet the following additional requirements:
(1) Shall be fairly free from damage by sugar, mechanical injury, sunburn or other similar injury;
(2) Shall have a normal characteristic color, flavor, and odor of properly prepared raisins and shall contain not more than 12 percent, by weight, of substandard raisins (raisins that show development less than that characteristic of raisins prepared from fairly well-matured grapes);
(3) Shall not exceed 16 percent moisture as determined by the dried fruit moisture tester method, except that water dipped, vine sprayed or similarly treated Muscats (including other raisins with seeds) shall not exceed 14 percent moisture, and that there shall be no maximum moisture content for layered Muscats (including other raisins with seeds);
(4) The raisins shall be of such quality and condition as can be expected to withstand storage as provided in the marketing agreement and order, and that when processed in accordance with good commercial practice will meet the minimum standards for processed raisins established by the Committee, and that with respect to layered Muscats (including other raisins with seeds), in addition to the above requirements the raisins shall be fairly free from shattered (or loose end) berries; uniformly cured; 30 percent or more “3 Crown” or larger size; of such quality and condition that when processed in accordance with good commercial practice will, except for moisture content, meet the minimum standards for processed raisins established by the Committee.
(e)
Sultana Raisins.
Natural condition Sultana raisins shall have been prepared from sound, wholesome, matured grapes properly dried and cured, and shall meet the following additional requirements:
(1) Shall be fairly free from damage by sugaring, mechanical injury, sunburn, or other similar injury;
(2) Shall have a normal characteristic color, flavor, and odor of properly prepared raisins and shall contain not more than 12 percent, by weight, of substandard raisins (raisins that show development less than that characteristic of raisins prepared from fairly well-matured grapes);
(3) Shall not exceed 16 percent moisture as determined by the dried fruit moisture tester method; and
(4) The raisins shall be of such quality and condition as can be expected to withstand storage as provided in the marketing agreement and order, and that when processed in accordance with good commercial practice will meet the minimum standards for processed raisins established by the Committee.
(f)
Zante Currant Raisins.
Natural condition Zante Currant raisins shall have been prepared from sound, wholesome, matured grapes properly dried and cured, and shall meet the following additional requirements; (1) Shall be fairly free from damage by sugaring, mechanical injury, sunburn, or other similar injury; (2) shall have a normal characteristic color, flavor, and odor of properly prepared raisins and shall contain not more than 12 percent, by weight, of substandard raisins (raisins that show development less than that characteristic of raisins prepared from fairly well-matured grapes); (3) shall not exceed 16 percent moisture as determined by the dried fruit moisture tester method; and (4) the raisins shall be of such quality and condition as can be expected to withstand storage as provided in the marketing agreement and order, and that when processed in accordance with good commercial practice will meet the minimum standards for processed raisins established by the Committee.
[42 FR 52378, Sept. 30, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 39121, July 31, 1981; 48 FR 49215, Oct. 25, 1983; 49 FR 1669, Jan. 13, 1984; 49 FR 33994, Aug. 28, 1984; 50 FR 35771, Sept. 4, 1985; 53 FR 34715, Sept. 8, 1988; 67 FR 36793, May 28, 2002; 68 FR 42947, July 21, 2003]
§ 989.702
Minimum grade standards for packed raisins.
Effective pursuant to § 989.59, the minimum grade standards for packed raisins shall be as follows:
(a)
Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Dipped Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins.
Packed Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Dipped Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins shall meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C as defined in the effective United States Standards for Grades of Processed Raisins (§§ 52.1841 through 52.1858 of this title):
Provided,
That at least 70.0 percent, by weight, of the raisins shall be well-matured or reasonably well-matured. With respect to select-sized and mixed-sized raisin lots, the raisins shall at least meet the U.S. Grade B tolerances for pieces of stem, and underdeveloped and substandard raisins, and small sized raisins shall meet the U.S. Grade C tolerances for those factors.
(b)
Golden Seedless Raisins.
Packed Golden Seedless raisins shall at least meet the requirements prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, and the color requirements for “colored” as defined in said standards.
(c)
Monukka and Other Seedless Raisins.
Packed Monukka and Other Seedless raisins shall at least meet the requirements prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, except that the tolerance for moisture shall be 19 percent rather than 18 percent.
(d)
Muscat (including other raisins with seeds) Raisins.
Packed Muscat (including other raisins with seeds) raisins shall at least meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C of the said standards. Layer Muscat (including other raisins with seeds) raisins shall at least meet U.S. Grade B as defined for “Layer or Cluster Raisins With Seeds” in said standards, except for the provisions therein relating to moisture content.
(e)
Sultana Raisins.
Packed Sultana raisins shall at least meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C as defined in said standards.
(f)
Zante Currant Raisins.
Packed Zante Currant raisins shall at least meet the requirements of U.S. Grade B as defined in said standards.
(g)
Cluster Seedless Raisins
—(1)
Description.
Raisins referred to as
Cluster Seedless raisins
means the raisins have not been detached from the main bunch. Cluster Seedless raisins shall at least meet the requirements of Marketing Order Grade B prescribed in this paragraph. The processed raisins are prepared from clean, sound, dried grapes; are stored or cleaned, or both, and are washed with water to assure a wholesome product.
(2)
Grades.
(i) Marketing Order Grade A is a quality of Cluster Seedless raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; have a good typical color;
have a good characteristic flavor; are uniformly cured and show development characteristics of raisins prepared from well-matured grapes; contain not more than 23 percent, by weight, of moisture; that not less than 30 percent, by weight, of the raisins, exclusive of stems and branches, are “2 Crown” size or larger and meet the additional requirements as outlined in the table in paragraph (2)(iv) of this paragraph.
(ii) Marketing Order Grade B is the quality of the Cluster Seedless raisins that have similar varietal characteristics; have a reasonably good typical color; have a good characteristic flavor; are uniformly cured and show characteristics of raisins prepared from reasonably well-matured grapes; contain not more than 23 percent, by weight, of moisture; that not less than 30 percent, by weight, of raisins, exclusive of stems and branches, are “2 Crown” size or larger and meet the additional requirements as outlined in the table in paragraph (2)(iv) of this paragraph.
(iii) Substandard is the quality of Cluster Seedless raisins that fail to meet the requirements of Marketing Order Grade B.
(iv) Allowances for defects in Cluster Seedless raisins:
Defects
Marketing order grade A
Marketing order grade B
Maximum (percent by weight)
Sugared
5
10
Discolored, damaged, or moldy
5
7
Provided these limits are not exceed:
Damaged
3
4
Moldy
2
3
Substandard Development and Undeveloped
2
5
Shattered (or loose) individual berries and small clusters of 2 or 3 berries each
Practically free
Reasonably free.
Appearance or edibility of product
Slightly discolored or damaged by fermentation or any other defect not described above
May not be affected
May not be more than slightly affected.
Grit, sand, or silt
None of any consequence may be present that affects the appearance or edibility of the product.
Defects
Marketing order grade A
Marketing order grade B
Maximum (percent by weight)
Sugared
5
10
Discolored, damaged, or moldy
5
7
Provided these limits are not exceed:
Damaged
3
4
Moldy
2
3
Substandard Development and Undeveloped
2
5
Shattered (or loose) individual berries and small clusters of 2 or 3 berries each
Practically free
Reasonably free.
Appearance or edibility of product
Slightly discolored or damaged by fermentation or any other defect not described above
May not be affected
May not be more than slightly affected.
Grit, sand, or silt
None of any consequence may be present that affects the appearance or edibility of the product.
(h) A handler may grind raisins which do not meet the minimum grade standards prescribed in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section because of mechanical damage or sugaring, into a raisin paste.
[49 FR 33994, Aug. 28, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 35772, Sept. 4, 1985; 53 FR 34715, Sept. 8, 1988; 67 FR 36793, May 28, 2002; 68 FR 42947, July 21, 2003; 81 FR 84403, Nov. 23, 2016]

# Subpart G—Antitrust Immunity and Liability
§ 989.801
Restrictions applicable to Committee personnel.
Members and employees of the Raisin Administrative Committee are immune from prosecution under the United States antitrust laws only insofar as their conduct in administering the Raisin Marketing Order is authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, 7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.,
or the provisions of the order. Under the antitrust laws. Committee members and
employees may not engage in any unauthorized agreement or concerted action that unreasonably restrains United States domestic or foreign commerce. For example, Committee members and employees have no authority to participate, either directly or indirectly, whether on an informal or formal, written or oral basis, in any bilateral or international undertaking or agreement with any competing foreign producer or seller or with any foreign government, agency, or instrumentality acting on behalf of competing foreign producers or sellers to (a) raise, fix, stabilize, or set a floor for raisin, sultana, or currant prices, or (b) limit the quantity or quality of raisins, sultanas, or currants imported into or exported from the United States. Participation in any such unauthorized agreement or joint undertaking could result in prosecution under the antitrust laws by the United States Department of Justice and/or suit by injured private persons seeking treble damages, and could also result in expulsion of members from the Committee or termination of employment with the Committee.
[46 FR 39984, Aug. 6, 1981]
Pt. 990

# PART 990—DOMESTIC HEMP PRODUCTION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
990.1
Meaning of terms.

# Subpart B—State and Tribal Hemp Production Plans
990.2
State and Tribal plans; General authority.
990.3
State and Tribal plans; Plan requirements.
990.4
USDA approval of State and Tribal plans.
990.5
Audit of State or Tribal plan compliance.
990.6
Violations of State and Tribal plans.
990.7
Establishing records with USDA Farm Service Agency.
990.8
Production under Federal law.

# Subpart C—USDA Hemp Production Plan
990.20
USDA requirements for the production of hemp.
990.21
USDA hemp producer license.
990.22
USDA hemp producer license approval.
990.23
Reporting hemp crop acreage with USDA Farm Service Agency.
990.24
Responsibility of a USDA licensee prior to harvest.
990.25
Standards of performance for detecting total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) concentration levels.
990.26
Responsibility of a USDA producer after laboratory testing is performed.
990.27
Non-compliant cannabis plants.
990.28
Compliance.
990.29
Violations.
990.30
USDA producers; License suspension.
990.31
USDA licensees; Revocation.
990.32
Recordkeeping requirements.

# Subpart D—Appeals
990.40
General adverse action appeal process.
990.41
Appeals under the USDA hemp production plan.
990.42
Appeals under a State or Tribal hemp production plan.

# Subpart E—Administrative Provisions
990.60
Agents.
990.61
Severability.
990.62
[Reserved]
990.63
Interstate transportation of hemp.

# Subpart F—Reporting Requirements
990.70
State and Tribal hemp reporting requirements.
990.71
USDA plan reporting requirements.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1639o note, 1639p, 1639q, 1639r.

# Source:
86 FR 5680, Jan. 19, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 990.1
Meaning of terms.
Words used in this subpart in the singular form shall be deemed to impart the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. For the purposes of provisions and regulations of this part, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean:
Acceptable hemp THC level.
When a laboratory tests a sample, it must report the total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol content concentration level on a dry weight basis and the measurement of uncertainty. The acceptable hemp THC level for the purpose of compliance with the requirements of State or Tribal hemp
plans or the USDA hemp plan is when the application of the measurement of uncertainty to the reported total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol content concentration level on a dry weight basis produces a distribution or range that includes 0.3 percent or less. For example, if the reported total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol content concentration level on a dry weight basis is 0.35 percent and the measurement of uncertainty is ±0.06 percent, the measured total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol content concentration level on a dry weight basis for this sample ranges from 0.29 percent to 0.41 percent. Because 0.3 percent is within the distribution or range, the sample is within the acceptable hemp THC level for the purpose of plan compliance. This definition of “acceptable hemp THC level” affects neither the statutory definition of hemp, 7 U.S.C. 1639o(1), in the 2018 Farm Bill nor the definition of “marihuana,” 21 U.S.C. 802(16), in the CSA.
Act.
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946.
Agricultural Marketing Service
or
AMS.
The Agricultural Marketing Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Applicant.
(1) A State or Indian Tribe that has submitted a State or Tribal hemp production plan to USDA for approval under this part; or
(2) A producer in a State or territory of an Indian Tribe that is not subject to a State or Tribal hemp production plan and who has submitted an application to USDA for a license under the USDA hemp production plan under this part.
Audit.
An official inspection of an individual's or organization's accounts and paperwork or documentation by an independent body. An audit also refers to a compliance audit of States and Indian Tribes with approved hemp production plans by USDA to determine compliance with their approved plan, the regulations in this part, and the Act. For this part, audit relates to documentation related to authorities under the 2018 Farm Bill to produce hemp.
Cannabis.
A genus of flowering plants in the family Cannabaceae of which
Cannabis sativa
is a species, and
Cannabis indica
and
Cannabis ruderalis
are subspecies thereof. Cannabis refers to any form of the plant in which the total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration on a dry weight basis has not yet been determined.
Controlled Substances Act (CSA).
The Controlled Substances Act as codified in 21 U.S.C. 801
et seq.
Conviction.
Means any plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or any finding of guilt, except when the finding of guilt is subsequently overturned on appeal, pardoned, or expunged. For purposes of this part, a conviction is expunged when the conviction is removed from the individual's criminal history record and there are no legal disabilities or restrictions associated with the expunged conviction, other than the fact that the conviction may be used for sentencing purposes for subsequent convictions. In addition, where an individual is allowed to withdraw an original plea of guilty or nolo contendere and enter a plea of not guilty and the case is subsequently dismissed, the individual is no longer considered to have a conviction for purposes of this part.
Corrective action plan.
A plan proposed by a licensed hemp producer and approved by the governing entity for correcting a negligent violation or non-compliance with the applicable State, Tribal, or USDA hemp production plan, its terms, the applicable law(s), and/or this part. Also, a plan proposed by a State or Tribal government for correcting violations or non-compliances with USDA-approved State or Tribal hemp programs.
Criminal history report.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation's Identity History Summary.
Culpable mental state greater than negligence.
To act intentionally, knowingly, willfully, or recklessly.
Decarboxylated.
The completion of the chemical reaction that converts THC-acid (THCA) into delta-9 THC, the intoxicating component of cannabis. The decarboxylated value is also calculated using a molecular mass conversion ratio that sums delta-9 THC and eighty-seven and seven tenths (87.7) percent of THC-acid ((delta-9 THC) + (0.877 * THCA)).
Decarboxylation.
The removal or elimination of carboxyl group from a molecule or organic compound.
Disposal.
An activity that transitions the non-compliant product into a non-retrievable or non-ingestible form. Such activities include plowing, tilling, or disking plant material into the soil; mulching, composting, chopping, or bush mowing plant material into green manure; burning plant material; burying plant material into the earth and covering with soil.
Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
or
THC.
Delta-9 THC is the primary psychoactive component of cannabis. For the purposes of this part, delta-9 THC and THC are interchangeable.
Drug Enforcement Administration or DEA.
The United States Drug Enforcement Administration.
Dry weight basis.
The ratio of the amount of moisture in a sample to the amount of dry solid in a sample. A basis for expressing the percentage of a chemical in a substance after removing the moisture from the substance. Percentage of THC on a dry weight basis means the percentage of THC, by weight, in a cannabis item (plant, extract, or other derivative), after excluding moisture from the item.
Entity.
A corporation, joint stock company, association, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, irrevocable trust, estate, charitable organization, or other similar organization, including any such organization participating in the hemp production as a partner in a general partnership, a participant in a joint venture, or a participant in a similar organization.
Farm Service Agency
or
FSA.
An agency of the United States Department of Agriculture.
Gas chromatography
or
GC.
A type of chromatography in analytical chemistry used to separate, identify, and quantify each component in a mixture. GC relies on heat for separating and analyzing compounds that can be vaporized without decomposition.
Geospatial location.
A location designated through a global system of navigational satellites used to determine the precise ground position of a place or object.
Handle.
To harvest or store hemp plants or hemp plant parts prior to the delivery of such plants or plant parts for further processing. “Handle” also includes the disposal of cannabis plants that are not hemp for purposes of chemical analysis and disposal of such plants.
Hemp.
The plant species
Cannabis sativa
L. and any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis.
Immature plants.
A cannabis plant that is not flowering.
Indian Tribe
or
Tribe.
As defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
Information sharing system.
The database that allows USDA to share information collected under State, Tribal, and USDA plans with Federal, State, Tribal, and local law enforcement.
Key participants.
A sole proprietor, a partner in partnership, or a person with executive managerial control in a corporation. A person with executive managerial control includes persons such as a chief executive officer, chief operating officer, and chief financial officer. This definition does not include non-executive managers such as farm, field, or shift managers. This definition also does not include a member of the leadership of a Tribal government who is acting in their capacity as a Tribal leader except when that member exercises executive managerial control over hemp production.
Law enforcement agency.
Any Federal, State, Tribal, or local law enforcement agency.
Liquid chromatography
or
LC.
A type of chromatography technique in analytical chemistry used to separate, identify, and quantify each component in a mixture. LC relies on pumps to pass a pressurized liquid solvent containing the sample mixture through a column filled with a solid absorbent material to separate and analyze compounds.
Lot.
A contiguous area in a field, greenhouse, or indoor growing structure containing the same variety or strain of cannabis throughout the area. The term lot also means the terms “farm,” “tract,” “field,” and
“subfield” as these are terms used by FSA in 7 CFR 718.2 to define lot.
Marijuana.
Or “marihuana”, as defined in the CSA, means all parts of the plant
Cannabis sativa
L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin. The term “marihuana” does not include hemp, as defined in section 297A of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, and does not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination (7 U.S.C. 1639o). “Marihuana” means all cannabis that tests as having a THC concentration level of higher than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis.
Measurement of Uncertainty (MU).
The parameter, associated with the result of a measurement, that characterizes the dispersion of the values that could reasonably be attributed to the particular quantity subject to measurement.
Negligence.
Failure to exercise the level of care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in complying with the regulations set forth under this part.
Phytocannabinoid.
Cannabinoid chemical compounds found in the cannabis plant, two of which are delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (delta-9 THC) and cannabidiol (CBD).
Plan.
A set of criteria or regulations under which a State or Tribal government, or USDA, monitors and regulates the production of hemp.
Post-decarboxylation.
In the context of testing methodologies for THC concentration levels in hemp, means a value determined after the process of decarboxylation that determines the potential total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol content derived from the sum of the THC and THCA content and reported on a dry weight basis. The post-decarboxylation value of THC can be calculated by using a chromatograph technique using heat, gas chromatography, through which THCA is converted from its acid form to its neutral form, THC. Thus, this test calculates the total potential THC in a given sample. The post-decarboxylation value of THC can also be calculated by using a liquid chromatograph technique, which keeps the THCA intact. This technique requires the use of the following conversion: [Total THC = (0.877 x THCA) + THC] which calculates the potential total THC in a given sample. See the definition for decarboxylation.
Produce.
To grow hemp plants for market, or for cultivation for market, in the United States.
Producer.
A producer as defined in 7 CFR 718.2 specifically of hemp.
Remediation.
Remediation refers to the process of rendering non-compliant cannabis, compliant. Remediation can occur by removing and destroying flower material, while retaining stalk, stems, leaf material, and seeds. Remediation can also occur by shredding the entire plant into a biomass like material, then re-testing the shredded biomass material for compliance.
Reverse distributor.
A person who is registered with the DEA in accordance with 21 CFR 1317.15 to dispose of marijuana under the Controlled Substances Act.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Agriculture of the United States Department of Agriculture.
State.
Any one of the fifty States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
State department of agriculture.
The agency, commission, or department of a State government responsible for agriculture in the State.
Territory of the Indian Tribe.
(1) All land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, including rights-of-way running through the reservation;
(2) All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof, and
whether within or without the limits of a State;
(3) All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of-way running through the same; and
(4) Any lands title to which is either held in trust by the United States for the benefit of any Indian Tribe or individual or held by any Indian Tribe or individual subject to restriction by the United States against alienation and over which an Indian Tribe exercises jurisdiction.
Total THC.
Total THC is the value determined after the process of decarboxylation, or the application of a conversion factor if the testing methodology does not include decarboxylation, that expresses the potential total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol content derived from the sum of the THC and THCA content and reported on a dry weight basis. This post-decarboxylation value of THC can be calculated by using a chromatograph technique using heat, such as gas chromatography, through which THCA is converted from its acid form to its neutral form, THC. Thus, this test calculates the total potential THC in a given sample. The total THC can also be calculated by using a liquid chromatograph technique, which keeps the THCA intact. This technique requires the use of the following conversion: [Total THC = (0.877 x THCA) + THC] which calculates the potential total THC in a given sample.
Tribal government.
The governing body of an Indian Tribe.
USDA licensee.
A person, partnership, or corporation licensed under the USDA plan to grow hemp under the terms established in this part and who produces hemp.
[86 FR 5680, Jan. 19, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Subpart B—State and Tribal Hemp Production Plans
§ 990.2
State and Tribal plans; General authority.
States or Indian Tribes desiring to have primary regulatory authority over the production of hemp in the State or territory of the Indian Tribe shall submit to the Secretary for approval, through the State department of agriculture (in consultation with the Governor and chief law enforcement officer of the State) or the Tribal government, as applicable, a plan under which the State or Indian Tribe monitors and regulates that production.
§ 990.3
State and Tribal plans; Plan requirements.
(a)
General requirements.
A State or Tribal plan submitted to the Secretary for approval must include the practice and procedures described in this paragraph (a).
(1) A State or Tribal plan must include a practice to collect, maintain, and report to the Secretary relevant, real-time information for each producer licensed or authorized to produce hemp under the State or Tribal plan regarding:
(i) Contact information as described in § 990.70(a)(1);
(ii) A legal description of the land on which the producer will produce hemp in the State or territory of the Indian Tribe including, to the extent practicable, its geospatial location; and
(iii) The status and number of the producer's license or authorization in a format prescribed by USDA.
(2) A State or Tribal plan must include a procedure for accurate and effective sampling of hemp that includes the requirements in this paragraph (a)(2).
(i) Samples from cannabis plants must be collected within 30 days prior to the anticipated harvest, for total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration level testing. Samples must be collected by a sampling agent. Producers may not collect samples from their own growing facilities.
(ii) Samples shall be obtained from the flowering tops of plants when flowering tops are present, and shall be approximately five to eight inches in length from the “main stem” (that includes the leaves and flowers), “terminal bud” (that occurs at the end of a stem), or “central cola” (cut stem that could develop into a bud) of the flowering top of the plant.
(iii) The method used for sampling must be sufficient at a confidence level of 95 percent that no more than one percent of the plants in each lot would
exceed the acceptable hemp THC level and ensure that a representative sample is collected that represents a homogeneous composition of the lot. Alternatively, States and Tribes may adopt a performance-based method that meets the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) The alternative method must be part of the State or Tribe's hemp plan and is subject to USDA approval.
(B) The alternative method must have the potential to ensure, at a confidence level of 95 percent, that the cannabis plant species
Cannabis sativa
L. that will be subject to the alternative method will not test above the acceptable hemp THC level. The alternative method may consider one or more of the following factors:
(
1
) Seed certification process or process that identifies varieties that have consistently demonstrated to result in compliant hemp plants in that State or territory of the Indian Tribe;
(
2
) Whether the producer is conducting research on hemp;
(
3
) Whether a producer has consistently produced compliant hemp plants over an extended period of time; and
(
4
) Factors similar to those in this paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(B).
(iv) During a scheduled sample collection, the producer or an authorized representative of the producer shall be present at the growing site if possible.
(v) Sampling agents shall be provided with complete and unrestricted access during business hours to all hemp and other cannabis plants (whether growing or harvested), to areas where hemp is grown and stored, and to all land, buildings, and other structures used for the cultivation, handling, and storage of all hemp and other cannabis plants, and all locations listed in the producer license.
(vi) A producer shall not harvest the cannabis crop prior to samples being taken.
(vii) Sampling agents must be trained using USDA, State, or Tribal training procedures. States and Indian Tribes must maintain information, available to producers, about trained sampling agents.
(3) A State or Tribal plan must include a procedure for testing that is able to accurately identify whether the sample contains a total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol content concentration level that exceeds the acceptable hemp THC level. The procedure must include a validated testing methodology that uses post-decarboxylation or other similarly reliable methods. The testing methodology must consider the potential conversion of THCA in hemp into THC and the test result must report the total available THC derived from the sum of the THC and THCA content. Testing methodologies meeting the requirements of this paragraph (a)(3) include, but are not limited to, gas or liquid chromatography with detection. The total THC concentration level shall be determined and reported on a dry weight basis.
(i) Any test of a representative sample resulting in higher than the acceptable hemp THC level shall be conclusive evidence that the lot represented by the sample is not in compliance with this part and shall be disposed of or remediated in accordance with § 990.27.
(ii) Samples of hemp plant material from one lot shall not be commingled with hemp plant material from other lots.
(iii) Laboratories conducting analytical testing for purposes of detecting the concentration levels of Total THC shall meet the following requirements:
(A) Laboratory quality assurance must ensure the validity and reliability of test results;
(B) Analytical method selection, validation, and verification must ensure that the testing method used is appropriate (fit for purpose), and that the laboratory can successfully perform the testing;
(C) The demonstration of testing validity must ensure consistent, accurate analytical performance;
(D) Method performance specifications must ensure analytical tests are sufficiently sensitive for the purposes of the detectability requirements of this part; and
(E) Effective disposal procedures for non-compliant samples that do not meet the requirements of this part.
(F) Measurement of uncertainty (MU) must be estimated and reported with
test results. Laboratories shall use appropriate, validated methods and procedures for all testing activities and evaluate measurement of uncertainty.
(G) Sample preparation of pre- or post-harvest samples shall require grinding of sample to ensure homogeneity of plant material prior to testing. Sample preparation may follow a procedure described by USDA.
(H) After December 31, 2022, States and Indian Tribes shall require that only laboratories registered with the DEA may conduct testing under this section.
(4) A State or Indian Tribe shall require testing laboratories to comply with USDA reporting requirements in subpart F of this part. Laboratories shall only submit test results used to determine compliance with this part. Test results from informal testing conducted throughout the growing season shall not be reported to USDA.
(5) A State or Tribal plan must include a procedure to comply with the enforcement procedures in § 990.6.
(6) A State or Tribal plan must include a procedure for the disposal or remediation of cannabis plants if the sample representing that plant tests above the acceptable hemp THC level.
(i) The disposal must be conducted either by using a DEA-registered reverse distributor or law enforcement; or on site at the farm or hemp production facility.
(ii) The State or Tribal plan must include procedures to verify the disposal or remediation of the cannabis plant. This may come in the form of in-person verification by State or Tribal representatives, or alternative requirements that direct growers to provide pictures, videos, or other proof that disposal or remediation occurred successfully. Disposal and remediation means are described at AMS's website.
(iii) If a producer elects to perform remediation activities, an additional sampling and testing of the post-remediated crop must occur to determine THC concentration levels.
(7) A State or Tribal plan must include a procedure for conducting annual inspections of, at a minimum, a random group of producers to verify that hemp is not produced in violation of this part.
(8) A State or Tribal plan must include a procedure for submitting the report described in § 990.70 to the Secretary by the first of each month. If the first of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, the report is due by the first business day following the due date. All such information must be submitted to the USDA in a format that is compatible with USDA's information sharing system.
(9) The State or Tribal government must certify that the State or Indian Tribe has the resources and personnel to carry out the practices and procedures described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section.
(10) The State or Tribal plan must include a procedure to collect and share information with USDA to support the information sharing requirements in 7 U.S.C. 1639q(d). The State or Tribal government is responsible for reporting the information identified in paragraphs (a)(10)(i) through (iii) of this section with AMS. The State or Tribal hemp production plan must include the following:
(i) A requirement that producers report their hemp crop acreage to the FSA, consistent with the requirement in § 990.7.
(ii) Assignment of a license or authorization identifier for each producer in a format prescribed by USDA.
(iii) A requirement that producers report the total acreage of hemp planted, harvested, and, if applicable, disposed or remediated. The State or Tribal government shall collect this information and report it to AMS.
(b)
Relation to State and Tribal law.
A State or Tribal plan may include any other practice or procedure established by a State or Indian Tribe, as applicable;
Provided,
That the practice or procedure is consistent with this part and Subtitle G of the Act.
(1)
No preemption.
Nothing in this part preempts or limits any law of a State or Indian Tribe that:
(i) Regulates the production of hemp; and
(ii) Is more stringent than this part or Subtitle G of the Act.
(2)
References in plans.
A State or Tribal plan may include a reference to a law of the State or Indian Tribe regulating the production of hemp, to the
extent that the law is consistent with this part.
[86 FR 5680, Jan. 19, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 990.4
USDA approval of State and Tribal plans.
(a)
General authority.
No later than 60 calendar days after the receipt of a State or Tribal plan for a State or Tribal territory in which production of hemp is legal, the Secretary shall:
(1) Approve the State or Tribal plan only if the State or Tribal plan complies with this part; or
(2) Disapprove the State or Tribal plan if the plan does not comply with this part. USDA shall provide the State or Tribe with written notification of the disapproval and the cause for the disapproval.
(b)
Amended plans.
A State or Tribal government, as applicable, must submit to the Secretary an amended plan if:
(1) The Secretary disapproves a State or Tribal plan and the State or Indian Tribe wishes to have primary regulatory authority over hemp production within its State or territory of the Indian Tribe; or
(2) The State or Indian Tribe makes substantive revisions to its plan or its laws which alter the way the plan meets the requirements of this part. If this occurs, the State or Tribal government must re-submit the revised plan for USDA approval. Such re-submissions should be provided to USDA within 60 days from the date that the State or Tribal laws and regulations are effective. Producers shall continue to comply with the requirements of the existing plan while such modifications are under consideration by USDA. If State or Tribal government laws or regulations in effect under the USDA-approved plan change but the State or Tribal government does not submit a revised plan within 60 days from the effective date of the new law or regulation, the existing plan is revoked.
(3) USDA approval of State or Tribal government plan shall remain in effect unless an amended plan must be submitted to USDA because of a substantive revision to a State's or Tribe's plan, a relevant change in State or Tribal laws or regulations, or approval of the plan is revoked by USDA.
(4) Upon USDA approval of a Tribal plan, an Indian Tribe may exercise jurisdiction and therefore primary regulatory authority over all production of hemp in its Territory regardless of the extent of its inherent regulatory authority.
(c)
Technical assistance.
The Secretary may provide technical assistance to help a State or Indian Tribe develop or amend a plan. This may include the review of draft plans or other informal consultation as necessary.
(d)
Approved State or Tribal plans.
If the Secretary approves a State or Tribal plan, the Secretary shall notify the State or Indian Tribe by letter or email.
(1) In addition to the approval letter, the State or Indian Tribe shall receive their plan approval certificate either as an attachment or via website link.
(2) The USDA shall post information regarding approved plans on its website.
(3) USDA approval of State or Tribal government plans shall remain in effect unless:
(i) The State or Tribal government's laws and regulations in effect under the USDA-approved plan change, thus requiring such plan to be revised and re-submitted for USDA approval.
(ii) A State or Tribal plan must be amended in order to comply with future amendments to Subtitle G the Act and this part.
(e)
Producer rights upon revocation of State or Tribal plan.
If USDA revokes approval of a State or Tribal plan due to noncompliance as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and § 990.5, producers licensed or authorized to produce hemp under the revoked State or Tribal plan may continue to produce for the remainder of the calendar year in which the revocation became effective. Producers operating in a State or Tribal territory with a revoked plan would have to apply to USDA for a license to continue producing.
§ 990.5
Audit of State or Tribal plan compliance.
The Secretary may conduct an audit to determine a State or Indian Tribe's compliance with their approved plan.
(a)
Frequency of audits.
Compliance audits may be scheduled, no more frequently than every three years, based on available resources. Audits may include an onsite-visit, a desk-audit, or both. The USDA may adjust the frequency of audits if deemed appropriate based on program performance, compliance issues, or other relevant factors identified and provided to the State or Tribal governments by USDA.
(b)
Scope of audit review.
The audit may include, but is not limited to, a review of the following:
(1) The resources and personnel employed to administer and oversee its approved plan;
(2) The process for licensing and systematic compliance review of hemp producers;
(3) Sampling methods and laboratory testing requirements and components;
(4) Disposal and/or remediation of non-compliant hemp plants or hemp plant material practices, to ensure that correct reporting to the USDA has occurred;
(5) Results of and methodology used for the annual inspections of producers; and
(6) Information collection procedures and information accuracy (
i.e.,
geospatial location, contact information reported to the USDA, legal description of land).
(c)
Audit reports.
(1) Audit reports will be issued to the State or Tribal government no later than 60 days after the audit concludes. If the audit reveals that the State or Tribal government is not in compliance with its USDA approved plan, USDA will advise the State or Indian Tribe of non-compliances and the corrective measures that must be completed to come into compliance with the Act and regulations in this part. The USDA will require the State or Indian Tribe to develop a corrective action plan, which must be reviewed and approved by the USDA. The corrective action plan must include a reasonable date by which the State or Indian Tribe will correct make corrections. USDA will approve or deny the corrective action plan within 60 days of its receipt. USDA will conduct a second audit to determine if the State or Indian Tribe is in compliance with the corrective action plan and has corrected the non-compliances.
(2) If the USDA determines that the State or Indian Tribe is not in compliance after the second audit, the USDA may revoke its approval of the State or Tribal plan for one year or until the State or Indian Tribe becomes compliant whichever occurs later. USDA will not approve a State or Indian Tribe's plan until the State or Indian Tribe demonstrates upon inspection that it is in compliance with all regulations in this part.
§ 990.6
Violations of State and Tribal plans.
(a)
Producer violations.
Producer violations of USDA-approved State and Tribal hemp production plans shall be subject to enforcement in accordance with the terms of this section.
(b)
Negligent violations.
Each USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall contain provisions relating to negligent producer violations as defined under this part. Producers shall not receive more than one negligent violation per growing season. Negligent violations shall include:
(1) Failure to provide a legal description of land on which the producer produces hemp;
(2) Failure to obtain a license or other required authorization from the State department of agriculture or Tribal government, as applicable; or
(3) Production of cannabis with a total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration exceeding the acceptable hemp THC level. Hemp producers do not commit a negligent violation under this paragraph (b)(3) if they make reasonable efforts to grow hemp and the cannabis (marijuana) does not have a total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than 1.0 percent on a dry weight basis.
(c)
Corrective action for negligent violations.
Each USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall provide for the correction of negligent violations. Each corrective action plan shall include, at a minimum, the following terms:
(1) A reasonable date by which the producer shall correct the negligent violation.
(2) A requirement that the producer periodically report to the State department of agriculture or Tribal government, as applicable, on its compliance with the State or Tribal plan and corrective action plan for a period of not less than the next 2 years from the date of the negligent violation.
(3) A producer that negligently violates a State or Tribal plan approved under this part shall not as a result of that violation be subject to any criminal enforcement action by the Federal, State, Tribal, or local government.
(4) A producer that negligently violates a State or Tribal plan three times during a 5-year period shall be ineligible to produce hemp for a period of 5 years beginning on the date of the third violation.
(5) The State or Indian Tribe shall conduct an inspection to determine if the corrective action plan has been implemented as submitted.
(d)
Culpable violations.
Each USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall contain provisions relating to producer violations made with a culpable mental state greater than negligence, including that:
(1) If the State or Tribal government determines that a producer has violated the plan with a culpable mental state greater than negligence, the State or Tribal government, as applicable, shall immediately report the producer to:
(i) The U.S. Attorney General; and
(ii) The chief law enforcement officer of the State or Indian Tribe, as applicable.
(2) Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall not apply to culpable violations.
(e)
Felonies.
Each USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall contain provisions relating to felonies. Such provisions shall state that:
(1) A person with a State or Federal felony conviction relating to a controlled substance may not participate in the plan and may not produce hemp under the State or Tribal plan for 10 years from the date of the conviction. An exception applies to a person who was lawfully growing hemp under section 7606 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940) before December 20, 2018, and whose conviction also occurred before that date.
(2) The State or Tribal plan shall define who is participating in the plan or program and is subject to the felony conviction restriction for purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section. To determine whether a person is subject to the felony conviction restriction, the State or Tribe much obtain a criminal history report for that person. The State or Indian Tribe may require additional reports or checks as it deems necessary.
(3) For each license or authorization that the State or Indian Tribe issues, its plan must identify at least one individual as participating in the plan and for whom it will obtain a criminal history report to determine eligibility under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f)
False statement.
Each USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall state that any person who materially falsifies any information contained in an application to participate in such program shall be ineligible to participate in that program.
(g)
Appeals.
For States and Indian Tribes who wish to appeal an adverse action, subpart D of this part will apply.
§ 990.7
Establishing records with USDA Farm Service Agency.
All producers licensed to produce hemp under an USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall report hemp crop acreage to FSA and shall provide, at minimum, the following information:
(a) Street address and, to the extent practicable, geospatial location for each lot or greenhouse where hemp will be produced. If an applicant operates in more than one location, or is producing under multiple licenses, production information shall be provided for each location.
(b) Acreage dedicated to the production of hemp, or greenhouse or indoor square footage dedicated to the production of hemp.
(c) License or authorization identifier in a format prescribed by USDA.
§ 990.8
Production under Federal law.
Nothing in this subpart prohibits the production of hemp in a State or the territory of an Indian Tribe for which a
State or Tribal plan is not approved under this subpart if produced in accordance with subpart C of this part, and if the production of hemp is not otherwise prohibited by the State or Indian Tribe.

# Subpart C—USDA Hemp Production Plan
§ 990.20
USDA requirements for the production of hemp.
(a)
General hemp production requirements.
The production of hemp in a State or territory of an Indian Tribe where there is no USDA approved State or Tribal plan must be conducted in accordance with this subpart, provided that the production of hemp is not prohibited by the State or territory of an Indian Tribe where production will occur.
(b)
Convicted felon ban.
A person with a State or Federal felony conviction relating to a controlled substance is subject to a 10-year ineligibility restriction on participating in and producing hemp under the USDA plan from the date of the conviction. An exception applies to a person who was lawfully growing hemp under section 7606 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940) before December 20, 2018, and whose conviction also occurred before that date.
(c)
Falsifying material information on application.
Any person who materially falsifies any information contained in an application for a license under the USDA plan shall be ineligible to participate in the USDA plan.
§ 990.21
USDA hemp producer license.
(a)
General application requirements
—(1)
Requirements and license application.
Any person producing or intending to produce hemp must have a valid license prior to producing hemp. A valid license means the license is unexpired, unsuspended, and unrevoked.
(2)
Application dates.
Applicants may submit an application for a license at any time.
(3)
Required information on application.
The applicant shall provide the information requested on the application form, including:
(i)
Contact information.
Full name, residential address, telephone number, and email address. If the applicant is a business entity, the full name of the business, the principal business location address, full name and title of the key participants, title, email address (if available), and employer identification number (EIN) of the business; and
(ii)
Criminal history report.
A current criminal history report for an individual, or if the applicant is a business entity, all key participants, dated within 60 days of the application submission date. A license application will not be considered complete without all required criminal history reports.
(4)
Submission of completed application forms.
Completed application forms shall be submitted to USDA.
(5)
Incomplete application procedures.
Applications missing required information shall be returned to the applicant as incomplete. The applicant may resubmit a completed application.
(6)
License expiration.
USDA-issued hemp producer licenses shall be valid until December 31 of the year three years after the year in which license was issued.
(b)
License renewals.
USDA hemp producer licenses must be renewed prior to license expiration. Licenses are not automatically renewed. Applications for renewal shall be subject to the same terms, information collection requirements, and approval criteria as provided in this subpart for initial applications unless there has been an amendment to the regulations in this part or the law since approval of the initial or last application.
(c)
License modification.
A license modification is required if there is any change to the information submitted in the application including, but not limited to, sale of a business, the production of hemp in a new location, or a change in the key participants under a license.
(d)
Licensing for research.
(1) Producers that produce hemp for research must obtain a USDA license. However, the hemp that is produced for research and does not enter the stream of commerce is not subject to the sampling requirements in §§ 990.24 and 990.26; provided that the producer adopts and carries out a USDA approved alternative sampling method that has the potential to ensure, at a confidence level of
95 percent, that the cannabis plant species
Cannabis sativa
L. that will be subject to this alternative method will not test above the acceptable hemp THC level.
(2) USDA licensees shall ensure the disposal of all non-compliant plants in accordance with § 990.27. Only research institutions registered with DEA to handle marijuana can keep hemp that tests over the 0.3 acceptable hemp THC level until the end of the study.
(3) USDA licensees shall comply with the reporting requirements in § 990.71 including reporting disposal of non-compliant plants.
§ 990.22
USDA hemp producer license approval.
(a) A license shall not be issued unless:
(1) The application submitted for USDA review and approval is complete and accurate.
(2) The criminal history report(s) submitted with the license application confirms that all key participants to be covered by the license have not been convicted of a felony, under State or Federal law, relating to a controlled substance within the past ten (10) years unless the exception in § 990.20(b) applies.
(3) The applicant, if the applicant was previously or is currently licensed, submitted all reports required as a participant in the hemp production program by this part.
(4) The application contains no materially false statements or misrepresentations and the applicant has not previously submitted an application with any materially false statements or misrepresentations.
(5) The applicant's license is not currently suspended, if the applicant is currently licensed.
(6) The applicant is not applying for a license as a stand-in for someone whose license has been suspended, revoked, or is otherwise ineligible to participate.
(7) The State or territory of the Indian Tribe where the person produces or intends to produce hemp does not have a USDA-approved plan or has not submitted a plan to USDA for approval and is awaiting USDA's decision.
(8) The State or territory of the Indian Tribe where the person produces or intends to produce hemp does not prohibit the production of hemp.
(b) USDA shall provide written notification to applicants whether the application has been approved or denied. USDA shall provide written notification to applicants in a State or territory of an Indian Tribe that has submitted a plan to USDA and is awaiting USDA approval that their application is being returned.
(1) If an application is approved, a license will be issued.
(2) Licenses will be valid until December 31 of the year three after the year in which the license was issued.
(3) Licenses may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, or otherwise disposed of, alienated or encumbered.
(4) If a license application is denied, the notification from USDA will explain the reason for denial. Applicants may appeal the denial in accordance with subpart D of this part.
(c) If the applicant is producing in more than one State or territory of an Indian Tribe, the applicant may have more than one license to grow hemp. If the applicant has operations in a location covered under a State or Tribal plan, that operation must be licensed under the State or Tribal plan, not the USDA plan.
§ 990.23
Reporting hemp crop acreage with USDA Farm Service Agency.
All USDA licensees shall report hemp crop acreage to FSA within 30 days of hemp been planted and shall provide, at a minimum, the following information:
(a) Street address and, to the extent practicable, geospatial location of the lot, greenhouse, building, or site where hemp will be produced. All locations where hemp is produced must be reported to FSA.
(b) Acreage dedicated to the production of hemp, or greenhouse or indoor square footage dedicated to the production of hemp.
(c) The hemp license number.
§ 990.24
Responsibility of a USDA licensee prior to harvest.
USDA licensees must:
(a) No more than 30 days prior to the anticipated harvest of cannabis plants, have a sampling agent collect samples from the cannabis plant for total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration level testing.
(b) Have samples collected from the flowering tops of the plant by cutting the top five to eight inches from the “main stem” (that includes the leaves and flowers), “terminal bud” (that occurs at the end of a stem), ”or “central cola” (cut stem that could develop into a bud) of the flowering top of the plant. Sampling guidelines and training requirements for sampling agents are available from USDA. The method used for sampling must be sufficient at a confidence level of 95 percent that no more than one percent (1%) of the plants in the lot would exceed the acceptable hemp THC level. The method used for sampling must ensure that a representative sample is collected that represents a homogeneous composition of the lot.
(c) Have an authorized representative of the USDA licensee present at the growing site during a scheduled sample collection, if possible.
(d) Ensure that sampling agents are provided with complete and unrestricted access during business hours to all hemp and other cannabis plants, (whether growing or harvested), all hemp production and storage areas, all land, buildings, and other structures used for the cultivation, handling, and storage of all hemp and other cannabis plants, and all locations listed in the producer license.
(e) Not harvest the cannabis crop prior to samples being taken.
(f) Use post-harvest samples only for remediated biomass.
§ 990.25
Standards of performance for detecting total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) concentration levels.
Analytical testing for purposes of determining total THC in cannabis plants shall meet the standards in this section.
(a) Laboratory quality assurance must ensure the validity and reliability of test results.
(b) Analytical method selection, validation, and verification must ensure that the testing method used is appropriate (fit for purpose), and that the laboratory can successfully perform the testing.
(c) The demonstration of testing validity must ensure consistent, accurate analytical performance.
(d) Method performance specifications must ensure analytical tests are sufficiently sensitive for the purposes of the detectability requirements of this part.
(e) Laboratory must have an effective disposal procedure for non-compliant samples that do not meet the requirements of this part.
(f) Measurement of uncertainty (MU) must be estimated and reported with test results. Laboratories shall use appropriate, validated methods and procedures for all testing activities and evaluate measurement of uncertainty.
(g) At a minimum, analytical testing of samples for total THC must use post-decarboxylation or other similarly reliable methods approved by the Secretary. The testing methodology must consider the potential conversion of THCA in hemp into THC and the test result must reflect the total available THC derived from the sum of the THC and THCA content. Testing methodologies meeting the requirements of this paragraph (g) include, but are not limited to, gas or liquid chromatography with detection.
(1) The total THC shall be determined and reported on a dry weight basis. Additionally, measurement of uncertainty (MU) must be estimated and reported with test results. Laboratories shall use appropriate, validated methods and procedures for all testing activities and evaluate measurement of uncertainty.
(2) Any sample test result exceeding the acceptable hemp THC level shall be conclusive evidence that the lot represented by the sample is not in compliance with this part.
(3) After December 31, 2022, USDA licensees may only use laboratories registered with the DEA to conduct testing under this section.
§ 990.26
Responsibility of a USDA producer after laboratory testing is performed.
(a) The producer shall harvest the crop no later than thirty (30) days after the date of sample collection.
(b) If the producer fails to complete harvest within thirty (30) days of sample collection, a second pre-harvest sample of the lot shall be required to be submitted for testing.
(c) Harvested lots of hemp plants shall not be commingled with other harvested lots or other material.
(d) Lots that meet the acceptable hemp THC level may enter the stream of commerce.
(e) Lots that do not meet the acceptable hemp THC level are subject to § 990.27.
(f) Any producer may request additional pre-harvest testing if it is believed that the original total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration level test results were in error. Additional testing may be conducted by the laboratory that conducted the initial test, or another laboratory.
§ 990.27
Non-compliant cannabis plants.
(a) Cannabis plants exceeding the acceptable hemp THC level constitute marijuana, a schedule I controlled substance under the Controlled Substances Act (CSA), 21 U.S.C. 801
et seq.,
and producers must either use a DEA-registered reverse distributor or law enforcement to dispose of non-compliant plants or ensure the disposal of such cannabis plant on site at the farm or hemp production facility.
(b) Producers must notify USDA of their intent to dispose of or remediate non-conforming plants and verify disposal or remediation by submitting required documentation.
(c) If a producer elects to perform remediation activities, an additional sampling and testing of the post-remediated crop must occur to determine THC concentration levels.
§ 990.28
Compliance.
(a)
Audits.
USDA licensees may be audited by the USDA. The audit may include a review of records and documentation, and may include site visits to farms, fields, greenhouses, storage facilities, or other locations affiliated with the producer's hemp operation. The audit may include the current crop year, as well as any previous crop year(s). The audit may be performed remotely or in person.
(b)
Frequency of audit verifications.
Audit verifications may be performed once every three (3) years unless otherwise determined by USDA. If the results of the audit find negligent violations, a corrective action plan may be established.
(c)
Assessment of producer's hemp operations for conformance.
The producer's operational procedures, documentation, recordkeeping, and other practices may be verified during the audit verification. The auditor may also visit the production, cultivation, or storage areas for hemp listed on the producer's license.
(1)
Records and documentation.
The auditor shall assess whether required reports, records, and documentation are properly maintained for accuracy and completeness.
(2) [Reserved]
(d)
Audit reports.
Audit reports will be issued to the producer no later than 60 days after the audit is concluded. If USDA determines through an audit that the producer is not compliant with the Act or this part, USDA shall require a corrective action plan. The corrective action plan must include a reasonable date by which the producer will correct the negligent violation. USDA will approve or deny the corrective action plan within 60 days of its receipt. Producers operating under a corrective action plan must also periodically report to USDA on their compliance with the plan for a period of not less than two calendar years following the violation. The producer's implementation of a corrective action plan may be reviewed by USDA during a future site visit or audit. If additional instances of noncompliance occur, USDA may revoke the producer's USDA license for one year or until the producer becomes compliant whichever occurs later.
§ 990.29
Violations.
Violations of this part shall be subject to enforcement in accordance with the terms of this section.
(a)
Negligent violations.
Hemp producers are not subject to more than one negligent violation per calendar year. A hemp producer shall be subject to enforcement for negligently:
(1) Failing to provide an accurate legal description of land where hemp is produced;
(2) Producing hemp without a license; and
(3) Producing cannabis exceeding the acceptable hemp THC level. Hemp producers do not commit a negligent violation under this paragraph (a) if they make reasonable efforts to grow hemp and the cannabis does not have a total THC concentration of more than 1.0 percent on a dry weight basis.
(b)
Corrective action for negligent violations.
For each negligent violation, USDA will issue a Notice of Violation and require a corrective action plan from the producer. The producer shall comply with the corrective action plan to cure the negligent violation. Corrective action plans will be in place for a minimum of two (2) years from the date of their approval. Corrective action plans will, at a minimum, include:
(1) The date by which the producer shall correct each negligent violation;
(2) Steps that will be taken to correct each negligent violation; and
(3) A description of the procedures that will demonstrate compliance must be submitted to USDA.
(c)
Negligent violations and criminal enforcement.
A producer who negligently violates this part shall not, as a result of that violation, be subject to any criminal enforcement action by any Federal, State, Tribal, or local government.
(d)
Subsequent negligent violations.
If a subsequent negligent violation occurs while a corrective action plan is in place, a new corrective action plan must be submitted with a heightened level of quality control, staff training, and quantifiable action measures.
(e)
Negligent violations and license revocation.
A producer that negligently violates the license 3 times in a 5-year period shall have their license revoked and be ineligible to produce hemp for a period of 5 years beginning on the date of the third violation.
(f)
Culpable mental state greater than negligence.
If USDA determines that a licensee has violated the terms of the license or of this part with a culpable mental state greater than negligence:
(1) USDA shall immediately report the licensee to:
(i) The U.S. Attorney General; and
(ii) The chief law enforcement officer of the State or Indian territory, as applicable, where the production is located; and
(2) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall not apply to culpable violations.
§ 990.30
USDA producers; License suspension.
(a) USDA may issue a notice of suspension to a producer if USDA or its representative receives some credible evidence establishing that a producer has:
(1) Engaged in conduct violating a provision of this part; or
(2) Failed to comply with a written order from the USDA-AMS Administrator related to negligence as defined in this part.
(b) Any producer whose license has been suspended shall not handle or remove hemp or cannabis from the location where hemp or cannabis was located at the time when USDA issued its notice of suspension, without prior written authorization from USDA.
(c) Any person whose license has been suspended shall not produce hemp during the period of suspension.
(d) A producer whose license has been suspended may appeal that decision in accordance with subpart D of this part.
(e) A producer whose license has been suspended and not restored on appeal may have their license restored after a waiting period of one year from the date of the suspension. If the license was issued more than three years prior to the date of restoration, the producer shall submit a new application and criminal history report to USDA.
(f) A producer whose license has been suspended may be required to provide, and operate under, a corrective action plan to fully restore their license.
§ 990.31
USDA licensees; Revocation.
USDA shall immediately revoke the license of a USDA licensee if such licensee:
(a) Pleads guilty to, or is convicted of, any felony related to a controlled substance; or
(b) Made any materially false statement with regard to this part to USDA or its representatives with a culpable mental state greater than negligence; or
(c) Is found to be growing cannabis exceeding the acceptable hemp THC level with a culpable mental state greater than negligence or negligently violated this part three times in five years.
§ 990.32
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) USDA licensees shall maintain records of all hemp plants acquired, produced, handled, disposed of, or remediated as will substantiate the required reports.
(b) All records and reports shall be maintained for at least three years.
(c) All records shall be made available for inspection by USDA inspectors, auditors, or their representatives during reasonable business hours. The following records must be made available:
(1) Records regarding acquisition of hemp plants;
(2) Records regarding production and handling of hemp plants;
(3) Records regarding storage of hemp plants; and
(4) Records regarding disposal and remediation of all cannabis plants that do not meet the definition of hemp.
(d) USDA inspectors, auditors, or their representatives shall have access to any premises where hemp plants may be held during reasonable business hours.
(e) All reports and records required to be submitted to USDA as part of participation in the program in this part which include confidential data or business information, including but not limited to information constituting a trade secret or disclosing a trade position, financial condition, or business operations of the particular licensee or their customers, shall be received by, and at all times kept in the custody and control of, one or more employees of USDA or their representatives. Confidential data or business information may be shared with applicable Federal, State, Tribal, or local law enforcement or their designee in compliance with the Act.

# Subpart D—Appeals
§ 990.40
General adverse action appeal process.
(a) Persons who believe they are adversely affected by the denial of a license application under the USDA hemp production program may appeal such decision to the AMS Administrator.
(b) Persons who believe they are adversely affected by the denial of a license renewal under the USDA hemp production program may appeal such decision to the AMS Administrator.
(c) Persons who believe they are adversely affected by the revocation or suspension of a USDA hemp production license may appeal such decision to the AMS Administrator.
(d) States and Indian Tribes that believe they are adversely affected by the denial of a proposed State or Tribal hemp plan may appeal such decision to the AMS Administrator.
§ 990.41
Appeals under the USDA hemp production plan.
(a)
Appealing a denied USDA-plan license application.
A license applicant may appeal the denial of a license application.
(1) If the AMS Administrator grants an applicant's appeal of a licensing denial, the applicant will be issued a USDA hemp production license.
(2) If the AMS Administrator denies an appeal, the applicant's license application will be denied. The applicant may request a formal adjudicatory proceeding within 30 days to review the decision. Such proceeding shall be conducted pursuant to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rules of Practice Governing Adjudicatory Proceedings, 7 CFR part 1, subpart H.
(b)
Appealing a denied USDA-plan license renewal.
A producer may appeal the denial of a license renewal.
(1) If the AMS Administrator grants a producer's appeal of a licensing renewal denial, the applicant's USDA hemp production license will be renewed.
(2) If the AMS Administrator denies the appeal, the applicant's license will
not be renewed. The denied producer may request a formal adjudicatory proceeding within 30 days to review the decision. Such proceeding shall be conducted pursuant to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rules of Practice Governing Formal Adjudicatory Proceedings, 7 CFR part 1, subpart H.
(c)
Appealing a USDA-plan license termination or suspension.
A USDA hemp plan producer may appeal the revocation or suspension of a license.
(1) If the AMS Administrator grants the appeal of a license termination or suspension, the producer will retain their license.
(2) If the AMS Administrator denies the appeal, the producer's license will be terminated or suspended. The producer may request a formal adjudicatory proceeding within 30 days to review the decision. Such proceeding shall be conducted pursuant to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rules of Practice Governing Formal Adjudicatory Proceedings, 7 CFR part 1, subpart H.
(d)
Filing period.
The appeal of a denied license application, denied license renewal, suspension, or revocation must be filed within the time-period provided in the letter of notification or within 30 business days from receipt of the notification, whichever occurs later. The appeal will be considered “filed” on the date received by the AMS Administrator. The decision to deny an appeal of a license application or renewal, or suspend or terminate a license, is final unless a formal adjudicatory proceeding is requested within 30 days to review the decision. Such proceeding shall be conducted pursuant to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rules of Practice Governing Adjudicatory Proceedings, 7 CFR part 1, subpart H.
(e)
Where to file.
Appeals to the Administrator must be filed in the manner as determined by AMS.
(f)
What to include.
All appeals must include a copy of the adverse decision and a statement of the appellant's reasons supporting why the decision was not proper or made in accordance with applicable program regulations in this part, policies, or procedures.
§ 990.42
Appeals under a State or Tribal hemp production plan.
(a)
Appealing a State or Tribal hemp production plan application.
A State or Indian Tribe may appeal the denial of a proposed State or Tribal hemp production plan by the USDA to the AMS Administrator.
(1) If the AMS Administrator grants a State or Indian Tribe's appeal of a denied hemp plan application, the proposed State or Tribal hemp production plan shall be established as proposed.
(2) If the AMS Administrator denies an appeal, the proposed State or Tribal hemp production plan shall not be approved. Prospective producers located in the State or territory of the Indian Tribe may apply for hemp licenses under the terms of the USDA plan. The State or Indian Tribe may request a formal adjudicatory proceeding be initiated within 30 days to review the decision. Such proceeding shall be conducted pursuant to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rules of Practice Governing Adjudicatory Proceedings, 7 CFR part 1, subpart H.
(b)
Appealing the suspension or termination of a State or Tribal hemp production plan.
A State or Tribe may appeal the revocation by USDA of an approved State or Tribal hemp production plan.
(1) If the AMS Administrator grants a State or Indian Tribe's appeal of a State or Tribal hemp production plan suspension or revocation, the associated hemp production plan will remain in place and effective.
(2) If the AMS Administrator denies an appeal, the State or Tribal hemp production plan will be suspended or revoked as applicable. Producers located in that State or territory of the Indian Tribe may continue to produce hemp under their State or Tribal license until the end the calendar year in which the State or Tribal plan's disapproval was effective or when the State or Tribal license expires, whichever is earlier. Producers may apply for a USDA license under subpart C of this part unless hemp production is otherwise prohibited by the State or Indian Tribe. The State or Indian Tribe may
request a formal adjudicatory proceeding be initiated to review the decision. Such proceeding shall be conducted pursuant to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rules of Practice Governing Formal Adjudicatory Proceedings, 7 CFR part 1, subpart H.
(c)
Filing period.
The appeal of a State or Tribal hemp production plan suspension or revocation must be filed within the time-period provided in the letter of notification or within 30 business days from receipt of the notification, whichever occurs later. The appeal will be considered “filed” on the date received by the AMS Administrator. The decision to deny a State or Tribal plan application or suspend or revoke approval of a plan, is final unless the decision is appealed in a timely manner.
(d)
Where to file.
Appeals to the Administrator must be filed in the manner as determined by AMS.
(e)
What to include in appeal.
All appeals must include a copy of the adverse decision and a statement of the appellant's reasons supporting why the decision was not proper or made in accordance with applicable program regulations in this part, policies, or procedures.

# Subpart E—Administrative Provisions
§ 990.60
Agents.
As provided under 7 CFR part 2, the Secretary may name any officer or employee of the United States or name any agency or division in the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as their agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this part.
§ 990.61
Severability.
If any provision of this part is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this part or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 990.62
[Reserved]
§ 990.63
Interstate transportation of hemp.
No State or Indian Tribe may prohibit the transportation or shipment of hemp lawfully produced under a State or Tribal plan approved under subpart B of this part, under a license issued under subpart C of this part, or under 7 U.S.C. 5940 through the State or territory of the Indian Tribe, as applicable.

# Subpart F—Reporting Requirements
§ 990.70
State and Tribal hemp reporting requirements.
(a)
State and Tribal hemp producer report.
Each State and Indian Tribe with a plan approved under this part shall submit to USDA, by the first of each month, a report providing the contact information and the status of the license or other authorization issued for each producer covered under the applicable State and Tribal plans. If the first of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, the report is due by the first business day following the due date. The report shall be submitted using a digital format compatible with USDA's information sharing systems, whenever possible. The report shall contain the information described in this paragraph (a).
(1)(i) For each new producer who is an individual and is licensed or authorized under the State or Tribal plan, the report shall include the full name of the individual, license or authorization identifier, Employee Identification Number (“EIN”) of the business entity, business address, telephone number, and email address (if available).
(ii) For each new producer that is an entity and is licensed or authorized under the State or Tribal plan, the report shall include full name of the entity, the principal business location address, license or authorization identifier, and the full name, title, and email address (if available) of each employee for whom the entity is required to submit a criminal history report.
(iii) For each producer that was included in a previous report and whose reported information has changed, the
report shall include the previously reported information and the new information.
(2) The status of each producer's license or authorization.
(3) The period covered by the report.
(4) Indication that there were no changes during the current reporting cycle, if applicable.
(b)
State and Tribal hemp disposal or remediation report.
If a producer has produced cannabis exceeding the acceptable hemp THC level, the cannabis must be disposed of or remediated. States and Tribes with plans approved under this part shall submit to USDA, by the first of each month, a report notifying USDA of any occurrence of non-conforming plants or plant material and providing a disposal or remediation record of those plants and materials. This report would include information regarding name and contact information for each producer subject to a disposal or remediation during the reporting period, and date disposal or remediation was completed. If the first of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the due date. The report shall contain the information described in this paragraph (b).
(1) Name and address of the producer.
(2) Producer license or authorization identifier.
(3) Location information, such as lot number, location type, and geospatial location or other location descriptor for the production area subject to disposal or remediation.
(4) Disposal or remediation completion date.
(5) Total acreage.
(c)
Annual report.
Each State or Indian Tribe with a plan approved under this part shall submit an annual report to USDA. The report form shall be submitted by December 15 of each year and contain the information described in this paragraph (c).
(1) Total planted acreage.
(2) Total harvested acreage.
(3) Total acreage disposed and remediated.
(d)
Test results report.
Each producer must ensure that the laboratory that conducts the test of the sample(s) from its lots reports the test results to USDA. Informal testing conducted throughout the growing season for purposes of monitoring THC concentration do not need to be reported to USDA. The test results report shall contain:
(1) Producer's license or authorization identifier.
(2) Name of producer.
(3) Business address of producer.
(4) Lot identification number for the sample.
(5) Name of laboratory and, no later than December 31, 2022, the DEA registration number of laboratory for testing.
(6) Date of test and report.
(7) Identification of a pre-harvest or post-harvest retest.
(8) Test result.
§ 990.71
USDA plan reporting requirements.
(a)
USDA licensing application.
USDA will accept applications on a rolling basis. Licenses will be valid until December 31 of the year three years after the license is issued. The license application will be used for both new and renewal applicants. The application shall include:
(1)
Contact information.
(i) For an applicant who is an individual, the application shall include full name of the individual, Employee Identification Number (“EIN”) of the business entity, business address, telephone number, and email address (if available).
(ii) For an applicant that is an entity, the application shall include full name of the entity, the principal business location address, and the full name, title, and email address (if available) of each key participant of the entity.
(2)
Criminal history report.
As part of a complete application, each applicant shall provide a current Federal Bureau of Investigation's Identity History Summary. If the applicant is a business entity, a criminal history report shall be provided for each key participant.
(i) The applicant shall ensure the criminal history report accompanies the application.
(ii) The criminal history report must be dated within 60 days of submission of the application submittal.
(3)
Consent to comply with program requirements.
All applicants submitting a completed license application, in doing
so, consent to comply with the requirements of this part.
(b)
USDA licensee disposal and remediation form.
USDA licensee conducts a disposal or remediation activity, that licensee must report the activity on the appropriate form to USDA no later than 30 days after the date of completion of disposal or remediation activity. The report shall contain the information described in this paragraph (b).
(1) Name and address of the producer.
(2) The USDA licensee's USDA license number.
(3) Geospatial location, or other valid land descriptor, for the production area subject to disposal or remediation.
(4) Date of completion of disposal or remediation.
(5) Signature of the USDA licensee or authorized representative.
(c)
USDA licensee annual report.
Each USDA licensee shall submit an annual report to USDA. The report form shall be submitted by December 15 of each year and contain the information described in this paragraph (c).
(1) USDA licensee 's license number.
(2) USDA licensee 's name.
(3) USDA licensee's address.
(4) Lot, location type, geospatial location, total planted acreage, total acreage disposed and remediated, and total harvested acreage.
(d)
Test results report.
Each USDA licensee must ensure that the laboratory that conducts the test of the sample(s) from its lots reports the test results for all samples tested to USDA. Informal testing conducted throughout the growing season for purposes of monitoring THC concentration do not need to be reported to USDA. The test results report shall contain the information described in this paragraph (d) for each sample tested.
(1) USDA licensee 's license number.
(2) Name of the USDA licensee.
(3) Business address of the USDA licensee.
(4) Lot identification number for the sample.
(5) Name of testing laboratory.
(6) Date of test and report.
(7) Identification of a pre-harvest or post-harvest retest.
(8) Test result.
Pt. 993

# PART 993—DRIED PRUNES PRODUCED IN CALIFORNIA

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
Sec.
993.1
Secretary.
993.2
Act.
993.3
Person.
993.4
Area.
993.5
Prunes.
993.6
Non-French prunes.
993.7
French prunes.
993.8
Natural condition prunes.
993.9
Processed prunes.
993.10
Standard prunes.
993.11
Standard processed prunes.
993.12
Substandard prunes.
993.13
Handle.
993.14
Handler.
993.15
Dehydrator.
993.16
Producer.
993.17
Ton.
993.18
Grade.
993.19a
Size.
993.19b
Undersized prunes.
993.20
Crop year.
993.21
Domestic.
993.21a
Proper storage.
993.21b
Trade demand.
993.21c
Salable prunes.
993.21d
Reserve prunes.
993.22
Consumer package.
993.23
Part and subpart.

# Prune Marketing Committee
993.24
Establishment and membership.
993.25
Term of office.
993.26
Selection.
993.27
Eligibility.
993.28
Nominees.
993.29
Alternates.
993.30
Failure to nominate.
993.31
Acceptance.
993.32
Vacancies.
993.33
Voting procedure.
993.34
Expenses.
993.35
Powers.
993.36
Duties.
993.37
Research and development.

# Marketing Policy
993.41
Marketing policy.

# Prohibition on Handling
993.48
Regulation.

# Grade and Size Regulations
993.49
Incoming regulation.
993.50
Outgoing regulation.
993.51
Inspection and certification.
993.52
Modification.
993.53
Above parity situations.

# Reserve Control
993.54
Establishment of salable and reserve percentages.
993.55
Application of salable and reserve percentages after end of crop year.
993.56
Reserve obligation.
993.57
Holding requirement and delivery.
993.58
Deferment of time for withholding.
993.59
Payment to handlers for services.

# Producer Diversion
993.62
Diversion privileges.

# Disposition of Reserve Prunes
993.65
Disposition of reserve prunes.

# Reports and Books and Other Records
993.71
Confidential information.
993.72
Reports of acquisitions, sales, uses, and shipments.
993.73
Other reports.
993.74
Records.
993.75
Verification of reports.

# Expenses and Assessments
993.80
Expenses.
993.81
Assessments.
993.82
Funds.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
993.83
Rights of the Secretary.
993.84
Personal liability.
993.85
Separability.
993.86
Derogation.
993.87
Duration of immunities.
993.88
Agents.
993.89
Effective time.
993.90
Termination or suspension.
993.91
Procedure upon termination.
993.92
Effect of termination or amendment.
993.93
Amendments.
993.97
Exhibit A; minimum standards.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements

# Definitions
993.101
Order.
993.102
Committee.
993.103
Terms in the order.
993.104
Lot.
993.105
Size count.
993.106
In-line inspection.
993.107
Floor inspection.
993.108
Non-human consumption outlet.
993.109
Modified definition of non-French prunes.

# Prune Administrative Committee
993.128
Nominations for membership.

# Grade and Size Regulations
993.149
Receiving of prunes by handlers.
993.150
Disposition of prunes by handlers.

# Reserve Control
993.156
Application of reserve percentage.
993.157
Holding and delivery of reserve prunes.
993.158
Deferment of reserve withholding.
993.159
Schedule of payments and conditions.

# Voluntary Diversion
993.162
Voluntary prune plum diversion.

# Disposition of Reserve Prunes
993.165
Disposition of reserve prunes.

# Reports and Books and Other Records
993.172
Reports of holdings, receipts, uses, and shipments.
993.173
Reports of accounting.
993.174
Records.

# Subpart C—Assessment Rates
993.347
Assessment rate.

# Subpart D—Undersized Prune Requirements
993.400
Modifications.
993.408
Undersized prune regulation for the 2001-02 crop year.
993.409
Undersized prune regulation for the 2002-03 crop year.

# Subpart E—Pack Specification as to Size

# Definitions
993.501
Consumer package of prunes.
993.502
Size count.
993.503
Size category.
993.504
In-line inspection.
993.505
Floor inspection.
993.506
Lot.

# Specifications as to Size
993.515
Size categories.
993.516
Tolerances and limitations.

# Labeling
993.517
Identification.

# Compliance
993.518
Compliance.

# Subpart F—Grade Requirements
993.601
More restrictive grade regulations.
993.602
Maximum tolerances.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Source:
26 FR 476, Jan. 19, 1961, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 13589, Feb. 23, 2024, part 993 was stayed until July 31, 2030.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
§ 993.1
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any other officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture who is or who may hereafter be, authorized to exercise the powers and to perform the duties of the Secretary under the Act.
§ 993.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress, as amended and reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
).
§ 993.3
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit.
§ 993.4
Area.
Area
means the State of California.
§ 993.5
Prunes.
Prunes
means and includes all sun-dried or artificially dehydrated plums, of any type or variety, produced from plums grown in the area, except: (a) Sulfur-bleached prunes which are produced from yellow varieties of plums and are commonly known as silver prunes; and (b) plums which have not been dried or dehydrated to a point where they are capable of being stored prior to packaging, without material deterioration or spoilage unless refrigeration or other artificial means of preservation are used, and so long as they are treated by a process which is in conformity with, or generally similar to, the processes for treatment of plums of that type which have been developed or recommended by the Food Technology Division, College of Agriculture, University of California, for the specialty pack known as “high moisture content prunes,” but this exception shall not apply if and when such plums are dried to the point where they are capable of being stored without material deterioration or spoilage, refrigeration or other artificial means of preservation.
§ 993.6
Non-French prunes.
Non-French prunes
means prunes commonly known as Imperial, Sugar, Robe de Sargent, Burton, Standard, Jefferson, Fellenberg, Italian, President, Giant, and Hungarian (Gross), produced from such varieties of plums. This definition may be modified by the committee with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 993.7
French prunes.
French prunes
means: (a) Prunes produced from plums of the following varieties of plums: French (Prune d'Agen, Petite Prune d'Agen), Coates (Cox, Double X, Saratoga); and (b) any other prunes which possess taste, flesh texture, and other characteristics similar to those of the prunes named in this section.
§ 993.8
Natural condition prunes.
Natural condition prunes
means prunes which have not been processed.
§ 993.9
Processed prunes.
Processed prunes
means prunes which have been cleaned, or treated with water or steam, by a handler.
§ 993.10
Standard prunes.
Standard prunes
means any lot of natural condition prunes meeting the applicable grade and size standards prescribed pursuant to § 993.49 other than pursuant to § 993.49(c).
[26 FR 476, Jan. 19, 1961, as amended at 37 FR 861, Jan. 20, 1972]
§ 993.11
Standard processed prunes.
Standard processed prunes
means any lot of processed prunes meeting the applicable grade and size standards prescribed pursuant to § 993.50.
§ 993.12
Substandard prunes.
Substandard prunes
means any lot of processed or natural condition prunes failing to meet the applicable grade and size standards prescribed pursuant to §§ 993.49 and 993.50 other than pursuant to § 993.49(c).
[26 FR 476, Jan. 19, 1961, as amended at 37 FR 861, Jan. 20, 1972]
§ 993.13
Handle.
Handle
means to receive, package, sell, consign, transport, or ship (except as a carrier of prunes owned by another person), or in any other way to place prunes in the current of the commerce within the area or from such area to any point outside thereof:
Provided,
That this term shall not include: (a) Sales or deliveries of prunes by a producer or dehydrator to a producer, dehydrator, or handler within the area; (b) the receiving of prunes by a producer or dehydrator from a producer or dehydrator; and (c) receipts, sales, or shipments of prunes already handled by another person other than pursuant to § 993.50(f).
§ 993.14
Handler.
Handler
means any person who handles prunes.
§ 993.15
Dehydrator.
Dehydrator
means any person who produces prunes by drying or dehydrating plums by means of sun-drying or artificial heat.
§ 993.16
Producer.
Producer
means any person who is engaged, in a proprietary capacity, in growing plums for drying or dehydrating into prunes.
§ 993.17
Ton.
Ton
means a short ton of 2,000 pounds.
§ 993.18
Grade.
Grade
means the classification of prunes for quality and condition according to the grading specifications established pursuant to the provisions of this subpart.
§ 993.19a
Size.
Size
means either (a) the number of prunes contained in a pound and may be referred to in terms of size ranges, or (b) the diameter of a round opening, expressed in multiples of one thirty-second of an inch, through which prunes pass freely.
[37 FR 861, Jan. 20, 1972]
§ 993.19b
Undersized prunes.
Undersized prunes
means prunes which pass freely through a round opening of a specified diameter.
[37 FR 861, Jan. 20, 1972]
§ 993.20
Crop year.
Crop year
means the 12-month period beginning August 1 of any year and ending July 31 of the following year.
§ 993.21
Domestic.
Domestic
means the United States, Canal Zone, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, and Canada.
§ 993.21a
Proper storage.
Proper storage
means storage of such character as will maintain prunes in the same condition as when received by a handler, except for normal and natural deterioration and shrinkage.
[30 FR 9798, Aug. 6, 1965]
§ 993.21b
Trade demand.
(a)
Domestic trade demand.
The quantity of prunes which the commercial trade will acquire from all handlers during a crop year for distribution in domestic markets for human consumption as prunes and prune products.
(b)
Foreign trade demand.
The quantity of prunes which the commercial trade will acquire from all handlers during a crop year for distribution in other than domestic markets for human consumption as prunes and prune products.
[30 FR 9798, Aug. 6, 1965]
§ 993.21c
Salable prunes.
Salable prunes
means those prunes which are free to be handled pursuant to any salable percentage established by the Secretary pursuant to § 993.54, or, if no reserve percentage is in effect for a crop year, all prunes, excluding the quantity of undersized prunes determined pursuant to § 993.49(c), received by handlers from producers and dehydrators during that year.
[46 FR 61637, Dec. 18, 1981]
§ 993.21d
Reserve prunes.
Reserve prunes
means those prunes which must be withheld in satisfaction
of a reserve obligation arising from application of a reserve percentage established by the Secretary pursuant to § 993.54.
[30 FR 9798, Aug. 6, 1965]
§ 993.22
Consumer package.
Consumer package
means: (a) Any container of prunes holding less than 10 pounds of standard processed prunes or standard prunes; or (b) any container holding less than 10 pounds of prunes and other dried fruit if more than 60 percent of the net weight of mixed dried fruit in the lot consists of standard processed prunes or standard prunes.
§ 993.23
Part and subpart.
Part
means the order regulating the handling of dried prunes produced in California, and all rules, regulations, and supplementary orders issued thereunder. This order regulating the handling of dried prunes produced in California shall be a
subpart
of such part.

# Prune Marketing Committee
§ 993.24
Establishment and membership.
A Prune Marketing Committee (herein referred to as the “Committee”), consisting of 22 members with an alternate member for each such member, is hereby established to administer the terms and provisions of this part, of whom with their respective alternates, 14 shall represent producers, 7 shall represent handlers, and 1 shall represent the public. Committee membership shall be allocated in accordance with the following grouping with the alternate positions identically allocated:
(a) Three handler members to represent handlers who are cooperative marketing associations of producers (referred to in this part as “cooperative handlers”);
(b) Three handler members to represent handlers other than cooperative handlers (referred to in this part as “independent handlers”);
(c) One handler member to represent handlers who are cooperative handlers or independent handlers, whichever of such handlers handled as first handlers more than 50 percent of the prunes handled by all handlers during the crop year preceding the year in which nominations are made;
(d) Fourteen producer members to be selected from and to represent producers who are members of cooperative marketing associations (referred to in this part as “cooperative producers”) and producers other than “cooperative producers” (referred to in this part as “independent producers”); the number of the producer members for the cooperative producer group or the independent producer group, as the case may be, shall be in the same proportion, as near as practicable, to the total of 14, as the tonnage of prunes handled by the respective group of cooperative handlers or independent handlers as first handlers during the crop year preceding the year in which nominations are made is to the total tonnage of prunes handled by all handlers as first handlers.
(e) The public member and alternate shall have no financial interest in the prune industry.
[26 FR 476, Jan. 19, 1961, as amended at 46 FR 61636, Dec. 18, 1981]
§ 993.25
Term of office.
The term of office of members, and their respective alternates, shall be two years, ending on May 31 of even numbered years, and any later date which may be necessary for the selection and qualification of their respective successors.
§ 993.26
Selection.
Selection of members of the committee, and their respective alternates, shall be made in the appropriate number specified in § 993.24, by the Secretary from nominees nominated pursuant to this part or, in the discretion of the Secretary, from other eligible persons.
§ 993.27
Eligibility.
Producer members of the Committee shall be at the time of their selection, and during their term of office, producers in the group, for which selected
and if to represent a district also producers in the district for which selected, and, except for producer members representing cooperative producers, shall not be engaged in the handling of prunes either in a proprietary capacity or as a director, officer, or employee. Handler members of the Committee shall be handlers in the group they represent or directors, officers, or employees of such handlers. These eligibility requirements shall not apply to the public member and alternate member.
[46 FR 61636, Dec. 30, 1981]
§ 993.28
Nominees.
(a) For the purpose of obtaining nominations for producer members to represent independent producers, the Committee shall, with the approval of the Secretary, divide the area into districts giving, insofar as practicable, equal representation to numbers of independent producers and production of prune tonnage by such producers. The number of districts shall be equal to the number of such producer members or seven, whichever is the lesser. Candidates for nomination by independent producers from the various districts shall be obtained at meetings convened by the committee. Following such meetings, the committee shall prepare a separate ballot for each of the districts, or a joint ballot for two or more districts, containing (1) the names of the candidates for each district involved and (2) provision for write-in candidates. The ballot shall be mailed to each independent producer of record in each district. The voting procedure (including the casting of the ballot by mail addressed to the committee), and tabulation of votes shall be in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the committee, with the approval of the Secretary. Each voter shall be entitled to cast only one vote for a member nominee and only one vote for an alternate member nominee in a district in which he is a producer, and no voter shall vote for candidates in more than one district. In case he is a producer in more than one district, he shall elect in which of such districts he will vote and notify the committee as to his choice. Whenever the number of producer members to represent independent producers during the ensuing term of office is to exceed seven, one nominee shall be nominated by independent producers in each of the seven districts and an additional nominee for each member in excess of the seven members shall be nominated, without reference to districts, by such seven nominees. The committee shall recommend the establishment of districts, or any changes therein, to the Secretary prior to January 31 of each year in which nominations are made.
(b) Before April 16 of each even-numbered year nominations of producer members to represent cooperative producers and handler members to represent cooperative handlers shall be submitted to the Secretary by cooperative marketing associations engaged in the handling of prunes. The number of cooperative producer members and handler members to be nominated by each cooperative marketing association shall bear, as near as practicable, the same percentage as each cooperative marketing association's tonnage of prunes handled as first handler thereof is to the total tonnage handled by all cooperative marketing associations during the preceding crop year.
(c) In any year in which nominations are made following a crop year during which the tonnage of prunes handled by independent handlers as first handlers exceeded the tonnage of prunes handled by cooperative handlers as first handlers, nominees for member positions to represent independent handlers shall be nominated as follows:
(1) Each of the two independent handlers who handled during such preceding crop year, the two largest percentages of the prune tonnage handled by all independent handlers shall nominate from their respective organizations, one nominee for a handler member and one for an alternate member;
(2) Three independent handlers who handled during such preceding crop year the next three largest percentages of the prune tonnage handled by all independent handlers shall nominate from among their organizations, one nominee for a handler member and one for an alternate member;
(3) All other independent handlers who handled the remaining percentage
of such prune tonnage shall nominate from their organizations, one nominee for a handler member and one for an alternate member.
In any year in which nominations are made following a crop year during which the tonnage of prunes handled by cooperative handlers as first handlers exceeded the tonnage of prunes handled by independent handlers as first handlers, nominees for two member and alternate positions to represent the independent handlers referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be nominated in accordance with said paragraph (c)(1), and one nominee for the member and one for the alternate position to represent all other independent handlers shall be nominated by the handlers referred to in paragraph (c) (2) and (3) of this section and the votes of such handlers shall be weighted by the tonnage of prunes handled during the preceding crop year by the respective handlers.
(d) The committee shall establish with the approval of the Secretary, the procedures by which such nominations, other than by cooperative marketing associations engaged in the handling of prunes, shall be obtained and shall submit such nominations to the Secretary before April 16 of the year in which nominations are made. In the event the committee determines that any nominating procedure specified in this section does not result in equitable representation, it may establish, with the prior approval of the Secretary, such modifications as will tend to assure such representation.
(e) The producer and handler members of the Committee selected for a new term of office shall nominate a public member and alternate member at the first meeting following their selection.
[31 FR 9713, July 19, 1966, as amended at 46 FR 61636, Dec. 18, 1981]
§ 993.29
Alternates.
An alternate for a member of the committee shall act in the place and stead of such member (a) during his absence, and (b) in the event of his removal, resignation, disqualification, or death, until a successor for such member's unexpired term has been selected and has qualified. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this subpart the provisions of this part applicable to members also apply to alternate members.
§ 993.30
Failure to nominate.
If a nomination for any position on the committee is not received by the Secretary by May 1, the Secretary may select an eligible individual without regard to nominations.
§ 993.31
Acceptance.
Each person selected as a member or alternate member of the committee shall, prior to serving on the committee, qualify by filing with the Secretary a written acceptance within 15 days after receiving notice of his selection.
§ 993.32
Vacancies.
In the event of any committee vacancy occasioned by the removal, resignation, disqualification, or death of any member, or in the event of the failure of any person selected as a member or alternate member to qualify, a successor for the unexpired term shall be nominated within 60 calendar days thereof. Such nominations shall be made in the manner provided for in this subpart, insofar as applicable, except that nominations of nominees for a producer member position to represent independent producers may, at the discretion of the committee, be made to the committee by the incumbent producer members of the committee who represent independent producers.
§ 993.33
Voting procedure.
Decisions of the Committee shall be by majority vote of the members present and voting and a quorum must be present:
Provided,
That decisions on marketing policy, grade or size regulations, pack specifications, salable and reserve percentages, and on any matters pertaining to the control or disposition of reserve prunes or to prune plum diversion pursuant to § 993.62, including any delegation of authority for action on such matters and any recommendation of rules and procedures with respect to such matters, including any such decision arrived at by mail or
telegram, shall require at least 14 affirmative votes. A quorum shall consist of at least 13 members of whom at least 8 must be producer members and at least 4 must be handler members. Except in case of emergency, a minimum of 5 days notice must be given with respect to any meeting of the Committee. In case of an emergency, to be determined within the discretion of the chairman of the Committee, as much notice of a meeting as is practicable in the circumstances shall be given. The Committee may vote by mail or telegram upon due notice to all members, but any proposition to be so voted upon first shall be explained accurately, fully, and identically by mail or telegram to all members. When any proposition is submitted to be voted on by such method, one dissenting vote shall prevent its adoption.
[46 FR 61637, Dec. 18, 1981]

# Effective Date Note:
At 70 FR 30613, May 27, 2005, in § 993.33, the words “salable and reserve percentages, and on any matters pertaining to the control or disposition of reserve prunes or to prune plum diversion pursuant to § 993.62,” were suspended indefinitely.
§ 993.34
Expenses.
The members of the committee, and alternates when acting as members, or when alternates' expenses are authorized by the committee, shall serve without compensation but shall be allowed their expenses.
[30 FR 9798, Aug. 6, 1965]
§ 993.35
Powers.
The committee shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the terms and provisions of this subpart;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this subpart; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart.
§ 993.36
Duties.
The committee shall have, among others, the following duties:
(a) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer, dehydrator, or handler;
(b) To keep minutes, books, and other records which shall clearly reflect all of its acts and transactions, and such minutes, books, and other records shall be subject to examination by the Secretary at any time;
(c) To make, subject to the prior approval of the Secretary, scientific and other studies, and assemble data on the producing, handling, shipping, and marketing conditions relative to prunes, which are necessary in connection with the performance of its official duties;
(d) To select, from among its members, a chairman and other appropriate officers, and to adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of the business of the committee as it may deem advisable;
(e) To appoint or employ such other persons as it may deem necessary, and to determine the salaries and define the duties of such persons;
(f) To submit to the Secretary not later than the fourth Tuesday of July of each year, a budget of its anticipated expenditures and the recommended rate of assessment for the ensuing crop year, and the supporting data therefor;
(g) To submit to the Secretary such available information with respect to prunes as the committee may deem appropriate, or as the Secretary may request;
(h) To prepare and submit to the Secretary quarterly statements of the financial operations of the committee, exclusive of reserve prune operations, and to make such statements, together with the minutes of the meetings of said committee, available for inspection at the offices of the committee by producers, dehydrators, and handlers;
(i) To prepare and submit to the Secretary annually, as soon as practicable after the end of each crop year and at such other times as the committee may deem appropriate or the Secretary may request, a statement of the committee's financial operations with respect to reserve prunes for such crop year and to make such statement
available at the offices of the committee for inspection by producers, dehydrators, and handlers;
(j) To cause the books of the committee to be audited by a certified public accountant at least once each crop year, and at such other times as the committee may deem necessary or as the Secretary may request, and two copies of each such audit report shall be submitted to the Secretary and a copy which does not contain confidential data shall be available for inspection at the offices of the committee, by producers, dehydrators, and handlers;
(k) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the committee as is given to the members of the committee;
(l) To give producers, dehydrators, and handlers reasonable advance notice of meetings of the committee, and to maintain all such meetings open to such persons;
(m) To investigate compliance with the provisions of this subpart and with any rules and regulations established pursuant to such provisions; and
(n) To establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such rules and procedures relative to administration of this subpart as may be consistent with the provisions contained in this subpart and as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of the act and the efficient administration of this subpart.
[30 FR 9798, Aug. 6, 1965, as amended at 37 FR 861, Jan. 20, 1972]

# Effective Date Note:
At 70 FR 30613, May 27, 2005, in § 993.36, paragraph (i) was suspended indefinitely.
§ 993.37
Research and development.
The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of marketing research and development projects designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution, and consumption of prunes. The expense of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to § 993.81.

# Marketing Policy
§ 993.41
Marketing policy.
(a) On or before the first Tuesday of each July, the committee shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a report setting forth its recommended marketing policy for the ensuing crop year. If it becomes advisable to modify such policy, because of changed demand, supply, or other conditions, the committee shall formulate a new policy and shall submit a report thereon to the Secretary. Notice of the committee's marketing policy, and of any modifications thereof, shall be given promptly by reasonable publicity to producers, dehydrators, and handlers.
(b) In formulating its marketing policy for the ensuing crop year, the committee shall consider and shall include in its report to the Secretary, the following estimates (natural condition basis) and recommendations:
(1) The carryover of salable prunes as of August 1;
(2) The carryover of reserve prunes as of August 1;
(3) The grade and size composition of the salable and reserve carryovers;
(4) The quantity of prunes to be produced without regard to possible diversions of prune plums by producers;
(5) The probable quality and prune sizes in the crop;
(6) The domestic trade demand by uses of prunes;
(7) The foreign trade demand by countries or groups of countries;
(8) The desirable carryout of salable prunes at the end of the ensuing crop year;
(9) The quantity of undersized prunes in the crop, itemized as to French prunes and non-French prunes;
(10) The quantity of prunes to be withheld as reserve prunes so as to protect against errors of estimation and permit orderly marketing of the supply;
(11) The recommended salable and reserve percentages;
(12) The quantity of prune plums, dried weight basis, deemed desirable to be diverted pursuant to § 993.62;
(13) Any recommended change in regulations pursuant to §§ 933.49 to 993.53, inclusive;
(14) The probable assessable tonnage for the purposes of § 993.81; and
(15) The current prices for prunes, the trend and level of consumer income, whether producer prices are likely to exceed parity, and such other factors
as may have a bearing on the marketing of prunes or the administration of this part.
[30 FR 9798, Aug. 6, 1965, as amended at 37 FR 862, Jan. 20, 1972]

# Prohibition on Handling
§ 993.48
Regulation.
No handler shall handle prunes except in accordance with the provisions of this part.
[30 FR 9799, Aug. 6, 1965]

# Grade and Size Regulations
§ 993.49
Incoming regulation.
(a) No handler shall receive prunes from producers or dehydrators, other than substandard prunes and undersized prunes, unless such prunes meet the minimum standards for natural condition prunes set forth in § 993.97 (Exhibit A), or as such standards may be modified, or the more restrictive grade regulation established pursuant to this section, and then in effect:
Provided,
That no handler shall receive any prunes (including substandard prunes and undersized prunes) from producers or dehydrators unless such prunes have been properly dried and cured in original natural condition, without the addition of water, and are free from active insect infestation, so that they are capable of being received, stored, and packed without material deterioration or spoilage. Any “high moisture content prunes,” as described in the exception in § 993.5(b), in the possession of a handler, shall be held separate and apart from any prunes held by him. If such “high moisture content prunes” are dried or dehydrated to a point where they are capable of being stored, without material deterioration or spoilage, unrefrigerated or not otherwise artificially preserved, they shall be deemed, at that time, to have been received by such handler as prunes, and shall be subject to all of the conditions and restrictions of this subpart.
(b) The Secretary, on the basis of a recommendation of the committee or other information, may establish size regulations or more restrictive grade regulations with respect to prunes that may be received by a handler from producers and dehydrators whenever he finds that such action would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(c) In no crop year shall a handler receive from producers or dehydrators prunes, other than as undersized prunes, which pass freely through a round opening with a diameter as follows: For French prunes 23/32 of an inch, and for non-French prunes 28/32 of an inch:
Provided,
That the Secretary upon a recommendation of the Committee, may establish larger openings whenever it is determined that supply conditions for a crop year warrant such regulation. The quantity of undersized prunes in any lot received by a handler from a producer or dehydrator shall be determined by the inspection service and entered on the applicable inspection certificate.
[26 FR 476, Jan. 19, 1961, as amended at 37 FR 862, Jan. 20, 1972; 46 FR 61637, Dec. 18, 1981; 88 FR 82232, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 993.50
Outgoing regulation.
(a) Except as otherwise specifically provided, no handler shall ship or otherwise make final disposition of prunes which fail to meet the applicable minimum standards set forth in § 993.97 (Exhibit A), or as such standards may be modified, for standard prunes or standard processed prunes.
(b) The Secretary, on the basis of a recommendation of the committee or other information, may establish size regulations, pack specifications, or more restrictive grade regulations with respect to prunes that may be shipped or otherwise disposed of by a handler if such action would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act. If a more restrictive grade regulation is established in connection with § 993.97 (Exhibit A) it shall insofar as practicable apply comparably to both natural condition prunes and processed prunes. When pack specifications are in effect, no handler shall ship prunes in consumer packages, unless such prunes are identified by an appropriate label, seal, stamp, or tag affixed to such container by the handler showing the size of prunes in the lot from which the container was packed. In order to effectuate such orderly marketing of prunes as will be in the public interest, whether prices are above or below parity, no handler shall use descriptive terms in a
manner inconsistent with that set forth in this subpart or in any pack specifications or other regulation issued by the Secretary pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Non-French prunes: No handler shall ship or otherwise make final disposition of any lot of standard prunes or standard processed prunes of the non-French varieties or any lot which includes non-French prunes in excess of a tolerance to be prescribed by the Secretary on recommendation of the Committee, unless the average count of such non-French prunes contained in any such lot is 40 or less per pound. However, under safeguards to be established by the Committee, any lot containing non-French prunes with an average size count of more than 40 prunes per pound may be shipped to or disposed of in prune product outlets in which they lose their form and character as prunes by conversion prior to consumption. A tolerance as to the permitted deviation of sizes about the average count shall be prescribed by the Secretary, upon recommendation of the Committee.
(d) French prunes: No handler shall ship or otherwise make final disposition of any lot of French prunes for human consumption as prunes, or any lot of mixed dried fruit containing French prunes for human consumption as mixed dried fruit, unless the average count of French prunes contained in any such lot is 100 or less per pound. However, under safeguards to be established by the Committee, any lot containing French prunes with an average size count of more than 100 prunes per pound may be shipped to or disposed of in prune product outlets in which they lose their form and character as prunes by conversion prior to consumption. In determining whether any such lot conforms to this minimum size requirement, the following tolerance shall apply: In a sample of 100 ounces, the count per pound of 10 ounces of the smallest prunes shall not vary from the count per pound of 10 ounces of the largest prunes by more than 45 points. The Secretary may, upon the basis of the recommendation and information submitted by the Committee and other available information, modify this tolerance for uniformity of size.
(e) No handler shall ship or otherwise make final disposition of any lot of substandard prunes except for use as prune products in which the prunes lose their form and character as prunes by conversion prior to consumption, or for use in non-human consumption outlets:
Provided,
That any such prunes which are shipped or otherwise disposed of for human consumption shall meet the minimum standards prescribed in II C (1), (2), and (3) of § 993.97 or as such standards as may pursuant to § 993.52 be modified. The committee shall issue any such rules and regulations as may be necessary to insure such uses.
(f) Notwithstanding the restrictions contained in this section, any handler may transfer prunes from one plant owned by him to another plant owned by him within the area without having an inspection made as provided for in § 993.51. Any handler may ship prunes from his plant to another handler's plant within the area without having an inspection made as provided for in § 993.51, but a report of such inter-handler transfer shall be made promptly by the transferring handler to the committee. The receiving handler shall, before shipping or otherwise making final disposition of such prunes, comply with the requirements of this section and of § 993.51.
(g) No handler shall ship or otherwise dispose of, for human consumption, the quantity of prunes determined by the inspection service pursuant to § 993.49(c) to be undersized prunes. However, such handler may, at the direction and under the supervision of the Committee, dispose of such quantity of prunes in nonhuman consumption outlets. Prunes so disposed of shall be of the same variety as, and reasonably comparable in size, to such undersized prunes. The handler shall cause the inspection service to make a determination whether the prunes disposed of by the handler in nonhuman consumption outlets meet such requirements. In making the determination with respect to comparability in size, the inspection service shall apply a tolerance permitting a deviation from the size of the applicable opening established pursuant to § 993.49(c). Any such tolerance, together with any rules and regulations
to ensure proper disposition of the prunes and that such prunes are reasonably comparable to the undersized prunes so received, shall be established by the Committee with the approval of the Secretary. The quantity of prunes determined pursuant to § 993.49(c) shall not be deemed to be within the handler's quota for salable prunes fixed by the Secretary within the meaning of section 8a(5) of the Act.
[26 FR 476, Jan. 19, 1961, as amended at 37 FR 862, Jan. 20, 1972; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 993.51
Inspection and certification.
Each handler shall at his own expense, before or upon the receiving, and before the shipping or disposing of prunes, cause an inspection to be made of such prunes to determine whether they meet the applicable grade and size requirements or the pack specifications, including labeling, effective pursuant to this part. Such handler shall obtain a certificate that such prunes meet the aforementioned applicable requirements and shall submit such certificate, or cause it to be submitted, to the committee. Acceptable certificates shall be those issued by inspectors of the Dried Fruit Association of California. The Secretary may designate another inspection service in the event the services of the Association prove unsatisfactory.
§ 993.52
Modification.
Minimum standards, pack specifications or size regulations, including the openings prescribed in § 993.49(c), may be modified by the Secretary, on the basis of a recommendation of the committee or other information, whenever he finds that such modification would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
[26 FR 476, Jan. 19, 1961, as amended at 37 FR 862, Jan. 20, 1972]
§ 993.53
Above parity situations.
The minimum standards, the minimum sizes, including the minimum undersized regulation in § 933.49(c), and the provisions of this part relating to administration shall continue in effect irrespective of whether the estimated season average price for prunes is in excess of the parity level specified in section 2(1) of the act.
[46 FR 61637, Dec. 18, 1981]

# Reserve Control

# Source:
30 FR 9799, Aug. 8, 1965, unless otherwise noted.
§ 993.54
Establishment of salable and reserve percentages.
Whenever the Secretary finds, from the recommendations and supporting information supplied by the committee, or from any other available information, that to establish the percentages of prunes for any crop year which shall be salable prunes and reserve prunes, respectively, or to modify the previously established percentages, would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, he shall establish or modify such percentages. The salable and reserve percentages when applied to the natural condition weight of prunes, excluding the quantity of undersized prunes determined pursuant to § 993.49(c), received during the crop year by a handler from producers and dehydrators, plus that diverted tonnage (dried weight natural condition prune basis) on diversion certificates issued pursuant to § 993.62 and credited to or held by him, shall determine the weight of each handler's receipts which are salable prunes and reserve prunes. The total of the salable and reserve percentages shall equal 100 percent. A cooperative marketing association may concentrate the prunes of its producer members before applying the salable and reserve percentages.
[30 FR 9799, Aug. 6, 1965, as amended at 37 FR 862, Jan. 20, 1972]
§ 993.55
Application of salable and reserve percentages after end of crop year.
The salable and reserve percentages established for any crop year shall remain in effect after that crop year until salable and reserve percentages are established for another crop year. After such percentages are established, all reserve obligations shall be adjusted to the newly established percentages.
[46 FR 61637, Dec. 18, 1981]
§ 993.56
Reserve obligation.
Whenever salable and reserve percentages are in effect for any crop year, the reserve obligation of a handler shall approximate the average marketable content of the handler's receipts and shall be a weight of natural condition prunes equal to the reserve percentage applied to the natural condition weight of prunes, excluding the quantity of undersized prunes determined pursuant to § 993.49(c), such handler receives during the crop year from producers and dehydrators plus that diverted tonnage (dried weight natural condition prune basis) on diversion certificates credited to or held by him which were issued pursuant to § 993.62. However, if the committee determines the requirement as to set-aside reflecting average marketable content of receipts is not essential to achieve program objectives for the crop of a particular season, it may be eliminated for that season by the committee, with the approval of the Secretary. As a prerequisite for making this determination, the committee must find that the resultant set-aside procedures assure that the trade demand for manufacturing prunes, as well as prunes for consumption as prunes, will be met. The salable prunes permitted to be disposed of by any handler in accordance with the provisions of this part shall be deemed to be that handler's quota fixed by the Secretary within the meaning of section 8a(5) of the act.
[30 FR 9799, Aug. 8, 1965, as amended at 37 FR 862, Jan. 20, 1972; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 993.57
Holding requirement and delivery.
Each handler shall at all times, hold, in his possession or under his control, in proper storage for the account of the committee, free and clear of all liens, the quantity of prunes necessary to meet his reserve obligation, less any quantity: (a) For which he has a temporary deferment pursuant to § 993.58(a); (b) of prune plums (dried weight natural condition basis) diverted pursuant to § 993.62 as shown on diversion certificates held by him, or credited by the committee against his reserve obligation; (c) disposed of by him under a sales contract of the committee; (d) delivered by him to the committee, or to a person designated by it, pursuant to its instructions; and (e) for which he is otherwise relieved by the committee of such responsibility to so hold prunes. No handler may transfer a reserve obligation but any handler may, upon notification to the committee arrange to hold reserve prunes on the premises of another handler or in approved commercial storage, under conditions of proper storage. The committee may, after giving reasonable notice, require a handler to deliver to it, or to a person designated by it, f.o.b. handler's warehouse or point of storage, reserve prunes held by him. The committee may require that such delivery consist of natural condition prunes or it may arrange for such delivery to consist of processed prunes.
§ 993.58
Deferment of time for withholding.
(a) Compliance by any handler with the requirement of § 993.57 for withholding reserve prunes may be temporarily deferred to any date desired by the handler, but not later than November 15 of the crop year, upon the execution and delivery by such handler to the committee of a written undertaking that on or prior to the desired date he will have fully satisfied his holding requirement. Such undertaking shall be secured by a bond or bonds to be filed with and acceptable to the committee in the amount or amounts specified, conditioned upon full compliance with such undertaking.
(b)(1) Each bond shall be provided by and at the handler's expense, with a surety or sureties acceptable to the committee, and shall be in an amount computed by multiplying the pounds of natural condition prunes for which deferment is desired by the bonding rate. Such bonding rate shall be established by the committee at a level sufficient to achieve the objectives of this part.
(2) In case a handler defaults in meeting his deferred withholding requirement, any funds collected by the committee from the bonding company through such default shall be used by the committee to purchase from handlers a quantity of natural condition prunes, up to but not exceeding the
quantity on which default occurred. Purchases shall be made from prunes with respect to which the reserve obligation has been met, and shall be of grades, varieties, or sizes and in such containers as the committee specifies in consideration of available reserve prune outlets. Purchases shall be at prices determined to be appropriate by the committee and if more prunes are offered than required by the committee, it shall make the purchases from various handlers as nearly as practicable in proportion to the quantity of their respective offerings at the same price. The committee shall dispose of the prunes acquired as soon as practicable in the most favorable reserve prune outlets and shall deposit the proceeds from such sales, less committee expenses in connection with such transaction, with reserve pool funds for distribution to equity holders.
(3) If for any reason the committee is unable to purchase a quantity of prunes as large as the quantity of reserve prunes in default by the handler, any remaining balance of funds received because of the default less expenses of the committee, shall be deposited with reserve pool funds for distribution to equity holders.
(c) A handler who has defaulted on his bond shall be credited on his reserve obligation with, and his holding requirement reduced by, that quantity of prunes represented by the sums collected but not more than the extent of his default.
§ 993.59
Payment to handlers for services.
The committee shall pay handlers for necessary services rendered by them in connection with reserve prunes including, but not limited to, inspection, receiving, storing, grading, and fumigation, in accordance with a schedule of payments and conditions established by the Secretary after recommendation by the committee.

# Producer Diversion
§ 993.62
Diversion privileges.
(a)
Prune plums.
The words
prune plums
as used in this section mean plums of a variety used in the production of prunes.
(b)
Voluntary principle.
No producer shall be required to divert all or any portion of the prune plums produced by him.
(c)
Authorization.
If, on the basis of a committee recommendation for diversion operations, the availability of governing rules and procedures established by the Secretary after recommendation of the committee, and other information, the Secretary concurs that diversion operations should be permitted, he shall authorize such operations.
(d)
Diversion certificates.
After diversion operations are authorized, and subject to the applicable rules and procedures, any producer may divert prune plums of his own production for eligible purposes and receive from the committee a diversion certificate therefor:
Provided,
That diversion certificates for prune plums diverted by producer members of a cooperative marketing association shall be issued by the committee to the association if it so requests. To the extent permitted by the rules and procedures, the certificate may be submitted to any handler in lieu of reserve prunes and to the same extent the certificate shall entitle the handler to satisfy his reserve obligation. Only to the extent permitted by the rules and procedures, diversion certificates may be transferable among producers and handlers.
(e)
Eligible diversions.
Within such restrictions as may be prescribed in rules and procedures, diversion may be authorized for such dispositions as are not competitive with the normal marketing of prunes and prune products. Such eligible diversions may include: (1) Disposal of prune plums for nonhuman use; (2) leaving prune plums unharvested; and (3) such other methods of diversion as may be authorized. No diversion certificate shall be issued by the committee for prune plums which would not, under normal producer practices, be dried and delivered to a handler.
(f)
Nonparticipation in pool proceeds.
Any prune plums diverted pursuant to this section shall not be included in any reserve pool.
(g)
Payment of costs.
Prior to the issuance of a diversion certificate to a
producer or a cooperative marketing association, the producer or association shall pay to the committee fees established to cover costs pertaining to the diversion.
[30 FR 9800, Aug. 6, 1965]

# Disposition of Reserve Prunes
§ 993.65
Disposition of reserve prunes.
(a)
Committee's right of disposition.
The committee shall have the power and authority to sell or dispose of any and all reserve prunes (1) to meet demand either (i) as domestic trade demand, or (ii) as foreign trade demand, or (2) for use in any outlet, defined in rules and procedures, established by the Secretary after recommendation of the committee, noncompetitive with normal outlets for salable prunes.
(b)
Methods of disposition.
The committee may, for any of the purposes of § 993.65(a), offer to sell and sell reserve prunes to handlers for disposition or sale by them in specified outlets. Sale of reserve prunes by the committee to any handler for resale in such outlets or for resale to other persons for sale in such outlets shall be governed by the provisions of a sales agreement, executed by the handler with the committee. The committee may refuse to sell reserve prunes to any handler if the handler violates the terms and conditions of the agreement or other provisions of this part. The committee may sell reserve prunes into any outlet in which direct selling is determined to be more appropriate.
(c)
Offers to sell reserve prunes.
No offer to sell reserve prunes either to handlers or to other persons shall be made by the committee until 5 days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) have elapsed from the time it files with the Secretary complete information as to the terms and conditions of the proposed offer including the basis for determining the handlers' shares:
Provided,
That at any time prior to the expiration of the 5-day period the offer may be made upon the committee receiving from the Secretary notice that he does not disapprove it.
(d)
Transfer of shares.
No handler may transfer a reserve obligation. However, any handler who is authorized by the committee to dispose of reserve prunes may arrange with another handler to dispose of his share of reserve prunes through such other handler. In that event, credit for the reserve disposition shall go to the handler whose reserve prunes are used.
(e)
Distribution of proceeds.
Expenses incurred by the committee for the receiving, handling, holding, or disposing of any quantity of reserve prunes shall be charged against the proceeds of sales of such prunes. Net proceeds from the disposition of reserve prunes shall be distributed by the committee either directly, or through handlers as agents of the committee, under safeguards to be established by the committee, to persons in proportion to their contributions thereto, or to their successors in interest, with appropriate grade and size differentials as established by the committee. Progress payments may be made by the committee as sufficient funds accumulate. Distribution of the proceeds in connection with the reserve prunes contributed by a cooperative marketing association shall be made to such association, if it so requests.
[30 FR 9800, Aug. 6, 1965]

# Reports and Books and Other Records
§ 993.71
Confidential information.
All reports and records furnished or submitted by handlers to the committee which include data or information constituting a trade secret or disclosing of the trade position, financial condition, or business operations of the particular handler from whom received shall be received by, and at all times kept in the custody and under the control of one or more employees of the committee, who shall disclose such information to no person except the Secretary. Notwithstanding the above provisions of this section, information may be disclosed to the committee when reasonably necessary to enable the committee to carry out its functions under this subpart.
§ 993.72
Reports of acquisitions, sales, uses, and shipments.
Each handler shall file such reports of his acquisitions, sales, uses, and
shipments of prunes, as may be requested by the committee.
§ 993.73
Other reports.
Upon the request of the committee, each handler shall furnish such other reports and information as are needed to enable the committee to perform its functions under this subpart.
§ 993.74
Records.
Each handler shall maintain such records of prunes received, held and disposed of by him, as are prescribed by the committee and needed by it to perform its functions under this subpart. Such records shall be retained for at least two years beyond the crop year of their applicability.
§ 993.75
Verification of reports.
For the purpose of checking and verifying reports filed by handlers or the operation of handlers under the provisions of this subpart, the Secretary, and the Committee through its duly authorized agents, shall have access to any premises where prunes may be held by any handler and at any time during reasonable business hours, shall be permitted to inspect any prunes so held by such handler and any and all records of such handler with respect to the holding or disposition of all prunes which may be held or which may have been disposed of by him.
[37 FR 862, Jan. 20, 1972]

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 993.80
Expenses.
The committee is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by it during each crop year for the maintenance and functioning of the committee and for such other purposes as the Secretary may, pursuant to the provisions of this subpart, determine to be appropriate.
§ 993.81
Assessments.
(a) Each handler shall pay to the committee, upon demand, with respect to all salable prunes handled by him as the first handler thereof, his pro rata share of all expenses which the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the committee during each crop year. Each handler's pro rata share shall be the rate of assessment per ton fixed by the Secretary. At any time during or after a crop year the Secretary may increase the rate of assessment to cover unanticipated expenses of the committee or a deficit in assessable tonnage.
(b) In order to provide funds to carry out the functions of the committee, the committee may accept advance payments from any handler to be credited toward such assessments as may be levied pursuant to this section against the respective handler.
(c) Any money collected as assessments during any crop year and not expended in connection with the committee's operations may be used by the committee for a period of five months subsequent to such crop year. At the end of such period the committee shall, from funds on hand, refund or credit to handler accounts the aforesaid excess. Each handler's share of such excess funds shall be the amount of assessments he has paid in excess of his pro rata share of the actual net expenses of the committee for the preceding crop year. Any money collected from assessments hereunder and remaining unexpended in the possession of the committee at the termination of this part, shall be distributed in such manner as the Secretary may direct:
Provided,
That to the extent practical, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.
[26 FR 476, Jan. 19, 1961, as amended at 30 FR 9800, Aug. 6, 1965]
§ 993.82
Funds.
All funds received by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for authorized purposes. The Secretary may, at any time, require the committee or its members and alternate members to account for all receipts and disbursements.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 993.83
Rights of the Secretary.
The members of the committee (including successors or alternates) and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the committee, shall be
subject to the removal or suspension by the Secretary, in his discretion, at any time. Each and every decision, determination, or other acts of the committee shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time, and upon such disapproval, shall be deemed null and void.
§ 993.84
Personal liability.
No member or alternate member of the committee, or any employee, representative, or agent thereof shall be held personally responsible, either individually of jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any person, for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate member, employee, representative, or agent, except for acts of dishonesty.
§ 993.85
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing shall not be affected thereby.
§ 993.86
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this subpart is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the act or otherwise, or, in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 993.87
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this subpart shall cease upon the termination of this subpart, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence of this subpart.
§ 993.88
Agents.
(a)
Authorization by Secretary.
The Secretary may, by a designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the United States Government, or name any bureau or division in the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as his agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this subpart.
(b)
Authorization by committee.
The committee may authorize any person or persons or agency to act as its agent or representative in connection with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 993.89
Effective time.
The provisions of this subpart, as well as any amendments to this subpart, shall become effective at such time as the Secretary may declare, and shall continue in force until terminated, or during suspension, in one of the ways specified in § 993.90.
§ 993.90
Termination or suspension.
(a)
Failure to effectuate policy of act.
The Secretary may, at any time, terminate the provisions of this subpart, by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner which he may determine. The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this subpart, whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(b)
Referendum.
The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this subpart on or before the fifteenth day of July of any crop year, to be effective at the end of such crop year, whenever he is required to do so by the provisions of section 8c(16)(B) of the act. The Secretary may, at any time he deems it desirable, hold a referendum of producers to determine whether they favor termination of this subpart. However, beginning with 1951, if the Secretary receives a recommendation, adopted by at least a majority vote of the producer members of the committee, requesting the holding of such a referendum, the Secretary shall hold such a referendum:
Provided,
That the Secretary shall not be required to hold such a referendum upon the basis of such a request more than once every two years.
(c)
Termination of act.
The provisions of this subpart shall terminate, in any event, upon the termination of the act.
§ 993.91
Procedure upon termination.
Upon the termination of this subpart, the members of the committee then
functioning shall continue as joint trustees, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the committee. Action by such trustee shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees. Such trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary, and shall, from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the committee and the joint trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall, upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all the funds, properties, and claims vested in the committee or the joint trustees, pursuant to this subpart. Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the committee or the joint trustees, pursuant to this section, shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of the said committee and upon said joint trustees.
§ 993.92
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not (a) affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued under this subpart, or (b) release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any regulation issued under this subpart, or (c) affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary, or of any other person, with respect to such violation.
§ 993.93
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed from time to time, by any person or by the committee, and may be made a part of this subpart by the procedures provided under the act.
§ 993.97
Exhibit A; minimum standards.
I. Minimum standards for natural condition prunes:
A.
Defects.
Defects are: (1) Off-color; (2) inferior meat condition; (3) end cracks; (4) fermentation; (5) skin or flesh damage; (6) scab; (7) burned; (8) mold; (9) imbedded dirt; (10) insect infestation; (11) decay.
B.
Explanation of terms.
(1)
Off-color
means a dull color or skin differing noticeably in appearance from that which is characteristic of mature, properly handled fruit of a given variety or type.
(2)
Inferior meat condition
means flesh which is fibrous, woody or otherwise inferior due to immaturity to the extent that the characteristic texture of the meat is substantially affected.
(3)
End cracks
means callous growth cracks, at the blossom end of prunes, aggregating more than three-eighths of one inch (
3/8
″) but not more than one-half of one inch (
1/2
″) in length.
(4)
Fermentation
means damage to the flesh by fermentation to the extent that the characteristic appearance or flavor is substantially affected.
(5)
Skin or flesh damage
means growth cracks, splits, breaks in skin or flesh of the following descriptions:
(a) Callous growth cracks, except end cracks as defined in this section, aggregating more than three-eighths of one inch (
3/8
″) in length;
(b) Splits or skin breaks exposing flesh and affecting materially the normal appearance of the prunes;
(c) Any cracks, splits or breaks open to the pit;
(d) Healed or unhealed surface or flesh blemishes caused by insect injury and which materially affect appearance, edibility or keeping quality;
(e) Skin damage caused by rain or overdipping to the extent that the prunes cannot be processed normally without material sloughing of the skin.
(6)
Scab
means tough or thick scab exceeding in the aggregate the area of a circle three-eighths of one inch (
3/8
″) in diameter or by unsightly scab of another character exceeding in the aggregate the area of a circle three-fourths of one inch (
3/4
″) in diameter.
(7)
Burned
means injury by sunburn or excessive heat in dehydration to the extent that the characteristic appearance, flavor or edibility of the fruit is noticeably affected.
(8)
Mold
means a characteristic fungus growth and is self-explanatory.
(9)
Imbedded dirt
means the presence of dirt or other extraneous material so imbedded in, or adhering to, the prune that it cannot be removed in normal processing.
(10)
Insect infestation
means the presence of insects, insect fragments or insect remains.
C.
Maximum tolerances.
Tolerance allowances shall be on a weight basis and shall not exceed the following:
(1) The tolerance allowance for decay shall not exceed one percent (1%).
(2) The combined tolerance allowance for mold, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed five percent (5%).
(3) The combined tolerance allowance for fermentation, skin or flesh damage, scab-burned, mold, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed eight percent (8%).
(4) The combined tolerance allowance for end cracks, fermentation, skin or flesh damage, scab, burned, mold, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed ten percent (10%), except that the first eight percent (8%) of end cracks shall be given one-half value and any additional percentage of end cracks shall be given full value.
(5) The combined tolerance allowance for off-color, inferior meat condition, end cracks, fermentation, skin or flesh damage, scab-burned, mold, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed twenty percent (20%), except that the first eight percent (8%) of end cracks shall be given one-half value and any additional percentage of end cracks shall be given full value.
(6) Prunes showing obvious live insect infestation shall be fumigated prior to acceptance.
D. Natural condition prunes must be properly dried and cured in original natural condition, without the addition of water, and free from active infestation, so that they are capable of being received, stored and packed without deterioration or spoilage.
II. Minimum standards for processed prunes:
A.
Defects.
Defects are: (1) Off-color; (2) inferior meat condition; (3) end cracks; (4) fermentation; (5) skin or flesh damage; (6) scab; (7) burned; (8) mold; (9) imbedded dirt; (10) insect infestation; (11) decay.
B.
Explanation of terms.
(1)
Off-color
means a dull color or skin differing noticeably in appearance from that which is characteristic of mature, properly handled fruit of a given variety or type.
(2)
Inferior meat condition
means flesh which is fibrous, woody or otherwise inferior due to immaturity to the extent that the characteristic texture of the meat is substantially affected.
(3)
End cracks
means callous growth, cracks, at the blossom end of prunes, aggregating more than three-eighths of one inch (
3/8
″) but not more than one-half of one inch (
1/2
″) in length.
(4)
Fermentation
means damage to the flesh by fermentation to the extent that the characteristic appearance or flavor is substantially affected.
(5)
Skin or flesh damage
means growth cracks, splits, breaks in skin or flesh of the following descriptions:
(a) Callous growth cracks, except end cracks as defined in this section, aggregating more than three-eighths of one inch (
3/8
″) in length;
(b) Splits or skin breaks exposing flesh and materially affecting the normal appearance of French prunes; or markedly affecting the normal appearance of varieties other than the French variety;
(c) Any cracks, splits or breaks open to the pit;
(d) Healed or unhealed surface or flesh blemishes caused by insect injury and which materially affect appearance, edibility or keeping quality.
(6)
Scab
means tough or thick scab exceeding in the aggregate the area of a circle three-eighths of one inch (
3/8
″) in diameter or by unsightly scab of another character exceeding in the aggregate the area of a circle three-fourths of one inch (
3/4
″) in diameter.
(7)
Burned
means injury by sunburn or excessive heat in dehydration to the extent that the characteristic appearance, flavor or edibility of the fruit is noticeably affected.
(8)
Mold
means a characteristic fungus growth and is self-explanatory.
(9)
Imbedded dirt
means the presence of dirt or other extraneous material so imbedded in, or adhering to, the prune that it cannot be readily removed in washing the fruit.
(10)
Insect infestation
means the presence of insects, insect fragments or insect remains.
C.
Maximum tolerances.
Tolerance allowances shall be on a weight basis and shall not exceed the following:
(1) There shall be no tolerance allowance for live insect infestation.
(2) The tolerance allowance for decay shall not exceed one percent (1%).
(3) The combined tolerance allowance for mold, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed five percent (5%).
(4) The combined tolerance allowance for fermentation, skin or flesh damage, scab, burned, mold, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed eight percent (8)%.
(5) The combined tolerance allowance for end cracks, fermentation, skin or flesh damage, scab, burned, mold, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed ten percent (10%), except that the first eight percent (8%) of end cracks shall be given one-half value and any additional percentage of end cracks shall be given full value.
(6) The combined tolerance allowance for off-color, inferior meat condition, end cracks, fermentation, skin or flesh damage, scab, burned, mold, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed twenty percent (20%), except that the first eight percent (8%) of end cracks shall be given one-
half value and any additional percentage of end cracks shall be given full value.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements

# Source:
26 FR 8278, Sept. 2, 1961, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 993.101
Order.
Order
means Marketing Agreement No. 110, as amended, and Order No. 993, as amended (§§ 993.1 through 993.97), regulating the handling of dried prunes produced in California, or as they may be further amended hereafter.
§ 993.102
Committee.
Committee
means the Prune Marketing Committee established pursuant to § 993.24.
[26 FR 8278, Sept. 2, 1961, as amended at 48 FR 57261, Dec. 29, 1983]
§ 993.103
Terms in the order.
Terms defined in the order shall have the same meaning when used in this subpart.
§ 993.104
Lot.
(a)
Lot
for the purposes of §§ 993.49 and 993.149 means any quantity of prunes delivered by one producer or one dehydrator to a handler on which inspection is requested:
Provided,
That a lot shall be limited to (1) the prunes contained in not more than 30 “ton box” containers or (2), if in other containers, not more than 60,000 pounds of prunes. If the prunes in any containers are markedly inferior in quality and condition to other prunes in the proffered lot, the containers shall be segregated into lots of reasonable uniform quality.
(b)
Lot
for the purposes of §§ 993.50 and 993.150 means:
(1) With respect to in-line inspection either (i) the aggregate quantity of prunes of the same size, other than those rejected by inspection, processed in any continuous production of one calendar day and packed during such day in one size and style of container or (ii) the aggregate quantity of prunes of the same size, other than those rejected by inspection, so processed and held in packing containers for later packaging.
(2) With respect to floor inspection either (i) prunes not previously inspected in-line, of the same size, in like containers, bearing the same identification (e.g., brand) if in consumer packages, and offered for inspection as a lot; or (ii) prunes previously inspected in-line but rejected as failing to meet requirements, of the same size, in like containers, processed in any continuous production of one calendar day, and offered for inspection as a new lot.
§ 993.105
Size count.
Size count
means the count or number of prunes per pound.
[26 FR 8278, Sept. 2, 1961. Redesignated at 35 FR 11380, July 16, 1970, and further redesignated at 37 FR 15980, Aug. 9, 1972]
§ 993.106
In-line inspection.
In-line inspection
means inspection of prunes where samples are drawn from a flow of prunes prior to packaging.
§ 993.107
Floor inspection.
Floor inspection
means inspection of prunes where samples are drawn from packaged prunes or from unpackaged prunes that are held in packing containers.
§ 993.108
Non-human consumption outlet.
Non-human consumption outlet
means any livestock feeder or manufacturer of inedible syrup, industrial alcohol, animal feed, or other product for non-human use, who has established, to the satisfaction of the committee, that any prunes or prune waste received for a non-human use will be used only within such outlet.
[26 FR 8278, Sept. 2, 1961; 26 FR 8483, Sept. 9, 1961]
§ 993.109
Modified definition of non-French prunes.
The definition of non-French prunes set forth in § 993.6 is modified to read as follows:
Non-French Prunes
means prunes commonly known as Imperial, Sugar, Robe de Sargent, Burton, Standard, Jefferson, Fellenberg,
Italian, President, Giant, Hungarian (Gross), and Moyer, produced from such varieties of plums.
[38 FR 22887, Aug. 27, 1973]

# Prune Administrative Committee
§ 993.128
Nominations for membership.
(a)
Districts.
In accordance with the provisions of § 993.28, the districts referred to therein are described as follows:
District No. 1.
The counties of Colusa, Glenn, Solano and Yolo.
District No. 2.
That portion of Sutter County north of a line extending along Franklin Road easterly to the Yuba County line and westerly to the Colusa County line.
District No. 3.
That portion of Sutter County south of a line extending along Franklin Road easterly to the Yuba County line and westerly to the Colusa County line.
District No. 4.
The counties of Alpine, Amador, Del Norte, El Dorado, Humboldt, Lake, Lassen, Mendocino, Modoc, Napa, Nevada, Placer, Plumas, Sacramento, Shasta, Sierra, Siskiyou, Sonoma, Tehama and Trinity.
District No. 5.
All of Butte County.
District No. 6.
All of Yuba County.
District No. 7.
The counties of Fresno, Kern, Kings, Madera Merced, San Benito, San Joaquin, Santa Clara, Tulare and all other counties not included in Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6.
(b)
Voting procedures
—(1)
Independent producers.
Prior to March 8 of each election year, the Committee shall cause a meeting to be held, in each of the election districts established pursuant to § 993.28(a) for the purpose of obtaining names of proposed candidates for nomination to the Secretary for selection as members and alternate members for the respective districts. Each such candidate must be a producer in the district for which he is proposed. Prior to March 15 of that election year, the Committee shall prepare for each district and mail to each independent producer of record in such district a ballot as prescribed in § 993.28(a). Each voter shall be entitled to cast only one vote for a member nominee and only one vote for an alternate member nominee in a district in which he is a producer, and no voter shall vote for candidates in more than one district. In case he is a producer in more than one district he shall elect in which of such districts he will vote and notify the Committee as to his choice. In order to be counted, such a mail ballot must be executed and returned to the Committee postmarked not later than the following March 31. One nominee for member and one nominee for alternate member for each district shall be submitted to the Secretary by the Committee on the basis of those receiving the plurality of the mail ballots cast for the respective positions in the particular district. Returns shall be considered in light of the voting by each district separately.
(2)
Independent handler nominees.
(i) Prior to March 15 of each election year, the Committee shall notify each independent handler of record of the group of independent handlers in which he has been classified pursuant to the provisions of § 993.28(c) and of the number of independent handler positions on the Committee for the ensuing term of office pursuant to the provisions of § 993.24 (b) and (c). Prior to April 1 of each election year, each of the two independent handlers classified in the group specified in § 993.28(c)(1) shall notify the Committee in writing of his nominee for member and nominee for alternate member as prescribed therein.
(ii) In any election year in which four member positions and four alternate member positions are assigned to independent handlers for the ensuing term of office, the Committee shall, prior to April 1 of such year, cause to be held a meeting of the three independent handlers classified in the group specified in § 993.28(c)(2) and a separate meeting of all other independent handlers classified in the group specified in § 993.28(c)(3). Each group at its meeting shall, from among that group, elect one member nominee and one alternate member nominee by plurality vote. Each handler present at the meeting of his group shall be entitled to one vote for a candidate for each position assigned to that group.
(iii) In any election year in which only three member positions and three alternate member positions are assigned to independent handlers for the ensuing term of office, the Committee shall, prior to April 1 thereof, cause to be held a meeting of all independent handlers except those classified in the
group specified in § 993.28(c)(1). At such meeting one member nominee and one alternate member nominee shall be elected in accordance with the applicable provisions of § 993.28(c).
[47 FR 7389, Feb. 19, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 5571, Feb. 16, 1990; 59 FR 8518, Feb. 23, 1994; 64 FR 72912, Dec. 29, 1999]

# Grade and Size Regulations
§ 993.149
Receiving of prunes by handlers.
(a)
Receiving stations
—(1)
General.
Prunes shall be received by a handler at any receiving station so designated by the Committee.
Receiving station
shall mean any plant of a handler or a dehydrator's premises; this term shall also mean any other place where prunes are normally and usually received by a handler in any considerable volume as ranch deliveries, and at which there are adequate facilities to enable the inspection service to determine whether the prunes meet the applicable grade, size, and condition requirements.
(2)
Receiving at dehydrator.
Any handler may arrange with the committee and the inspection service for the incoming inspection and certification to be based on samples of prunes drawn as prune plums and dehydrated in the same manner as the prunes to which they are referable. Where such arrangement is acceptable to the Committee as permitting the inspection and certification of the prunes to be comparable to an inspection and certification when based on samples drawn as prunes, such certification shall be acceptable for the purposes of this section if the inspector further certifies that the dehydration process of the prunes being certified resulted in prunes eligible to be received under the terms and conditions of this part.
(b)
Inspection stations.
Prunes shall be inspected only at inspection stations established by the inspection service with the concurrence of the Committee.
Inspection station
shall mean a centralized station and any receiving station other than a handler's plant or a dehydrator's premises.
(c)
Incoming inspection
—(1)
General.
Upon any producer or dehydrator delivering prunes to a handler, the handler shall issue to the inspection service an identification tag showing the name and address of such producer or dehydrator, the date of delivery, the county of production, the number and type of containers, the approximate net weight of the prunes, the place where the prunes are to be inspected, and any other information necessary to identify such prunes to the satisfaction of the inspector and the Committee. For each such delivery, the handler shall issue to the producer or dehydrator a door receipt or weight certificate showing the name and address of the producer or dehydrator, the weight of the delivery, and any other information necessary to identify the delivery. Such information shall be available to the inspector and the Committee. Each lot shall be sampled separately and as soon as practicable following delivery. The handler shall supply any necessary information together with any assistance needed by the inspector in drawing samples including the dumping of containers.
(2)
Certification.
Following inspection of a lot not returned to the producer or dehydrator, the handler shall require the inspection service to issue, in quintuplicate, a certificate containing at least the following information: (i) The place where samples were drawn and the date and place of inspection; (ii) the name and address of the producer or dehydrator, the handler, and the inspection service; (iii) the variety of the prunes, the county in which such prunes were produced, the number and type of the containers thereof, the net weight of the prunes as shown on the applicable door receipt or weight certificate, together with the number of such receipt or certificate, and the contract or account number under which the prunes were delivered; (iv) whenever applicable, the percentage by weight of undersized prunes in the lot; (v) with respect to the balance of the lot, the inspector's computation of the percentage, by screen size of prunes and in the aggregate, of each group or combination of groups of defects for which a maximum tolerance is in effect; (vi) whether the prunes in the lot, exclusive of any undersigned prunes, are standard or substandard; (vii) the
inspector's computation of the percentage of weight of each screen size and in the aggregate, of off-grade prunes (those defective pursuant to § 993.97) necessary to be removed therefrom in order for the remainder in each screen size and in the aggregate to be standard prunes, and (viii) the average size count of prunes of each screen size and of the aggregate:
Provided,
That whenever an undersized prune regulation is in effect for the crop year, the average size count shall be of all prunes except undersized prunes in the lot, by screen size and in the aggregate. The handlers shall require the inspection service to furnish promptly the producer or dehydrator with one copy of the certificate and the handler with two copies.
(d)
Conditional provisions
—(1)
Wet or slack-dry prunes.
Any prunes delivered to a handler by a producer or dehydrator which an inspector determines have not been properly dried and cured in original natural condition, or which show evidence of the addition thereto of water, may be held by the handler for the account of the producer or dehydrator for conditioning by further drying or dehydration:
Provided,
That such prunes shall be identified and kept separate and apart from any other prunes in the handler's possession until resubmitted for inspection and certificated as properly dried and cured, or returned to the producer or dehydrator. The certificate shall show, in addition to other inspection requirements, that the conditioning was performed and indicate the net weight after conditioning.
(2)
Prunes with active insect infestation.
Any prunes delivered to a handler which an inspector determines are not free from active insect infestation, may be returned to the producer or dehydrator or may be held by the handler for the account of the producer or dehydrator for conditioning by fumigation:
Provided,
That such prunes shall be identified and kept separate and apart from any other prunes in the handler's possession until resubmitted for inspection and certificated to show, in addition to other inspection requirements, performance of fumigation and freedom from active infestation.
(3)
High moisture content prunes.
The delivery of any high moisture content prunes to a handler by a producer or dehydrator shall be reported promptly by the handler to the inspection service. The inspection service shall be requested to submit a report to the committee of each such delivery which shall contain the following information: (i) The date and place of the delivery; (ii) the name and address of the producer or dehydrator, the handler, and the inspection service; and (iii) the variety of the high moisture content prunes, the county in which they were produced, and their net weight as shown on the door receipt or weight certificate, together with the number of such receipt or certificate. Any handler who, subsequent to delivery to him of high moisture content prunes, elects to dry or dehydrate them or any portion thereof to a point where they are capable of being received by such handler shall, prior to proceeding with such drying or dehydration, notify an inspector of the inspection service of his election, and the same procedure shall apply as set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. For each day on which a handler processes and packages high moisture content prunes, he shall furnish promptly to the inspector a signed statement and one copy showing the handler's name and address and the net weight of the total tonnage of high moisture content prunes processed and packaged by him on that day. The handler shall furnish promptly to the inspector two copies of the shipping or disposition order or other documents which shall show the date of each shipment or disposition, the applicable reference number thereof, and an adequate description of the shipment or disposition. One copy of each document so furnished shall be required to be forwarded to the committee. Upon request of the committee a handler shall, within ten days thereafter, file with the committee a signed report on Form PMC 3.1 “Report of High Moisture Content Prunes” which shall contain the following information: (i) The date and the name and address of the handler; (ii) the total tonnage of high moisture content prunes delivered to the handler during the crop year to the date of the report; (iii)
the total tonnage of high moisture content prunes shipped or otherwise disposed of by the handler during such period; (iv) the total tonnage of high moisture content prunes delivered to the handler during such period which were dried or dehydrated and received as prunes by the handler; and (v) the total tonnage of high moisture content prunes in the handler's possession on the date of the report.
(4)
Return of prunes to producers and dehydrators.
Any lot of prunes delivered to a handler by a producer or dehydrator may be returned to the producer or dehydrator prior to an inspection thereof. Any lot of prunes so delivered whose identity has been maintained may be so returned following an inspection thereof, except prunes which have been size graded or sorted by the handler, resulting in a segregation of defects. Prunes which have been sorted for the producer or dehydrator, the identity of which have been maintained to the satisfaction of the inspector and the Committee, may be resubmitted for inspection in not more than three new lots, equal in weight to the original lot, and the applicable inspections shall supersede the original inspection.
[26 FR 8278, Sept. 2, 1961, as amended at 33 FR 11812, Aug. 21, 1968; 33 FR 12033, Aug. 24, 1968; 33 FR 14172, Sept. 19, 1968; 35 FR 11380, July 16, 1970; 37 FR 15980, Aug. 9, 1972; 39 FR 30343, Aug. 22, 1974; 43 FR 40199, Sept. 11, 1978; 48 FR 57261, Dec. 29, 1983; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 993.150
Disposition of prunes by handlers.
(a)
Inspection stations.
An inspection station shall be any plant of a handler, and any other place where he handles prunes.
(b)
Outgoing inspection.
Except as otherwise specifically provided, no handler shall ship or otherwise make final disposition of natural condition prunes or of processed prunes unless he has, prior to such shipment or final disposition, had them inspected and obtained a certificate showing that such prunes meet the effective minimum standards. Such inspection shall be made during that portion of the final preparation of the prunes for shipment or other final disposition as will permit proper sampling, whether in-line or floor inspection, and no handler shall perform such final preparation unless an inspector is present. The handler shall furnish promptly to the inspector a copy of the shipping or disposition order or other documents, which shall show the date of each shipment or disposition, the applicable reference number thereof, and an adequate description of the shipment or disposition. For the prunes inspected each day which meet the applicable minimum grade and size requirements for standard prunes, or standard processed prunes, the handler shall cause the inspector to issue in triplicate a signed certificate containing the following information:
(1) The date and place of inspection;
(2) The name and address of the handler and of the inspection service;
(3) The number and size of packages or the net weight of prunes;
(4) The number of the worksheet or worksheets on which the inspector's computations and results of tests are recorded; and
(5) A statement that the prunes meet the effective minimum standards for standard prunes, or standard processed prunes, as the case may be.
(c)
Interhandler transfers.
With the exception of those prunes held by a handler pending their disposition pursuant to § 993.49(c) and those prunes held by him for the account of the Committee pursuant to § 993.57, a handler may transfer prunes to another handler within the area. Any such interhandler transfer may be without the transferring handler having an inspection made as provided for in § 993.51:
Provided,
That before each such transfer the transferring handler shall: (1) Give written notice of the transfer to the inspection service including the proposed date of the transfer, the names of the handlers and, by plant designation, the present location and the destination of the prunes, the number of containers, variety, size designation, and total net weight of the prunes, and the manifest or billing number; and (2) receive from the inspection service a DFA Form P-5 “Shipping Inspection Report and Certificate” marked “Interhandler Transfer Report” on which the inspection service recorded the information furnished by the transferring handler. The transferring handler shall sign the
“Interhandler Transfer Report” including all copies thereof that were received from the inspection service, and forward the signed original and one copy to the receiving handler at the time of the interhandler transfer. Upon receipt of the transferred prunes, the receiving handler shall enter on both the original and the copy the date he received the prunes, sign the original, and immediately forward it to the inspection service. The transferring handler shall cause the inspection service to promptly report the transfer to the Committee. As provided in § 993.50(f), the receiving handler shall, before shipping or otherwise making final disposition of such prunes, comply with the requirements of §§ 993.50 and 993.51.
(d)
Tolerances for non-French prunes.
Any lot of standard prunes or standard processed prunes containing more than 2 percent by weight of non-French prunes shall be disposed of only in prune product outlets as prescribed in § 993.50(c) unless the non-French prunes therein have an average count of 40 or less per pound and unless in a 100-ounce sample of the lot, the count per pound of 10 ounces of the smallest prunes in the sample does not vary from the count per pound of 10 ounces of the largest prunes in the sample by more than 35 points. A lot shall be deemed to exceed the 2 percent tolerance for non-French prunes whenever an inspection shows such prunes exceed 2 percent in any four consecutive sampling units of two tons or less or, if less than four such units are sampled, in such lesser number of units.
(e)
Prunes which fail to meet minimum standards
—(1)
Committee's approval of disposition
—(i)
General.
Those defective prunes accumulated by a handler by removing them from standard or substandard prunes, and those prunes received or held by a handler which fail to meet the applicable minimum standards and are held for disposition without removal of defective prunes in excess of maximum tolerances, may only be used, if within the tolerances prescribed in § 993.97 II. C. (1), (2), and (3), for prune products, or if any such tolerances are exceeded and any live infestation corrected by fumigation, for non-human consumption or be destroyed. In order to insure that all such prunes are shipped or otherwise disposed of in accordance with § 993.50(e), no handler shall during any crop year ship or otherwise make final disposition of any such prunes, other than prune waste subject to daily non-human disposition for sanitation purposes, unless prior thereto he had obtained during that crop year (except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section) the Committee's approval of his application to do so.
(ii)
Application for approval.
The handler's application to ship or otherwise make final disposition of any such prunes shall be submitted on Form PMC 2.2 “Application for Permission to Dispose of Substandard Prunes”. If the prunes are for shipment, the application shall set forth: (
a
) The name and address of the handler's vendee and the name and address of the consignee whether the same as or different from the vendee; (
b
) the particular use to be made of the prunes; (
c
) if such use is to be by a person other than the handler's vendee or the consignee, the name and address of such user; and (
d
) the crop year or the period within, or the portion of, the crop year during which shipments are to be made. When the use or the name and address of the consignee or user are not known by the handler, the handler shall arrange for the submission of such information to the Committee. If use is to be by the handler, the application shall so indicate and shall set forth all applicable information. Each application for shipment shall be limited to the handler's vendee and the consignee if different from the vendee, and to a specific user and use, and may be open as to quantity:
Provided,
That, when the use or name and address of the user are not known by the handler, the application shall include the quantity of prunes to be shipped and be limited to that quantity. Each application for final disposition for a particular use by the handler shall be limited to such handler and use.
(iii)
Approval of applications.
The Committee's approval of a handler's application shall be transmitted to the handler on Form PMC 2.3 “Permission to Dispose of Substandard Prunes”. In
approving an application, the Committee shall specify the crop year, or the period within or the portion of the crop year, for which the approval is granted:
Provided,
That, the Committee may approve in July any such application that is submitted during that month by the handler for shipment or other final disposition of the prunes covered thereby in the succeeding crop year. When the use or the name and address of the user or consignee are not known to the handler, the Committee shall not approve the application until it has been informed as to such use and user and consignee of the prunes.
(iv)
Disapproval of applications; or revocation of approved applications.
In acting on an application, the Committee may disapprove the application when: (
a
) The application does not conform with the requirements of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section; (
b
) the Committee has cause to believe that the prunes covered by the application will not be shipped or disposed of in accordance with the application; or (
c
) the handler, or any of the parties involved in the proposed shipment or disposition, had shipped or made other disposition of prunes covered by a previously approved application inconsistent with that application. The Committee may for cause revoke a handler's previously approved application if he ships or makes other disposition inconsistent with such application. Whenever a user uses prunes inconsistent with an approved application, the Committee may for cause revoke such application, and such other approved applications applicable to such user as the Committee deems necessary to assure that the prunes covered by such applications will not be used in a manner inconsistent with those applications or the order. The Committee shall notify the handler in writing of each disapproval and each revocation.
(v)
Evidence of non-human disposition.
Whenever defective or substandard prunes or prune waste are shipped to or otherwise disposed of in non-human consumption outlets, or destroyed, the handler shall furnish the Committee with a copy of the shipping document or other documentary evidence of the disposition as may be satisfactory to the Committee and at such times as the Committee may direct.
(vi)
Books and records.
Each handler who ships or otherwise disposes of defective or substandard prunes or prune waste shall make available for examination by the Committee, at his business office at any reasonable time during business hours, copies of all applicable purchase orders, sales contracts, or disposition documents, together with any further information which the Committee may deem necessary or desirable to enable it to determine whether such prunes or prune waste have been or will likely be utilized as authorized.
(2)
Out of the area shipments.
Whenever substandard prunes for human consumption are packed in closed containers, and if for shipment outside the area they shall be so packed, each such container shall be clearly marked “For Manufacturing Purposes Only”. Whenever substandard prunes restricted to non-human usage are shipped in closed containers, each such container shall be clearly marked “For Non-Human Usage”. In each instance, the letters shall be of reasonable prominence and in a conspicuous place on the container.
(3)
Inspection of substandard prunes.
Each handler shall cause substandard prunes, for use in prune products, to be inspected (prior to disposition or shipment by a handler) by an inspector, and that such inspector issue, in triplicate, a signed clearance certificate (for the preparation of which the handler shall make available to the inspector the necessary data) containing the following information:
(i) The date and place of inspection and clearance;
(ii) The name and address of the inspection service and of the handler;
(iii) The number and kind of packages, the net weight, and the adequacy of the marking;
(iv) The lot number or shipping or disposition order number;
(v) The committee's approval number;
(vi) The destination; and
(vii) The actual percentage of off-grade prunes of each group, or combination of groups, of defects in excess of the then current tolerances for
standard prunes or standard processed prunes.
(f)
Pitted prunes
—(1)
For human consumption as such.
(i) No handler shall ship or otherwise make final disposition of any lot of pitted prunes for human consumption as pitted prunes unless the lot, before pitting, met (A) the applicable minimum standard set forth in § 993.97 (Exhibit A), or as such standards may be modified, for standard prunes or standard processed prunes, and (B) the requirements specified in § 993.50 (c) and (d).
(ii) No handler shall ship or otherwise make final disposition of any lot of pitted prunes for human consumption as pitted prunes unless these prunes do not exceed an average of 0.5 percent by count of prunes with whole pits and/or pit fragments 2 mm or longer; and four of ten subsamples examined have no more than 0.5 percent by count of prunes with whole pits and/or pit fragments 2 mm or longer. For the purposes of this paragraph (f)(1)(ii), pitted prunes means prunes with the pit removed that are characterized by a uniform depression and minimal skin break where the pit has been removed.
(iii) No handler shall ship or otherwise make final disposition of any lot of macerated prunes for human consumption as pitted prunes unless these prunes do not exceed an average of 2 percent by count of prunes with whole pits and/or pit fragments 2 mm or longer; and four of ten subsamples examined have no more than 2 percent by count with whole pits and/or pit fragments 2 mm or longer. For the purposes of this paragraph (f)(1)(iii), macerated prunes means prunes with the pit removed that are characterized by a flattened appearance with slightly more skin breaks where the pit has been removed than with pitted prunes.
(2)
For use in prune products.
Any lot of substandard prunes, whether natural condition or processed, if within the applicable tolerances prescribed in § 993.97 II C (1), (2), and (3), may be pitted and shipped or disposed of for use and used in prune products for human consumption:
Provided,
That prior to shipment or other final disposition by handler, such prunes have lost their form and character as prunes to the satisfaction of the inspector and the committee. An inspection certificate on such lot shall not be issued until the inspector has determined that the prunes therein have lost their form and character as prunes. Disposition of pitted prunes by handlers for use in prune products shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of paragraph (e) of this section.
(g)
Disposition of undersized prunes
—(1)
Application for and approval of disposition.
Undersized prunes accumulated by a handler pursuant to section 993.49(c) shall be disposed of in non-human consumption outlets during the crop year in which the prunes establishing such obligations were received from producers or dehydrators, or such later date that a handler may request in a notice, filed with the Committee at least 30 days prior to July 31 of the year of accumulation:
Provided,
That, such handler has made a bona fide effort to dispose of its undersized prunes as demonstrated by the shipment of at least 65 percent of its undersized obligation by May 31; such handler has a sufficient quantity of undersized prunes held in storage to meet its remaining obligation; and the extension of time requested is not later than 60 days beyond the end of the crop year. Prior to making any such disposition, the handler shall obtain the Committee's approval of his application to do so. The handler's application to ship or otherwise make final disposition of any such undersized prunes shall be submitted on Form PMC 2.21 “Application for Permission to Dispose of Undersized Prunes” which shall set forth: (i) The name and address of the handler's vendee and the name and address of the consignee whether the same as or different from the vendee; (ii) the particular use to be made of the prunes; (iii) if such use is to be by a person other than the handler's vendee or the consignee, the name and address of such user; and (iv) the crop year or the period within, or portion of, the crop year during which shipment or other disposition is to be made. When the use or the name and address of the consignee or user are not known by the handler, the handler shall arrange for the submission of such information to the Committee. If use is to be by the
handler, the application shall so indicate and shall set forth all applicable information. Each application for shipment shall be limited to the handler's vendee and the consignee, if different from the vendee, and to a specific user and use. Each application for final disposition for a particular use by the handler shall be limited to such handler and use. The Committee's approval of a handler's application shall be transmitted to the handler on Form PMC 2.31 “Permission to Dispose of Undersized Prunes.” In approving an application, the Committee shall specify the crop year or the period within, or the portion of, the crop year for which the approval is granted. When the use or name and address of the user or consignee are not known to the handler, the Committee shall not approve the application until it has been informed as to such use and user and consignee of the prunes. The requirements of § 993.150(e)(1)(iv) (except item (
a
) thereof), (v), and (vi) with regard to disapproval of applications or revocation of approved applications, evidence of nonhuman disposition, and the maintenance of books and records, applicable to prunes which fail to meet minimum standards, shall also apply to undersized prunes.
(2)
Documentation of disposition of undersized prunes
—(i)
Documentation of shipment or other disposition.
For each quantity of undersized prunes so shipped or otherwise disposed of, the handler shall promptly forward to the Committee one copy of the applicable bill of lading, truck receipt, or related documentation of disposition which shall show: (
a
) The name of the consignee; (
b
) the destination by name and address of the person designated to receive the prunes; (
c
) the date of shipment or other disposition; (
d
) the net weight of the prunes; and (
e
) identification of the prunes as undersized prunes.
(3)
Tolerances permitting a deviation in prune sizes from applicable undersized openings
—(i)
Undersized French prunes.
Whenever an undersized regulation specifies an opening for French prunes, any quantity of any size of French prunes disposed of by a handler in compliance with § 993.50(g) shall satisfy a handler's undersized disposition.
(ii)
Undersized non-French prunes.
Whenever an undersized regulation specifies an opening for non-French prunes, any quantity of any size of non-French prunes disposed of by a handler in compliance with § 993.50(g) shall satisfy a handler's undersized disposition.
[26 FR 8280, Sept. 2, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 458, Jan. 17, 1962; 29 FR 2331, Feb. 11, 1964; 33 FR 14172, Sept. 19, 1968; 35 FR 5108, Mar. 24, 1970; 35 FR 11381, July 16, 1970; 37 FR 15980, Aug. 9, 1972; 40 FR 52838, Nov. 13, 1975; 48 FR 57261, Dec. 29, 1983; 57 FR 56243, Nov. 27, 1992; 58 FR 13698, Mar. 15, 1993; 59 FR 10228, Mar. 3, 1994]

# Reserve Control
§ 993.156
Application of reserve percentage.
The reserve obligation of each handler shall be determined by applying the reserve percentage to the weight of prunes in each lot, after deducting the weight of prunes in such lot shown as a percentage on the applicable inspection certificate as necessary to be removed therefrom pursuant to § 993.49(c), in such manner as may be prescribed in such reserve control regulation established for the crop year in which such lot is received by a handler from a producer or dehydrator.
[30 FR 13311, Oct. 20, 1965]
§ 993.157
Holding and delivery of reserve prunes.
(a)
Sales and deliveries.
Committee sales and deliveries of reserve prunes from the holdings of any handler shall not exceed the quantity of reserve prunes required to be held by him. The reserve prune holding requirement of the handler shall be reduced by the tonnage so sold or delivered.
(b)
Assistance to handlers.
As assistance to handlers, the committee shall furnish each handler a monthly tabulation, beginning as soon as possible after the start of the crop year, showing his reserve obligation and holding requirement based on records on file with the committee.
(c)
Failure to hold and deliver reserve prunes in accordance with reserve obligation.
In the event a handler fails to hold for the committee and deliver his total reserve prune obligation in any category and is unable to rectify such
a deficiency with salable prunes, he shall compensate the committee in an amount computed by multiplying the pounds of natural condition prunes so deficient by the applicable values established by the committee:
Provided,
That the remedies prescribed herein shall be in addition to, and not exclusive of, any of the remedies or penalties prescribed in the act with respect to noncompliance. The determination of any such deficiency shall include application of any tolerance allowance for shrinkage in weight, increase in the number of prunes per pound, and normal and natural deterioration and spoilage which may then be in effect.
(d)
Excess delivery of prunes to the committee.
In the event a handler delivers to the committee as reserve prunes a quantity of prunes in excess of his holding requirement for reserve prunes, the committee shall make such practical adjustments as are consistent with this part and this may include compensating the handler for such excess (nonreserve prunes) by paying to him the proceeds received by the committee for such excess.
(e)
Holding reserve prunes on other than a handler's premises.
No handler shall hold reserve prunes on the premises of another handler, or in approved commercial storage other than on his own premises, unless prior thereto he notifies the committee in a certified report on Form PMC 5.1 “Notice of Proposed Intent to Store Reserve Prunes” which shall contain at least the following information: (1) The date and the name and address of the handler; (2) the name and address of the person on whose premises the reserve prunes will be stored for the handler; (3) the approximate quantity to be so stored and the exact location and description of the storage facilities; and (4) the proposed date that such storage will begin. The report shall be accompanied by a signed statement by the persons on whose premises the reserve prunes are to be stored agreeing to hold such prunes under conditions of proper storage and further agreeing to permit access to such premises by the committee at any time during business hours for the purpose of examining or taking delivery of such prunes in accordance with the provisions of this part. No handler shall be permitted to hold reserve prunes on any premises outside the area.
(f)
Exchange of salable prunes for reserve prunes.
No handler shall exchange salable prunes for reserve prunes unless he has entered into a sales agreement authorized pursuant to § 993.65(b) whereby the value of any such exchange, and payment therefor to the committee, shall be determined.
(g)
Delivery by nonsignatory handlers.
Any handler not signing the sales agreement authorized pursuant to § 993.65(b), shall deliver to the Committee, upon demand, the total weight of his reserve obligation by such variety, grade, and size categories, and at the count per pound for each size category as is required by the reserve control regulation of the applicable crop year. Such deliveries of prunes may be either graded prunes or any lot of ungraded prunes, or portion thereof, identifiable to the satisfaction of the committee as being in the same form as when received:
Provided,
That the percent of standard prunes in each lot shall be taken into account but with respect to any lot of graded prunes, no credit shall be given to the standard obligation of the handler if in a sample of 100 ounces, the count per pound of 10 ounces of the smallest prunes exceeds the count per pound of 10 ounces of the largest prunes by more than 45 prunes per pound.
[33 FR 19162, Dec. 24, 1968, as amended at 48 FR 57261, Dec. 29, 1983]
§ 993.158
Deferment of reserve withholding.
Any handler who desires to defer withholding pursuant to the provisions of § 993.58 shall notify the committee on Form PMC 9.1, “Notification of Desire for Deferment of Reserve Withholding”, containing at least the following information: (a) The date and the name and address of the handler; (b) the total salable prunes acquired or under contract with producers and dehydrators; (c) the period for which deferment is requested; and (d) the tonnage of reserve prunes, by categories, on which deferment is requested. The notification shall be accompanied by
the undertaking and bond or bonds required by § 993.58. No handler shall defer withholding of reserve prunes until he has filed the required undertaking and bond or bonds with the committee and has received its acceptance.
[30 FR 13311, Oct. 20, 1965, as amended at 48 FR 57261, Dec. 29, 1983]
§ 993.159
Payments for services performed with respect to reserve tonnage prunes.
(a)
Payment for crop year of acquisition.
Each handler shall, with respect to reserve prunes held by the handler for the account of the Committee pursuant to § 993.59, be paid at a rate computed by the Committee (natural condition rate) for necessary services rendered by the handler in connection with such prunes so held during all or any part of the crop year in which the prunes were physically received from producers or dehydrators. Each handler holding reserve prunes shall perform such services to assure that the prunes are maintained in good condition. No payment will be made for prunes released by handler acceptance of diversion certificates if the handler has not stored the released prunes. The rate of payment shall be established by the Committee and must be approved by the Secretary. Following such approval, it shall be publicized as required in paragraph (e) of this section.
(1) On or before July 20 of each crop year when the Committee recommends a reserve pool (except the Committee may extend this date by not more than ten business days if warranted by a late crop), the Committee shall hold a meeting to review the costs for necessary services rendered by handlers in connection with reserve prunes.
(2) Such amount shall, together with the additional payments, as provided in this section, be in full payment for the costs incurred in connection with but not be limited to the following services: Inspection, receiving, storing, grading, fumigation, and handling. The costs include, but are not limited to:
(i) Acquisition costs, which include those for salaries, commission, or brokerage fees, transportation and handling between plants and receiving stations, inspection, and other costs, including container expenses, incidental to acquisition or storage;
(ii) Direct labor costs, which include those for weighing, receiving and stacking, grading, preliminary sorting and storing (including that performed by the handler at the receiving station), and loading for shipment or other delivery to the Committee or its designee;
(iii) Plant overhead costs, which include those for supervision, indirect labor, fuel, power and water, taxes and insurance on facilities, depreciation and rent, repairs and maintenance (clean-up, etc.), factory supplies and expense, and employee benefits (payroll taxes, compensation insurance, health insurance, pension plan contributions, vacation pay, holiday and other paid days off, and other such costs).
(3) The Committee shall survey all handlers to obtain their costs for services performed with respect to reserve tonnage prunes. The Committee will compute the average industry cost for holding reserve pool prunes by adding each handlers' cost data, and dividing the composite figure by the number of handlers participating in the survey. In the event that any handler's cost data is too low or too high, the Committee may choose to exclude the high and low data in computing an industry average. The industry average costs may be rounded to the nearest $0.25. The industry average costs computed by the Committee shall be publicized by the Committee pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
Reimbursement for required insurance costs.
Each handler holding reserve prunes for the account of the Committee shall maintain proper insurance thereon, including fire and extended coverage, in valuations (according to grade and/or size) established by, or acceptable to, the Committee for the particular crop year. The Committee shall reimburse the handler for the actual costs of such insurance. Prior to the receipt of reserve prunes at the beginning of each crop year, the handler shall certify to the Committee and the Secretary of Agriculture, on Form PMC 4.5, that such handler has a fire and extended coverage policy fully insuring all reserve prunes received by
the handler during such crop year. Such certification shall contain the following information:
(1) The name and address of the handler;
(2) The location(s) where reserve prunes will be held for the account of the Committee and the premium rate per $100 value per annum at each location;
(3) The value per ton at which the reserve prunes are insured; and
(4) The name and address of the insurance underwriter.
(c)
Certain additional payments in connection with the holding of reserve prunes for the account of the Committee.
(1) Whenever a handler is directed by the Committee to move and dump containers or reserve prunes held by the handler for the account of the Committee for the purpose of causing an inspection to be made of the prunes as provided in § 993.75, but without taking delivery of the prunes at that time, the handler shall be paid for such services at a rate per ton (natural condition weight) determined by the Committee and approved by the Secretary of Agriculture. Such reimbursement rate shall be computed as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and publicized as required in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Additional payment for reserve tonnage prunes held beyond the crop year of acquisition shall be made in accordance with this paragraph. Each handler holding reserve prunes shall complete such services so that the Committee is assured that the prunes are maintained in good condition.
(i) For storage and necessary fumigation, each handler shall be compensated at a per ton rate announced by the Committee in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section:
(A) For all or any part of the first 3 months of the succeeding crop year, the rate per ton shall be 10 percent of the yearly rate established for the crop year of acquisition;
(B) For all or any part of the second 3 months of the succeeding crop year, the rate per ton shall be 50 percent of the rate established for the first 3 months of the succeeding crop year;
(C) For all or any part of the third 3 months of the succeeding crop year, the rate per ton shall be 25 percent of the rate established for the first 3 months of the succeeding crop year;
(D) For all or any part of the fourth 3 months of the succeeding crop year, the rate per ton shall be 25 percent of the rate established for the first 3 months of the succeeding crop year;
(ii) For all or part of the succeeding crop year, the Committee shall determine the per ton rate for bin rental within the industry and announce bin rental rate to the industry pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
(iii) For insurance as prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Certain additional payments in connection with the delivery of reserve prunes to the Committee or its designee.
(1) Whenever a handler is directed by the Committee to deliver to it or its designee reserve prunes in natural condition, the Committee shall furnish the handler with the containers in which to deliver the prunes, or reimburse the handler, at cost, for any containers which the handler furnishes pursuant to an agreement with the Committee.
(2) Whenever the Committee arranges with a handler for the reserve prunes delivered to it or its designee to be in processed and packaged condition, the Committee shall reimburse the handler at the agreed rate, determined by the Committee to be reasonable, for the processing, container, and packaging costs.
(e) The Committee shall give reasonable publicity to producer and handler members and alternates who serve on the Committee, commercial dehydrators, handlers, and the cooperative bargaining association(s) of each meeting to consider handler payment rates or any modification thereof, and each such meeting shall be open to them. Similar publicity shall be given to producer and handler members and alternates who serve on the Committee, commercial dehydrators, handlers, and the cooperative bargaining association(s) of each payment rate modification submitted to USDA for review and approval. The Committee shall notify producer and handler members and alternates who serve on the Committee, commercial dehydrators, handlers, and cooperative bargaining
association(s) of USDA's action on payment rates and conditions for payment by first class mail and/or by electronic communications.
[68 FR 17543, Apr. 10, 2003]

# Voluntary Diversion
§ 993.162
Voluntary prune plum diversion.
(a)
Quantity to be diverted.
The Committee shall indicate the quantity of prune plums that producers may divert pursuant to § 993.62 whenever it recommends to the Secretary that diversion operations for a crop year be permitted. Whenever diversion operation for a crop year have been authorized by the Secretary, the Committee shall notify producers, commercial dehydrators, and handlers, known to it of such authorization and diversion program procedures. The Committee shall compute the dried weight equivalent of prune plums so diverted on a dryaway basis as follows:
(1) For prune plums of the French variety, the Committee shall survey at least eight commercial prune dehydrators that are geographically dispersed within the production area to obtain their annual dryaway ratios for each of the preceding five crop years, and compute a five-year average dryaway ratio for each dehydrator. The Committee shall then add together the participating commercial dehydrators' five-year average dryaway ratios for each producing region within the production area, and divide the total by the number of participating commercial dehydrators in that region to compute the dryaway ratio by producing region. In the event any of the annual dryaway ratios for any of the crop years is abnormally high or low in any year, the Committee may replace the abnormal year's data with that of an earlier year. The prune producing regions for which dryaway ratios shall be computed for prune plums of the French variety are as follows:
(i) North Sacramento Valley, which includes the counties of Butte, Glenn, Shasta, and Tehama;
(ii) South Sacramento, Napa, Sonoma, and Santa Clara Valleys, which includes the counties of Amador, Colusa, Lake, Placer, Solano, Sutter, Yolo, Yuba, Napa, Sonoma, San Benito, and Santa Clara; and
(iii) San Joaquin Valley, which includes the counties of Fresno, Kern, Kings, Madera, Merced, San Joaquin, Stanislaus, and Tulare.
(A)
New producing counties within the area.
If there were new producing counties within the State of California, the Committee will, with the approval of the Secretary, assign the new prune producing county or counties, as the case may be, to one of the prune producing regions based on geographic proximity and/or production/dehydration characteristics. The addition of a county or counties, as the case may be, to one of the producing regions will be announced to the industry.
(B)
Removal of a county from a production area.
When prune acreage ceases to exist in a county, the Committee will, with the approval of the Secretary, remove that county from the existing region. Removal of a county from a production region also will be announced to the industry.
(2) For prune plums of the non-French variety, the dryaway ratio shall be 1 pound for each 3.50 pounds of prune plums diverted. The prune-producing region for prune plums of non-French varieties is the State of California.
(b)
Eligible diversions.
Eligible diversions shall preclude prune plums from becoming prunes and may include the following methods:
(1) Disposing of harvested prune plums under Committee supervision for nonhuman use at a location and in a manner satisfactory to the Committee;
(2) Leaving unharvested the entire production of prune plums from a solid block of bearing trees designated by the producer applying for the diversion of removing prune plum trees prior to harvest; and/or
(3) Such other diversions as may be authorized by the Committee and approved by the Secretary.
(4) In accordance with § 993.62(c), eligible diversion shall not apply to prune plums, which would not, under normal producer practices, be dried and delivered to a handler. On or before July 20 of each crop year when the Committee recommends a reserve pool and diversion program (except the Committee
with the approval of the Secretary may extend this date by not more than 10 business days if warranted by a late crop), the Committee shall identify, with the approval of the Secretary, the acceptable method(s) of voluntary prune plum diversion through reasonable publicity to producers, commercial dehydrators, handlers, and the cooperative bargaining association(s). For the purposes of this section, cooperative bargaining association means a nonprofit cooperative association of dried prune producers engaged within the production area in bargaining with handlers as to price and otherwise arranging for the sale of natural condition dried prunes of its members.
(c)
Applications for diversion
—(1)
By producers.
Each producer desiring to divert prune plums of his own production shall, prior to diversion, file with the Committee a certified application on Form PMC 10.1 “Application for Prune Plum Diversion” containing at least the following information:
(i) The name and address of the producer; whether the producer is an owner-operator, share-landlord, share-tenant, or cash tenant; and the name and address of any other person or persons sharing a proprietary interest in such prune plums;
(ii) The proposed method of diversion and the location where the diversion is to take place;
(iii) The quantity and variety of prune plums proposed to be diverted; and
(iv) The approximate period of diversion.
(v) A deposit fee shall accompany each producer's application to cover costs associated with processing the application and administering the diversion program. The Committee shall compute, with the approval of the Secretary, and announce to the industry, the deposit fee. The deposit fee announced shall be a set dollar amount or a per ton cost based on the tonnage to be diverted. The fee paid by the applicant shall be the greater of these amounts.
(2)
By dehydrator as agent.
Any producer, or group of producers, may authorize a dehydrator to act as an agent to divert harvested prune plums. Prior to diversion such dehydrator shall submit to the Committee an application on Form PMC 10.1 “Application for Prune Plum Diversion” for each producer or group of producers under contract with the dehydrator. A deposit fee shall accompany each such application to cover the costs associated with processing the application and administration of the program. With respect to any group of four or more producers under contract with a dehydrator, the deposit fee for the group shall be the greater of either double the single deposit fee, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, or the amount obtained by multiplying the total tonnage of prune plums to be diverted by the group of producers covered in the dehydrator's application times the per ton deposit rate announced by the Committee pursuant to (c)(1) of this section.
(3)
Receipt of applications.
The Committee shall establish, and give prompt notice to the industry, a final date for receipt of applications for diversion:
Provided,
That the Committee may extend such deadline if the total tonnage represented in all applications is substantially less than the total tonnage established by the Committee pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Approval of applications.
No certificate of diversion shall be issued by the Committee unless it has approved the application covering such diversion.
(1) The Committee's approval of an application shall be in writing, and include at least the following:
(i) The details as to the method of diversion to be followed;
(ii) The method of appraisal to be used by the Committee to determine the quantity of prune plums diverted;
(iii) The lesser of either the quantity specified in the application to be diverted, or modification of that quantity as a result of any Committee action to prorate the total quantity to be diverted by all producers; and
(iv) Such other information as may be necessary to assist the applicant in meeting the requirements of this section, including the conditions for proof of diversion.
(2) If the Committee determines that it cannot approve an application it shall notify the applicant promptly.
The Committee shall state the reason(s) for failing to approve the application, and request the applicant to submit, if practicable, an amended application correcting the deficiencies in the original application.
(3) The Committee shall establish, and give prompt notice to the industry of a final date by which a producer or dehydrator may modify an approved application, including changing the method of diversion or the quantity of prune plums to be diverted:
Provided,
That any such change shall include information on the location or quantity of such diversion and shall be accompanied by a payment of a second deposit fee, calculated pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2), as applicable, of this section, plus a $2 per ton service charge for any increase in tonnage to be diverted.
(4) If an applicant cancels an approved diversion application prior to diversion, no part of the deposit fee shall be refunded, except upon approval by the Committee following review of all circumstances in the matter.
(e)
Report of diversion.
(1) When diversion of prune plums has been completed, the diverter (whether producer or dehydrator as agent of a producer) shall submit the required proof of such diversion to the Committee. When the Committee concludes that diversion has been completed pursuant to the requirements of this section, it shall furnish the producer whose prune plums were diverted with a listing of the total quantity of prune plums concluded to be so diverted:
Provided,
That a producer shall be given credit for any quantity of his prune plums diverted in excess of the quantity approved by the Committee pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section but not in excess of 120 percent of such approved quantity and then only to the extent that such creditable excess is already covered by his applicable deposit fee or such fee is increased by an additional deposit to cover such excess.
(2) Upon completion of the computation of dryaway pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section applicable to the diverter's diversion of prune plums, the Committee shall issue a report of diversion to the producer whose prune plums were diverted for the total quantity, dried weight equivalent, credited for diversion setting forth the computations by which such total quantity was derived.
(f)
Transferable certificate of diversion
—(1)
General.
As hereinafter set forth, transferable certificates of diversion shall be issued by the Committee. Any transferable certificate of diversion issued to a handler that is a cooperative marketing association, or submitted to a handler and accepted by him, shall be returned to the Committee by the handler for credit against the handler's reserve obligation of the crop year in accordance with § 993.57. Such credit shall be based on the amount shown on the certificate, and shall be applied to reduce the handler's holding requirement for such crop year. With respect to such creditable certificate of a handler with a holding requirement prior to issuance or acceptance, as applicable, of the transferable certificate of diversion, such credit shall result in an adjustment downward in the handler's then applicable holding requirement in an amount equal to that computed by applying the applicable salable percentage to the total quantity on such certificate. Any adjustment in a handler's holding requirement shall not affect his obligation, if any, to continue to hold reserve prunes that are undersized prunes. The term
undersized prunes
shall have the same meaning as prescribed by the Secretary for the then current crop year. If the Committee determines that effective administration of diversion operations requires establishment of a final date for submission of transferable certificates of diversion by producers to handlers, or a final date for return of such certificates by handlers to the Committee for crediting against their reserve obligations, or both, it shall establish such dates.
(2)
Issuance to producers.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the Committee shall issue transferable certificates of diversion to each producer diverting prune plums and to whom a report of diversion was issued. Prior to issuance of any such transferable certificate of diversion, the producer shall advise the Committee, in writing: (i) Of the name of the handler to whom the transferable certificate of
diversion is to be submitted and who is holding reserve prunes referable to prunes received from such producer; and (ii) how much of the quantity shown on his report of diversion he desires to use in lieu of reserve prunes but not in excess of the quantity of reserve prunes referable to prunes received by the handler from such producer. The Committee shall enter on the transferable certificate of diversion the name of the handler and the quantity covered by the certificate. The transferable certificate of diversion shall be endorsed by the producer and the handler prior to its return to the Committee in order to be credited by the Committee against such handler's reserve obligation. If any portion of the quantity shown on the producer's report of diversion remains unused and he desires to transfer a transferable certificate of diversion covering all or any part of such unused portion to another producer, he shall advise the Committee, in writing, of the name and address of such producer, together with the applicable quantity desired to be covered by the transfer, and, if known, the name of the handler to whom such a transferable certificate is to be submitted. However, the quantity to be covered by the transfer shall not exceed the quantity of reserve prunes referable to prunes received by the handler from the transferee-producer. The Committee shall enter on the transferable certificate of diversion the names of the transferee-producer and the handler, and the quantity covered by the certificate. Prior to submission of any such transferred diversion certificate to a handler, the transferee-producer shall advise the Committee, in writing, of the name and address of the handler to whom the transferable certificate is to be submitted and who is holding reserve prunes referable to prunes received from such producer. Such transferred diversion certificate shall be endorsed by both producers and the handler in order to be credited by the Committee against such handler's reserve obligation.
(3)
Issuance to a cooperative marketing association.
In connection with prune plums diverted by producers who are members of a cooperative marketing association, the Committee shall, when so requested by the association, issue the applicable transferable certificates of diversion to it. The quantity entered on the report of diversion of a cooperative producer shall be entered on or annexed to the applicable transferable certificate of diversion issued to the association. Such transferable certificates of diversion shall be returned to the Committee by the association endorsed by an authorized officer of the association in order to be credited by the Committee against the association's reserve obligation.
(4)
Applicability of certain payments.
The provisions of §§ 993.59 and 993.159 governing payments to a handler for necessary services rendered by the handler in connection with reserve prunes shall not be applicable to prunes no longer required to be held as reserve prunes due to a downward adjustment by the Committee in the handler's holding requirement on the basis of applicable transferable certificates of diversion returned to the Committee.
(g)
Costs.
Pursuant to § 993.62(g), the costs pertaining to diversion are to be defrayed by payment of fees by the producer or cooperative marketing association to whom a diversion certificate is issued. After authorized diversion operations for a crop year are completed, the Committee shall ascertain its costs of diversion operations during such crop year. If the total amount represented by the deposit fees which accompanied the applications for diversion exceeds such costs, each producer, and each cooperative marketing association, entitled thereto shall receive a proportionate refund of the net amount. Such refund shall be calculated in the same proportion as the quantity of prune plums diverted by each such producer, and each such cooperative marketing association, is to the total quantity of prune plums diverted:
Provided,
That the Committee may prescribe a minimum charge to cover costs of processing each application for diversion submitted to it.
[35 FR 12323, Aug. 1, 1970, as amended at 36 FR 15039, Aug. 12, 1971; 48 FR 57261, Dec. 29, 1983; 68 FR 17270, Apr. 9, 2003; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Disposition of Reserve Prunes
§ 993.165
Disposition of reserve prunes.
(a)
General.
For purposes of § 993.65(a)(2), normal outlets for salable prunes (herein referred to as “normal outlets”) and outlets noncompetitive with normal outlets for salable prunes (herein referred to as “noncompetitive outlets”) are defined in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Normal outlets. Normal outlets
means all outlets not specifically set forth in paragraph (c) of this section as noncompetitive outlets.
(c)
Noncompetitive outlets. Noncompetitive outlets
means (1) the U.S. Government or any agency thereof and any State or local government, except when such outlets are normally serviced through regular commercial trade channels, (2) any foreign government or any agency thereof, except any which normally is serviced through regular commercial trade channels, (3) any foreign country with an average of annual commercial imports of California prunes of less than 5 tons, based on imports during the most recent 5 years, (4) diced prunes for use as an ingredient in, or the manufacture of, food products for human consumption, other than for use in the manufacture of prune juice, prune concentrate, baby food, puree, butter, jam, and low moisture nuggets, granules, and powder, (5) charities, (6) research or educational activities, and (7) animal feed, distillation, and other salvage use.
[31 FR 5751, Apr. 14, 1966, as amended at 37 FR 5600, Mar. 17, 1972]

# Reports and Books and Other Records
§ 993.172
Reports of holdings, receipts, uses, and shipments.
(a)
Holdings as of March 31.
Each handler shall, on or before the 15th day of April, file with the committee a signed report of holdings of prunes which have not been inspected or received by him as a handler as of March 31. The report shall show for such prunes the name and address of the producer or dehydrator, the date of each identification tag assigned to such prunes, the numbers and dates of door receipts or weight certificates or any other identifying documents assigned to such prunes, the net weight shown on each, the total net weight of all prunes so held, and the name and address of the handler making the report.
(b)
Receipts by handlers.
Each handler shall file with the committee, for each month, not later than the 5th working day of the next succeeding month, a signed report on Form PMC 11.1, “New Crop Supply and Inbound Prune Report”, containing at least the following information: (1) The date, the name and address of the handler, and the period covered by the report; and (2) the total tonnage received during the month from each of (i) producers and dehydrators, (ii) other handlers, including interhandler transfers, and (iii) sources other than producers, dehydrators and other handlers.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Shipments by handlers.
Each handler shall file with the Committee for each quarter, not later than the 5th working day of the months of November, February, May and August, signed reports on Form PMC 12.1, “Reports of Shipments,” and Form 12.1A, “Cumulative Prune Export Shipments” reporting shipments of prunes during the crop year through the last day of the immediately preceding quarter. Such reports shall contain at least the following information:
(1) The date, the name, and address of the handler, and the period covered by the report;
(2) The pounds of prunes shipped or otherwise disposed of, other than shipments to or for the account of other handlers as follows: Domestic outlets segregated by uses (including Federal Government agencies); export markets segregated by regions; both domestic and export totals segregated by type of pack (bulk and consumer pack); and pitted prunes (pitted weight) segregated as to total to domestic outlets and total to export markets segregated by regions;
(3) The total pounds shipped to or for the account of other handlers, including interhandler transfers; and
(4) The total pounds of prunes not covered by, or excluded from, the definition of the term “prunes” (§ 993.5) shipped.
(e)
Holding of reserve prunes.
Upon request of the committee, a handler shall file with the committee, within 10 calendar days thereafter, a certified report on Form PMC 4.1, “Reserve Prunes Held by Handler”, containing the following information as of the date specified by the committee in its request: (1) The date and name and address of the handler; (2) the effective date of the report; and (3) the tonnages of reserve prunes physically held by or for the handler, itemized by plants, together with the location of the plants and itemized by the tonnages and average size count by category held at each such plant.
[26 FR 8281, Sept. 2, 1961, as amended at 30 FR 13311, Oct. 20, 1965; 31 FR 14988, Nov. 29, 1966; 33 FR 19162, Dec. 24, 1968; 48 FR 57261, Dec. 29, 1983; 49 FR 1469, Jan. 12, 1984; 68 FR 37393, June 24, 2003]
§ 993.173
Reports of accounting.
(a)
Independent handler's reports of accounting.
Within 10 days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) after a handler, other than a non-profit cooperative agricultural marketing association, makes an accounting or settlement with a producer or dehydrator for prunes delivered to him, he shall submit to the committee a copy of the accounting or settlement record, which shall contain the following information:
(1) The names and addresses of the producer or dehydrator, any other person having a financial interest in the prunes, and the handler;
(2) The date of the accounting or settlement;
(3) The contract or account number;
(4) An itemized statement listing each lot of prunes in the delivery, showing the date received, receiving point, weight certificate, or door receipt number, inspection certificate number, variety, crop year of production, and the net weight, if any, of prunes shown by the applicable incoming inspection certificate to be disposed of for nonhuman consumption in accordance with § 993.150(g);
(5) The total net weight of prunes to be set aside for nonhuman consumption, and the total net weight received; and
(6) The total net weight of each lot, itemized as to salable and reserve prunes by category as developed from inspection certificates.
(b)
Cooperative marketing associations' reports of accounting.
Upon written notice by the committee, non-profit cooperative agricultural marketing associations which are handlers shall file with the committee within 10 days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) thereafter a signed cumulative report of the prunes received from its members and any other producers or dehydrators for whom it performs handling services, which shall contain the following information:
(1) The name and address of the association and the date of the report;
(2) The aggregate net weight of prunes, as shown by the applicable incoming inspection certificates, required to be disposed of for nonhuman consumption in accordance with § 993.150(g); and
(3) The total net weight of prunes received, itemized by crop years of production, and itemized as to salable and reserve prunes by category as developed from inspection certificates.
(c)
Carryover and marketing policy information.
Upon request of the committee, a handler shall within 10 days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) thereafter, file with the committee a signed report on Form PMC 14.1 “Report of Carryover and Marketing Policy Information,” containing such of the following items of information as may be requested by the committee: (1) The tonnage of prunes held by the handler by size and grade, as of the date specified in the committee's request and the tonnage of reserve prunes by size in each category; and (2) the handler's estimate of the tonnage of prunes held by producers and dehydrators from whom the handler received prunes during the current or preceding crop year, of the tonnage and quality and size of prunes expected to be produced by such producers and dehydrators during the current or following crop year, of current prices being received by producers,
dehydrators, and handlers, and of the probable trade demand.
[30 FR 13311, Oct. 20, 1965, as amended at 35 FR 11381, July 16, 1970; 37 FR 15981, Aug. 9, 1972; 48 FR 57261, Dec. 29, 1983]
§ 993.174
Records.
Each handler shall maintain such records as are necessary to furnish the reports required to be submitted to the Committee by him under this subpart including, but not limited to, records of all transactions on prunes received, held and disposed of by him, and he shall retain such records for at least two years after the end of the crop year in which the applicable transaction occurred.
[26 FR 8281, Sept. 2, 1961; 26 FR 8483, Sept. 9, 1961. Redesignated at 30 FR 13312, Oct. 20, 1965]

# Subpart C—Assessment Rates
§ 993.347
Assessment rate.
On and after August 1, 2022, an assessment rate of $0.33 per ton of salable dried prunes is established for California dried prunes.
[88 FR 14484, Mar. 9, 2023]

# Subpart D—Undersized Prune Requirements
§ 993.400
Modifications.
Pursuant to the authority in § 993.52, the provisions in § 993.49(c) prescribing size openings for undersized prune regulations are hereby modified to permit larger size openings. For French prunes, any undersized regulation may prescribe an opening of
23/32
of an inch or
24/32
of an inch; for non-French prunes, any undersized regulation may prescribe an opening of
28/32
of an inch or
30/32
of an inch.
[40 FR 42531, Sept. 15, 1975]
§ 993.409
Undersized prune regulation for the 2002-03 crop year.
Pursuant to §§ 993.49(c) and 993.52, an undersized prune regulation for the 2002-03 crop year is hereby established. Undersized prunes are prunes which pass through openings as follows: for French prunes,
24/32
of an inch in diameter; for non-French prunes,
30/32
of an inch in diameter.
[67 FR 31722, May 10, 2002]

# Subpart E—Pack Specification as to Size

# Source:
26 FR 8281, Sept. 2, 1961, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 993.501
Consumer package of prunes.
Consumer package of prunes
means
consumer package
as defined in § 993.22.
§ 993.502
Size count.
Size count
means the count or number of prunes per pound.
§ 993.503
Size category.
Size category
means each of the size categories listed in § 993.515 and fixes the range or the limits of the various size counts.
§ 993.504
In-line inspection.
In-line inspection
means inspection of prunes where samples are drawn from a flow of prunes prior to packaging.
§ 993.505
Floor inspection.
Floor inspection
means inspection of prunes where samples are drawn from packaged prunes or from unpackaged prunes that are held in packing containers for later packaging.
§ 993.506
Lot.
Lot
for the purposes of this subpart shall have the same meaning as defined in § 993.104(b) of the Subpart—Administrative Rules and Regulations.

# Specifications as to Size
§ 993.515
Size categories.
For the purpose of this part, the pack specifications prescribed for the packing of prunes in consumer packages shall, subject to the limitation prescribed in § 993.516, be according to those commercially recognized size categories as are listed in paragraph (a) of this section by numerical designation or in paragraph (b) of this section by nomenclature designation.
(a)
Numerical designations.
Each of the following is a numerical size category described by the range of the size counts of prunes per pounds included in the respective size categories expressed as follows or in an applicable equivalent range expressed in the metric system per 500 grams: 15/20, 15/22, 18/24, 20/30, 25/35, 30/40, 35/45, 40/50, 50/60, 60/70, 70/80, 75/85, 80/90, and 90/100.
(b)
Nomenclature designations.
Each of the following is a nomenclature size category:
(1) Extra large;
(2) Large;
(3) Medium; and
(4) Small, breakfast, petite, or economy.
(c)
Nomenclature designations defined.
As used in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1)
Extra large
means any size count which falls within the range of 25 to 40 prunes, inclusive, per pound;
(2)
Large
means any size count which falls within the range of 40 to 60 prunes, inclusive, per pound;
(3)
Medium
means any size count which falls within the range of 60 to 85 prunes, inclusive, per pound; and
(4)
Small, breakfast, petite,
or
economy
means any size count which falls within the range of 85 to 100 prunes, inclusive, per pound.
[26 FR 8281, Sept. 2, 1961, as amended at 49 FR 35930, Sept. 13, 1984; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 993.516
Tolerances and limitations.
With respect to in-line inspections and floor inspections, prunes in a particular lot shall, subject to the other applicable requirements of this section, be considered as being according to a particular size category prescribed in § 993.515 if the average size count of the prunes in such lot falls within the range of the size counts specified for such size category, and the count per pound of 10 ounces of the smallest prunes in a sample of 100 ounces varies from the count per pound of 10 ounces of the largest prunes in such sample by no more than 45 points.

# Labeling
§ 993.517
Identification.
The size category of the prunes in any lot shall be clearly marked by the handler on each consumer package of such prunes, on the parts or panels of the package or label which are normally presented in retail display, in terms of the applicable numerical or nomenclature designation prescribed in § 993.515, which designation shall not be lacking in prominence and conspicuousness. Any handler may, at his option, clearly mark on such consumer package additional information describing in numerical terms the average size count, or particular range of size counts, of the prunes in such lot so long as such numerical terms fall within the range of the size counts of the applicable numerical or nomenclature designation and do not tend to be deceptive as to the actual average size count, or range of the size counts, of the prunes in such lot. Descriptive terms other than synonyms of the prescribed nomenclature designation or words of like connotation, describing the style of pack, variety of prune, or other item of commercial significance may also be marked on the consumer package. Prunes in any lot of which the maximum size count is less than 25 shall be clearly marked by the handler in terms of the applicable numerical designation prescribed in § 993.515(a); and the handler may use nomenclature terms descriptive of size other than the nomenclature designations prescribed in § 993.515(b).
[26 FR 8281, Sept. 2, 1961, as amended at 46 FR 38070, July 24, 1981]

# Compliance
§ 993.518
Compliance.
Whenever the season average price to producers for prunes is below the parity level specified in section 2(1) of the act, no handler shall ship consumer packages of prunes unless such prunes are packed and labeled in accordance with the specifications prescribed in this subpart; and whether prices are above or below parity, no handler shall use the nomenclature designations in § 993.515(b) to describe size categories
other than those prescribed pursuant to § 993.515(c).

# Subpart F—Grade Requirements
§ 993.601
More restrictive grade regulation.
(a)
Incoming and outgoing regulation.
Whenever the estimated season average price to producers for prunes does not exceed the parity level specified in section 2(1) of the act, the minimum standards which handlers' receipts of natural condition prunes are required to meet pursuant to § 993.49(a) shall be the standards specified in §§ 993.49(a) and 993.97(I), and the minimum standards which handlers' shipments or other final dispositions of prunes are required to meet pursuant to § 993.50(a) shall be the applicable standards set forth in § 993.97
Exhibit A
;
minimum standards,
except that the following revised tolerance allowances shall apply in lieu of the tolerance allowances prescribed in paragraphs I C(2), II C(3), I C(5) and II C(6) of § 993.97 as follows:
(1) The combined tolerance allowance for off-color, inferior meat condition, end cracks, fermentation, skin or flesh damage, scab, burned, mold, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%), except that the first eight percent (8%) of end cracks shall be given one-half value and any additional percentage of end cracks shall be given full value.
(2) The combined tolerance allowance for mold, brown rot, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed five percent (5%), and, within such tolerance, brown rot shall not exceed three percent (3%).
(b)
Above parity situations.
Whenever the estimated season average price to producers for prunes exceeds the parity level specified in section 2(1) of the act, the minimum standards set forth in § 993.97 shall apply in their entirety.
[27 FR 7540, Aug. 1, 1962, as amended at 59 FR 38113, July 27, 1994]
§ 993.602
Maximum tolerances.
In lieu of the provision prescribed in I C of § 993.97 that the tolerance allowances prescribed therein shall be on a weight basis, the tolerance allowance percentage for each defect or group of defects in I C of § 993.97 shall be derived by dividing the number of prunes in the applicable sample affected with the applicable defect(s) by the total number of prunes in such sample.
[39 FR 30344, Aug. 22, 1974]
Pt. 996

# PART 996—MINIMUM QUALITY AND HANDLING STANDARDS FOR DOMESTIC AND IMPORTED PEANUTS MARKETED IN THE UNITED STATES

# Definitions
Sec.
996.1
Act and scope.
996.2
Conditionally released.
996.3
Crop year.
996.4
Handle.
996.5
Handler.
996.6
Importation.
996.7
Importer.
996.8
Incoming inspection.
996.9
Inshell peanuts.
996.10
Inspection Service.
996.11
Negative aflatoxin content.
996.12
Outgoing inspection.
996.13
Peanuts.
996.14
Person.
996.15
Positive lot identification.
996.16
Producer.
996.17
[Reserved]
996.18
Secretary.
996.19
Shelled peanuts.
996.20
USDA.
996.21
USDA laboratory.
996.22
USDA-approved laboratory.

# Quality and Handling Standards
996.30
Incoming quality standards.
996.31
Outgoing quality standards.
996.40
Handling standards.
996.50
Reconditioning failing quality peanuts.
996.60
Safeguard procedures for imported peanuts.

# Reports and Records
996.71
Reports and recordkeeping.
996.72
Confidential information.
996.73
Verification of reports.
996.74
Compliance.
996.75
Effective time.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7958.

# Source:
67 FR 57140, Sept. 9, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 996.1
Act and scope.
Act
means Public Law 107-171, or the Farm Security and Rural Investment
Act of 2002, enacted May 13, 2002. None of the definitions or provisions of this part shall apply to any other part or program (including, but not limited to, any program providing for payments or loans to peanut producers or other persons interested in peanuts or peanut quotas) unless explicitly adopted in such other part or program.
§ 996.2
Conditional release.
Conditional release
means release from U.S. Customs Service custody to the importer for purposes of handling and USDA required sampling, inspection and chemical analysis.
[68 FR 1157, Jan. 9, 2003]
§ 996.3
Crop year.
Crop year
means the calendar year in which the peanuts were planted as documented by the applicant for inspection.
[81 FR 50287, Aug. 1, 2016]
§ 996.4
Handle.
Handle
means to engage in the receiving or acquiring, cleaning and shelling, cleaning inshell, or crushing of domestic or imported peanuts and in the shipment (except as a common or contract carrier of peanuts owned by another) or sale of cleaned-inshell or shelled peanuts or other activity causing peanuts to enter into human consumption channels of commerce:
Provided,
That this term does not include sales or deliveries of peanuts by a producer to a handler or to an intermediary person engaged in delivering peanuts to handler(s):
And provided further,
That this term does not include sales or deliveries of peanuts by such intermediary person(s) to a handler.
§ 996.5
Handler.
Handler
means any person who handles peanuts, in a capacity other than that of a custom cleaner or dryer, an assembler, a warehouseman or other intermediary between the producer and the person handling peanuts.
§ 996.6
Importation.
Importation
means the arrival of foreign produced peanuts at a port-of-entry with the intent to enter the peanuts into channels of commerce of the United States.
§ 996.7
Importer.
Importer
means a person who engages in the importation of foreign produced peanuts into the United States.
[68 FR 1157, Jan. 9, 2003]
§ 996.8
Incoming inspection.
Incoming inspection
means the sampling, inspection, and certification of farmers stock peanuts to determine segregation and grade quality.
§ 996.9
Inshell peanuts.
Inshell peanuts
means peanuts, the kernel or edible portions of which are contained in the shell in their raw or natural state which are milled but unshelled.
[81 FR 50288, Aug. 1, 2016]
§ 996.10
Inspection Service.
Inspection Service
means the Federal Inspection Service, Specialty Crops Program, Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA, or the Federal-State Inspection Service.
[81 FR 50288, Aug. 1, 2016]
§ 996.11
Negative aflatoxin content.
Negative aflatoxin content
means 15 parts per billion (ppb) or less for peanuts that have been certified as meeting edible quality grade standards.
§ 996.12
Outgoing inspection.
Outgoing inspection
means the sampling, inspection, and certification of either: shelled peanuts which have been cleaned, sorted, sized, and otherwise prepared for further processing; or inshell peanuts which have been cleaned, sorted, and otherwise prepared for further processing.
[81 FR 50288, Aug. 1, 2016]
§ 996.13
Peanuts.
Peanuts
means the seeds of the legume
Arachis hypogaea
and includes both inshell and shelled peanuts produced in the United States or imported from foreign countries and intended for further processing prior to consumption by humans or animals, other than those intended for wildlife or those in
green form for consumption as boiled peanuts.
(a)
Farmers Stock.
“Farmers stock peanuts” means picked and threshed peanuts which have not been shelled, crushed, cleaned or otherwise changed (except for removal of foreign material, loose shelled kernels, and excess moisture) from the form in which customarily marketed by producers.
(b)
Segregation 1.
“Segregation 1 peanuts” means farmers stock peanuts with not more than 3.49 percent damaged kernels nor more than 1.00 percent concealed damage caused by rancidity, mold, or decay and which are free from visible
Aspergillus flavus
.
(c)
Segregation 2.
“Segregation 2 peanuts” means farmers stock peanuts with more than 3.49 percent damaged kernels or more than 1.00 percent concealed damage caused by rancidity, mold, or decay and which are free from visible
Aspergillus flavus
.
(d)
Segregation 3.
“Segregation 3 peanuts” means farmers stock peanuts with visible
Aspergillus flavus.
[67 FR 57140, Sept. 9, 2002, as amended at 81 FR 50288, Aug. 1, 2016; 82 FR 48758, Oct. 20, 2017]
§ 996.14
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, any other business unit or legal entity.
§ 996.15
Positive lot identification.
Positive lot identification
is a means of identifying those peanuts meeting outgoing quality regulations as defined in § 996.31 and relating the inspection certificate issued by the Inspection Service, as defined in § 996.10, to the lot covered so that there is no doubt that the peanuts in the lot are the same peanuts described on the inspection certificate.
[81 FR 50288, Aug. 1, 2016]
§ 996.16
Producer.
Producer
means any person in the United States engaged in a proprietary capacity in the production of peanuts for market.
§ 996.17
[Reserved]
§ 996.18
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any officer, employee, or agent of the United States Department of Agriculture who is, or who may hereafter be authorized to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 996.19
Shelled peanuts.
Shelled peanuts
means the kernels or portions of kernels of peanuts in their raw or natural state after the shells are removed.
[81 FR 50288, Aug. 1, 2016]
§ 996.20
USDA.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture, including any officer, employee, service, program, or branch of the Department of Agriculture, or any other person acting as the Secretary's agent or representative in connection with any provisions of this part.
§ 996.21
USDA laboratory.
USDA laboratory
means laboratories of the Science and Technology Programs, Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA, which chemically analyze peanuts for aflatoxin content.
§ 996.22
USDA-approved laboratory.
USDA-approved laboratory
means laboratories approved by the Science and Technology Programs, Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA, that chemically analyze peanuts for aflatoxin content.

# Quality and Handling Standards
§ 996.30
Incoming quality standards.
(a) All farmers stock peanuts received or acquired by a handler shall be officially inspected by the Inspection Service, and certified as to segregation, moisture content, and foreign material.
(b)
Moisture.
Domestic and imported peanuts shall be dried to 18 percent or less prior to inspection and to 10.49 percent or less prior to storing or milling:
Provided,
That Virginia-type peanuts
used for seed shall be dried to 18 percent or less prior to inspection and to 11.49 percent or less prior to storing or milling.
[67 FR 57140, Sept. 9, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 1157, Jan. 9, 2003; 70 FR 44046, Aug. 1, 2005; 81 FR 50288, Aug. 1, 2016]
§ 996.31
Outgoing quality standards.
(a)
Shelled peanuts:
No handler or importer shall ship or otherwise dispose of shelled peanuts for human consumption unless such peanuts are positive lot identified, chemically analyzed by a USDA laboratory or USDA-approved laboratory and certified “negative” as to aflatoxin, and certified by the Inspection Service as meeting the following quality standards:
Minimum Quality Standards—Peanuts for Human Consumption
[Whole kernels and splits: Maximum limitations]
Type and grade category
Unshelled peanuts and damaged
kernels and
minor defects
(percent)
Total fall through sound whole kernels and/or sound split and broken kernels
Foreign
materials
(percent)
Moisture
(percent)
Excluding Lots of “splits”
Runner
3.50
6.00%; 17/64 inch round screen
.20
9.00
Virginia (except No. 2)
3.50
6.00%; 17/64 inch round screen
.20
9.00
Spanish and Valencia
3.50
6.00%; 16/64 inch round screen
.20
9.00
No. 2 Virginia
3.50
6.00%; 17/64 inch round screen
.20
9.00
Runner with splits (not more than 15% sound splits)
3.50
6.00%; 17/64 inch round screen
.20
9.00
Virginia with splits (not more than 15% sound splits)
3.50
6.00%; 17/64 inch round screen
.20
9.00
Spanish and Valencia with splits (not more than 15% sound splits)
3.50
6.00%; 16/64 inch round screen
.20
9.00
Lots of “splits”
Runner (not less than 90% splits)
3.50
6.00%; 17/64 inch round screen
.20
9.00
Virginia (not less than 90% splits)
3.50
6.00%; 17/64 inch round screen
.20
9.00
Spanish and Valencia (not less than 90% splits)
3.50
6.00%; 16/64 inch round screen
.20
9.00
(b)
Cleaned-inshell peanuts:
No handler or importer shall ship or otherwise dispose of cleaned-inshell peanuts for human consumption unless such peanuts are Positive lot identified and are determined by the Inspection Service to contain:
(1) Not more than l.00 percent kernels with mold unless a sample of such peanuts, drawn by an inspector of the Inspection Service, is analyzed chemically by a USDA laboratory or a USDA-approved laboratory and certified “negative” as to aflatoxin;
(2) Not more than 3.50 percent peanuts with damaged or defective kernels;
(3) Not more than 10.00 percent moisture; or
(4) Not more than 0.50 percent foreign material.
[67 FR 57140, Sept. 9, 2002; 67 FR 63503, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 46924, Aug. 7, 2003; 68 FR 53490, Sept. 11, 2003; 81 FR 50288, Aug. 1, 2016]
§ 996.40
Handling standards.
(a)
Identification:
Each lot of shelled or cleaned- inshell peanuts intended for human consumption shall be identified by positive lot identification prior to being shipped or otherwise disposed of. Positive lot identification (PLI) methods are tailored to the size and
containerization of the lot, by warehouse storage or space requirements, or by necessary further movement of the lot prior to certification. Positive lot identification is established by the Inspection Service and includes the following methods of identification. For domestic lots and repackaged import lots, PLI includes PLI stickers, tags or seals applied to each individual package or container in such a manner that is acceptable to the Inspection Service and maintains the identity of the lot. For imported lots, PLI tape may be used to wrap bags or boxes on pallets, PLI stickers may be used to cover the shrink-wrap overlap, doors may be sealed to isolate the lot, bags or boxes may be stenciled with a lot number, or any other means that is acceptable to the Inspection Service. The crop year means the calendar year in which the peanuts were planted as documented by the applicant. All lots of shelled and cleaned-inshell peanuts shall be shipped under positive lot identification procedures. However, peanut lots failing to meet quality requirements may be moved from a handler's facility to another facility owned by the same handler or another handler without PLI so long as such handler maintains a satisfactory records system for traceability purposes as defined in § 996.73.
(b)
Sampling and testing shelled peanuts for outgoing Inspection:
Prior to shipment, the following sampling and inspection procedures shall be conducted on each lot of shelled peanuts intended for human consumption. The lot size of shelled or cleaned-inshell peanuts presented for outgoing inspection in bags or bulk shall not exceed 200,000 pounds.
(1) Each handler or importer shall cause appropriate samples, based on a sampling plan approved by the Inspection Service, of each lot of shelled peanuts intended for human consumption to be drawn by the Inspection Service. The gross amount of peanuts drawn shall be large enough to provide for a grade analysis, for a grading check-sample, and for three 48-pound samples for aflatoxin chemical analysis. The three 48-pound samples shall be designated by the Inspection Service as “Sample 1,” “Sample 2,” and “Sample 3” and each sample shall be placed in a suitable container and positive lot identified by means acceptable to the Inspection Service. Sample 1 may be prepared for immediate testing or Sample 1, Sample 2, and Sample 3 may be returned to the handler or importer for testing at a later date. Imported peanuts shall be labeled “Sample 1IMP,” “Sample 2IMP,” and “Sample 3IMP” and handled accordingly.
(2) Before shipment of a lot of shelled peanuts to a buyer, the handler or importer shall cause Sample 1 to be ground by the Inspection Service, a USDA laboratory or a USDA-approved laboratory, in a “subsampling mill.” The resultant ground subsample from Sample 1 shall be of a size specified by the Inspection Service and shall be designated as “Subsample 1-AB” and at the handler's, importer's or buyer's option, a second subsample may also be extracted from Sample 1. It shall be designated as “Subsample 1-CD.” Subsample 1-CD may be sent as requested by the handler or buyer, for aflatoxin assay, to a USDA laboratory or USDA-approved laboratory that can provide analyses results on such samples in 36 hours. The cost of sampling and testing Subsample 1-CD shall be for the account of the applicant. Subsample 1-AB shall be analyzed only in a USDA laboratory or USDA-approved laboratory. Both Subsamples 1-AB and 1-CD shall be accompanied by a notice of sampling or grade certificate, signed by the inspector, containing, at least, identifying information as to the handler or importer, and the positive lot identification of the shelled peanuts.
(3) The samples designated as Sample 2 and Sample 3 shall be held as aflatoxin check-samples by the Inspection Service or the handler or importer and shall not be included in the shipment to the buyer until the analyses results from Sample 1 are known.
(4) Upon call from the laboratory, the handler or importer shall cause Sample 2 to be ground by the Inspection Service, USDA or USDA-approved laboratory in a “subsampling mill.” The resultant ground subsample from Sample 2 shall be of a size specified by the Inspection Service and it shall be designated as “Subsample 2-AB.” Upon call from the laboratory, the handler
shall cause Sample 3 to be ground by the Inspection Service, USDA or USDA-approved laboratory in a “subsampling mill.” The resultant ground subsample from Sample 3 shall be of a size specified by Inspection Service and shall be designated as “Subsample 3-AB.” “Subsamples 2-AB and 3-AB” shall be analyzed only in a USDA laboratory or a USDA-approved laboratory and each shall be accompanied by a notice of sampling. The results of each assay shall be reported by the laboratory to the handler and to USDA.
(5) Handlers and importers may make arrangements for required inspection and certification by contacting the Inspection Service office closest to where the peanuts will be made available for sampling. For questions regarding inspection services, a list of Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service offices, or for further assistance, handlers and importers may contact: Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Room 1536-S, (STOP 0240), Washington, DC, 20250-0240; Telephone: (202) 720-5870; Fax: (202) 720-0393.
(6) Handlers and importers may make arrangements for required chemical analysis for aflatoxin content at the nearest USDA or USDA-approved laboratory. For further information concerning chemical analysis and a list of laboratories authorized to conduct such analysis contact: Science and Technology Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., STOP 0270, Washington, DC 20250-0270; Telephone (202) 690-0621; Fax (202) 720-4631.
(c)
Appeal inspections.
Any “holder of the title” to any lot of peanuts may request an appeal inspection if it is believed that the original aflatoxin test results were in error. Appeal inspections would be conducted in accordance with Federal or Federal-State inspection procedures for milled peanuts. The aflatoxin appeal sample would be drawn by Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service officials and the appeal analysis would be conducted by USDA or USDA-approved laboratories. Any financially interested person may request an appeal inspection if it is believed that the original quality inspection is in error. Quality appeals would be conducted by Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service inspectors in accordance with the Federal or Federal-State inspection procedures for milled peanuts. The person requesting the appeal inspection would pay the cost of such appeals. The appeal inspection results shall be issued to the person requesting the appeal inspection and a copy shall be mailed to USDA or its agent.
[67 FR 57140, Sept. 9, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 1157, Jan. 9, 2003; 68 FR 46924, Aug. 7, 2003; 81 FR 50289, Aug. 1, 2016]
§ 996.50
Reconditioning failing quality peanuts.
(a) Lots of peanuts which have not been certified as meeting the requirements for disposition to human consumption outlets may be disposed for non-human consumption uses:
Provided,
That each such lot is positive lot identified using red tags, identified using a traceability system as defined in § 996.73, or other methods acceptable to the Inspection Service, and certified as to aflatoxin content (actual numerical count), unless they are designated for crushing. However, on the shipping papers covering the disposition of each such lot, the handler or importer shall cause the following statement to be shown: “The peanuts covered by this bill of lading (or invoice, etc.) are not to be used for human consumption.”
(b)(1) Sheller oil stock residuals shall be positive lot identified using red tags, identified using a traceability system as defined in § 996.73, or other methods acceptable to the Inspection Service, and may be disposed of domestically or to the export market in bulk or bags or other suitable containers. Disposition to crushing may be to approved crushers. However, sheller oil stock residuals may be moved from a handler's facility to another facility owned by the same handler or another handler without PLI so long as such handler maintains a satisfactory records system for traceability purposes as defined in § 996.73.
(2) If such peanuts are not tested and certified as to aflatoxin content, pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the handler or importer shall cause the following statement to be shown on the shipping papers: “The peanuts covered
by this bill of lading (or invoice, etc.) are limited to crushing only and may contain aflatoxin.”
(c)
Remilling.
Handlers and importers may remill, or cause to have remilled, lots of shelled or cleaned-inshell peanuts failing to meet the applicable outgoing quality standards in the table in § 996.31(a). If, after remilling, such peanut lot meets the applicable quality standards in § 996.31, the lot may be moved for human consumption under positive lot identification procedures and accompanied by applicable grade and aflatoxin certificates.
(d)
Blanching.
Handlers and importers may blanch, or cause to have blanched, shelled peanuts failing to meet the outgoing quality standards specified in the table in § 996.31(a). If after blanching, such peanut lot meets the quality standards in § 996.31(a), the lot may be moved for human consumption under positive lot identification procedures and accompanied by applicable grade and aflatoxin certificates. Peanut lots certified as meeting the fall through standard or the damaged kernels and minor defects standard as specified in § 996.31(a), prior to blanching shall be exempt from fall through, damaged kernels and minor defects standards after blanching.
(e) Lots of shelled peanuts moved for remilling or blanching shall be positive lot identified and accompanied by valid grade inspection certificate,
Except
That, a handler's shelled peanuts may be moved without PLI and grade inspection to the handler's blanching facility that blanches only the handler's peanuts. Lots of shelled peanuts may be moved for remilling or blanching to another handler without PLI if the handler uses a traceability system as defined in § 996.73,
Except
That, any grade inspection certificates associated with these lots would no longer be valid. The title of such peanuts shall be retained by the handler or importer until the peanuts have been certified by the Inspection Service as meeting the outgoing quality standards specified in the table in § 996.31(a). Remilling or blanching under the provisions of this paragraph shall be performed only by those remillers and blanchers approved by USDA. Such approved entities must agree to comply with the handling standards in this part and to report dispositions of all failing peanuts and residual peanuts to USDA, unless they are designated for crushing.
(f) Residual peanuts resulting from remilling or blanching of peanuts shall be red tagged, identified using a traceability system as defined in § 996.73, or identified by other means acceptable to the Inspection Service, and returned directly to the handler for further disposition or, in the alternative, such residual peanuts shall be positive lot identified by the Inspection Service and shall be disposed of to handlers who are crushers, or to approved crushers,
Except
That, a handler may move the residual peanuts without PLI to a facility for crushing owned by the handler. Handlers who are crushers and crushers approved by USDA must agree to comply with the terms and conditions of this part.
(g)
Re-inspection.
Whenever USDA has reason to believe that domestic or imported peanuts may have been damaged or deteriorated while in storage, USDA may reject the then effective inspection certificate and may require the owner of the peanuts to have a re-inspection to establish whether or not such peanuts may be disposed of for human consumption.
(h) The cost of transportation, sampling, inspection, certification, chemical analysis, and identification, as well as remilling and blanching, and further inspection of remilled and blanched lots, and disposition of failing peanuts, shall be borne by the applicant. Whenever peanuts are presented for inspection, the handler or importer shall furnish any labor and pay any costs incurred in moving, opening containers, and shipping samples as may be necessary for proper sampling and inspection. The Inspection Service shall bill the applicant or other responsible entity separately for applicable fees covering sampling and inspection, delivering aflatoxin samples to laboratories, positive lot identification measures, and other certifications as may be necessary to certify edible quality or non-edible disposition. The USDA and USDA-approved laboratories shall bill the applicant or other responsible
entity separately for applicable fees for aflatoxin assays.
[67 FR 57140, Sept. 9, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 46924, Aug. 7, 2003]
§ 996.60
Safeguard procedures for imported peanuts.
(a) Prior to arrival of a foreign-produced peanut lot at a port-of-entry, the importer, or customs broker acting on behalf of the importer, shall submit information electronically to the United States Customs and Border Protection, which includes the following: The Customs Service entry number; the container number(s) or other identification of the lot(s); the volume of the peanuts in each lot being entered; the inland shipment destination where the lot will be made available for inspection; and a contact name or telephone number at the destination.
(b)
Additional standards.
(1) Nothing contained in this section shall preclude any importer from milling or reconditioning, prior to importation, any shipment of peanuts for the purpose of making such lot eligible for importation into the United States. However, all peanuts entered for human consumption use must be certified as meeting the quality standards specified in § 996.31(a) prior to such disposition. Failure to fully comply with quality and handling standards as required under this section, will result enforcement action by USDA.
(2) Imported peanut lots sampled and inspected at the port-of-entry, or at other locations, shall meet the quality standards of this part in effect on the date of inspection.
(3) A foreign-produced peanut lot entered for consumption or for warehouse may be transferred or sold to another person:
Provided,
That the original importer shall be the importer of record unless the new owner applies for bond and files Customs Service documents pursuant to 19 CFR 141.113 and 141.20:
And provided further,
That such peanuts must be certified and reported to USDA pursuant to § 996.71 of this part.
(4) The provisions of this section do not supersede any restrictions or prohibitions on peanuts under the Federal Plant Quarantine Act of 1912, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, any other applicable laws, or regulations of other Federal agencies, including import regulations and procedures of the Customs Service.
[67 FR 57140, Sept. 9, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 1158, Jan. 9, 2003; 81 FR 50289, Aug. 1, 2016]

# Reports and Records
§ 996.71
Reports and recordkeeping.
(a) Each handler and importer shall maintain a satisfactory records system for traceability purposes as defined in § 996.73.
(b) USDA shall maintain copies of grade and aflatoxin certificates on all peanut lots inspected and chemically tested. USDA and USDA-approved laboratories shall file copies of all aflatoxin certificates completed by such laboratories with the Southeast Region Branch, Market Development Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1124 1st Street South, Winter Haven, Florida 33880; Telephone (863) 324-3375, Fax: (863) 291-8614, or other address as determined by USDA.
[67 FR 57140, Sept. 9, 2002, as amended at 81 FR 50289, Aug. 1, 2016; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 996.72
Confidential information.
All reports and records furnished or submitted by handlers and importers to USDA which include data or information constituting a trade secret or disclosing a trade position, financial condition, or business operations of the particular handlers or their customers shall be received by, and at all times kept in the custody and control of one or more employees of USDA, and, except as provided in § 996.74 or otherwise provided by law, such information shall not be disclosed to any person outside USDA.
§ 996.73
Verification of reports.
(a) For the purpose of checking and verifying reports kept by handlers and importers and the operation of handlers and importers under the provisions of this Part, the officers, employees or duly authorized agents of USDA shall have access to any premises where peanuts may be held at any time during reasonable business hours and
shall be permitted to inspect any peanuts that meet outgoing quality regulations, so held by such handler or importer and any and all records of such handler with respect to the acquisition, holding, or disposition of all peanuts meeting outgoing quality regulations, which may be held or which may have been disposed by handler.
(b) Reports shall be maintained by the handler for nonconforming products to assure traceability throughout the supply chain. The traceability system must include documented records, which enable a full product history to be produced in a timely manner and must ensure product can be traced forward (raw material to distribution) and backwards from distribution to the warehouse feeding the shelling plant, and ensure that all associated tests and all relevant records have been completed. The traceability system shall include identification of all raw materials, process parameters (for specific lot), packaging and final disposition. The handler shall be able to identify the warehouse in which the peanuts were stored immediately prior to shelling. Traceability must be maintained throughout production runs with specific lot codes, and there shall be complete linkage from raw material receipt through final disposition.
[81 FR 50290, Aug. 1, 2016]
§ 996.74
Compliance.
(a) A handler or importer shall be subject to withdrawal of inspection services, for a period of time to be determined by USDA, if the handler or importer:
(1) Fails to obtain outgoing inspection on shelled or cleaned-inshell peanuts, pursuant to § 996.31, and ships such peanuts for human consumption use;
(2) Ships failing quality peanuts, pursuant to § 996.31, for human consumption use;
(3) Commingles failing quality peanuts with certified edible quality peanuts and ships the commingled lot for human consumption use without meeting outgoing quality regulations;
(4) Fails to maintain positive lot identification, pursuant to § 996.40(a), on peanut lots certified for human consumption use;
(5) Fails to maintain and provide access to records, pursuant to § 996.71, and the standards for traceability and nonconforming product disposition pursuant to § 996.73, on the reconditioning or disposition of peanuts acquired by such handler or importer; and on lots that meet outgoing quality standards; or
(6) Otherwise violates any provision of section 1308 of the Act or any provision of this part.
(b) Any peanut lot shipped which fails to meet the outgoing quality standards specified in § 996.31, and is not reconditioned to meet such standards, or is not disposed to non-human consumption outlets as specified in § 996.50, shall be reported by USDA to the Food and Drug Administration and listed on an Agricultural Marketing Service Web site.
[67 FR 57140, Sept. 9, 2002, as amended at 81 FR 50290, Aug. 1, 2016]
§ 996.75
Effective time.
The provisions of this part, as well as any amendments, shall apply to current crop year peanuts, subsequent crop year peanuts, and prior crop year peanuts not yet inspected, or failing peanut lots that have not met disposition standards, and shall continue in force and effect until modified, suspended, or terminated.
[81 FR 50290, Aug. 1, 2016]
Pt. 999

# PART 999—SPECIALTY CROPS; IMPORT REGULATIONS
Sec.
999.1
Regulation governing the importation of dates.
999.100
Regulation governing imports of walnuts.
999.200
Regulation governing the importation of prunes.
999.300
Regulation governing importation of raisins.
999.400
Regulation governing the importation of filberts.
999.500
Safeguard procedures for walnuts, dates, pistachios, and raisins exempt from grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements.
999.600
Regulation governing the importation of pistachios.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.
§ 999.1
Regulation governing the importation of dates.
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
Dates in retail packages
means whole or pitted dates, other than dates prepared or preserved, wrapped or packaged for sale at retail.
(2)
Dates for packaging
means whole or pitted dates in bulk containers which are to be repacked, in whole or part, in the United States as dates in retail packages.
(3)
Bulk container
means any container of dates which, together with the dates therein, weighs more than ten pounds.
(4)
Dates for processing
means any dates for use in a bakery, confectionery, or other product and includes dates coated with a substance materially altering their color.
(5)
Dates prepared or preserved
means dates processed into a confection or other product, dates coated with a substance materially altering their color, or dates prepared for incorporation into a product by chopping, slicing, or other processing which materially alters their form.
(6)
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other business unit.
(7)
USDA inspector
means an inspector of the Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, or any other duly authorized employee of the USDA.
(8)
Inspection certificate
means a written statement or memorandum report issued by a USDA inspector setting forth in addition to appropriate descriptive information the quality and condition of the product inspected, and in the case of imported dates, a statement of meeting or failing, as applicable, the U.S. import requirements under section 8e of the AMA Act of 1937.
(9)
Importation
means release from custody of United States Customs and Border Protection.
(b)
Grade requirements.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the importation into the United States of any lot of dates for packaging or dates in retail packages is prohibited unless the dates are wholesome and unadulterated and meet the following grade requirements which are determined to be comparable to those imposed upon domestic dates handled pursuant to Order No. 987, as amended (part 987 of this chapter: The whole or pitted dates in the lot are of one variety, and are of such quality and condition that upon inspection on the basis of a representative sample thereof, with hydration (of the sample) in accordance with good commercial practice or without any hydration, the dates possess a reasonably good color, are reasonably uniform in size, are reasonably free from defects, possess a reasonably good character, and score not less than 80 points when scored in accordance with the scoring system applicable to U.S. Grade B dates, as prescribed in the U.S. Standards for Grades of Dates (§§ 52.1001 through 52.1011 of this chapter):
Provided,
That not more than 25 percent, by weight, of the dates may possess semidry or dry calyx ends except that not more than 5 percent, by weight, of the dates may possess dry calyx ends:
And provided further,
That in determining the grade for pitted dates, the pitted dates shall not be scored as damaged because of the longitudinal slit caused by removing the pit or the mashing resulting therefrom unless the flesh is seriously torn or mangled.
(2) Compliance with the grade requirements shall be determined on the basis of an inspection and certification by a USDA inspector.
(c)
Inspection and certification requirements
—(1)
Inspection.
Inspection shall be performed by USDA inspectors in accordance with the Regulations Governing the Inspection and Certification of Processed Fruits and Vegetables and Related Products (part 52 of this title). The cost of each such inspection and related certification shall be borne by the applicant. Applicants shall provide USDA inspectors with the entry number and such other identifying information for each lot as the inspector may request.
(2)
Certification.
Each lot of dates inspected in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be covered by an inspection certificate. Each such certificate shall set forth, among other things, the following:
(i) The date and place of inspection.
(ii) The name of the applicant.
(iii) The Customs entry number pertaining to the lot or shipment covered by the certificate;
(iv) The variety, quantity, and identifying marks of the lot inspected.
(v) The statement, if applicable: “Meets U.S. import requirements under section 8e of the AMA Act of 1937”.
(vi) If the lot fails to meet the import requirements, a statement to that effect and the reasons therefor.
(d)
Exemptions.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, any lot of dates for importation which in the aggregate does not exceed 70 pounds and any dates that are so denatured as to render them unfit for human consumption may be imported exempt from the provisions of this section.
(2) The grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements of this section shall not apply to dates which are donated to needy persons, prisoners, or Native Americans on reservations; dates for processing; or dates prepared or preserved, but all such dates shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in § 999.500.
(3) Dates for packaging or dates in retail packages that fail to meet the grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements of this section may be reclassified as dates for processing for importation, but such dates shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in § 999.500.
(e)
Reconditioning.
Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the reconditioning of failing lots of dates, prior to importation, so that such dates may be made eligible to meet the grade requirements prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(f)
Books and records.
Each person subject to this section shall maintain true and complete records of his transactions with respect to imported dates. Such records and copies of executed forms shall be retained for not less than two years subsequent to the calendar year of acquisition. The Secretary, through his duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any such person's premises during regular business hours and shall be permitted at any such times to inspect such records and any dates held by such person.
(g)
Other restrictions.
The provisions of this section do not supersede any restrictions or prohibitions on the importation of dates under the Plant Quarantine Act of 1912, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or any other applicable laws or regulations or the need to comply with applicable food and sanitary regulations of city, county, State, or Federal agencies.
(h)
Compliance.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be subject to a forfeiture in the amount prescribed in section 8a(5) of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (sections 1-19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601-674), or, upon conviction, a penalty in the amount prescribed in section 8c(14) of said act, or to both such forfeiture and penalty. False representations to an agency of the United States on any matter within its jurisdiction, knowing it to be false, is a violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001 which provides for a fine or imprisonment or both.
[28 FR 3469, Apr. 10, 1963, as amended at 31 FR 960, Jan. 25, 1966; 33 FR 15986, Oct. 31, 1968; 36 FR 6736, Apr. 8, 1971; 58 FR 69190, Dec. 30, 1993; 74 FR 2808, Jan. 16, 2009; 80 FR 15678, Mar. 25, 2015; 81 FR 87412, Dec. 5, 2016; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 999.100
Regulation governing imports of walnuts.
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
Walnuts
means all walnuts commonly known as English or Persian walnuts (Juglans regia).
(2)
Inshell walnuts
means walnuts, the kernels or edible portions of which are contained in the shell.
(3)
Shelled walnuts
means the kernels of walnuts after the shells are removed.
(4)
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other business unit.
(5)
USDA Inspector
means any Federal or Federal-State inspector of the Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture.
(6)
Importation of walnuts
means the release of walnuts from the custody of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(b)
Grade and size regulations.
No person may import walnuts (Juglans regia) into the United States unless such walnuts have been inspected and certified by a USDA inspector as meeting the following requirements:
(1)
Inshell walnuts.
All inshell walnuts shall be of a quality equal to or better than the requirements of U.S. No. 2 and “baby” size as prescribed in the United States Standards for Walnuts (Juglans regia) in the Shell (§§ 51.2945 through 51.2966 of this title); or
(2)
Shelled walnuts.
All shelled walnuts shall be of a quality equal to or better than the requirements for U.S. Commercial Grade as prescribed in the United States Standards for Shelled Walnuts (Juglans regia) (§§ 51.2275 through 51.2294 of this title excluding §§ 51.2278(b), 51.2284 and 51.2285), except that the minimum size shall be pieces not more than five percent of which will pass through a round opening
6/64
inch in diameter and no other size requirements shall apply.
(c)
Inspection and certification.
(1) All inspections and certifications required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be made by USDA inspectors in accordance with the regulations governing the inspection and certification of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other products (Part 51 of this title). The cost of inspection and certification shall be borne by the applicant.
(2) Each inspection certificate shall set forth among other things the following:
(i) The date and place of inspection;
(ii) The name of the applicant;
(iii) The name of the importer;
(iv) The Customs entry number pertaining to the lot or shipment covered by the certificate;
(v) The quantity and identifying marks of the container; and
(vi) The statement, if applicable, “Meets U.S. import requirements under section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937”.
(3) Whenever walnuts are offered for inspection, the applicant shall furnish any labor and pay any costs incurred in moving and opening containers as may be necessary for proper sampling and inspection. The applicant shall also furnish the USDA inspector the entry number and such other identifying information for each lot as he may request.
(4) Inspection must be completed prior to the importation of walnuts.
(d)
Reconditioning prior to importation.
Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to preclude reconditioning walnuts prior to importation, in order that such walnuts may be made eligible to meet the grade and size regulations prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)(1)
Minimum quantity.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the importation of any lot of walnuts which does not exceed, in net weight, 60 pounds of shelled walnuts or 115 pounds of inshell walnuts shall be exempt from the requirements of this section.
(2)
Exemptions.
The grade, size, quality and maturity requirements of this section shall not apply to walnuts which are: green walnuts (so immature that they cannot be used for drying and sale as dried walnuts); walnuts used in non-competitive outlets such as use by charitable institutions, relief agencies, governmental agencies for school lunch programs, and diversion to animal feed or oil manufacture, but such walnuts shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in § 999.500.
(f)
Other import requirements.
The provisions of this section do not supersede any restrictions or prohibitions on walnuts under the Federal Plant Quarantine Act of 1912, or any other applicable laws or regulations of city, county, State, or Federal Agencies including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
(g)
Compliance.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this regulation is subject to a forfeiture in the amount prescribed in section 608a(5) of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601-674), or, upon conviction, a penalty in the amount prescribed in section 608c(14) of said act, or to both such forfeiture and penalty. False representations in any matter within the jurisdiction of any agency of the United States, knowing it to be false, is a violation of 18 U.S.C.
1001 which provides for a fine or imprisonment or both.
[29 FR 230, Jan. 9, 1964, as amended at 40 FR 29263, July 11, 1975; 41 FR 2075, Jan. 14, 1976; 42 FR 35146, July 8, 1977; 58 FR 69190, Dec. 30, 1993; 74 FR 2809, Jan. 16, 2009; 85 FR 12296, Mar. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 999.200
Regulation governing the importation of prunes.
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
Prunes
means and includes all sun-dried or artificially dehydrated plums, of any type of variety, produced from plums, except: Sulfur-bleached prunes which are produced from yellow varieties of plums and are commonly known as silver plums; (ii) plums which have not been dried or dehydrated to a point where they are capable of being stored prior to packing, without material deterioration or spoilage unless refrigeration or other artificial means of preservation are used, and so long as they are treated by a process which is in conformity with, or generally similar to, the processes for treatment of plums of that type which have been developed or recommended by the Food Technology Division, College of Agriculture, University of California, for the specialty pack known as “high moisture content prunes”, but this exception shall not apply if and when such plums are dried to the point where they are capable of being stored without material deterioration or spoilage, refrigeration or other artificial means of preservation; and (iii) brine dried prunes that have been impregnated with brine or salt during the dehydration process to the extent that they have lost their form and character as prunes, and cannot be reconstituted to permit economic use of the individual fruits as prunes, and are imported under International Harmonized Tariff Schedule No. 0813.20.1000.
(2)
Pitted prunes
means prunes with the pit removed that are characterized by a uniform depression and minimal skin break where the pit has been removed.
(3)
Macerated prunes
means dried prunes with the pit removed that are characterized by a flattened appearance with slightly more skin break where the pit has been removed than with pitted prunes.
(4)
Standard prunes
means any lot of prunes meeting the grade and size requirements prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(5)
Standard pitted prunes
means any lot of pitted prunes meeting the grade requirements prescribed in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section.
(6)
Standard pitted macerated prunes
means any lot of pitted macerated prunes meeting the grade requirements in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(4) of this section.
(7)
Manufacturing grade substandard prunes
means any lot of prunes which meets the grade requirements prescribed in paragraph (b)(5) of this section but fails to meet the requirements for standard prunes, standard pitted prunes and standard pitted macerated prunes.
(8)
Size
means the number of prunes contained in a pound.
(9)
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other business unit.
(10)
Specialty Crops Program
means the Specialty Crops Program of the Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
(11)
USDA inspector
means an inspector of the Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, or any other duly authorized employee of the USDA.
(12)
Importation
means release from custody of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(13)
Undersized prunes
means those prunes that pass freely through a round opening 23/32 of an inch in diameter.
(b)
Grade and size requirements.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) or paragraph (d) of this section, no person may import any lot of prunes into the United States unless the prunes are inspected and an inspection certificate issued with respect thereto, and the lot meets the applicable grade requirements specified in exhibit A of this section and the average count (i.e., number) of the prunes in such lot is 100 or less per pound. In determining whether any lot conforms to the size requirement, the following tolerance shall apply: In a sample of 100 ounces, the count per pound of 10 ounces of smallest prunes may not vary from the
count per pound of 10 ounces of the largest prunes by more than 45 points.
(2) No person may import any lot of pitted prunes or pitted macerated prunes for human consumption as pitted or pitted macerated prunes unless the lot meets the applicable minimum grade requirements set forth in § 999.200 (exhibit A), except that skin or flesh damage shall not be scored as a defect in determining whether the prunes meet the grade requirements. Pitted and pitted macerated prunes shall not be subject to size and undersized requirements.
(3) No person may import any lot of pitted prunes for human consumption as pitted prunes unless the lot does not exceed an average of 0.5 percent by count of prunes with whole pits and/or pit fragments 2 mm or longer and four of ten subsamples examined have no more than 0.5 percent by count of prunes with whole pits and/or pit fragments 2 mm or longer.
(4) No person may import any lot of pitted macerated prunes for human consumption as pitted macerated prunes unless the lot does not exceed an average of 2 percent by count of prunes with whole pits and/or pit fragments 2 mm or longer; and four of ten subsamples examined have no more than 2 percent by count with whole pits and/or pit fragments 2 mm or longer.
(5) Any person may import any lot of prunes, except any lot containing undersized prunes, pitted prunes or pitted macerated prunes, into the United States for use in human consumption outlets as prune products in which the prunes lose their form and character as prunes by conversion prior to consumption if the prunes are inspected and an inspection certificate issued with respect thereto, and each lot meets the grade requirements set forth in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of exhibit A of this section, and the importer first files as a condition of such importation an executed Form SC-6—‘Importer's Exempt Commodity Form.’.
(c)
Inspection and certification requirements
—(1)
Inspection.
Inspection shall be performed by a USDA inspector in accordance with the regulations governing inspection and certification of processed fruits and vegetables, processed products thereof, and certain other processed food products (part 52 of this title). The cost of each such inspection and related certification shall be borne by the applicant.
(2)
Certification.
Each lot of prunes inspected in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be covered by an inspection certificate. Each such certificate shall set forth, among other things, the following:
(i) The date and place of inspection.
(ii) The name of the applicant.
(iii) The Customs entry number pertaining to the lot or shipment covered by the certificate;
(iv) The quantity and identifying marks of the lot inspected.
(v) The statement, as applicable: “Meets U.S. import requirements for standard prunes, standard pitted and standard pitted macerated prunes under section 8e of the AMA Act of 1937”; “Meets U.S. import requirements for manufacturing grade substandard prunes under section 8e of the AMA Act of 1937”; or “Fails to meet U.S. import requirements for prunes under section 8e of the AMA Act of 1937”.
(vi) If the lot fails to meet the import requirements, a statement of the reason therefor.
(d)
Exemptions.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the importation of any lot of prunes which in the aggregate does not exceed 150 pounds, net weight, and any prunes that are so denatured as to render them unfit for human consumption shall be exempt from the requirements of this section.
(e)
Additional requirements
—(1)
General.
Prior to importation of any prunes, the person importing such prunes shall file an inspection certificate with the Collector of Customs at the port at which the customs entry is filed. In addition, if such prunes are manufacturing grade substandard prunes, such person shall also file with the Collector of Customs an executed Form SC-6—`Importer's Exempt Commodity Form.' Promptly after such filing, such person shall transmit a copy of this form to the Specialty Crops Program. No person may import, sell, or use any manufacturing grade substandard prunes other than for use as
set forth in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. Each person importing manufacturing grade substandard prunes shall obtain from each purchaser, no later than the time of delivery to such purchaser, and file with the Specialty Crops Program not later than the 5th day of the month following the month in which the prunes were delivered, an executed Form SC-6—`Importer's Exempt Commodity Form.' One copy of this executed form shall be retained by the importer and one copy shall be retained by the purchaser.
(2)
Manufacturing Grade Substandard Prune—sale by other than importer.
Each wholesaler or other reseller of manufacturing grade substandard prunes should, for his or her protection, obtain from each purchaser and hold in his or her files an executed Form SC-6—‘Importer's Exempt Commodity Form’ covering each sale during the calendar year.
(f)
Reconditioning.
Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the reconditioning of failing lots of prunes, prior to importation, so that such prunes may be made eligible to meet the requirements prescribed pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1) through (5), as applicable, of this section.
(g)
Books and records.
Each person subject to this section shall maintain true and complete records of his transactions with respect to imported prunes. Such records and copies of executed forms shall be retained for not less than 2 years subsequent to the calendar year of acquisition. The Secretary, through his duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any such person's premises during regular business hours and shall be permitted at any such times to inspect such records and any prunes held by such person.
(h)
Other restrictions.
The provisions of this section do not supersede any restrictions or prohibitions on the importation of prunes under the Plant Quarantine Act of 1912, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or any other applicable laws or regulations or the need to comply with applicable food and sanitary regulations of city, county, State, or Federal agencies.
(i)
Compliance.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be subject to a forfeiture in the amount prescribed in section 8a(5) of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (sections 1-19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601-674), or, upon conviction, a penalty in the amount prescribed in section 8c(14) of said act, or to both such forfeiture and penalty. False representations to an agency of the United States on any matter within its jurisdiction, knowing it to be false, is a violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001 which provides for a fine or imprisonment or both.

# Exhibit A

# grade requirements
A.
Defects.
Defects are: (1) Off-color; (2) inferior meat condition; (3) end cracks; (4) fermentation; (5) skin or flesh damage; (6) scab; (7) burned; (8) mold; (9) imbedded dirt; (10) insect infestation; (11) decay.
B.
Explanation of terms.
(1)
Off-color
means a dull color or skin differing noticeably in appearance from that which is characteristic of mature, properly handled fruit of a given variety or type.
(2)
Inferior meat condition
means flesh which is fibrous, woody, or otherwise inferior due to immaturity to the extent that the characteristic texture of the meat is substantially affected.
(3)
End cracks
means callous growth cracks, at the blossom end of prunes, aggregating more than three-eighths of one inch (
3/8
″) but not more than one-half of one inch (
1/2
″) in length.
(4)
Fermentation
means damage to the flesh by fermentation to the extent that the characteristic appearance or flavor is substantially affected.
(5)
Skin or flesh damage
means growth cracks, splits, breaks in skin or flesh of the following descriptions:
(a) Callous growth cracks, except end cracks as defined in this section, aggregating more than three-eighths of one inch (
3/8
″) in length;
(b) Splits or skin breaks exposing flesh and materially affecting the normal appearance of the prunes;
(c) Any cracks, splits, or breaks open to the pit;
(d) Healed or unhealed surface or flesh blemishes caused by insect injury
and which materially affect appearance, edibility or keeping quality.
(6)
Scab
means tough or thick scab exceeding in the aggregate the area of a circle three-eighths of one inch (
3/8
″) in diameter or by unsightly scab of another character exceeding in the aggregate the area of a circle three-fourths of one inch (
3/4
″) in diameter.
(7)
Burned
means injury by sunburn or excessive heat in dehydration to the extent that the characteristic appearance, flavor or edibility of the fruit is noticeably affected.
(8)
Mold
means a characteristic fungus growth and is self-explanatory.
(9)
Imbedded dirt
means the presence of dirt or other extraneous material so imbedded in, or adhering to, the prune that it cannot readily be removed in washing the fruit.
(10)
Insect infestation
means the presence of insects, insect fragments or insect remains.
C.
Maximum tolerances.
Tolerance allowances shall be on a weight basis and shall not exceed the following:
(1) There shall be no tolerance allowance for live insect infestation.
(2) The tolerance allowances for decay shall not exceed one percent (1%).
(3) The combined tolerance allowance for mold, brown rot, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed five percent (5%), and, within such tolerance, brown rot shall not exceed three percent (3%).
(4) The combined tolerance allowance for fermentation, skin or flesh damage, scab, burned, mold, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed eight percent (8%).
(5) The combined tolerance allowance for end cracks, fermentation, skin or flesh damage, scab, burned, mold, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed ten percent (10%), except that the first eight percent (8%) of end cracks shall be given one-half value and any additional percentage of end cracks shall be given full value.
(6) The combined tolerance allowance for off-color, inferior meat condition, end cracks, fermentation, skin or flesh damage, scab, burned, mold, imbedded dirt, insect infestation, and decay shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%), except that the first eight percent (8%) of end cracks shall be given one-half value and any additional percentage of end cracks shall be given full value.
[36 FR 18782, Sept. 22, 1971, as amended at 47 FR 47230, Oct. 25, 1982; 57 FR 56245, Nov. 27, 1992; 59 FR 38113, July 27, 1994; 60 FR 57910, Nov. 24, 1995; 74 FR 2809, Jan. 16, 2009; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
At 74 FR 2809, Jan. 16, 2009, § 999.200 was suspended indefinitely. At 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023, the suspension was lifted, amendments were made to § 999.200, and the section was stayed indefinitely.
§ 999.300
Regulation governing importation of raisins.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Raisins
means grapes from which a part of the natural moisture has been removed.
(2)
Varietal type
means the applicable one of the following: Thompson Seedless raisins, Muscat raisins, Layer Muscat raisins, Currant raisins, Monukka raisins, Other Seedless raisins, Golden Seedless raisins, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins.
(3)
Thompson Seedless Raisins
includes those raisins commonly referred to in international trade as Sultana raisins and means raisins made from Thompson Seedless (Sultana) grapes and from grapes with characteristics similar to Thompson Seedless (Sultanina) grapes.
(4)
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other business unit.
(5)
USDA inspector
means an inspector of the Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or any other duly authorized employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(6)
Importation of raisins
means the release of raisins from custody of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(b)
Grade and size requirements.
The importation of raisins into the United States is prohibited unless the raisins are inspected and certified as provided in this section. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, no person may import raisins into the United
States unless such raisins have been inspected and certified by a USDA inspector as to whether or not the raisins are of a varietal type, and if a varietal type, as at least meeting the following applicable grade and size requirements, which requirements are the same as those imposed upon domestic raisins handled pursuant to Order No. 989, as amended (part 989 of this chapter):
(1) With respect to Thompson Seedless and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins—the requirements of U.S. Grade C as defined in the effective United States Standards of Grades of Processed Raisins (§§ 52.1841 through 52.1858 of this title):
Provided,
That, at least 70 percent, by weight, of the raisins shall be well-matured or reasonably well-matured. With respect to select-sized and mixed-sized lots, the raisins shall at least meet the U.S. Grade B tolerances for pieces of stem and undeveloped and substandard raisins, and small sized raisins shall meet the U.S. Grade C tolerances for those factors;
(2) With respect to Muscat raisins—the requirements of U.S. Grade C as defined in said standards;
(3) With respect to Layer Muscat raisins—the requirements of U.S. Grade B as defined for “Layer or Cluster Raisins with Seeds” in said standards, except for the provisions therein relating to moisture content;
(4) With respect to Currant raisins—the requirements of U.S. Grade B as defined in said standards;
(5) With respect to Monukka and Other Seedless raisins—the requirements for Thompson Seedless Raisins prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that the tolerance for moisture shall be 19 percent rather than 18 percent;
(6) With respect to Golden Seedless raisins—the requirements prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for Thompson Seedless raisins and the color requirements for “colored” as defined in said standards.
(c)
Inspection and certification requirements.
(1) All inspections and certifications required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be made by USDA inspectors in accordance with the regulations governing inspection and certification of processed fruits and vegetables, processed products thereof, and certain other processed food products (part 52 of this title). The cost of each such inspection and certification shall be borne by the applicant.
(2) Each lot of raisins inspected in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be covered by an inspection certificate. Each such certificate shall set forth, among other things, the following:
(i) The date and place of inspection;
(ii) The name of the applicant;
(iii) The name of the importer;
(iv) The Customs entry number pertaining to the lot or shipment covered by the certificate;
(v) The quantity and identifying marks of the lot inspected;
(vi) The statement, as applicable, “Meets U.S. import requirements under section 8e of the AMA Act of 1937” or “Fails to meet U.S. import requirements under section 8e of the AMA Act of 1937”; and
(vii) If the lot fails to meet the import requirements, a statement of the reasons therefor.
(3) Whenever raisins are offered for inspection, the applicant shall furnish any labor and pay any costs incurred in moving and opening containers as may be necessary for proper sampling and inspection. The applicant shall also furnish the USDA inspector the entry number and such other identifying information for each lot as the inspector may request.
(d)
Reconditioning.
Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the reconditioning of failing lots of raisins prior to importation of raisins in order that such raisins may be made eligible to meet the applicable grade and size requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Exemptions.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any lot of raisins which in the aggregate does not exceed 100 pounds, net weight, may be imported without regard to the restrictions of this section.
(2) Any lot of raisins which does not meet the applicable grade and size requirements of paragraph (b) of this section may be imported for use in the production of alcohol, syrup for industrial use, or any lot of raisins which does not meet such requirements with
respect to mechanical damage or sugaring may be imported for use in the production of raisin paste, but all such raisins shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in § 999.500.
(f)
Books and records.
Each person subject to this section shall maintain true and complete records of his transactions with respect to imported raisins. Such records shall be retained for not less than 2 years subsequent to the calendar year of importation. The Secretary, through his duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any such person's premises during regular business hours and shall be permitted at any such time to inspect such records and any imported raisins held by such person.
(g)
Other restriction.
The provisions of this section do not supersede any restrictions or prohibitions on the importation of raisins under the Federal Plant Quarantine Act of 1912, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or any other applicable laws or regulations, or the need to comply with applicable food and sanitary regulations of city, county, State, or Federal agencies.
(h)
Compliance.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this regulation is subject to a forfeiture in the amount prescribed in section 8a(5) of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (sections 1-19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601-674), or, upon conviction, a penalty in the amount prescribed in section 8c(14) of said act, or to both such forfeiture and penalty. False representation to an agency of the United States in any matter within its jurisdiction, knowing it to be false, is a violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001 which provides for a fine or imprisonment or both.
[37 FR 5282, Mar. 14, 1972, as amended at 37 FR 13635, July 12, 1972; 37 FR 23820, Nov. 9, 1972; 41 FR 52646, Dec. 1, 1976; 43 FR 47972, Oct. 18, 1978; 43 FR 57863, Dec. 11, 1978; 45 FR 65513, Oct. 3, 1980; 47 FR 51731, Nov. 17, 1982; 50 FR 45808, Nov. 4, 1985; 53 FR 34715, Sept. 8, 1988; 67 FR 57505, Sept. 11, 2002; 74 FR 2809, Jan. 16, 2009; 80 FR 15678, Mar. 25, 2015; 81 FR 84403, Nov. 23, 2016; 85 FR 12296, Mar. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82237, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 999.400
Regulation governing the importation of filberts.
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
Filberts
means filberts or hazelnuts.
(2)
Inshell filberts
means filberts, the kernels or edible portions of which are contained in the shell.
(3)
Shelled filberts
means the kernels of filberts after the shells are removed.
(4)
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other business unit.
(5)
USDA inspector
means a Federal or Federal-State inspector, Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, United States Department of Agriculture, or any other duly authorized employee of the USDA.
(6)
Importation
means release from custody of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(b)
Grade and size requirements.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, no person shall import into the United States any lot of filberts unless the filberts meet the following requirements, which are identical to those for filberts grown in Oregon and Washington and handled pursuant to Order No. 982, as amended (7 CFR part 982):
(1)
Inshell filberts.
All inshell filberts shall be of a quality equal to or better than the requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade and medium size as defined in the U.S. Standards for Filberts in the Shell (7 CFR part 51), except that the tolerance for insect injury shall be two percent. With this modification, the U.S. No. 1 grade, medium size is identical to the Oregon No. 1 grade, medium size (as defined in the Oregon Grade Standards Filberts in Shell) and prescribed for inshell filberts under Order No. 982, as amended.
(2)
Shelled filberts.
All shelled filberts shall be of a quality equal to or better than the requirements prescribed in exhibit A of this section.
(c)
Inspection and certification requirements
—(1)
General.
Compliance with the grade and size requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall be determined on the basis of an inspection and certification by a USDA inspector.
(2)
Inspection.
Inspection shall be performed by USDA inspectors in accordance with the Regulations Governing the Inspection and Certification of
Fresh Fruits and Vegetables and Related Products (7 CFR part 51). The cost of each such inspection and related certification shall be borne by the applicant. Whenever filberts are offered for inspection, the applicant shall furnish any labor and pay any costs incurred in moving and opening containers as may be necessary for proper sampling and inspection. The applicant shall also furnish the USDA inspector the entry number and such other identifying information for each lot as the inspector may request. Inspection must be completed prior to the importation, unless imported by vessel, in which case for filberts, the date of release may be used.
(3)
Certification.
Each lot of filberts inspected in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be covered by an inspection certificate. Each such certificate shall set forth, among other things, the following:
(i) The date and place of inspection.
(ii) The name of the applicant.
(iii) The name of the importer.
(iv) The Customs entry number pertaining to the lot or shipment covered by the certificate;
(v) The quantity, and identifying marks of the lot inspected.
(vi) The statement, if applicable: “Meets U.S. import requirements under section 8e of the AMA Act of 1937”.
(vii) If the lot fails to meet the import requirements, a statement to that effect and the reasons therefor.
(d)
Exemptions.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the importation of any lot of filberts which does not exceed 115 pounds in net weight shall be exempt from the requirements of this section.
(e)
Reconditioning prior to importation.
Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to preclude reconditioning filberts prior to importation, in order that such filberts may be made eligible to meet the applicable grade and size regulations prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(f)
Other restrictions.
The provisions of this section do not supersede the Federal Plant Quarantine Act of 1912, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or any other applicable laws or regulations or the need to comply with applicable food and sanitary regulations of city, county, State or Federal agencies.
(g)
Compliance.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be subject to a forfeiture in the amount prescribed in section 8a(5) of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (sections 1-19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601-674), or, upon conviction, a penalty in the amount prescribed in section 8c(14) of said act, or to both such forfeiture and penalty. False representations to any agency of the United States on any matter within its jurisdiction, knowing it to be false, is a violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001 which provides for a fine or imprisonment or both.

# Exhibit A

# grade requirements for shelled filberts
Filbert kernels or portions of filbert kernels shall meet the following requirements:
(1) Well dried and clean;
(2) Free from foreign material, mold, rancidity, decay or insect injury; and
(3) Free from serious damage caused by serious shriveling, or other means.

# tolerances
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling the following tolerances, by weight, are permitted as specified:
(1) For Foreign Material: 0.02 of one percent, for foreign material.
(2) For Defects: Five percent for kernels or portions of kernels which are below the requirements of this grade, including not more than the following: Two percent for mold, rancidity, decay or insect injury:
Provided,
That not more than one percent shall be for mold, rancidity, or insect injury.

# definitions
(1)
Well dried
means that the kernels are firm and crisp, not containing more than 6 percent moisture.
(2)
Clean
means practically free from plainly visible adhering dirt or other foreign material.
(3)
Foreign material
means any substance other than the filbert kernels, or portions of kernels. (Loose skins,
pellicles or corky tissue which have become separated from the kernels shall not be considered as foreign material, provided that this material does not exceed .02 of one percent by weight.)
(4)
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in this section, or any equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, or any other defects, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual portion of the kernel or of the lot as a whole. The following defects shall be considered as serious damage.
(i)
Serious shriveling
means when the kernel is seriously shrunken, wrinkled and tough.
(ii)
Mold
means that there is a visible growth of mold either on the outside or inside of the kernel.
(iii)
Rancidity
means that the kernel is noticeably rancid to the taste. An oily appearance of the flesh does not necessarily indicate a rancid condition.
(iv)
Decay
means that any portion of the kernel is decomposed.
(v)
Insect injury
means that the insect, frass or web is present, or the kernel or portion of kernel show definite evidence of insect feeding.
[42 FR 64899, Dec. 29, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 63482, Sept. 25, 1980; 47 FR 12612, Mar. 24, 1982; 48 FR 34015, July 27, 1983; 74 FR 2809, Jan. 16, 2009; 85 FR 12296, Mar. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82237, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 999.500
Safeguard procedures for walnuts, dates, pistachios, and raisins exempt from grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements.
(a) Each person who imports or receives any of the commodities listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section shall file (electronically or paper) an “Importer's Exempt Commodity Form” (SC-6) with the Market Development Division, Fruit and Vegetable Program, AMS, USDA. A “person who imports” may include a customs broker, acting as an importer's representative (hereinafter referred to as “importer”). A copy of the form (electronic or paper) shall be provided to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. If a paper form is used, a copy of the form shall accompany the lot to the exempt outlet specified on the form. Any lot of any commodity offered for inspection or aflatoxin testing and, all or a portion thereof, subsequently imported as exempt under this provision shall also be reported on an SC-6. Such form (electronic or paper) shall be provided to the Market Development Division in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The applicable commodities are:
(1) Dates which are donated to needy persons, prisoners or Native Americans on reservations; dates for processing; dates prepared or preserved; or dates for packaging or dates in retail packages that fail to meet grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements and are reclassified as dates for processing;
(2) Walnuts which are: Green walnuts (so immature that they cannot be used for drying and sale as dried walnuts); walnuts used in non-competitive outlets such as use by charitable institutions, relief agencies, governmental agencies for school lunch programs, and diversion to animal feed or oil manufacture;
(3) Substandard pistachios which are for non-human consumption purposes; or
(4) Raisins which do not meet grade and size requirements and are used in the production of alcohol, or syrup for industrial use, or which do not meet grade requirements with respect to mechanical damage or sugaring and are used in the production of raisin paste.
(b)
Certification of exempt use.
(1) Each importer of an exempt commodity as specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall certify on the SC-6 form (electronic or paper) as to the intended exempt outlet (
e.g.,
processing, charity, livestock feed). If certification is made using a paper SC-6 form, the importer shall provide a handwritten signature on the form.
(2) Each receiver of an exempt commodity as specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall also receive a copy of the associated SC-6 form (electronic or paper) filed by the importer. Within two days of receipt of the exempt lot, the receiver shall certify on the form (electronic or paper) that such lot has been received and will be utilized in the exempt outlet as certified by the importer. If certification is made using a paper SC-6 form, the receiver shall
provide a handwritten signature on the form.
(c) It is the responsibility of the importer to notify the Market Development Division of any lot of exempt commodity rejected by a receiver, shipped to an alternative exempt receiver, exported, or otherwise disposed of. In such cases, a second SC-6 form must be filed by the importer, providing sufficient information to determine ultimate disposition of the exempt lot, and such disposition shall be so certified by the final receiver.
(d) All SC-6 forms and other correspondence regarding entry of exempt commodities must be submitted electronically, by mail, or by fax to the Market Development Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, STOP 0237, Washington, DC 20250-0237; telephone (202) 720-2491; email
ComplianceInfo@usda.gov;
or fax (202) 720-5698.
[80 FR 15678, Mar. 25, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 82237, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 999.600
Regulation governing the importation of pistachios.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)
Aflatoxin
is one of a group of mycotoxins produced by the molds
Aspergillus flavus
and
Aspergillus parasiticus.
Aflatoxins are naturally occurring compounds produced by molds, which can be spread in improperly processed and stored nuts, dried fruits, and grains.
(2)
Aflatoxin inspection certificate
means a certificate issued by a USDA or USDA-accredited laboratory.
(3)
Certified lots of pistachios
are those for which aflatoxin inspection certificates have been issued.
(4)
Customs
means the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(5)
Importation of pistachios
means the release of pistachios from the custody of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(6)
Importer
means a person who engages in the importation of pistachios into the United States.
(7)
Inshell pistachios
means pistachios that have shells that have not been removed.
(8)
Inspection Service
means the Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA, or the Federal-State Inspection Programs.
(9)
Inspector
means any inspector authorized by USDA to draw and prepare pistachio samples.
(10)
Lot
means any quantity of pistachios that is submitted for testing purposes under this part.
(11)
Person
means an individual, partnership, limited-liability corporation, corporation, trust, association, or any other business unit.
(12)
Pistachio
means the nut of the pistachio tree,
Pistachia vera,
whether inshell or shelled.
(13)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture who is, or who may hereafter be, authorized to act in his/her stead.
(14)
Shelled pistachios
means pistachio kernels, or portions of kernels, after the pistachio shells have been removed.
(15)
Substandard pistachios
means pistachios, inshell or shelled, that do not comply with the aflatoxin regulations of this section.
(16)
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture, including any officer, employee, service, program, or branch of the Department of Agriculture, or any other person acting as the Secretary's agent or representative in connection with any provisions of this section.
(17)
USDA laboratory
means laboratories of the Science and Technology Programs, Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA, that perform chemical analyses of pistachios for aflatoxin content.
(18)
USDA-accredited laboratory
means a laboratory that has been approved or accredited by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to perform chemical analyses of pistachios for aflatoxin content.
(b)
Importation Requirements.
The importation of any lot of pistachios for human consumption is prohibited unless it meets the requirements contained in this section, which are determined to be the same as or comparable to those imposed upon domestic pistachios handled pursuant to Order No. 983, as amended (part 983 of this chapter).
(c)
Maximum aflatoxin tolerance.
No importer shall ship for domestic human
consumption lots of pistachios that exceed an aflatoxin level of 15 ppb. Compliance with the aflatoxin requirements of this section shall be determined upon the basis of sampling by a USDA-authorized inspector and testing by a USDA or USDA-accredited laboratory. All shipments must be covered by an aflatoxin inspection certificate issued by the laboratory. Testing and certification must be completed prior to the importation of pistachios.
(d)
Sampling.
(1) All sampling for aflatoxin testing shall be performed by USDA-authorized inspectors in accordance with USDA rules and regulations governing the inspection and certification of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other products (7 CFR part 51). The cost of each such sampling and related certification shall be borne by the importer. Whenever pistachios are offered for sampling and testing, the importer shall furnish any labor and pay any costs incurred for storing, moving, and opening containers as may be necessary for proper sampling and testing. The importer shall furnish the USDA inspector with the customs entry number and such other identifying information for each lot as he or she may request. Importers may make arrangements for required sampling by contacting the Inspection Service office closest to where the pistachios will be made available for sampling. For questions regarding sampling, a list of Federal or Federal-State Inspection Program offices, or for further assistance, importers may contact: Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Room 1536-S, Washington, DC 20250; Telephone: (202) 720-5870; Fax: (202) 720-0393.
(2) Lot samples shall be drawn from each lot of pistachios designated for aflatoxin testing, and individual test samples shall be prepared by, or under the supervision of, an inspector. Each sample shall be drawn and prepared in accordance with the sample size requirements outlined in Tables 1 and 2 below. The gross weight of the inshell lot and test samples for aflatoxin testing and the minimum number of incremental samples required are shown in Table 1. The gross weight of the kernel lot and test samples for aflatoxin testing and the minimum number of incremental samples required is shown in Table 2. If more than one test sample is necessary, the test samples shall be designated by the inspector as Test Sample #1 and Test Sample #2. Each sample shall be placed in a suitable container, with the lot number clearly identified, and the importer shall submit it, along with a copy of the customs entry documentation, to a USDA or USDA-accredited laboratory. The importer shall assume all costs for shipping samples to the laboratory.
Table 1—Inshell Pistachio Lot Sampling Increments for Aflatoxin Certification
Lot weight
(lbs.)
Minimum number of incremental samples for the lot sample
Total weight of lot sample
(kilograms)
Weight of test sample
(kilograms)
220 or less
10
2.0
2.0
221-440
15
3.0
3.0
441-1,100
20
4.0
4.0
1,101-2,200
30
6.0
6.0
2,201-4,400
40
8.0
8.0
4,401-11,000
60
12.0
6.0
11,001-22,000
80
16.0
8.0
22,001-150,000
100
20.0
10.0
Table 2—Shelled Pistachio Kernel Lot Sampling Increments for Aflatoxin Certification
Lot weight
(lbs.)
Minimum number of incremental samples for the lot sample
Total weight of lot sample
(kilograms)
Weight of test sample
(kilograms)
220 or less
10
1.0
1.0
221-440
15
1.5
1.5
441-1,100
20
2.0
2.0
1,101-2,200
30
3.0
3.0
2,201-4,400
40
4.0
4.0
4,401-11,000
60
6.0
3.0
11,001-22,000
80
8.0
4.0
22,001-150,000
100
10.0
5.0
(e)
Aflatoxin testing.
Importers may make arrangements for required chemical analysis for aflatoxin content at the nearest USDA or USDA-accredited laboratory. For further information concerning chemical analysis and a list of laboratories authorized to conduct such analysis contact: Science and Technology Programs, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., STOP 0270, Washington, DC 20250-0270; Telephone: (202) 720-5231; Fax: (202) 720-6496.
(1) Aflatoxin test samples shall be received and logged by a USDA or USDA-accredited laboratory, and each test sample shall be prepared and analyzed using High Pressure Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) or the AOAC-approved immunoaffinity column with direct fluorometry method. The aflatoxin level shall be calculated on a kernel weight basis.
(2) Lots that require a single test sample will be certified as “negative” on the aflatoxin inspection certificate if the sample has an aflatoxin level at or below 15 ppb. If the aflatoxin level is above 15 ppb, the lot fails. The laboratory shall electronically submit the results to USDA as described in paragraph (h) of this section.
(3) Lots that require two test samples will be certified as “negative” on the aflatoxin inspection certificate if Test Sample #1 has an aflatoxin level at or below 10 ppb. If the aflatoxin level of Test Sample #1 is above 20 ppb, the lot fails and the laboratory shall electronically submit the results to USDA as described in paragraph (h) of this section. If the aflatoxin level of Test Sample #1 is above 10 ppb and at or below 20 ppb, the laboratory may, at the importer's discretion, analyze Test Sample #2 and average the test results of Test Samples #1 and #2. Alternately, the importer may elect to withdraw the lot from testing, rework the lot, and resubmit it for testing after reworking. If the importer directs the laboratory to proceed with the analysis of Test Sample #2, a lot will be certified as negative to aflatoxin and the laboratory shall issue an aflatoxin inspection certificate if the averaged result of Test Samples #1 and #2 is at or below 15 ppb. If the average aflatoxin level of Test Samples #1 and #2 is above 15 ppb, the lot fails. The laboratory shall electronically submit the results to USDA as described in paragraph (h) of this section.
(4) If an importer does not elect to use Test Sample #2 for certification purposes, the importer may request that the laboratory return the sample to the importer.
(f)
Certification.
Each lot of pistachios sampled and tested in accordance with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall be covered by an aflatoxin inspection certificate completed by the laboratory. The certification expires for the lot or remainder of the lot after 12 months. Each such certificate shall set forth the following:
(1) The date and place of sampling and testing.
(2) The name of the applicant.
(3) The Customs entry number pertaining to the lot or shipment covered by the certificate.
(4) The quantity and identifying marks of the lot tested.
(5) The aflatoxin level of the lot, stated on a kernel weight basis.
(6) The statement, if applicable: “Meets U.S. import requirements under section 8e of the AMA Act of 1937.”
(7) If the lot fails to meet the import requirements, a statement to that effect and the reasons therefore.
(g)
Failed lots/rework procedure.
Any lot or portion thereof that fails to meet the import requirements prior to or
after reconditioning may be exported, sold for non-human consumption, or disposed of under the supervision the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Programs, with the costs of certifying the disposal of such lot paid by the importer.
(1)
Inshell rework procedure for aflatoxin.
If inshell rework is selected as a remedy to meet the aflatoxin requirements of this part, then 100 percent of the product within that lot shall be removed from the bulk and/or retail packaging containers and reworked to remove the portion of the lot that caused the failure. Reworking shall consist of mechanical, electronic, or manual procedures normally used in the handling of pistachios. The reworked lot shall be sampled and tested for aflatoxin as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, except that the lot sample size and the test sample size shall be doubled. If, after the lot has been reworked and tested, it fails the aflatoxin test for a second time, the lot may be shelled and the kernels reworked, sampled, and tested in the manner specified for an original lot of kernels, or the failed lot may be exported, used for non-human consumption, or otherwise disposed of.
(2)
Kernel rework procedure for aflatoxin.
If pistachio kernel rework is selected as a remedy to meet the aflatoxin requirements of this part, then 100 percent of the product within that lot shall be removed from the bulk and/or retail packaging containers and reworked to remove the portion of the lot that caused the failure. Reworking shall consist of mechanical, electronic, or manual procedures normally used in the handling of pistachios. The reworked lot shall be sampled and tested for aflatoxin as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(3)
Failed lot reporting.
If a lot fails to meet the aflatoxin requirements of this part, the testing laboratory shall electronically submit the results to USDA as described in paragraph (h) of this section within 10 working days of the test failure. This information must be submitted each time a lot fails aflatoxin testing.
(h)
Reports and Recordkeeping: Notification of Aflatoxin Levels.
Each USDA or USDA-accredited laboratory shall notify the Market Development Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA of all aflatoxin test results for all lots by electronically submitting this form within 10 days of testing through a format specified by the Secretary.
(i)
Exemptions.
Any importer may import pistachios free of the requirements of this section if such importer imports a quantity not exceeding a total of 5,000 dried pounds between September 1 and August 31 of each year. Substandard pistachios imported for use in non-human consumption outlets shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in § 999.500.
(j)
Reconditioning prior to importation.
Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to preclude reconditioning pistachios prior to importation, in order that such pistachios may be made eligible to meet the applicable aflatoxin regulations prescribed in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section.
(k)
Comingling.
Certified lots of pistachios may be comingled with other certified lots, but the comingling of certified lots and uncertified lots shall cause the loss of certification for the comingled lots.
(l)
Retesting.
Whenever USDA has reason to believe that imported pistachios may have been damaged or deteriorated while in storage, USDA may reject the then effective inspection certificate and may require the owner of the pistachios to have them retested to establish whether or not such pistachios may be shipped for human consumption.
(m)
Compliance.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be subject to a forfeiture in the amount prescribed in section 8a(5) of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601-674), or, upon conviction, a penalty in the amount prescribed in section 8c(14) of the said Act, or to both such forfeiture and penalty. False representation to any agency of the United States on any matter within its jurisdiction, knowing it to be false, is a violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides for a fine or imprisonments or both.
(n)
Other import requirements.
The provisions of this section do not supersede
any restrictions or prohibitions on pistachios under the Federal Plant Quarantine Act of 1912, or any other applicable laws or regulations of city, county, State, or Federal Agencies including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
[77 FR 51691, Aug. 27, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 87412, Dec. 5, 2016; 85 FR 12296, Mar. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82237, Nov. 24, 2023]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
7 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
7 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter IX
900.1—900.18 (Subpart A) Heading revised
41174
900.4 (a) revised; (d) added
41174
900.8 (b)(1) revised
41174
905.107 Added
55362
920 Order
12860
922.235 Revised
640
930.151 Revised
40872
930.162 (d) revised
73601
930.200 Revised
11832
930.256 Revised
40873
932.36 Revised
38762
932.230 Revised
28843
944.400 (a) revised
12994
944.401 (a)(5) and (c) revised
12994
956.202 Revised
41325
959.237 Revised
39049
966.22 (a) revised
72916
966.23 (a) revised
72916
966.32 (a) revised
72916
980.1 (f), (g)(1)(i), and (ii) revised
12995
980.117 (e), (f)(2), and (3) revised
12995
980.212 (e), (f)(2), and (3) revised
12995
984.21 Revised
27108
984.23 Stayed indefinitely
27108
984.26 Stayed indefinitely
27108
984.33 Stayed indefinitely
27108
984.48 Stayed indefinitely
27108
984.49 Stayed indefinitely
27108
984.50 (e) stayed indefinitely
27108
984.51 (a) and (c) revised
27108
984.54 Stayed indefinitely
27109
984.56 Stayed indefinitely
27109
984.64 Revised
27109
984.66 Stayed indefinitely
27109
984.67 (a) stayed indefinitely; (b) revised
27109
984.69 (b) stayed indefinitely
27109
984.450 (a) and (b) stayed indefinitely
27109
984.451 (c) stayed indefinitely
27109
984.456 Stayed indefinitely
27109
984.464 (a) stayed indefinitely
27109
984.472 Heading revised; (c) added; eff. 1-11-21
79385
985.141 Revised
41328
985.235 Added
35550
986.162 Revised
19654
986.175 (a) introductory text revised
19654
986.177 (a) introductory text, (3), (4), and (b) introductory text revised; (a)(5) and (b)(5) amended; (a)(6) through (10) and (b)(6) through (9) added
19654
986.178 (a) revised
19655
990 Regulation at 84 FR 58554 comment period reopened
55363
999.100 (c)(4) amended
12996
999.300 (c)(3) revised
12996
999.400 (c)(2) revised
12996
999.600 (e)(2), (3), (g), and (h) revised
12996
2021
7 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter IX
915.235 Revised; eff. 1-6-22
69161
925.215 Revised
37216
927.316 Revised
15563
930.170 Added; eff. 1-20-22
72147
930.200 Revised
20255
932.230 Revised
44259
945 Order
9253
945.341 (a)(2)(i) through (iii) revised
50839
946.143 Stayed indefinitely
11094
946.248 Stayed indefinitely
11094
966.161 Revised
57357
983.253 Revised
12802
984 Notification
53863
984.46 Revised
16289
984.347 Revised
32723
984.546 (Subpart D) Added
16289
985.236 Added
44593
987.339 Revised
64345
989.80 (c) revised
26348
990 Revised
5680
993.347 Revised
44261
2022
7 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter IX
906.235 Revised
22105
915.235 Correction: Revised
52433
915.332 (a)(4) added
8143
922.235 Stayed indefinitely
21743
925.20 (a) revised
36213
925.30 (a) revised
36213
927.236 Introductory text, (a), and (b) revised
30769
932.230 Revised
50765
944.31 (a)(4) added
8143
946 Removed
8402
983.253 Revised
22108
985.237 Added
38639
986.161 Revised
22110
2023
7 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter IX
900.4 (b)(1)(iii) amended
82231
900.14 (e) amended
82231
900.64 (c) amended
82231
900.101 (k) amended
82231
900.211 Amended
82231
900.305 (b)(2) amended
82231
900.353 Amended
82231
900.503 (c)(3) amended
82231
900.601 (b) revised
82231
900.700 (c)(1) introductory text amended
82232
905.14 (a) introductory text revised; eff. 1-26-24
89278
905.19 (a) revised; eff. 1-26-24
89279
905.22 Revised; eff. 1-26-24
89279
905.23 Revised; eff. 1-26-24
89279
905.29 (b) revised; eff. 1-26-24
89279
905.34 (a) through (c) revised; eff. 1-26-24
89279
905.41 (c) amended
82232
905.43 Added; eff. 1-26-24
89279
905.80 Revised; eff. 1-26-24
89279
905.82 Amended
82232
905.114 Revised; eff. 1-26-24
89279
905.120 (d) and (e) revised; (f) and (g) removed; eff. 1-26-24
89280
905.130 Added
14479
905.150 (d) revised; eff. 1-26-24
89280
905.153 (f) amended
82232
905.161 (c) introductory text amended
82232
906.34 (d) amended
82232
906.40 Introductory text amended
82232
906.235 Revised
14481
915.120 (b) and (e) amended
82232
915.305 (c) amended
82232
915.306 (a)(5) amended
82232
917.18 Stay lifted; (a) amended; stayed indefinitely
82232
917.61 Stay lifted; (c) amended; stayed indefinitely
82232
920.66 Amended
82232
920.213 Revised
21061
920.302 (a)(2), (4) heading, and (i) revised; (a)(4)(ii)(A) table redesignated as (a)(4)(ii)(A) Table 1; new (a)(4)(ii)(A) Table 1 amended
5723
922 Removed
41473
930.100 (c)(1) amended
82232
930.162 (c)(1), (2), and (4) amended
82232
930.200 Revised
39119
932.35 (e) amended
82232
932.36 Amended
82232
932.37 Amended
82232
932.39 (c) amended
82232
932.52 (b)(2) amended
82233
932.53 (a) amended
82233
932.139 (b) amended
82233
932.152 (b) and (c)(1) introductory text amended
82233
932.154 (a) and (c) amended
82233
932.230 Revised
69876
944.28 (b) and (c) amended
82233
944.31 (c) and (e) amended
82233
944.312 (a), (c), and (f) amended
82233
944.350 Revised
82233
944.401 (a)(6) and (b)(12) introductory text amended
82233
944.503 (c) amended
82233
944.550 (a) revised
5724
944.550 (b) and (c) amended
82233
945.42 (e) amended
82234
945.341 (b)(3)(i) and (d)(2) amended
82234
948.51 Amended
82234
948.63 (a)(1) amended
82234
948.142 Amended
82234
948.386 (g) amended
82234
955.4 Amended
82234
955.42 (e) amended
82234
956.202 Revised
69879
958.27 (a) amended
82234
958.86 Amended
82234
958.91 Amended
82234
959.4 Amended
82234
959.24 (b) amended
82234
966.323 (d)(1) and (5) amended
82234
980.1 (b)(1), (g)(1)(ii), and (i)(2) amended
82234
980.117 (d) and (f)(3) amended
82234
980.212 (b)(1), (f)(3), and (h) amended
82234
980.501 Revised
82234
981.19 Amended
82235
981.21 Amended
82235
981.33 (c) amended
82235
981.61 (a) amended
82235
981.70 Amended
82235
981.442 (a)(1), (4)(i), (5), (b) introductory text, (2), (3)(i), (v), (4)(i), (v), (6)(i) introductory text, (A), (C), and (D) revised
67625
981.442 (a)(5) amended
82235
981.450 Revised
67627
981.466 Stayed indefinitely
67627
981.467 Stayed indefinitely
67627
981.467 (b) amended; (c) and (d) removed
82235
981.481 Revised
67627
981.481 (a) amended
82235
982.30—982.39 Undesignated center heading revised
82235
982.33 (b) amended
82235
982.53 Amended
82235
982.254—982.255 (Subpart C) Removed
82235
983.92 Amended
82235
984.12 Revised
56748
984.13 Revised
56748
984.21 Heading revised
56748
984.22 (a) and (b) amended
56748
984.23 Stay lifted; section removed
56748
984.26 Stay lifted; section removed
56748
984.32 Revised
56748
984.33 Stay lifted; section removed
56748
984.37 (b) and (c)(4) revised
56748
984.48 (a) introductory text revised; (a)(3) amended; (a)(6) and (7) stay lifted and removed; (a)(8) and (9) redesignated as new (a)(6) and new (a)(7)
56748
984.49 (b)(1) stay lifted; section removed
56748
984.50 (e) stay lifted; section revised
56748
984.51 Removed
56749
984.52 Removed
56749
984.54 Stay lifted; section removed
56749
984.56 Stay lifted; section removed
56749
984.64 Revised
56749
984.66 Stay lifted; section removed
56749
984.67 (a) stay lifted and removed; (b) and (c) redesignated as new (a) and (b); new (a) revised
56749
984.69 (b) stay lifted; section revised
56749
984.72 Revised
56750
984.77 Revised
56750
984.89 (b)(4) amended
56750
984.347 Revised
56750
984.450 Stay lifted; section removed
56750
984.451 (c) stay lifted; section removed
56750
984.452 Removed
56750
984.456 Stay lifted; section removed
56750
984.459 (a)(3) removed
56750
984.464 (a) stay lifted; section removed
56750
984.472 Revised
56750
984.476 Revised
56750
985.154 (b) amended
82235
985.238 Added
23329
987.12 (c) amended
82235
987.41 (c) amended
82235
987.112 (a) and (d) amended
82236
987.112a (b)(2), (c)(2), and (d)(3) amended
82236
987.145 (b)(2) amended
82236
987.172 (b) amended
82236
989.58 (e)(5) amended
82236
989.91 (c) stayed through 11-26-29; interim
71275
989.159 (c)(2) amended
82236
989.212 (a), (b) note, and (c) note revised; interim
85823
989.213 (a) revised; (e) added; interim
85824
990.1 Amended
82236
990.3 (a)(2)(iii)(B) introductory text amended
82236
993.49 Stay lifted; (b) amended; stayed indefinitely
82236
993.50 Stay lifted; (g) amended; stayed indefinitely
82236
993.56 Stay lifted; amended; stayed indefinitely
82236
993.149 Stay lifted; (c)(2)(vii) amended; stayed indefinitely
82236
993.162 Stay lifted; (b)(3) amended; stayed indefinitely
82236
993.347 Revised
14484
993.515 Stay lifted; (b) introductory text amended; stayed indefinitely
82236
996.71 (b) amended
82236
999.1 (a)(7) amended
82236
999.100 (a)(5), (6), and (b)(2) amended
82236
999.200 Stay lifted; (a)(10) through (12) and (e)(1) revised; (b)(5) and (e)(2) amended; stayed indefinitely
82236
999.300 (a)(5) amended
82237
999.400 (a)(5) and (6) amended
82237
999.500 (a) introductory text and nomenclature change; (c) and (d) revised
82237
999.600 (a)(8) and (h) amended
82237
2024
7 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter IX
905.235 Revised
58958
926 Removed
57061
927.52 (a) revised
92571
927.237 Introductory text and (a) revised
25778
929 Removed
57061
930.256 Revised
65520
932.230 Revised
57064
958.240 Revised
45754
959.110 Added
63081
959.111 Added
63082
959.237 Revised
67522
966.234 Revised
55023
981.4 Revised
37968
981.6 Amended
37968
981.32 (b)(2) revised
37968
981.41 (b) amended
37968
981.42 (a) amended
37968
981.49 Introductory text amended
37968
981.59 (a) amended
37968
981.81 (b) and (c) amended
37968
982.340 Revised
15957
984.347 Revised
5760, 93151
985.233 Revised
45563
985.234 Revised
45563
985.235 Removed
45563
985.236 Removed
45563
985.237 Removed
45563
985.238 Removed
45563
987.339 Revised
25780
989.212 Regulation at 88 FR 85823 confirmed
59823
989.213 Regulation at 88 FR 85824 confirmed
59823
989.347 Revised
24339
989.91 Regulation at 88 FR 71275 confirmed
4167
993 Stayed indefinitely
13589
○
