iii. Section 39(c) requires the agencies to establish standards prohibiting as an unsafe and unsound practice any compensatory arrangement that would provide any executive officer, employee, director, or principal shareholder of the institution with excessive compensation, fees or benefits and any compensatory arrangement that could lead to material financial loss to an institution. Section 39(c) also requires that the agencies establish standards that specify when compensation is excessive.
iv. If an agency determines that an institution fails to meet any standard established by guideline under subsection (a) or (b) of section 39, the agency may require the institution to submit to the agency an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. In the event that an institution fails to submit an acceptable plan within the time allowed by the agency or fails in any material respect to implement an accepted plan, the agency must, by order, require the institution to correct the deficiency. The agency may, and in some cases must, take other supervisory actions until the deficiency has been corrected.
v. The agencies have adopted amendments to their rules and regulations to establish deadlines for submission and review of compliance plans.
2
2
For the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, these regulations appear at 12 CFR Part 30; for the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, these regulations appear at 12 CFR Part 263; for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, these regulations appear at 12 CFR Part 308, subpart R, and for the Office of Thrift Supervision, these regulations appear at 12 CFR Part 570.
vi. The following Guidelines set out the safety and soundness standards that the agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. The agencies believe that the standards adopted in these Guidelines serve this end without dictating how institutions must be managed and operated. These standards are designed to identify potential safety and soundness concerns and ensure that action is taken to address those concerns before they pose a risk to the deposit insurance funds.

# A.
Preservation of Existing Authority
Neither section 39 nor these Guidelines in any way limits the authority of the agencies to address unsafe or unsound practices, violations of law, unsafe or unsound conditions, or other practices. Action under section 39 and these Guidelines may be taken independently of, in conjunction with, or in addition to any other enforcement action available to the agencies. Nothing in these Guidelines limits the authority of the FDIC pursuant to section 38(i)(2)(F) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831(o)) and Part 325 of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

# B.
Definitions
1.
In general.
For purposes of these Guidelines, except as modified in the Guidelines or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used have the same meanings as set forth in sections 3 and 39 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1813 and 1831p-1).
2.
Board of directors,
in the case of a state-licensed insured branch of a foreign bank and in the case of a federal branch of a foreign bank, means the managing official in charge of the insured foreign branch.
3.
Compensation
means all direct and indirect payments or benefits, both cash and non-cash, granted to or for the benefit of any executive officer, employee, director, or
principal shareholder, including but not limited to payments or benefits derived from an employment contract, compensation or benefit agreement, fee arrangement, perquisite, stock option plan, postemployment benefit, or other compensatory arrangement.
4.
Director
shall have the meaning described in 12 CFR 215.2(c).
3
3
In applying these definitions for savings associations, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1464, savings associations shall use the terms “savings association” and “insured savings association” in place of the terms “member bank” and “insured bank”.
5.
Executive officer
shall have the meaning described in 12 CFR 215.2(d).
4
4
See footnote 3 in section I.B.4. of this appendix.
6.
Principal shareholder
shall have the meaning described in 12 CFR 215.2(
l
).
5
5
See footnote 3 in section I.B.4. of this appendix.

# II. Operational and Managerial Standards
A.
Internal controls and information systems.
An institution should have internal controls and information systems that are appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature, scope and risk of its activities and that provide for:
1. An organizational structure that establishes clear lines of authority and responsibility for monitoring adherence to established policies;
2. Effective risk assessment;
3. Timely and accurate financial, operational and regulatory reports;
4. Adequate procedures to safeguard and manage assets; and
5. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
B.
Internal audit system.
An institution should have an internal audit system that is appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities and that provides for:
1. Adequate monitoring of the system of internal controls through an internal audit function. For an institution whose size, complexity or scope of operations does not warrant a full scale internal audit function, a system of independent reviews of key internal controls may be used;
2. Independence and objectivity;
3. Qualified persons;
4. Adequate testing and review of information systems;
5. Adequate documentation of tests and findings and any corrective actions;
6. Verification and review of management actions to address material weaknesses; and
7. Review by the institution's audit committee or board of directors of the effectiveness of the internal audit systems.
C.
Loan documentation.
An institution should establish and maintain loan documentation practices that:
1. Enable the institution to make an informed lending decision and to assess risk, as necessary, on an ongoing basis;
2. Identify the purpose of a loan and the source of repayment, and assess the ability of the borrower to repay the indebtedness in a timely manner;
3. Ensure that any claim against a borrower is legally enforceable;
4. Demonstrate appropriate administration and monitoring of a loan; and
5. Take account of the size and complexity of a loan.
D.
Credit underwriting.
An institution should establish and maintain prudent credit underwriting practices that:
1. Are commensurate with the types of loans the institution will make and consider the terms and conditions under which they will be made;
2. Consider the nature of the markets in which loans will be made;
3. Provide for consideration, prior to credit commitment, of the borrower's overall financial condition and resources, the financial responsibility of any guarantor, the nature and value of any underlying collateral, and the borrower's character and willingness to repay as agreed;
4. Establish a system of independent, ongoing credit review and appropriate communication to management and to the board of directors;
5. Take adequate account of concentration of credit risk; and
6. Are appropriate to the size of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities.
E.
Interest rate exposure.
An institution should:
1. Manage interest rate risk in a manner that is appropriate to the size of the institution and the complexity of its assets and liabilities; and
2. Provide for periodic reporting to management and the board of directors regarding interest rate risk with adequate information for management and the board of directors to assess the level of risk.
F.
Asset growth.
An institution's asset growth should be prudent and consider:
1. The source, volatility and use of the funds that support asset growth;
2. Any increase in credit risk or interest rate risk as a result of growth; and
3. The effect of growth on the institution's capital.
G.
Asset quality.
An insured depository institution should establish and maintain a system that is commensurate with the institution's size and the nature and scope of its operations to identify problem assets and prevent deterioration in those assets. The institution should:
1. Conduct periodic asset quality reviews to identify problem assets;
2. Estimate the inherent losses in those assets and establish reserves that are sufficient to absorb estimated losses;
3. Compare problem asset totals to capital;
4. Take appropriate corrective action to resolve problem assets;
5. Consider the size and potential risks of material asset concentrations; and
6. Provide periodic asset reports with adequate information for management and the board of directors to assess the level of asset risk.
H.
Earnings.
An insured depository institution should establish and maintain a system that is commensurate with the institution's size and the nature and scope of its operations to evaluate and monitor earnings and ensure that earnings are sufficient to maintain adequate capital and reserves. The institution should:
1. Compare recent earnings trends relative to equity, assets, or other commonly used benchmarks to the institution's historical results and those of its peers;
2. Evaluate the adequacy of earnings given the size, complexity, and risk profile of the institution's assets and operations;
3. Assess the source, volatility, and sustainability of earnings, including the effect of nonrecurring or extraordinary income or expense;
4. Take steps to ensure that earnings are sufficient to maintain adequate capital and reserves after considering the institution's asset quality and growth rate; and
5. Provide periodic earnings reports with adequate information for management and the board of directors to assess earnings performance.
I.
Compensation, fees and benefits.
An institution should maintain safeguards to prevent the payment of compensation, fees, and benefits that are excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the institution.

# III. Prohibition on Compensation That Constitutes an Unsafe and Unsound Practice

# A. Excessive Compensation
Excessive compensation is prohibited as an unsafe and unsound practice. Compensation shall be considered excessive when amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director, or principal shareholder, considering the following:
1. The combined value of all cash and non-cash benefits provided to the individual;
2. The compensation history of the individual and other individuals with comparable expertise at the institution;
3. The financial condition of the institution;
4. Comparable compensation practices at comparable institutions, based upon such factors as asset size, geographic location, and the complexity of the loan portfolio or other assets;
5. For postemployment benefits, the projected total cost and benefit to the institution;
6. Any connection between the individual and any fraudulent act or omission, breach of trust or fiduciary duty, or insider abuse with regard to the institution; and
7. Any other factors the agencies determines to be relevant.

# B. Compensation Leading to Material Financial Loss
Compensation that could lead to material financial loss to an institution is prohibited as an unsafe and unsound practice.
[60 FR 35678, 35682, July 10, 1995, as amended by Reg. H, 61 FR 43951, Aug. 27, 1996]
Pt. 208, App. D-2

# Appendix D-2 to Part 208—Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards

# Table of Contents
I. Introduction
A. Scope
B. Preservation of Existing Authority
C. Definitions
II. Standards for Safeguarding Customer Information
A. Information Security Program
B. Objectives
III. Development and Implementation of Customer Information Security Program
A. Involve the Board of Directors
B. Assess Risk
C. Manage and Control Risk
D. Oversee Service Provider Arrangements
E. Adjust the Program
F. Report to the Board
G. Implement the Standards

# I. Introduction
These Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safeguarding Customer Information (Guidelines) set forth standards pursuant to sections 501 and 505 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801 and 6805), in the same manner, to the extent practicable, as standards prescribed pursuant to section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831p-1). These Guidelines address standards for developing and implementing administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of customer information. These Guidelines also address standards with respect to the proper disposal of consumer information, pursuant to sections 621 and 628 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681s and 1681w).
A.
Scope.
The Guidelines apply to customer information maintained by or on behalf of state member banks (banks) and their nonbank subsidiaries, except for brokers, dealers, persons providing insurance, investment companies, and investment advisors. Pursuant to §§ 211.9 and 211.24 of this chapter, these guidelines also apply to customer information maintained by or on behalf of Edge corporations, agreement corporations, and uninsured state-licensed branches or agencies of a foreign bank. These Guidelines also apply to the proper disposal of consumer information by or on behalf of such entities.
B.
Preservation of Existing Authority.
Neither section 39 nor these Guidelines in any way limit the authority of the Board to address unsafe or unsound practices, violations of law, unsafe or unsound conditions, or other practices. The Board may take action under section 39 and these Guidelines independently of, in conjunction with, or in addition to, any other enforcement action available to the Board.
C.
Definitions.
1. Except as modified in the Guidelines, or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used in these Guidelines have the same meanings as set forth in sections 3 and 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813 and 1831p-1).
2. For purposes of the Guidelines, the following definitions apply:
a.
Board of directors,
in the case of a branch or agency of a foreign bank, means the managing official in charge of the branch or agency.
b.
Consumer information
means any record about an individual, whether in paper, electronic, or other form, that is a consumer report or is derived from a consumer report and that is maintained or otherwise possessed by or on behalf of the bank for a business purpose. Consumer information also means a compilation of such records. The term does not include any record that does not identify an individual.
i.
Examples.
(1)
Consumer information
includes:
(A) A consumer report that a bank obtains;
(B) Information from a consumer report that the bank obtains from its affiliate after the consumer has been given a notice and has elected not to opt out of that sharing;
(C) Information from a consumer report that the bank obtains about an individual who applies for but does not receive a loan, including any loan sought by an individual for a business purpose;
(D) Information from a consumer report that the bank obtains about an individual who guarantees a loan (including a loan to a business entity); or
(E) Information from a consumer report that the bank obtains about an employee or prospective employee.
(2)
Consumer information does not include:
(A) Aggregate information, such as the mean credit score, derived from a group of consumer reports; or
(B) Blind data, such as payment history on accounts that are not personally identifiable, that may be used for developing credit scoring models or for other purposes.
c.
Consumer report
has the same meaning as set forth in the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. 1681a(d).
d.
Customer
means any customer of the bank as defined in § 1016.3(i) of this chapter.
e.
Customer
information means any record containing nonpublic personal information, as defined in § 1016.3(p) of this chapter, about a customer, whether in paper, electronic, or other form, that is maintained by or on behalf of the bank.
f.
Customer information systems
means any methods used to access, collect, store, use, transmit, protect, or dispose of customer information.
g.
Service provider
means any person or entity that maintains, processes, or otherwise is permitted access to customer information or consumer information through its provision of services directly to the bank.
h.
Subsidiary
means any company controlled by a bank, except a broker, dealer, person providing insurance, investment company, investment advisor, insured depository institution, or subsidiary of an insured depository institution.

# II. Standards for Information Security
A.
Information Security Program.
Each bank shall implement a comprehensive written information security program that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the bank and the nature and scope of its activities. While all parts of the bank are not required to implement a uniform set of policies, all elements of the information security program must be coordinated. A bank also shall ensure that each of its subsidiaries is subject to a comprehensive information security program. The bank may fulfill this requirement either by including a subsidiary within the scope of the bank's comprehensive information security program or by causing the subsidiary to implement a separate comprehensive information security program in accordance with the standards and procedures in sections II and III of this appendix that apply to banks.
B.
Objectives.
A bank's information security program shall be designed to:
1. Ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information;
2. Protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information;
3. Protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer; and
4. Ensure the proper disposal of customer information and consumer information.

# III. Development and Implementation of Information Security Program
A.
Involve the Board of Directors.
The board of directors or an appropriate committee of the board of each bank shall:
1. Approve the bank's written information security program; and
2. Oversee the development, implementation, and maintenance of the bank's information security program, including assigning specific responsibility for its implementation and reviewing reports from management.
B.
Assess Risk.
Each bank shall:
1. Identify reasonably foreseeable internal and external threats that could result in unauthorized disclosure, misuse, alteration, or destruction of customer information or customer information systems.
2. Assess the likelihood and potential damage of these threats, taking into consideration the sensitivity of customer information.
3. Assess the sufficiency of policies, procedures, customer information systems, and other arrangements in place to control risks.
C.
Manage and Control Risk.
Each bank shall:
1. Design its information security program to control the identified risks, commensurate with the sensitivity of the information as well as the complexity and scope of the bank's activities. Each bank must consider whether the following security measures are appropriate for the bank and, if so, adopt those measures the bank concludes are appropriate:
a. Access controls on customer information systems, including controls to authenticate and permit access only to authorized individuals and controls to prevent employees from providing customer information to unauthorized individuals who may seek to obtain this information through fraudulent means.
b. Access restrictions at physical locations containing customer information, such as buildings, computer facilities, and records storage facilities to permit access only to authorized individuals;
c. Encryption of electronic customer information, including while in transit or in storage on networks or systems to which unauthorized individuals may have access;
d. Procedures designed to ensure that customer information system modifications are consistent with the bank's information security program;
e. Dual control procedures, segregation of duties, and employee background checks for employees with responsibilities for or access to customer information;
f. Monitoring systems and procedures to detect actual and attempted attacks on or intrusions into customer information systems;
g. Response programs that specify actions to be taken when the bank suspects or detects that unauthorized individuals have gained access to customer information systems, including appropriate reports to regulatory and law enforcement agencies; and
h. Measures to protect against destruction, loss, or damage of customer information due to potential environmental hazards, such as fire and water damage or technological failures.
2. Train staff to implement the bank's information security program.
3. Regularly test the key controls, systems and procedures of the information security program. The frequency and nature of such tests should be determined by the bank's risk assessment. Tests should be conducted or reviewed by independent third parties or staff independent of those that develop or maintain the security programs.
4. Develop, implement, and maintain, as part of its information security program, appropriate measures to properly dispose of customer information and consumer information in accordance with each of the requirements in this paragraph III.
D.
Oversee Service Provider Arrangements.
Each bank shall:
1. Exercise appropriate due diligence in selecting its service providers;
2. Require its service providers by contract to implement appropriate measures designed to meet the objectives of these Guidelines; and
3. Where indicated by the bank's risk assessment, monitor its service providers to confirm that they have satisfied their obligations as required by paragraph D.2. As part of this monitoring, a bank should review audits, summaries of test results, or other equivalent evaluations of its service providers.
E.
Adjust the Program.
Each bank shall monitor, evaluate, and adjust, as appropriate, the information security program in light of any relevant changes in technology, the sensitivity of its customer information, internal or external threats to information, and the bank's own changing business arrangements, such as mergers and acquisitions, alliances and joint ventures, outsourcing arrangements, and changes to customer information systems.
F.
Report to the Board.
Each bank shall report to its board or an appropriate committee of the board at least annually. This report should describe the overall status of the information security program and the bank's compliance with these Guidelines. The reports should discuss material matters related to its program, addressing issues such as: risk assessment; risk management and control decisions; service provider arrangements; results of testing; security
breaches or violations and management's responses; and recommendations for changes in the information security program.
G.
Implement the Standards.
1.
Effective date.
Each bank must implement an information security program pursuant to these Guidelines by July 1, 2001.
2.
Two-year grandfathering of agreements with service providers.
Until July 1, 2003, a contract that a bank has entered into with a service provider to perform services for it or functions on its behalf satisfies the provisions of section III.D., even if the contract does not include a requirement that the servicer maintain the security and confidentiality of customer information, as long as the bank entered into the contract on or before March 5, 2001.
3.
Effective date for measures relating to the disposal of consumer information.
Each bank must satisfy these Guidelines with respect to the proper disposal of consumer information by July 1, 2005.
4.
Exception for existing agreements with service providers relating to the disposal of consumer information.
Notwithstanding the requirement in paragraph III.G.3., a bank's contracts with its service providers that have access to consumer information and that may dispose of consumer information, entered into before July 1, 2005, must comply with the provisions of the Guidelines relating to the proper disposal of consumer information by July 1, 2006.

# Supplement A to Appendix D-2 to Part 208—Interagency Guidance on Response Programs for Unauthorized Access to Customer Information and Customer Notice

# I. Background
This Guidance
1
interprets section 501(b) of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”) and the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards (the “Security Guidelines”)
2
and describes response programs, including customer notification procedures, that a financial institution should develop and implement to address unauthorized access to or use of customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to a customer. The scope of, and definitions of terms used in, this Guidance are identical to those of the Security Guidelines. For example, the term “customer information” is the same term used in the Security Guidelines, and means any record containing nonpublic personal information about a customer, whether in paper, electronic, or other form, maintained by or on behalf of the institution.
1
This Guidance is being jointly issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS).
2
12 CFR part 30, app. B (OCC); 12 CFR part 208, app. D-2 and part 225, app. F (Board); 12 CFR part 364, app. B (FDIC); and 12 CFR part 570, app. B (OTS). The “Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards” were formerly known as “The Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safeguarding Customer Information.”

# A. Interagency Security Guidelines
Section 501(b) of the GLBA required the Agencies to establish appropriate standards for financial institutions subject to their jurisdiction that include administrative, technical, and physical safeguards, to protect the security and confidentiality of customer information. Accordingly, the Agencies issued Security Guidelines requiring every financial institution to have an information security program designed to:
1. Ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information;
2. Protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information; and
3. Protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer.

# B. Risk Assessment and Controls
1. The Security Guidelines direct every financial institution to assess the following risks, among others, when developing its information security program:
a. Reasonably foreseeable internal and external threats that could result in unauthorized disclosure, misuse, alteration, or destruction of customer information or customer information systems;
b. The likelihood and potential damage of threats, taking into consideration the sensitivity of customer information; and
c. The sufficiency of policies, procedures, customer information systems, and other arrangements in place to control risks.
3
3
See
Security Guidelines, III.B.
2. Following the assessment of these risks, the Security Guidelines require a financial institution to design a program to address the identified risks. The particular security measures an institution should adopt will depend upon the risks presented by the complexity and scope of its business. At a minimum, the financial institution is required to consider the specific security measures enumerated in the Security Guidelines,
4
and adopt those that are appropriate for the institution, including:
4
See
Security Guidelines, III.C.
a. Access controls on customer information systems, including controls to authenticate and permit access only to authorized individuals and controls to prevent employees from providing customer information to unauthorized individuals who may seek to obtain this information through fraudulent means;
b. Background checks for employees with responsibilities for access to customer information; and
c. Response programs that specify actions to be taken when the financial institution suspects or detects that unauthorized individuals have gained access to customer information systems, including appropriate reports to regulatory and law enforcement agencies.
5
5
See
Security Guidelines, III.C.

# C. Service Providers
The Security Guidelines direct every financial institution to require its service providers by contract to implement appropriate measures designed to protect against unauthorized access to or use of customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer.
6
6
See
Security Guidelines, II.B. and III.D. Further, the Agencies note that, in addition to contractual obligations to a financial institution, a service provider may be required to implement its own comprehensive information security program in accordance with the Safeguards Rule promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), 16 CFR part 314.

# II. Response Program
Millions of Americans, throughout the country, have been victims of identity theft.
7
Identity thieves misuse personal information they obtain from a number of sources, including financial institutions, to perpetrate identity theft. Therefore, financial institutions should take preventative measures to safeguard customer information against attempts to gain unauthorized access to the information. For example, financial institutions should place access controls on customer information systems and conduct background checks for employees who are authorized to access customer information.
8
However, every financial institution should also develop and implement a risk-based response program to address incidents of unauthorized access to customer information in customer information systems
9
that occur nonetheless. A response program should be a key part of an institution's information security program.
10
The program should be appropriate to the size and complexity of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities.
7
The FTC estimates that nearly 10 million Americans discovered they were victims of some form of identity theft in 2002.
See
The Federal Trade Commission,
Identity Theft Survey Report,
(September 2003), available at
http://www.ftc.gov/os/2003/09/synovatereport.pdf.
8
Institutions should also conduct background checks of employees to ensure that the institution does not violate 12 U.S.C. 1829, which prohibits an institution from hiring an individual convicted of certain criminal offenses or who is subject to a prohibition order under 12 U.S.C. 1818(e)(6).
9
Under the Guidelines, an institution's
customer information systems
consist of all of the methods used to access, collect, store, use, transmit, protect, or dispose of customer information, including the systems maintained by its service providers.
See
Security Guidelines, I.C.2.d (I.C.2.c for OTS).
10
See
FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook, Information Security Booklet, Dec. 2002 available at
http://www.ffiec.gov/ffiecinfobase/html_pages/infosec_book_frame.htm.
Federal Reserve SR 97-32, Sound Practice Guidance for Information Security for Networks, Dec. 4, 1997; OCC Bulletin 2000-14, “Infrastructure Threats—Intrusion Risks” (May 15, 2000), for additional guidance on preventing, detecting, and responding to intrusions into financial institution computer systems.
In addition, each institution should be able to address incidents of unauthorized access to customer information in customer information systems maintained by its domestic and foreign service providers. Therefore, consistent with the obligations in the Guidelines that relate to these arrangements, and with existing guidance on this topic issued by the Agencies,
11
an institution's contract with its service provider should require the service provider to take appropriate actions to address incidents of unauthorized access to the financial institution's customer information, including notification to the institution as soon as possible of any such incident, to enable the institution to expeditiously implement its response program.
11
See
Federal Reserve SR Ltr. 00-04, Outsourcing of Information and Transaction Processing, Feb. 9, 2000; OCC Bulletin 2001-47, “Third-Party Relationships Risk Management Principles,” Nov. 1, 2001; FDIC FIL 68-99, Risk Assessment Tools and Practices for Information System Security, July 7, 1999; OTS Thrift Bulletin 82a, Third Party Arrangements, Sept. 1, 2004.

# A. Components of a Response Program
1. At a minimum, an institution's response program should contain procedures for the following:
a. Assessing the nature and scope of an incident, and identifying what customer information systems and types of customer information have been accessed or misused;
b. Notifying its primary Federal regulator as soon as possible when the institution becomes aware of an incident involving unauthorized access to or use of
sensitive
customer information, as defined below;
c. Consistent with the Agencies' Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”) regulations,
12
notifying appropriate law enforcement authorities, in addition to filing a timely SAR in situations involving Federal criminal violations requiring immediate attention, such as when a reportable violation is ongoing;
12
An institution's obligation to file a SAR is set out in the Agencies' SAR regulations and Agency guidance.
See
12 CFR 21.11 (national banks, Federal branches and agencies); 12 CFR 208.62 (State member banks); 12 CFR 211.5(k) (Edge and agreement corporations); 12 CFR 211.24(f) (uninsured State branches and agencies of foreign banks); 12 CFR 225.4(f) (bank holding companies and their nonbank subsidiaries); 12 CFR part 353 (State non-member banks); and 12 CFR 563.180 (savings associations). National banks must file SARs in connection with computer intrusions and other computer crimes.
See
OCC Bulletin 2000-14, “Infrastructure Threats—Intrusion Risks” (May 15, 2000); Advisory Letter 97-9, “Reporting Computer Related Crimes” (November 19, 1997) (general guidance still applicable though instructions for new SAR form published in 65 FR 1229, 1230 (January 7, 2000)).
See also
Federal Reserve SR 01-11, Identity Theft and Pretext Calling, Apr. 26, 2001; SR 97-28, Guidance Concerning Reporting of Computer Related Crimes by Financial Institutions, Nov. 6, 1997; FDIC FIL 48-2000, Suspicious Activity Reports, July 14, 2000; FIL 47-97, Preparation of Suspicious Activity Reports, May 6, 1997; OTS CEO Memorandum 139, Identity Theft and Pretext Calling, May 4, 2001; CEO Memorandum 126, New Suspicious Activity Report Form, July 5, 2000;
http://www.ots.treas.gov/BSA
(for the latest SAR form and filing instructions required by OTS as of July 1, 2003).
d. Taking appropriate steps to contain and control the incident to prevent further unauthorized access to or use of customer information, for example, by monitoring, freezing, or closing affected accounts, while preserving records and other evidence;
13
and
13
See
FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook, Information Security Booklet, Dec. 2002, pp. 68-74.
e. Notifying customers when warranted.
2. Where an incident of unauthorized access to customer information involves customer information systems maintained by an institution's service providers, it is the responsibility of the financial institution to notify the institution's customers and regulator. However, an institution may authorize or contract with its service provider to notify the institution's customers or regulator on its behalf.

# III. Customer Notice
Financial institutions have an affirmative duty to protect their customers' information against unauthorized access or use. Notifying customers of a security incident involving the unauthorized access or use of the customer's information in accordance with the standard set forth below is a key part of that duty. Timely notification of customers is important to manage an institution's reputation risk. Effective notice also may reduce an institution's legal risk, assist in maintaining good customer relations, and enable the institution's customers to take steps to protect themselves against the consequences of identity theft. When customer notification is warranted, an institution may not forgo notifying its customers of an incident because the institution believes that it may be potentially embarrassed or inconvenienced by doing so.

# A. Standard for Providing Notice
When a financial institution becomes aware of an incident of unauthorized access to sensitive customer information, the institution should conduct a reasonable investigation to promptly determine the likelihood that the information has been or will be misused. If the institution determines that misuse of its information about a customer has occurred or is reasonably possible, it should notify the affected customer as soon as possible. Customer notice may be delayed if an appropriate law enforcement agency determines that notification will interfere with a criminal investigation and provides the institution with a written request for the delay. However, the institution should notify its customers as soon as notification will no longer interfere with the investigation.

# 1. Sensitive Customer Information
Under the Guidelines, an institution must protect against unauthorized access to or use of customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. Substantial harm or inconvenience is most likely to result from improper access to
sensitive customer information
because this type of information is most likely to be misused, as in the commission of identity theft. For purposes of this Guidance,
sensitive customer information
means a customer's name, address, or telephone number, in conjunction with the customer's social security number, driver's license number, account number, credit or debit card number,
or a personal identification number or password that would permit access to the customer's account.
Sensitive customer information
also includes any combination of components of customer information that would allow someone to log onto or access the customer's account, such as user name and password or password and account number.

# 2. Affected Customers
If a financial institution, based upon its investigation, can determine from its logs or other data precisely which customers' information has been improperly accessed, it may limit notification to those customers with regard to whom the institution determines that misuse of their information has occurred or is reasonably possible. However, there may be situations where the institution determines that a group of files has been accessed improperly, but is unable to identify which specific customers' information has been accessed. If the circumstances of the unauthorized access lead the institution to determine that misuse of the information is reasonably possible, it should notify all customers in the group.

# B. Content of Customer Notice
1. Customer notice should be given in a clear and conspicuous manner. The notice should describe the incident in general terms and the type of customer information that was the subject of unauthorized access or use. It also should generally describe what the institution has done to protect the customers' information from further unauthorized access. In addition, it should include a telephone number that customers can call for further information and assistance.
14
The notice also should remind customers of the need to remain vigilant over the next twelve to twenty-four months, and to promptly report incidents of suspected identity theft to the institution. The notice should include the following additional items, when appropriate:
14
The institution should, therefore, ensure that it has reasonable policies and procedures in place, including trained personnel, to respond appropriately to customer inquiries and requests for assistance.
a. A recommendation that the customer review account statements and immediately report any suspicious activity to the institution;
b. A description of fraud alerts and an explanation of how the customer may place a fraud alert in the customer's consumer reports to put the customer's creditors on notice that the customer may be a victim of fraud;
c. A recommendation that the customer periodically obtain credit reports from each nationwide credit reporting agency and have information relating to fraudulent transactions deleted;
d. An explanation of how the customer may obtain a credit report free of charge; and
e. Information about the availability of the FTC's online guidance regarding steps a consumer can take to protect against identity theft. The notice should encourage the customer to report any incidents of identity theft to the FTC, and should provide the FTC's Web site address and toll-free telephone number that customers may use to obtain the identity theft guidance and report suspected incidents of identity theft.
15
15
Currently, the FTC Web site for the ID Theft brochure and the FTC Hotline phone number are
http://www.consumer.gov/idtheft
and 1-877-IDTHEFT. The institution may also refer customers to any materials developed pursuant to section 151(b) of the FACT Act (educational materials developed by the FTC to teach the public how to prevent identity theft).
2. The Agencies encourage financial institutions to notify the nationwide consumer reporting agencies prior to sending notices to a large number of customers that include contact information for the reporting agencies.

# C. Delivery of Customer Notice
Customer notice should be delivered in any manner designed to ensure that a customer can reasonably be expected to receive it. For example, the institution may choose to contact all customers affected by telephone or by mail, or by electronic mail for those customers for whom it has a valid e-mail address and who have agreed to receive communications electronically.
[Reg. H, 66 FR 8634, Feb. 1, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 77617, Dec. 28, 2004; 70 FR 15753, Mar. 29, 2005; 71 FR 5780, Feb. 3, 2006; 79 FR 37166, July 1, 2014]
Appendixes E-F to Part 208 [Reserved]
Pt. 209

# PART 209—FEDERAL RESERVE BANK CAPITAL STOCK (REGULATION I)
Sec.
209.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and definitions.
209.2
Banks desiring to become member banks.
209.3
Cancellation of Reserve Bank stock; mergers involving member banks.
209.4
Amounts and payments for subscriptions and cancellations; timing and rate of dividends.
209.5
The share register.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 12 U.S.C. 222, 248, 282, 286-288, 289, 321, 323, 327-328, and 466.

# Source:
63 FR 37663, July 13, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 209.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and definitions.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 222, 248, 282, 286-288, 289, 321, 323, 327-328, and 466.
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the provisions of the Federal Reserve Act relating to the issuance and cancellation of Federal Reserve Bank stock upon becoming or ceasing to be a member bank, or upon changes in the capital and surplus of a member bank, of the Federal Reserve System. This part also implements the provisions of the Federal Reserve Act relating to the payment of dividends to member banks.
(c)
Scope.
This part applies to member banks of the Federal Reserve System, to national banks in process of organization, and to state banks applying for membership. National banks and locally-incorporated banks located in United States dependencies and possessions are eligible (with the consent of the Board) but not required to apply for membership under section 19(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U.S.C. 466.
1
1
A bank located in the Virgin Islands or Puerto Rico should communicate with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York regarding applications for membership under the provisions of section 19(h) of the Federal Reserve Act. A bank located in Guam, American Samoa, or the Northern Mariana Islands should communicate with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco regarding applications for membership under the provisions of section 19(h) of the Federal Reserve Act.
(d)
Definitions.
For purposes of this part—
(1)
Capital Stock and Surplus.
Capital stock and surplus of a member bank means the paid-in capital stock
2
and paid-in surplus of the bank, less any deficit in the aggregate of its retained earnings, gains (losses) on available for sale securities, and foreign currency translation accounts, all as shown on the bank's most recent report of condition. Paid-in capital stock and paid-in surplus of a bank in organization means the amount which is to be paid in at the time the bank commences business.
2
Capital stock includes common stock and preferred stock (including sinking fund preferred stock).
(2)
Dividend proration basis
means the use of a 360-day year of 12 30-day months for purposes of computing dividend payments.
(3)
Total consolidated assets
means the total assets on the stockholder's balance sheet as reported by the stockholder on its Consolidated Report of Condition and Income (Call Report) as of the most recent December 31, except in the case of:
(i) A new member “total consolidated assets” means (until the next December 31 Call Report becomes available) the total consolidated assets of the new member at the time of its application for capital stock; and
(ii) A surviving stockholder after a merger “total consolidated assets” means (until the next December 31 Call Report becomes available) the total consolidated assets reported by that stockholder pursuant to § 209.3(d)(5).
[63 FR 37663, July 13, 1998, as amended by Reg. I, 81 FR 9087, Feb. 24, 2016; 87 FR 2030, Jan. 13, 2022]
§ 209.2
Banks desiring to become member banks.
(a)
Application for stock or deposit.
Each national bank in process of organization,
3
each nonmember state bank converting into a national bank, and each nonmember state bank applying for membership in the Federal Reserve System under Regulation H, 12 CFR part 208, shall file with the Federal Reserve Bank (Reserve Bank) in whose district it is located an application for stock (or deposit in the case of mutual savings banks not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank stock
4
) in the Reserve Bank. This application for stock
must state whether the applicant's total consolidated assets exceed $12,841,000,000. The bank shall pay for the stock (or deposit) in accordance with § 209.4 of this part.
3
A new national bank organized by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under section 11(n) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(n)) should not apply until in the process of issuing stock pursuant to section 11(n)(15) of that act. Reserve Bank approval of such an application shall not be effective until the issuance of a certificate by the Comptroller of the Currency pursuant to section 11(n)(16) of that act.
4
A mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Federal Reserve Bank stock may apply for membership evidenced initially by
a deposit. (See § 208.3(a) of Regulation H, 12 CFR part 208.) The membership of the savings bank shall be terminated if the laws under which it is organized are not amended to authorize such purchase at the first session of the legislature after its admission, or if it fails to purchase such stock within six months after such an amendment.
(b)
Issuance of stock; acceptance of deposit.
Upon authorization to commence business by the Comptroller of the Currency in the case of a national bank in organization or upon approval of conversion by the Comptroller of the Currency in the case of a state nonmember bank converting to a national bank, or when all applicable requirements have been complied with in the case of a state bank approved for membership, the Reserve Bank shall issue the appropriate number of shares by crediting the bank with the appropriate number of shares on its books. In the case of a national or state member bank in organization, such issuance shall be as of the date the bank opens for business. In the case of a mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank shares, the Reserve Bank shall accept the deposit in place of issuing shares. The bank's membership shall become effective on the date of such issuance or acceptance.
(c)
Location of bank
—(1)
General rule.
For purposes of this part, a national bank or a State bank is located in the Federal Reserve District that contains the location specified in the bank's charter or organizing certificate, or as specified by the institution's primary regulator, or if no such location is specified, the location of its head office, unless otherwise determined by the Board under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2)
Board determination.
If the location of a bank as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, in the judgment of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board), is ambiguous, would impede the ability of the Board or the Reserve Banks to perform their functions under the Federal Reserve Act, or would impede the ability of the bank to operate efficiently, the Board will determine the Federal Reserve District in which the bank is located, after consultation with the bank and the relevant Reserve Banks. The relevant Reserve Banks are the Reserve Bank whose District contains the location specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and the Reserve Bank in whose District the bank is proposed to be located. In making this determination, the Board will consider any applicable laws, the business needs of the bank, the location of the bank's head office, the locations where the bank performs its business, and the locations that would allow the bank, the Board, and the Reserve Banks to perform their functions efficiently and effectively.
[63 FR 37663, July 13, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 25639, May 29, 2009; Reg. I, 81 FR 9087, Feb. 24, 2016; 82 FR 11502, Feb. 24, 2017; 82 FR 52174, Nov. 13, 2017; 83 FR 58467, Nov. 20, 2018; 84 FR 68326, Dec. 16, 2019; 85 FR 79390, Dec. 10, 2020; 86 FR 69579, Dec. 8, 2021; 87 FR 73635, Dec. 1, 2022; 88 FR 83318, Nov. 29, 2023; 89 FR 88878, Nov. 12, 2024]
§ 209.3
Cancellation of Reserve Bank stock; mergers involving member banks.
(a)
Application for cancellation.
Any bank that desires to withdraw from membership in the Federal Reserve System (including a national bank that wants to convert into a nonmember bank), voluntarily liquidates or ceases business, is merged or consolidated into a nonmember bank, or is involuntarily liquidated by a receiver or conservator or otherwise, shall promptly file with its Reserve Bank an application for cancellation of all its Reserve Bank stock (or withdrawal of its deposit, as the case may be) and payment therefor in accordance with § 209.4.
(b)
Involuntary termination of membership.
If an application is not filed promptly after a cessation of business by a state member bank, a vote to place a member bank in voluntary liquidation, or the appointment of a receiver for (or a determination to liquidate the bank by a conservator of) a member bank, the Board may, after notice and an opportunity for hearing where required under Section 9(9) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 327),
order the membership of the bank terminated and all of its Reserve Bank stock canceled.
(c)
Effective date of cancellation.
Cancellation in whole of a bank's Reserve Bank capital stock shall be effective, in the case of:
(1) Voluntary withdrawal from membership by a state bank, as of the date of such withdrawal;
(2) Merger into, consolidation with, or (for a national bank) conversion into, a nonmember bank, as of the effective date of the merger, consolidation, or conversion; and
(3) Involuntary termination of membership, as of the date the Board issues the order of termination.
(d)
Exchange of stock on merger or change in location; stock adjustment upon merger with a nonmember bank; reporting of total consolidated assets following merger
—(1)
Applications.
(i) Before a merger or consolidation of member banks, the nonsurviving member bank shall file an application with the appropriate Reserve Bank to cancel its shares of Reserve Bank stock (or in the case of a mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank stock, shall file an application to transfer its deposit to the account of the surviving bank) and the surviving member bank shall file an application with the appropriate Reserve Bank for issue of a corresponding number of shares of Reserve Bank stock (or in the case of a mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank stock, shall file an application to increase its deposit obligation).
(ii) Before a merger or consolidation of a member bank and a nonmember bank, a surviving member bank shall file an application with the appropriate Reserve Bank to adjust its Reserve Bank capital stock subscription to equal six percent of the member bank's anticipated post-merger capital and surplus, or, in the case of member bank that is a mutual savings bank, six-tenths of 1 percent of the member bank's anticipated post-merger total deposit liabilities. A mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank stock shall file an application to adjust its deposit obligation in a like manner.
(2)
Merger of member banks in the same Federal Reserve District.
Upon a merger or consolidation of member banks located in the same Federal Reserve District, the Reserve Bank shall cancel the shares of the nonsurviving bank (or in the case of a mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank stock, shall credit the deposit to the account of the surviving bank) and shall credit the appropriate number of shares on its books to (or in the case of a mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank stock, shall accept an appropriate increase in the deposit of) the surviving bank, subject to paragraph (d)(3) of § 209.4.
(3)
Change of location or merger of member banks in different Federal Reserve Districts.
Upon a determination under paragraph (c)(2) of § 209.2 that a member bank is located in a Federal Reserve District other than the District of the Reserve Bank of which it is a member, or upon a merger or consolidation of member banks located in different Federal Reserve Districts,—
(i) The Reserve Bank of the member bank's former District, or of the nonsurviving member bank, shall cancel the bank's shares and transfer the amount paid in for those shares, plus accrued dividends (as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of § 209.4) and subject to paragraph (d)(3) of § 209.4 (or, in the case of a mutual savings bank member not authorized to purchase Federal Reserve Bank stock, the amount of its deposit, adjusted in a like manner), to the Reserve Bank of the bank's new District or of the surviving bank; and
(ii) The Reserve Bank of the member bank's new District or of the surviving bank shall issue the appropriate number of shares by crediting the bank with the appropriate number of shares on its books (or, in the case of a mutual savings bank, by accepting the deposit or an appropriate increase in the deposit).
(4)
Merger with a nonmember bank.
Upon a merger or consolidation of a member bank and a nonmember bank, the Reserve Bank will adjust the surviving member bank's stock subscription to equal six percent of the member bank's capital and surplus, or, in the
case of a member bank that is a mutual savings bank, six-tenths of 1 percent of the member bank's total deposit liabilities. If a mutual savings bank has a deposit with the appropriate Reserve Bank in lieu of Reserve Bank capital stock, its deposit obligation shall be adjusted in a like manner.
(5)
Statement of total consolidated assets.
When a member bank merges or consolidates with another bank and the surviving bank remains a Reserve Bank stockholder, the surviving stockholder must report whether its total consolidated assets exceed $12,841,000,000 in the application described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(e)
Voluntary withdrawal.
Any bank withdrawing voluntarily from membership shall give 6 months written notice, and shall not cause the withdrawal of more than 25 percent of any Reserve Bank's capital stock in any calendar year, unless the Board waives these requirements.
[63 FR 37663, July 13, 1998, as amended by Reg. I, 81 FR 9087, Feb. 24, 2016; 82 FR 11502, Feb. 24, 2017; 82 FR 52174, Nov. 13, 2017; 83 FR 58467, Nov. 20, 2018; 84 FR 68326, Dec. 16, 2019; 85 FR 79390, Dec. 10, 2020; 86 FR 69579, Dec. 8, 2021; 87 FR 2030, Jan. 13, 2022; 87 FR 73635, Dec. 1, 2022; 88 FR 83318, Nov. 29, 2023; 89 FR 88878, Nov. 12, 2024]
§ 209.4
Amounts and payments for subscriptions and cancellations; timing and rate of dividends.
(a)
Amount of subscription.
The total subscription of a member bank (other than a mutual savings bank) shall equal six percent of its capital and surplus as shown on its most recent Call Report. After a member bank files a Call Report, the appropriate Reserve Bank will adjust the member bank's Reserve Bank capital stock subscription to equal six percent of the member bank's capital and surplus.
(b)
Mutual savings banks.
The total subscription of a member bank that is a mutual savings bank shall equal six-tenths of 1 percent of its total deposit liabilities as shown on its most recent Call Report. After a member bank that is a mutual savings bank files a Call Report, the appropriate Reserve Bank will adjust the member bank's Reserve Bank capital stock subscription to equal six-tenths of 1 percent of the member bank's total deposit liabilities. If a mutual savings bank has a deposit with the appropriate Reserve Bank in lieu of Reserve Bank capital stock, its deposit obligation shall be adjusted in a like manner.
(c)
Payment for subscriptions.
(1) When a Reserve Bank issues capital stock to a member bank (or accepts a deposit in lieu thereof), the member bank shall pay the Reserve Bank—
(i) One-half of the subscription amount; and
(ii) Accrued dividends equal to the paid-in subscription amount in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section multiplied by—
(A) In the case of a bank with total consolidated assets of more than $12,841,000,000, an annual rate equal to the lesser of the high yield of the 10-year Treasury note auctioned at the last auction held prior to the date of the last dividend payment and 6 percent, adjusted to reflect the period from the last dividend payment date to the subscription date according to the dividend proration basis.
(B) In the case of a bank with total consolidated assets of $12,841,000,000 or less, 6 percent, adjusted to reflect the period from the last dividend payment date to the subscription date according to the dividend proration basis.
(2) A Reserve Bank shall obtain settlement for the payment described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section by debit to an account on the Reserve Bank's books or other form of settlement to which the Reserve Bank agrees.
(3) Upon payment (and in the case of a national banks in organization or state nonmember bank converting into a national bank, upon authorization or approval by the Comptroller of the Currency), the Reserve Bank shall issue the appropriate number of shares by crediting the bank with the appropriate number of shares on its books. In the case of a mutual savings bank not authorized to purchase Reserve Bank stock, the Reserve Bank will accept the deposit or addition to the deposit in place of issuing shares. The remaining half of the subscription or additional subscription (including subscriptions for deposits or additions to deposits) shall be subject to call by the Board.
(4) If the dividend rate applied at the next scheduled dividend payment date is based on a different annual rate than the rate used to compute the amount of the accrued dividend payment pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the amount of the dividends paid at the next scheduled dividend payment date should be adjusted accordingly. The amount of the adjustment should equal the difference between—
(i) The accrued dividend payment pursuant paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, and
(ii) The result of multiplying the subscription amount paid pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section by the dividend rate applied at the next scheduled dividend payment, adjusted to reflect the period from the last dividend payment date to the subscription date according to the dividend proration basis.
(d)
Payment for cancellations.
(1) When a Reserve Bank cancels Reserve Bank capital stock of a member bank, or (in the case of involuntary termination of membership) upon the effective date of cancellation specified in § 209.3(c)(3), the Reserve Bank shall—
(i) Reduce the bank's shareholding on the Reserve Bank's books by the number of shares required to be canceled and shall pay the paid-in subscription of the canceled stock; and
(ii) Pay accrued dividends equal to the paid-in subscription of the canceled stock in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section multiplied by—
(A) In the case of a bank with total consolidated assets of more than $12,841,000,000, an annual rate equal to the lesser of the high yield of the 10-year Treasury note auctioned at the last auction held prior to the date of cancellation and 6 percent, adjusted to reflect the period from the last dividend payment date to the cancellation date according to the dividend proration basis; or
(B) In the case of a bank with total consolidated assets of $12,841,000,000 or less, 6 percent, adjusted to reflect the period from the last dividend payment date to the cancellation date according to the dividend proration basis.
(2) The sum of the payments under paragraph (d)(1) of this section cannot exceed the book value of the stock.
5
5
Under sections 6 and 9(10) of the Act, a Reserve Bank is under no obligation to pay unearned accrued dividends on redemption of its capital stock from an insolvent member bank for which a receiver has been appointed or from state member banks on voluntary withdrawal from or involuntary termination of membership.
(3) In the case of any cancellation of Reserve Bank stock under this Part, the Reserve Bank may first apply such sum to any liability of the bank to the Reserve Bank and pay over the remainder to the bank (or receiver or conservator, as appropriate).
(e)
Dividend.
(1) After all necessary expenses of a Reserve Bank have been paid or provided for, the stockholders of a Reserve Bank shall be entitled to receive a dividend on paid-in capital stock of—
(i) in the case of a bank with total consolidated assets of more than $12,841,000,000, the lesser of the annual rate equal to the high yield of the 10-year Treasury note auctioned at the last auction held prior to the payment of such dividend and an annual rate of 6 percent, or
(ii) in the case of a bank with total consolidated assets of $12,841,000,000 or less, an annual rate of 6 percent.
(2) The dividend pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section will be adjusted to reflect the period from the last dividend payment date to the current dividend payment date according to the dividend proration basis.
(3) The entitlement to dividends under paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be cumulative.
(f)
Annual adjustment to total consolidated
assets. The dollar amounts for total consolidated assets specified in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section and §§ 209.2 and 209.3 shall be adjusted annually to reflect the change in the Gross Domestic Product Price
Index, published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
[63 FR 37663, July 13, 1998, as amended by Reg. I, 81 FR 9088, Feb. 24, 2016; 82 FR 11502, Feb. 24, 2017; 82 FR 52174, Nov. 13, 2017; 83 FR 58467, Nov. 20, 2018; 84 FR 68326, Dec. 16, 2019; 85 FR 79390, Dec. 10, 2020; 86 FR 69579, Dec. 8, 2021; 87 FR 2030, Jan. 13, 2022; 87 FR 73635, Dec. 1, 2022; 88 FR 83318, Nov. 29, 2023; 89 FR 88878, Nov. 12, 2024]
§ 209.5
The share register.
(a)
Electronic or written record.
A member bank's holding of Reserve Bank capital stock shall be represented by one (or at the option of the Reserve Bank, more than one) notation on the Reserve Bank's books. Such books may be electronic or in writing. Upon any issue or cancellation of Reserve Bank capital stock, the Reserve Bank shall record the member bank's new share position in its books (or eliminate the bank's share position from its books, as the case may be).
(b)
Certification.
A Reserve Bank may certify on request as to the number of shares held by a member bank and purchased before March 28, 1942, or as to the purchase and cancellation dates and prices of shares cancelled, as the case may be.
Pt. 210

# PART 210—COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND FUNDS TRANSFERS THROUGH THE FEDWIRE FUNDS SERVICE AND THE FEDNOW SERVICE (REGULATION J)

# Subpart A—Collection of Checks and Other Items By Federal Reserve Banks
Sec.
210.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
210.2
Definitions.
210.3
General provisions.
210.4
Sending items to Reserve Banks.
210.5
Sender's agreement; recovery by Reserve Bank.
210.6
Status, warranties, and liability of Reserve Bank.
210.7
Presenting items for payment.
210.8
Presenting noncash items for acceptance.
210.9
Settlement and payment.
210.10
Time schedule and availability of credits for cash items and returned checks.
210.11
Availability of proceeds of noncash items; time schedule
210.12
Return of cash items and handling of returned checks.
210.13
Unpaid items.
210.14
Extension of time limits.
210.15
Direct presentment of certain warrants.

# Subpart B—Funds Transfers Through the Fedwire Funds Service
210.25
Authority, purpose, and scope.
210.26
Definitions.
210.27
Reliance on identifying number.
210.28
Agreement of sender.
210.29
Agreement of receiving bank.
210.30
Payment orders.
210.31
Payment by a Federal Reserve Bank to a receiving bank or beneficiary.
210.32
Federal Reserve Bank liability; payment of compensation.
Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 210—Commentary

# Subpart C—Funds Transfers Through the FedNow Service
210.40
Authority, purpose, and scope.
210.41
Definitions.
210.42
Reliance on identifying number.
210.43
Agreement of sender.
210.44
Agreement of receiving bank.
210.45
Payment orders.
210.46
Payment by a Federal Reserve Bank to a receiving bank or beneficiary.
210.47
Federal Reserve Bank liability; payment of compensation.
Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 210—Commentary
Appendix A to Part 210—Article 4A, Funds Transfers

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 248(i), (j), and 248-1, 342, 360, 464, 4001-4010, and 5001-5018.

# Source:
45 FR 68634, Oct. 16, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Collection of Checks and Other Items By Federal Reserve Banks
§ 210.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) has issued this subpart pursuant to the Federal Reserve Act, sections 11 (i) and (j) (12 U.S.C. 248 (i) and (j)), section 13 (12 U.S.C. 342), section 16 (12 U.S.C. 248(o) and 360), and section 19(f) (12 U.S.C. 464); the Expedited Funds Availability Act (12 U.S.C. 4001
et seq.
); the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (12 U.S.C. 5001-5018) and other laws. This
subpart governs the collection of checks and other cash and noncash items and the handling of returned checks by Federal Reserve Banks. Its purpose is to provide rules for collecting and returning items and settling balances.
[53 FR 21984, June 13, 1988, as amended at Reg. J, 59 FR 22965, May 4, 1994; Reg. J, 69 FR 62557, Oct. 27, 2004]
§ 210.2
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, unless the context otherwise requires:
Account
means an account on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank. A subaccount is an informational record of a subset of transactions that affect an account and is not a separate account.
Actually and finally collected funds
means cash or any other form of payment that is, or has become, final and irrevocable.
Administrative Reserve Bank
with respect to an entity means the Reserve Bank in whose District the entity is located, as determined under the procedure described in § 204.3(g) of this chapter (Regulation D), even if the entity is not otherwise subject to that section.
Bank
means any person engaged in the business of banking. A branch or separate office of a bank is a separate bank to the extent provided in the Uniform Commercial Code.
Bank draft
means a check drawn by one bank on another bank.
Banking day
means the part of a day on which a bank is open to the public for carrying on substantially all of its banking functions.
Cash item
means—
(1) A check other than one classified as a noncash item under this section; or
(2) Any other item payable on demand and collectible at par that the Reserve Bank that receives the item is willing to accept as a cash item.
Cash item
does not include a returned check.
Check
means a check or an electronic check, as those terms are defined in § 229.2 of this chapter (Regulation CC).
Clock hour
and
clock half-hour.
(1) Clock hour means a time that is on the hour, such as 1:00, 2:00, etc.
(2) Clock half-hour means a time that is on the half-hour, such as 1:30, 2:30, etc.
Fedwire Funds Service
and
Fedwire
have the same meaning as that set forth in § 210.26.
Item.
(1) Means—
(i) An instrument or a promise or order to pay money, whether negotiable or not, that is—
(A) Payable in a Federal Reserve District
1
(District);
1
For purposes of this subpart, the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico are deemed to be in the Second District, and Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands in the Twelfth District.
(B) Sent by a sender to a Reserve Bank for handling under this subpart; and
(C) Collectible in funds acceptable to the Reserve Bank of the District in which the instrument is payable; or
(ii) A check.
(2) Unless otherwise indicated,
item
includes both a cash and a noncash item, and includes a returned check sent by a paying or returning bank.
Item
does not include a check that cannot be collected at par, or a payment order as defined in § 210.26(i) and handled under subpart B of this part. The term also does not include an electronically-created item as defined in § 229.2 of this chapter (Regulation CC).
Nonbank payor
means a payor of an item, other than a bank.
Noncash item
means an item that a receiving Reserve Bank classifies in its operating circulars as requiring special handling. The term also means an item normally received as a cash item if a Reserve Bank decides that special conditions require that it handle the item as a noncash item.
Paying bank
means—
(1) The bank by which an item is payable unless the item is payable or collectible at or through another bank and is sent to the other bank for payment or collection;
(2) The bank at or through which an item is payable or collectible and to which it sent for payment or collection; or
(3) The bank whose routing number appears on a check in the MICR line or in fractional form (or in the MICR-line
information that accompanies an electronic item) and to which the check is sent for payment or collection.
Returned check
means a cash item returned by a paying bank, including an electronic returned check as defined in § 229.2 of this chapter (Regulation CC) and a notice of nonpayment in lieu of a returned check, whether or not a Reserve Bank handled the check for collection.
Sender
means any of the following entities that sends an item to a Reserve Bank for forward collection—
(1) A depository institution, as defined in section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b));
(2) A member bank, as defined in section 1 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 221);
(3) A clearing institution, defined as—
(i) An institution that is not a depository institution but that maintains with a Reserve Bank the balance referred to in the first paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 342); or
(ii) An Edge corporation or agreement corporation that maintains an account with a Reserve Bank in conformity with part 211 of this chapter (Regulation K);
(4) Another Reserve Bank;
(5) An international organization for which a Reserve Bank is empowered to act as depositary or fiscal agent and maintains an account;
(6) A foreign correspondent, defined as any of the following entities for which a Reserve Bank maintains an account: A foreign bank or banker, a foreign state as defined in section 25(b) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 632), or a foreign correspondent or agency referred to in section 14(e) of that act (12 U.S.C. 358); or
(7) A branch or agency of a foreign bank maintaining reserves under section 7 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 347d, 3105).
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or a territory, possession, or dependency of the United States.
Uniform Commercial Code
and
U.C.C.
mean the Uniform Commercial Code as adopted in a state
Terms not defined in this section.
Unless the context otherwise requires—
(1) The terms not defined herein have the meanings set forth in § 229.2 of this chapter applicable to subpart C or D of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC), as appropriate; and
(2) The terms not defined herein or in § 229.2 of this chapter have the meanings set forth in the Uniform Commercial Code.
[Reg. J, 87 FR 34357, June 6, 2022]
§ 210.3
General provisions.
(a)
General.
Each Reserve Bank shall receive and handle items in accordance with this subpart, and shall issue operating circulars governing the details of its handling of items and other matters deemed appropriate by the Reserve Bank. The circulars may, among other things, classify cash items and noncash items, require separate sorts and letters, provide different closing times for the receipt of different classes or types of items, provide for instructions by an Administrative Reserve Bank to other Reserve Banks, set forth terms of services, and establish procedures for adjustments on a Reserve Bank's books, including amounts, waiver of expenses, and payment of compensation. As deemed appropriate by the Reserve Bank, the circulars may also require the sender to provide warranties and indemnities that only items and any noncash items the Reserve Banks have agreed to handle will be sent to the Reserve Banks. The Reserve Banks may provide to a subsequent collecting bank and to the paying bank any warranties and indemnities provided by the sender pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b)
Binding effect.
This subpart, together with subparts C and D of part 229 and the operating circulars of the Reserve Banks, are binding on all parties interested in an item handled by any Reserve Bank.
(c)
Government items.
As depositaries and fiscal agents of the United States, Reserve Banks handle certain items payable by the United States or certain Federal agencies as cash or noncash items. To the extent provided by regulations issued by, and arrangements made with, the United States Treasury
Department and other Government departments and agencies, the handling of such items is governed by this subpart. The Reserve Banks shall include in their operating circulars such information regarding these regulations and arrangements as the Reserve Banks deem appropriate.
(d)
Government senders.
Except as otherwise provided by statutes of the United States, or regulations issued or arrangements made thereunder, this subpart and the operating circulars of the Reserve Banks apply to the following when acting as a sender: a department, agency, instrumentality, independent establishment, or office of the United States, or a wholly owned or controlled Government corporation, that maintains or uses an account with a Reserve Bank.
(e)
Foreign items.
A Reserve Bank also may receive and handle certain items payable outside a Federal Reserve District, as provided in its operating circulars. The handling of such items in a state is governed by this subpart, and the handling of such items outside a state is governed by the local law.
(f)
Relation to other law.
The provisions of this subpart supersede any inconsistent provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code, of any other state law, or of part 229 of this title, but only to the extent of the inconsistency.
[45 FR 68634, Oct. 16, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 21744, June 16, 1986; 53 FR 21984, June 13, 1988; Reg. J, 59 FR 22965, May 4, 1994; 62 FR 48171, Sept. 15, 1997; Reg. J, 69 FR 62558, Oct. 27, 2004; 77 FR 21858, Apr. 12, 2012; 83 FR 61518, Nov. 30, 2018]
§ 210.4
Sending items to Reserve Banks.
(a)
Sending of items.
A sender's Administrative Reserve Bank may direct a sender other than a Reserve Bank to send any item to a specified Reserve Bank, whether or not the item is payable in the Reserve Bank's district.
(b)
Handling of items.
(1) The following parties, in the following order, are deemed to have handled an item that is sent to a Reserve Bank for collection:
(i) The initial sender;
(ii) The initial sender's Administrative Reserve Bank (which is deemed to have accepted deposit of the item from the initial sender);
(iii) The Reserve Bank that receives the item from the initial sender (if different from the initial sender's Administrative Reserve Bank); and
(iv) Another Reserve Bank, if any, that receives the item from a Reserve Bank.
(2) A Reserve Bank that is not described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not a person that handles an item and is not a collecting bank with respect to an item.
(3) The identity and order of the parties under paragraph (b)(1) of this section determine the relationships and the rights and liabilities of the parties under this subpart, part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC), section 13(1) and section 16(13) of the Federal Reserve Act, and the Uniform Commercial Code. An initial sender's Administrative Reserve Bank that is deemed to accept an item for deposit or handle an item is also deemed to be a sender with respect to that item. The Reserve Banks that are deemed to handle an item are deemed to be agents or subagents of the owner of the item, as provided in § 210.6(a).
(c)
Checks received at par.
The Reserve Banks shall receive cash items and other checks at par.
[Reg. J, 77 FR 21858, Apr. 12, 2012; 83 FR 61518, Nov. 30, 2018]
§ 210.5
Sender's agreement; recovery by Reserve Bank.
(a)
Sender's agreement.
The warranties, indemnities, authorizations, and agreements made pursuant to this paragraph (a) may not be disclaimed and are made whether or not the item bears an indorsement of the sender. By sending an item to a Reserve Bank, the sender does all of the following.
(1)
Authorization to handle item.
The sender authorizes the sender's Administrative Reserve Bank and any other Reserve Bank or collecting bank to which the item is sent to handle the item (and authorizes any Reserve Bank that handles settlement for the item to make accounting entries), subject to this subpart and to the Reserve Banks' operating circulars, and warrants its authority to give this authorization.
(2)
Warranties for all items.
The sender warrants to each Reserve Bank handling the item that—
(i) The sender is a person entitled to enforce the item or authorized to obtain payment of the item on behalf of a person entitled to enforce the item;
(ii) The item has not been altered; and
(iii) The item bears all indorsements applied by parties that previously handled the item for forward collection or return.
(3)
Warranties and indemnities as set forth in Regulation CC and U.C.C.
As applicable and unless otherwise provided, the sender of an item makes to each Reserve Bank that handles the item all the warranties and indemnities set forth in and subject to the terms of subparts C and D of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC) and Article 4 of the U.C.C. The sender makes all the warranties set forth in and subject to the terms of 4-207 of the U.C.C. for an electronic check as if it were an item subject to the U.C.C.
(4)
Warranties and indemnities as set forth in Reserve Bank operating circulars.
The sender makes any warranties and indemnities regarding the sending of items as set forth in an operating circular issued in accordance with § 210.3(a).
(5)
Sender's liability to Reserve Bank.
(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the sender agrees to indemnify each Reserve Bank for any loss or expense sustained (including attorneys' fees and expenses of litigation) resulting from—
(A) The sender's lack of authority to make the warranty in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(B) Any action taken by the Reserve Bank within the scope of its authority in handling the item; or
(C) Any warranty or indemnity made by the Reserve Bank under § 210.6(b), part 229 of this chapter, the U.C.C., or, regarding the sending of items, an operating circular issued in accordance with § 210.3(a).
(ii) A sender's liability for warranties and indemnities that the Reserve Bank makes for a substitute check, a paper or electronic representation thereof, or for an electronic check is subject to the following conditions and limitations—
(A) A sender of an original check shall not be liable under paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section for any amount that the Reserve Bank pays under subpart D of part 229 of this chapter, or under § 229.34 of this chapter with respect to an electronic check, absent the sender's agreement to the contrary; and
(B) Nothing in this subpart alters the liability of a sender of a substitute check or paper or electronic representation of a substitute check under subpart D of part 229 of this chapter, or a sender of an electronic check under § 229.34 of this chapter.
(iii) A sender shall not be liable for any amount that the Reserve Bank pays under this subpart or part 229 of this chapter that is attributable to the Reserve Bank's own lack of good faith or failure to exercise ordinary care.
(b)
Sender's liability under other law.
Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section limits any warranty or indemnity by a sender (or a person that handled an item prior to the sender) arising under state law or regulation (such as the U.C.C.), other federal law or regulation (such as part 229 of this chapter), or an agreement with a Reserve Bank.
(c)
Recovery by Reserve Bank.
(1) A Reserve Bank that has handled an item may recover as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section if an action or proceeding is brought against (or if defense is tendered to) the Reserve Bank based on—
(i) The alleged failure of the sender to have the authority to make the warranty and agreement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(ii) Any action by the Reserve Bank within the scope of its authority in handling the item; or
(iii) Any warranty or indemnity made by the Reserve Bank under § 210.6(b), part 229 of this chapter, or the U.C.C.
(2) Upon entry of a final judgment or decree in an action or proceeding described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a Reserve Bank may recover from the sender the amount of attorneys' fees and other expenses of litigation incurred, as well as any amount the Reserve Bank is required to pay because
of the judgment or decree or the tender of defense, together with interest thereon.
(d)
Methods of recovery.
(1) The Reserve Bank may recover the amount stated in paragraph (c) of this section by charging any account on its books that is maintained or used by the sender (or by charging a Reserve Bank sender), if—
(i) The Reserve Bank made seasonable written demand on the sender to assume defense of the action or proceeding; and
(ii) The sender has not made any other arrangement for payment that is acceptable to the Reserve Bank.
(2) The Reserve Bank is not responsible for defending the action or proceeding before using this method of recovery. A Reserve Bank that has been charged under this paragraph (d) may recover from its sender in the manner and under the circumstances set forth in this paragraph (d).
(3) A Reserve Bank's failure to avail itself of the remedy provided in this paragraph (d) does not prejudice its enforcement in any other manner of the indemnity agreement referred to in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(e)
Security interest.
When a sender sends an item to a Reserve Bank, the sender and any prior collecting bank grant to the sender's Administrative Reserve Bank a security interest in all of their respective assets in the possession of, or held for the account of, any Reserve Bank to secure their respective obligations due or to become due to the Administrative Reserve Bank under this subpart or subpart C or D of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC). The security interest attaches when a warranty is breached or any other obligation to the Reserve Bank is incurred. If the Reserve Bank, in its sole discretion, deems itself insecure and gives notice thereof to the sender or prior collecting bank, or if the sender or prior collecting bank suspends payments or is closed, the Reserve Bank may take any action authorized by law to recover the amount of an obligation, including, but not limited to, the exercise of rights of set off, the realization on any available collateral, and any other rights it may have as a creditor under applicable law.
[45 FR 68634, Oct. 16, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 21745, June 16, 1986; Reg. J, 59 FR 22965, May 4, 1994; 62 FR 48171, Sept. 15, 1997, Reg. J, 69 FR 62558, Oct. 27, 2004; 70 FR 71224, Nov. 28, 2005; 83 FR 61518, Nov. 30, 2018]
§ 210.6
Status, warranties, and liability of Reserve Bank.
(a)(1)
Status.
A Reserve Bank that handles an item shall act as agent or subagent of the owner with respect to the item. This agency terminates when a Reserve Bank receives final payment for the item in actually and finally collected funds, a Reserve Bank makes the proceeds available for use by the sender, and the time for commencing all actions against the Reserve Bank has expired.
(2)
Limitations on Reserve Bank liability.
A Reserve Bank shall not have or assume any liability with respect to an item or its proceeds except—
(i) For the Reserve Bank's own lack of good faith or failure to exercise ordinary care;
(ii) As provided in paragraph (b) of this section;
(iii) As provided in an operating circular issued in accordance with § 210.3(a) regarding the sending of items; and
(iv) As provided in subparts C and D of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC).
(3)
Reliance on routing designation appearing on item.
A Reserve Bank may present or send an item based on the routing number or other designation of a paying bank or nonbank payor appearing in any form on the item when the Reserve Bank receives it. A Reserve Bank shall not be responsible for any delay resulting from its acting on any designation, whether inscribed by magnetic ink or by other means, and whether or not the designation acted on is consistent with any other designation appearing on the item.
(b)
Warranties and liability.
The following provisions apply when a Reserve Bank presents or sends an item.
(1)
Warranties for all items.
The Reserve Bank warrants to a subsequent collecting bank and to the paying bank and any other payor that—
(i) The Reserve Bank is a person entitled to enforce the item (or is authorized to obtain payment of the item on behalf of a person that is either entitled to enforce the item or authorized to obtain payment on behalf of a person entitled to enforce the item);
(ii) The item has not been altered; and
(iii) The item bears all indorsements applied by parties that previously handled the item for forward collection or return.
(2)
Warranties and indemnities as set forth in Reserve Bank operating circulars.
The Reserve Bank makes any warranties and indemnities regarding the sending of items as set forth in an operating circular issued in accordance with § 210.3(a).
(3)
Warranties and indemnities as set forth in Regulation CC and U.C.C.
As applicable and unless otherwise provided, the Reserve Bank makes all the warranties and indemnities set forth in and subject to the terms of subparts C and D of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC) and Article 4 of the U.C.C. The Reserve Bank makes all the warranties set forth in and subject to the terms of 4-207 of the U.C.C. for an electronic check as if it were an item subject to the U.C.C.
(4)
Indemnity for substitute check created from an electronic check.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the Reserve Bank shall indemnify the bank to which it transfers or presents an electronic check (the recipient bank) for the amount of any losses that the recipient bank incurs under subpart D of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC) for an indemnity that the recipient bank was required to make under subpart D of part 229 of this chapter in connection with a substitute check later created from the electronic check.
(ii) The Reserve Bank shall not be liable under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section for any amount that the recipient bank pays under subpart D of part 229 of this chapter that is attributable to the lack of good faith or failure to exercise ordinary care of the recipient bank or a person that handled the item, in any form, after the recipient bank.
(c)
Time for commencing action against Reserve Bank.
(1) A claim against a Reserve Bank for lack of good faith or failure to exercise ordinary care shall be barred unless the action on the claim is commenced within two years after the claim accrues. Such a claim accrues on the date when a Reserve Bank's alleged failure to exercise ordinary care or to act in good faith first results in damages to the claimant.
(2) A claim that arises under paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall be barred unless the action on the claim is commenced within one year after the claim accrues. Such a claim accrues as of the date on which the claimant first learns, or by which the claimant reasonably should have learned, of the facts and circumstances giving rise to the claim.
(3) This paragraph (c) does not alter the time limit for claims under § 229.38(g) of this chapter (which include claims for breach of warranty under § 229.34 of this chapter) or subpart D of part 229 of this chapter.
[45 FR 68634, Oct. 16, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 21745, June 16, 1986; 53 FR 21984, June 13, 1988; Reg. J, 59 FR 22966, May 4, 1994; 62 FR 48172, Sept. 15, 1997; Reg. J, 69 FR 62559, Oct. 27, 2004; 70 FR 71225, Nov. 28, 2005; 83 FR 61519, Nov. 30, 2018]
§ 210.7
Presenting items for payment.
(a)
Presenting or sending.
As provided under State law or as otherwise permitted by this section:
(1) A Reserve Bank or a subsequent collecting bank may present an item for payment or send the item for presentment and payment; and
(2) A Reserve Bank may send an item to a subsequent collecting bank with authority to present it for payment or to send it for presentment and payment.
(b)
Place of presentment.
A Reserve Bank or subsequent collecting bank may present an item—
(1) At a place requested by the paying bank;
(2) In accordance with § 229.36 of this chapter (Regulation CC);
(3) At a place requested by the nonbank payor, if the item is payable by a nonbank payor other than through or at a paying bank;
(4) Under a special collection agreement consistent with this subpart; or
(5) Through a clearinghouse and subject to its rules and practices.
(c)
Presenting or sending direct.
A Reserve Bank or subsequent collecting bank may, with respect to an item that may be sent to the paying bank or nonbank payor in the Reserve Bank's District—
(1) Present or send the item direct to the paying bank, or to a place requested by the paying bank; or
(2) If the item is payable by a nonbank payor other than through a paying bank, present it direct to the nonbank payor. Documents, securities, or other papers accompanying a noncash item shall not be delivered to the nonbank payor before the item is paid unless the sender specifically authorizes delivery.
(d)
Item sent to another district.
A Reserve Bank receiving an item that may be sent to a paying bank or nonbank payor in another District ordinarily sends the item to the Reserve Bank of the other District, but with the agreement of the other Reserve Bank, may present or send the item as if it were sent to a paying bank or nonbank payor in its own District.
[45 FR 68634, Oct. 16, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 21985, June 13, 1988; 62 FR 48172, Sept. 15, 1997; Reg. J, 83 FR 61520, Nov. 30, 2018]
§ 210.8
Presenting noncash items for acceptance.
(a) A Reserve Bank or a subsequent collecting bank may, if instructed by the sender, present a noncash item for acceptance in any manner authorized by law if—
(1) The item provides that it must be presented for acceptance;
(2) The item may be presented elsewhere than at the residence or place of business of the payor; or
(3) The date of payment of the item depends on presentment for acceptance.
(b) Documents accompanying a noncash item shall not be delivered to the payor upon acceptance of the item unless the sender specifically authorizes delivery. A Reserve Bank shall not have or assume any other obligation to present or to send for presentment for acceptance any noncash item.
[62 FR 48172, Sept. 15, 1997]
§ 210.9
Settlement and payment.
(a)
Settlement through Administrative Reserve Bank.
A paying bank shall settle for an item under this subpart with its Administrative Reserve Bank, whether or not the paying bank received the item from that Reserve Bank. A paying bank's settlement with its Administrative Reserve Bank is deemed to be settlement with the Reserve Bank from which the paying bank received the item. A paying bank may settle for an item using any account on a Reserve Bank's books by agreement with its Administrative Reserve Bank, any other Reserve Bank holding the settlement account, and the account-holder. The paying bank remains responsible for settlement if the Reserve Bank holding the settlement account does not, for any reason, obtain settlement in that account.
(b)
Cash items
—(1)
Settlement obligation.
On the day a paying bank receives
2
a cash item from a Reserve Bank, it shall settle for the item such that the proceeds of the settlement are available to its Administrative Reserve Bank by the close of Fedwire on that day, or it shall return the item by the later of the close of its banking day or the close of Fedwire. If the paying bank fails to settle for or return a cash item in accordance with this paragraph (b)(1), it is accountable for the amount of the item as of the close of its banking day or the close of Fedwire on the day it receives the item, whichever is earlier.
2
A paying bank is deemed to receive a cash item on its next banking day if it receives the item—
(1) On a day other than a banking day for it; or
(2) On a banking day for it, but after a “cut-off hour” established by it in accordance with state law.
(2)
Time of settlement.
(i) On the day a paying bank receives a cash item from a Reserve Bank, it shall settle for the item so that the proceeds of the settlement are available to its Administrative Reserve Bank, or return the item, by the latest of—
(A) The next clock hour or clock half-hour that is at least one half-hour after the paying bank receives the item;
(B) 8:30 a.m. eastern time; or
(C) Such later time as provided in the Reserve Banks' operating circulars.
(ii) If the paying bank fails to settle for or return a cash item in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, it shall be subject to any applicable overdraft charges. Settlement under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section satisfies the settlement requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3)
Paying bank closes voluntarily.
(i) If a paying bank closes voluntarily so that it does not receive a cash item on a day that is a banking day for a Reserve Bank, and the Reserve Bank makes a cash item available to the paying bank on that day, the paying bank shall either—
(A) On that day, settle for the item so that the proceeds of the settlement are available to its Administrative Reserve Bank, or return the item, by the latest of the next clock hour or clock half-hour that is at least one half-hour after it ordinarily would have received the item, 8:30 a.m. eastern time, or such later time as provided in the Reserve Banks' operating circulars; or
(B) On the next day that is a banking day for both the paying bank and the Reserve Bank, settle for the item so that the proceeds of the settlement are available to its Administrative Reserve Bank by 8:30 a.m. eastern time on that day or such later time as provided in the Reserve Banks' operating circulars; and compensate the Reserve Bank for the value of the float associated with the item in accordance with procedures provided in the Reserve Bank's operating circular.
(ii) If a paying bank closes voluntarily so that it does not receive a cash item on a day that is a banking day for a Reserve Bank, and the Reserve Bank makes a cash item available to the paying bank on that day, the paying bank is not considered to have received the item until its next banking day, but it shall be subject to any applicable overdraft charges if it fails to settle for or return the item in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. The settlement requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply to a paying bank that settles in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
(4)
Reserve Bank closed.
If a paying bank receives a cash item from a Reserve Bank on a banking day that is not a banking day for the Reserve Bank, the paying bank shall—
(i) Settle for the item so that the proceeds of the settlement are available to its Administrative Reserve Bank by the close of the Fedwire Funds Service on the Reserve Bank's next banking day, or return the item by midnight of the day it receives the item (if the paying bank fails to settle for or return a cash item in accordance with this paragraph (b)(4)(i), it shall become accountable for the amount of the item as of the close of its banking day on the day it receives the item); and
(ii) Settle for the item so that the proceeds of the settlement are available to its Administrative Reserve Bank by 8:30 a.m. eastern time on the Reserve Bank's next banking day or such later time as provided in the Reserve Bank's operating circular, or return the item by midnight of the day it receives the item. If the paying bank fails to settle for or return a cash item in accordance with this paragraph (b)(4)(ii), it shall be subject to any applicable overdraft charges. Settlement under this paragraph (b)(4)(ii) satisfies the settlement requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
(5)
Manner of settlement.
Settlement with a Reserve Bank under paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section shall be made by debit to an account on the Reserve Bank's books or other form of settlement to which the Reserve Bank agrees, except that the Reserve Bank may, in its discretion, obtain settlement by charging the paying bank's account. A paying bank may not set off against the amount of a settlement under this section the amount of a claim with respect to another cash item, cash letter, or other claim under § 229.34 of this chapter (Regulation CC) or other law.
(6)
Notice in lieu of return.
If a cash item is unavailable for return, the paying bank may send a notice in lieu of
return as provided in § 229.31(f) of this chapter (Regulation CC).
(c)
Noncash items.
A Reserve Bank may require the paying or collecting bank to which it has presented or sent a noncash item to pay for the item by a debit to an account maintained or used by the paying or collecting bank on the Reserve Bank's books or by any other form of settlement acceptable to the Reserve Bank.
(d)
Nonbank payor.
A Reserve Bank may require a nonbank payor to which it has presented an item to pay for it by debit to an account on the Reserve Bank's books or other form of settlement acceptable to the Reserve Bank.
(e)
Liability of Reserve Bank.
Except as set forth in § 229.35(b) of this chapter (Regulation CC), a Reserve Bank shall not be liable for the failure of a collecting bank, paying bank, or nonbank payor to pay for an item, or for any loss resulting from the Reserve Bank's acceptance of any form of payment other than cash authorized in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. A Reserve Bank that acts in good faith and exercises ordinary care shall not be liable for the nonpayment of, or failure to realize upon, any non-cash form of payment that it accepts under paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
[45 FR 68634, Oct. 16, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 4200, Feb. 3, 1984; 51 FR 21745, June 16, 1986; 53 FR 21985, June 13, 1988; 57 FR 46955, Oct. 14, 1992; Reg. J, 59 FR 22966, May 4, 1994; 62 FR 48172, Sept. 15, 1997; 70 FR 71225, Nov. 28, 2005; 79 FR 72111, Dec. 5, 2014; 83 FR 61520, Nov. 30, 2018]
§ 210.10
Time schedule and availability of credits for cash items and returned checks.
(a) Each Reserve Bank shall publish a time schedule indicating when the amount of any cash item or returned check received by it is counted toward the balance maintained to satisfy a reserve balance requirement for purposes of part 204 of this chapter (Regulation D) and becomes available for use by the sender or paying or returning bank. The Reserve Bank that holds the settlement account shall give either immediate or deferred credit to a sender, a paying bank, or a returning bank (other than a foreign correspondent) in accordance with the time schedule of the receiving Reserve Bank. A Reserve Bank ordinarily gives credit to a foreign correspondent only when the Reserve Bank receives payment of the item in actually and finally collected funds, but, in its discretion, a Reserve Bank may give immediate or deferred credit in accordance with its time schedule.
(b) Notwithstanding its time schedule, a Reserve Bank may refuse at any time to permit the use of credit given by it for any cash item or returned check, and may defer availability after credit is received by the Reserve Bank for a period of time that is reasonable under the circumstances.
[62 FR 48173, Sept. 15, 1997, as amended by Reg. J, 77 FR 21858, Apr. 12, 2012; 83 FR 61520, Nov. 30, 2018]
§ 210.11
Availability of proceeds of noncash items; time schedule.
(a)
Availability of credit.
A Reserve Bank shall give credit to the sender for the proceeds of a noncash item when it receives payment in actually and finally collected funds (or advice from another Reserve Bank of such payment to it). The amount of the item is counted toward the balance maintained to satisfy a reserve balance requirement for purposes of part 204 of this chapter (Regulation D) and becomes available for use by the sender when the Reserve Bank receives the payment or advice, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Time schedule.
A Reserve Bank may give credit for the proceeds of a noncash item subject to payment in actually and finally collected funds in accordance with a published time schedule. The time schedule shall indicate when the proceeds of the noncash item will be counted toward the balance maintained to satisfy a reserve balance requirement for purposes of part 204 of this chapter (Regulation D) and become available for use by the sender. A Reserve Bank may, however, refuse at any time to permit the use of credit given by it for a noncash item for which the Reserve Bank has not yet received payment in actually and finally collected funds.
[Reg. J, 77 FR 21858, Apr. 12, 2012, as amended at 83 FR 61521, Nov. 30, 2018]
§ 210.12
Return of cash items and handling of returned checks.
(a)
Return of items
—(1)
Return of cash items handled by Reserve Banks.
A paying bank that receives a cash item from a Reserve Bank, other than for immediate payment over the counter, and that settles for the item as provided in § 210.9(b), may, before it has finally paid the item, return the item to any Reserve Bank (unless its Administrative Reserve Bank directs it to return the item to a specific Reserve Bank) in accordance with subpart C of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC), the Uniform Commercial Code, and the Reserve Banks' operating circulars. A paying bank that receives a cash item from a Reserve Bank also may return the item prior to settlement, in accordance with § 210.9(b) and the Reserve Banks' operating circulars. The rules or practices of a clearinghouse through which the item was presented, or a special collection agreement under which the item was presented, may not extend these return times, but may provide for a shorter return time.
(2)
Return of checks not handled by Reserve Banks.
A paying bank that receives a check, other than from a Reserve Bank, and that determines not to pay the check, may send the returned check to any Reserve Bank (unless its Administrative Reserve Bank directs it to send the returned check to a specific Reserve Bank) in accordance with subpart C of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC), the Uniform Commercial Code, and the Reserve Banks' operating circulars. A returning bank may send a returned check to any Reserve Bank (unless its Administrative Reserve Bank directs it to send the returned check to a specific Reserve Bank) in accordance with subpart C of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC), the Uniform Commercial Code, and the Reserve Banks' operating circulars.
(b)
Handling of returned checks.
(1) The following parties, in the following order, are deemed to have handled a returned check sent to a Reserve Bank under paragraph (a) of this section—
(i) The paying or returning bank;
(ii) The paying bank's or returning bank's Administrative Reserve Bank;
(iii) The Reserve Bank that receives the returned check from the paying or returning bank (if different from the paying bank's or returning bank's Administrative Reserve Bank); and
(iv) Another Reserve Bank, if any, that receives the returned check from a Reserve Bank.
(2) A Reserve Bank that is not described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not a person that handles a returned check and is not a returning bank with respect to a returned check.
(3) The identity and order of the parties under paragraph (b)(1) of this section determine the relationships and the rights and liabilities of the parties under this subpart, part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC), and the Uniform Commercial Code.
(c)
Paying bank's and returning bank's agreement.
The warranties, indemnities, authorizations, and agreements made pursuant to this paragraph (c) may not be disclaimed and are made whether or not the returned check bears an indorsement of the paying bank or returning bank. By sending a returned check to a Reserve Bank, the paying bank or returning bank does all of the following.
(1)
Authorization to handle returned check.
The paying bank or returning bank authorizes the paying bank's or returning bank's Administrative Reserve Bank, and any other Reserve Bank or returning bank to which the returned check is sent, to handle the returned check (and authorizes any Reserve Bank that handles settlement for the returned check to make accounting entries) subject to this subpart and to the Reserve Banks' operating circulars.
(2)
Warranties for all returned checks.
The paying bank or returning bank warrants to each Reserve Bank handling a returned check that the returned check bears all indorsements applied by parties that previously handled the returned check for forward collection or return.
(3)
Warranties and indemnities as set forth in Regulation CC.
As applicable and unless otherwise provided, a paying bank or returning bank makes to each Reserve Bank that handles the returned check all the warranties and indemnities set forth in and subject to
the terms of subparts C and D of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC).
(4)
Paying bank or returning bank's liability to Reserve Bank.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section, a paying bank or returning bank agrees to indemnify each Reserve Bank for any loss or expense (including attorneys' fees and expenses of litigation) resulting from—
(A) The paying or returning bank's lack of authority to give the authorization in paragraph (c)(1) of this section;
(B) Any action taken by a Reserve Bank within the scope of its authority in handling the returned check; or
(C) Any warranty or indemnity made by the Reserve Bank under paragraph (e) of this section or part 229 of this chapter.
(ii) A paying bank's or returning bank's liability for warranties and indemnities that a Reserve Bank makes for a returned check that is a substitute check, a paper or electronic representation thereof, or an electronic returned check is subject to the following conditions and limitations—
(A) A paying bank or returning bank that sent an original returned check shall not be liable for any amount that a Reserve Bank pays under subpart D of part 229 of this chapter, or under § 229.34 of this chapter with respect to an electronic returned check, absent the paying bank's or returning bank's agreement to the contrary; and
(B) Nothing in this subpart alters the liability under subpart D of part 229 of this chapter of a paying bank or returning bank that sent a substitute check or a paper or electronic representation of a substitute check or under § 229.34 of this chapter of a paying bank or returning bank that sent an electronic returned check; and
(iii) A paying bank or returning bank shall not be liable for any amount that the Reserve Bank pays under this subpart or part 229 of this chapter that is attributable to the Reserve Bank's own lack of good faith or failure to exercise ordinary care.
(d)
Paying bank or returning bank's liability under other law.
Nothing in paragraph (c) of this section limits any warranty or indemnity by a returning bank or paying bank (or a person that handled an item prior to that bank) arising under state law or regulation (such as the U.C.C.), other federal law or regulation (such as part 229 of this chapter), or an agreement with a Reserve Bank.
(e)
Warranties by and liability of Reserve Bank
—(1)
Warranties and indemnities.
The following provisions apply when a Reserve Bank handles a returned check under this subpart.
(i)
Warranties for all items.
The Reserve Bank warrants to the bank to which it sends the returned check that the returned check bears all indorsements applied by parties that previously handled the returned check for forward collection or return.
(ii)
Warranties and indemnities as set forth in Regulation CC.
As applicable and unless otherwise provided, the Reserve Bank makes all the warranties and indemnities set forth in and subject to the terms of subparts C and D of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC).
(2)
Indemnity for substitute check created from electronic returned check.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, the Reserve Bank shall indemnify the bank to which it transfers or presents an electronic returned check (the recipient bank) for the amount of any losses that the recipient bank incurs under subpart D of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC) for an indemnity that the recipient bank was required to make under subpart D of part 229 of this chapter in connection with a substitute check later created from the electronic returned check.
(ii) The Reserve Bank shall not be liable under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section for any amount that the recipient bank pays under subpart D of part 229 of this chapter that is attributable to the lack of good faith or failure to exercise ordinary care of the recipient bank or a person that handled the item, in any form, after the recipient bank.
(3)
Liability of Reserve Bank.
A Reserve Bank shall not have or assume any other liability to any person except—
(i) For the Reserve Bank's own lack of good faith or failure to exercise ordinary care;
(ii) As provided in this paragraph (e); and
(iii) As provided in subparts C and D of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC).
(f)
Recovery by Reserve Bank.
(1) A Reserve Bank that has handled a returned check may recover as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section if an action or proceeding is brought against (or if defense is tendered to) the Reserve Bank based on—
(i) The alleged failure of the paying bank or returning bank to have the authority to give the authorization in paragraph (c)(1) of this section;
(ii) Any action by the Reserve Bank within the scope of its authority in handling the returned check; or
(iii) Any warranty or indemnity made by the Reserve Bank under paragraph (e) of this section or part 229 of this chapter; and
(2) Upon entry of a final judgment or decree in an action or proceeding described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, a Reserve Bank may recover from the paying bank or returning bank the amount of attorneys' fees and other expenses of litigation incurred, as well as any amount the Reserve Bank is required to pay because of the judgment or decree or the tender of defense, together with interest thereon.
(g)
Methods of recovery.
(1) The Reserve Bank may recover the amount stated in paragraph (f) of this section by charging any account on its books that is maintained or used by the paying bank or returning bank (or by charging another returning Reserve Bank), if—
(i) The Reserve Bank made seasonable written demand on the paying bank or returning bank to assume defense of the action or proceeding; and
(ii) The paying bank or returning bank has not made any other arrangement for payment that is acceptable to the Reserve Bank.
(2) The Reserve Bank is not responsible for defending the action or proceeding before using this method of recovery. A Reserve Bank that has been charged under this paragraph (g) may recover from the paying or returning bank in the manner and under the circumstances set forth in this paragraph (g).
(3) A Reserve Bank's failure to avail itself of the remedy provided in this paragraph (g) does not prejudice its enforcement in any other manner of the indemnity agreement referred to in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(h)
Reserve Bank's responsibility.
A Reserve Bank shall handle a returned check, or a notice of nonpayment, in accordance with subpart C of part 229 and its operating circular.
(i)
Settlement.
A subsequent returning bank or depositary bank shall settle with its Administrative Reserve Bank for returned checks in the same manner and by the same time as for cash items presented for payment under this subpart. Settlement with its Administrative Reserve Bank is deemed to be settlement with the Reserve Bank from which the returning bank or depositary bank received the item.
(j)
Security interest.
When a paying or returning bank sends a returned check to a Reserve Bank, the paying bank, returning bank, and any prior returning bank grant to the paying bank's or returning bank's Administrative Reserve Bank a security interest in all of their respective assets in the possession of, or held for the account of, any Reserve Bank, to secure their respective obligations due or to become due to the Administrative Reserve Bank under this subpart or subpart C of part 229 of this chapter (Regulation CC). The security interest attaches when a warranty is breached or any other obligation to the Reserve Bank is incurred. If the Reserve Bank, in its sole discretion, deems itself insecure and gives notice thereof to the paying bank, returning bank, or prior returning bank, or if the paying bank, returning bank, or prior returning bank suspends payments or is closed, the Reserve Bank may take any action authorized by law to recover the amount of an obligation, including, but not limited to, the exercise of rights of set off, the realization on any available collateral, and any other rights it may have as a creditor under applicable law.
[53 FR 21985, June 13, 1988, as amended at Reg. J, 59 FR 22966, May 4, 1994; 62 FR 48173, Sept. 15, 1997; Reg, J, 69 FR 62560, Oct. 27, 2004; 83 FR 61521, Nov. 30, 2018]
§ 210.13
Unpaid items.
(a)
Right of recovery.
If a Reserve Bank does not receive payment in actually and finally collected funds for an item, the Reserve Bank shall recover by charge-back or otherwise the amount of the item from the sender, prior collecting bank, paying bank, or returning bank from or through which it was received, whether or not the item itself can be sent back. In the event of recovery from such a person, no person, including the owner or holder of the item, shall, for the purpose of obtaining payment of the amount of the item, have any interest in any reserve balance or other funds or property in the Reserve Bank's possession of the bank that failed to make payment in actually and finally collected funds.
(b)
Suspension or closing of bank.
A Reserve Bank shall not pay or act on a draft, authorization to charge (including a charge authorized by § 210.9(b)(5)), or other order on a reserve balance or other funds in its possession for the purpose of settling for items under § 210.9 or § 210.12 after it receives notice of suspension or closing of the bank making the settlement for that bank's own or another's account.
[Reg. J, 59 FR 22966, May 4, 1994, as amended at Reg. J, 69 FR 62561, Oct. 27, 2004]
§ 210.14
Extension of time limits.
If a bank (including a Reserve Bank) or nonbank payor is delayed in acting on an item beyond applicable time limits because of interruption of communication or computer facilities, suspension of payments by a bank or nonbank payor, war, emergency conditions, failure of equipment, or other circumstances beyond its control, its time for acting is extended for the time necessary to complete the action, if it exercises such diligence as the circumstances require.
[Reg. J, 59 FR 22967, May 4, 1994]
§ 210.15
Direct presentment of certain warrants.
If a Reserve Bank elects to present direct to the payor a bill, note, or warrant that is issued and payable by a State or a political subdivision and that is a cash item not payable or collectible through a bank: (a) Sections 210.9, 210.12, and 210.13 and the operating circulars of the Reserve Banks apply to the payor as if it were a paying bank; (b) § 210.14 applies to the payor as if it were a bank; and (c) under § 210.9 each day on which the payor is open for the regular conduct of its affairs or the accommodation of the public is considered a banking day.

# Subpart B—Funds Transfers Through the Fedwire Funds Service

# Source:
55 FR 40801, Oct. 5, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 210.25
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority and purpose.
This subpart provides rules to govern funds transfers through the Fedwire Funds Service, and has been issued pursuant to the Federal Reserve Act—section 13 (12 U.S.C. 342), paragraph (f) of section 19 (12 U.S.C. 464), paragraph 14 of section 16 (12 U.S.C. 248(o)), and paragraphs (i) and (j) of section 11 (12 U.S.C. 248(i) and (j))—and other laws and has the force and effect of federal law. This subpart is not a funds-transfer system rule as defined in Section 4A-501(b) of Article 4A.
(b)
Scope.
(1) This subpart incorporates the provisions of Article 4A set forth in appendix A of this part. In the event of an inconsistency between the provisions of the sections of this subpart and appendix A of this part, the provisions of the sections of this subpart shall prevail. In the event of an inconsistency between the provisions this subpart and section 919 of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, section 919 of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act shall prevail.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section, this subpart, including Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part and operating circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks issued in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, governs the rights and obligations of the following parties with respect to the Fedwire Funds Service:
(i) Federal Reserve Banks that send or receive payment orders;
(ii) Senders that send payment orders directly to a Federal Reserve Bank;
(iii) Receiving banks that receive payment orders directly from a Federal Reserve Bank;
(iv) Beneficiaries that receive payment for payment orders by means of credit to an account maintained or used at a Federal Reserve Bank; and
(v) Other parties to a funds transfer any part of which is carried out through the Fedwire Funds Service to the same extent as if this subpart were considered a funds-transfer system rule under Article 4A.
(3) This subpart governs a funds transfer that is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service, as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, even though a portion of the funds transfer is governed by the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, but the portion of such funds transfer that is governed by the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (other than section 919 governing remittance transfers) is not governed by this subpart.
(4) In the event that any portion of this Subpart establishes rights or obligations with respect to the availability of funds that are also governed by the Expedited Funds Availability Act or the Board's Regulation CC, Availability of Funds and Collection of Checks, those provisions of the Expedited Funds Availability Act or Regulation CC shall apply and the portion of this Subpart, including Article 4A as incorporated herein, shall not apply.
(c)
Operating Circulars.
Each Federal Reserve Bank shall issue an Operating Circular consistent with this subpart that governs the details of its funds-transfer operations in connection with the Fedwire Funds Service and other matters it deems appropriate. Among other things, the Operating Circular may set cut-off times and funds-transfer business days; address security procedures offered by the Federal Reserve Banks to verify the authenticity of a payment order; specify format and media requirements for payment orders; specify the time and method of receipt, execution, and acceptance of a payment order and settlement of a Federal Reserve Bank's payment obligation for purposes of Article 4A; specify service terms governing ancillary features of the Fedwire Funds Service; provide for the acceptance of documents in electronic form to the extent any provision in Article 4A requires an agreement or other document to be in writing; identify messages that are not payment orders; and impose charges for funds-transfer services.
(d)
Government senders, receiving banks, and beneficiaries.
Except as otherwise expressly provided by the statutes of the United States, the parties specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) through (v) of this section include:
(1) A department, agency, instrumentality, independent establishment, or office of the United States, or a wholly-owned or controlled Government corporation;
(2) An international organization;
(3) A foreign central bank; and
(4) A department, agency, instrumentality, independent establishment, or office of a foreign government, or a wholly-owned or controlled corporation of a foreign government.
(e)
Financial messaging standards.
Financial messaging standards (
e.g.,
ISO 20022), including the financial messaging components, elements, technical documentation, tags, and terminology used to implement those standards, do not confer or connote legal status or responsibilities. This subpart, including Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part, and the operating circulars of the Reserve Banks issued in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section govern the rights and obligations of parties to funds transfers sent through the Fedwire Funds Service as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. To the extent there is any inconsistency between a financial messaging standard adopted by the Fedwire Funds Service and this subpart, this subpart shall prevail.
[55 FR 40801, Oct. 5, 1990; 55 FR 47428, Nov. 13, 1990, as amended by Reg. J, 77 FR 21859, Apr. 12, 2012; 83 FR 61517, 61522, Nov. 30, 2018; 87 FR 34358, June 6, 2022]
§ 210.26
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following definitions apply:
Article 4A
means Article 4A of the Uniform Commercial Code as set forth
in appendix A of this part, which is incorporated into this subpart in accordance with § 210.25(b).
Automated clearing house transfer
means any transfer designated as an automated clearing house transfer in an operating circular issued by the Federal Reserve Banks.
Beneficiary
has the same meaning as in Article 4A except that the term is limited to a beneficiary in a funds transfer any portion of which is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service.
Beneficiary's bank
has the same meaning as in Article 4A, except that:
(1) The term is limited to a beneficiary's bank in a funds transfer any portion of which is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service;
(2) A Federal Reserve Bank need not be identified in the payment order in order to be the beneficiary's bank; and
(3) The term includes a Federal Reserve Bank when that Federal Reserve Bank is the beneficiary of a payment order.
Fedwire Funds Service
means the funds-transfer system owned and operated by the Federal Reserve Banks that is used primarily for the transmission and settlement of payment orders governed by this subpart. The Fedwire Funds Service does not include the FedNow Service or the system for making automated clearing house transfers.
Interdistrict transfer
means a funds transfer involving entries to accounts maintained at two Federal Reserve Banks.
Intradistrict transfer
means a funds transfer involving entries to accounts maintained at one Federal Reserve Bank.
Off-line bank
means a bank that sends payment orders to and receives payment orders from a Federal Reserve Bank by telephone orally or by other means other than electronic data transmission.
Payment order
has the same meaning as in Article 4A except that the term includes only instructions sent or received through the Fedwire Funds Service and does not include automated clearing house transfers or any communication designated in an operating circular issued by a Federal Reserve Bank under this subpart as not being a payment order.
Receiving bank
has the same meaning as in Article 4A except that the term is limited to a receiving bank in a funds transfer any portion of which is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service.
Sender
has the same meaning as in Article 4A except that the term is limited to a sender in a funds transfer any portion of which is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service.
Sender's account, receiving bank's account,
and
beneficiary's account
mean the reserve, clearing, or other funds deposit account at a Federal Reserve Bank maintained or used by the sender, receiving bank, or beneficiary, respectively.
Sender's Federal Reserve Bank
and
receiving bank's Federal Reserve Bank
mean the Federal Reserve Bank at which the sender or receiving bank, respectively, maintains or uses an account.
[Reg. J, 87 FR 34358, June 6, 2022]
§ 210.27
Reliance on identifying number.
(a)
Reliance by a Federal Reserve Bank on number to identify an intermediary bank or beneficiary's bank.
A Federal Reserve Bank may rely on the number in a payment order that identifies the intermediary bank or beneficiary's bank, even if it identifies a bank different from the bank identified by name in the payment order, if the Federal Reserve Bank does not know of such an inconsistency in identification. A Federal Reserve Bank has no duty to detect any such inconsistency in identification.
(b)
Reliance by a Federal Reserve Bank on number to identify beneficiary.
A Federal Reserve Bank, acting as a beneficiary's bank, may rely on the number in a payment order that identifies the beneficiary, even if it identifies a person different from the person identified by name in the payment order, if the Federal Reserve Bank does not know of such an inconsistency in identification. A Federal Reserve Bank has no duty to detect any such inconsistency in identification.
§ 210.28
Agreement of sender.
(a)
Payment of sender's obligation to a Federal Reserve Bank.
A sender (other than a Federal Reserve Bank), by maintaining or using an account with a Federal Reserve Bank, authorizes the sender's Federal Reserve Bank to obtain payment for the sender's payment orders by debiting the amount of the payment order from the sender's account.
(b)
Overdrafts.
(1) A sender does not have the right to an overdraft in the sender's account. In the event an overdraft is created, the overdraft shall be due and payable immediately, without the need for a demand by the Federal Reserve Bank, at the earliest of the following times:
(i) At the end of the Fedwire Funds Service funds-transfer business day;
(ii) At the time the Federal Reserve Bank, in its sole discretion, deems itself insecure and gives notice thereof to the sender; or
(iii) At the time the sender suspends payments or is closed.
(2) The sender shall have in its account, at the time the overdraft is due and payable, a balance of actually and finally collected funds sufficient to cover the aggregate amount of all its obligations to the Federal Reserve Bank, whether the obligations result from the execution of a payment order or otherwise.
(3) To secure any overdraft, as well as any other obligation due or to become due to its Federal Reserve Bank, each sender, by sending a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank that is accepted by the Federal Reserve Bank, grants to the Federal Reserve Bank a security interest in all of the sender's assets in the possession or control of, or held for the account of, the Federal Reserve Bank. The security interest attaches when an overdraft, or any other obligation to the Federal Reserve Bank, becomes due and payable.
(4) A Federal Reserve Bank may take any action authorized by law to recover the amount of an overdraft that is due and payable, including, but not limited to, the exercise of rights of set off, the realization on any available collateral, and any other rights it may have as a creditor under applicable law.
(5) If a sender, other than a government sender described in § 210.25(d), incurs an overdraft in its account as a result of a debit to the account by a Federal Reserve Bank under paragraph (a) of this section, the account will be subject to any applicable overdraft charges, regardless of whether the overdraft has become due and payable. A Federal Reserve Bank may debit a sender's account under paragraph (a) of this section immediately on acceptance of the payment order.
(c)
Review of payment orders.
A sender, by sending a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank, agrees that for the purposes of sections 4A-204(a) and 4A-304 of Article 4A, a reasonable time to notify a Federal Reserve Bank of the relevant facts concerning an unauthorized or erroneously executed payment order is within 30 calendar days after the sender receives notice that the payment order was accepted or executed, or that the sender's account was debited with respect to the payment order.
[55 FR 40801, Oct. 5, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 46956, Oct. 14, 1992; Reg. J, 87 FR 34359, June 6, 2022]
§ 210.29
Agreement of receiving bank.
(a)
Payment.
A receiving bank (other than a Federal Reserve Bank) that receives a payment order from its Federal Reserve Bank authorizes that Federal Reserve Bank to pay for the payment order by crediting the amount of the payment order to the receiving bank's account.
(b)
Off-line banks.
An off-line bank that does not expressly notify its Federal Reserve Bank in writing that it maintains an account for another bank warrants to that Federal Reserve Bank that the off-line bank does not act as an intermediary bank or a beneficiary's bank with respect to payment orders received through the Fedwire Funds Service for a beneficiary that is a bank.
[55 FR 40801, Oct. 5, 1990; 55 FR 47428, Nov. 13, 1990, as amended by Reg. J, 83 FR 61522, Nov. 30, 2018]
§ 210.30
Payment orders.
(a)
Rejection.
A sender shall not send a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank unless authorized to do so by the
Federal Reserve Bank. A Federal Reserve Bank may reject, or impose conditions that must be satisfied before it will accept, a payment order for any reason.
(b)
Selection of an intermediary bank.
For an interdistrict transfer through the Fedwire Funds Service, a Federal Reserve Bank is authorized and directed to execute a payment order through another Federal Reserve Bank. A sender shall not send a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank that requires the Federal Reserve Bank to send a payment order to an intermediary bank (other than a Federal Reserve Bank) unless that intermediary bank is designated in the sender's payment order. A sender shall not send to a Federal Reserve Bank a payment order through the Fedwire Funds Service that instructs use by a Federal Reserve Bank of a funds-transfer system or means of transmission other than the Fedwire Funds Service unless the Federal Reserve Bank agrees with the sender in writing to follow such instructions.
(c)
Execution date and payment date.
A sender shall not send a payment order through the Fedwire Funds Service that instructs a Federal Reserve Bank to execute the payment order or to pay the beneficiary on a funds-transfer business day that is later than the Fedwire Funds Service funds-transfer business day on which the order is received by the Federal Reserve Bank, unless the Federal Reserve Bank agrees with the sender in writing to follow such instructions.
[55 FR 40801, Oct. 5, 1990, as amended by Reg. J, 87 FR 34359, June 6, 2022]
§ 210.31
Payment by a Federal Reserve Bank to a receiving bank or beneficiary.
(a)
Payment to a receiving bank.
Payment of a Federal Reserve Bank's obligation to pay a receiving bank (other than a Federal Reserve Bank) occurs at the earlier of the time when the amount of the payment order is credited to the receiving bank's account or when the payment order is sent to the receiving bank.
(b)
Payment to a beneficiary.
Payment by a Federal Reserve Bank to a beneficiary of a payment order, where the Federal Reserve Bank is the beneficiary's bank, occurs at the earlier of the time when the amount of the payment order is credited to the beneficiary's account or when notice of the credit is sent to the beneficiary.
§ 210.32
Federal Reserve Bank liability; payment of compensation.
(a)
Damages.
In connection with its handling of a payment order under this subpart, a Federal Reserve Bank shall not be liable to a sender, receiving bank, beneficiary, or other Federal Reserve Bank, governed by this subpart, for any damages other than those payable under Article 4A. A Federal Reserve Bank shall not agree to be liable to a sender, receiving bank, beneficiary, or other Federal Reserve Bank for consequential damages under section 4A-305(d) of Article 4A.
(b)
Payment of compensation.
(1) A Federal Reserve Bank shall satisfy its obligation, or that of another Federal Reserve Bank, to pay compensation in the form of interest under Article 4A by paying such compensation in the form of interest to a sender, receiving bank, beneficiary, or another party to the funds transfer that is entitled to such payment in an amount that is calculated in accordance with section 4A-506 of Article 4A.
(2) If the sender or receiving bank that is the recipient of the payment of compensation is not the party entitled to compensation under Article 4A, the sender or receiving bank shall pass through the benefit of the compensation by making an interest payment, as of the day the compensation was paid by the Federal Reserve Bank, to the party entitled to compensation. The interest payment that is made to the party entitled to compensation shall not be less than the value of the compensation that was paid by the Federal Reserve Bank to the sender or receiving bank. The party entitled to compensation may agree to accept compensation in a form other than a direct interest payment, provided that such an alternative form of compensation is not less than the value of the interest payment that otherwise would be made.
(c)
Nonwaiver of right of recovery.
Nothing in this subpart or any Operating Circular issued hereunder shall constitute, or be construed as constituting, a waiver by a Federal Reserve Bank of a cause of action for recovery under any applicable law of mistake and restitution.
[55 FR 40801, Oct. 5, 1990, as amended by Reg. J, 77 FR 21859, Apr. 12, 2012; 83 FR 61517, Nov. 30, 2018; 87 FR 34359, June 6, 2022]
Pt. 210, Subpt. B, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 210—Commentary
The Commentary provides background material to explain the intent of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) in adopting a particular provision in the subpart and to help readers interpret that provision. In some comments, examples are offered. The Commentary constitutes an official Board interpretation of subpart B of this part. Commentary is not provided for every provision of subpart B of this part, as some provisions are self-explanatory.

# Section 210.25—Authority, Purpose, and Scope
(a)
Authority and purpose.
Section 210.25(a) states that the purpose of subpart B of this part is to provide rules to govern funds transfers through the Fedwire Funds Service and recites the Board's rulemaking authority for this subpart. Subpart B of this part is Federal law and is not a “funds-transfer system rule” as defined in section 4A-501(b) of Article 4A, Funds Transfers, of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), as set forth in appendix A of this part. Certain provisions of Article 4A may not be varied by a funds-transfer system rule, but under section 4A-107, regulations of the Board and operating circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks supersede inconsistent provisions of Article 4A to the extent of the inconsistency. In addition, regulations of the Board may preempt inconsistent provisions of state law. Accordingly, subpart B of this part supersedes or preempts inconsistent provisions of state law. It does not affect state law governing funds transfers that does not conflict with the provisions of subpart B of this part, such as Article 4A as enacted in any state, as such state law may apply to parties to funds transfers through the Fedwire Funds Service whose rights and obligations are not governed by subpart B of this part.
(b)
Scope.
(1) Subpart B of this part incorporates the provisions of Article 4A set forth in appendix A of this part. The provisions set forth expressly in the sections of subpart B of this part supersede or preempt any inconsistent provisions of Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part or as enacted in any state. The official comments to Article 4A are not incorporated in subpart B of this part or this commentary to subpart B of this part, but the official comments may be useful in interpreting Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part. Because section 4A-105 refers to other provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code (
e.g.,
definitions in article 1 of the UCC), these other provisions of the UCC, as approved by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, which is now also known as the Uniform Law Commission, and the American Law Institute, from time to time, are also incorporated into subpart B of this part. Subpart B of this part applies to any party to a funds transfer over the Fedwire Funds Service that is in privity with a Federal Reserve Bank. These parties include a sender (bank or nonbank) that sends a payment order directly to a Federal Reserve Bank, a receiving bank that receives a payment order directly from a Federal Reserve Bank, and a beneficiary that receives credit to an account that it uses or maintains at a Federal Reserve Bank as payment for a payment order accepted by a Federal Reserve Bank. Other parties to a funds transfer over the Fedwire Funds Service are covered by subpart B of this part to the same extent subpart B would apply to them if subpart B were a “funds-transfer system rule” under Article 4A that selected subpart B of this part as the governing law.
(2) The scope of the applicability of a funds-transfer system rule under Article 4A is specified in section 4A-501(b), and the scope of the choice of law provision is specified in section 4A-507(c). Under section 4A-507(c), a choice of law provision is binding on the participants in a funds-transfer system and certain other parties having notice that the funds-transfer system might be used for the funds transfer and of the choice of law provision. The Uniform Commercial Code provides that a person has notice of a fact when the person has actual knowledge of it, receives a notice or notification of it, or has reason to know that it exists from all the facts and circumstances known to the person at the time in question. (See UCC section 1-202.) However, under sections 4A-507(b) and 4A-507(d), a choice of law by agreement of the parties takes precedence over a choice of law made by funds-transfer system rule.
(3) If originators, receiving banks, and beneficiaries that are not in privity with a Federal Reserve Bank have the notice contemplated by section 4A-507(c) or if those parties agree to be bound by subpart B of this part, subpart B of this part generally would apply to payment orders between those remote parties, including participants in other funds-transfer systems. For example, a payment order may be sent from an originator's bank through a funds-transfer
system other than the Fedwire Funds Service to a receiving bank which, in turn, executes that payment order by sending a payment order through the Fedwire Funds Service. Similarly, a Federal Reserve Bank may send a payment order through the Fedwire Funds Service to a receiving bank that sends it through a funds-transfer system other than the Fedwire Funds Service to the beneficiary's bank. In the first example, if the originator's bank has notice that the Fedwire Funds Service may be used to effect part of the funds transfer, the sending of the payment order through the other funds-transfer system to the receiving bank will be governed by subpart B of this part unless the parties to the payment order have agreed otherwise. In the second example, if the beneficiary's bank has notice that the Fedwire Funds Service may be used to effect part of the funds transfer, the sending of the payment order to the beneficiary's bank through the other funds-transfer system will be governed by subpart B of this part unless the parties have agreed otherwise. In both cases, the other funds-transfer system's rules would also apply to, at a minimum, the portion of these funds transfers being made through that funds transfer system. Because subpart B of this part is Federal law, subpart B of this part will take precedence over any funds-transfer system rule applicable to the remote sender or receiving bank or to a Federal Reserve Bank to the extent of any inconsistency. If remote parties to a funds transfer, a portion of which is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service, have expressly selected by agreement, in accordance with section 4A-507(b), a law other than subpart B of this part, subpart B of this part would not take precedence over the choice of law made by the agreement even though the remote parties had notice that the Fedwire Funds Service might be used and of the governing law. (See section 4A-507(d).) In addition, subpart B of this part would not apply to a funds transfer sent through another funds-transfer system where no Federal Reserve Bank handles the funds transfer, even though settlement for the funds transfer is made by means of a separate net settlement or funds transfer through the Fedwire Funds Service.
(4) Under section 4A-108, Article 4A does not apply to a funds transfer any part of which is governed by the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) (15 U.S.C. 1693
et seq.
). In general, Fedwire funds transfers to or from consumer accounts are exempt from the EFTA and Regulation E (12 CFR part 1005). A funds transfer from a consumer originator or a funds transfer to a consumer beneficiary could be carried out in part through the Fedwire Funds Service and in part through an automated clearinghouse or other means that is subject to the EFTA or Regulation E. In these cases, subpart B would not govern the portion of the funds transfer that is governed by the EFTA or Regulation E. (See the commentary to § 210.26 in this appendix, “Payment Order”.)
(5) Section 919 of the EFTA, however, governs “remittance transfers,” which may include funds transfers over the Fedwire Funds Service. Section 919 of the EFTA sets out the obligations of remittance transfer providers with respect to consumer senders of remittance transfers. Section 919 of the EFTA generally does not affect the rights and obligations of financial institutions involved in a remittance transfer. To the extent that a Fedwire funds transfer is a “remittance transfer” governed by section 919 of the EFTA, it continues to be governed by subpart B of this part, except that, in the event of an inconsistency between the provisions of subpart B of this part and section 919 of the EFTA, section 919 of the EFTA shall prevail. For example, a consumer may initiate a remittance transfer governed by EFTA section 919 from the consumer's account at a depository institution, and the depository institution may initiate that transfer by sending a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank through the Fedwire Funds Service. If the consumer subsequently exercised the right to cancel the remittance transfer and obtain a refund under the terms of section 919 of the EFTA, the depository institution would be required to comply with section 919 even if the institution does not have a right to reverse the payment order sent to the Federal Reserve Bank under subpart B of this part.
(6) Finally, section 4A-404(a) provides that a beneficiary's bank is obliged to pay the amount of a payment order to the beneficiary on the payment date unless acceptance of the payment order occurs on the payment date after the close of the funds-transfer business day of the bank. The Expedited Funds Availability Act provides that funds received by a bank by wire transfer shall be available for withdrawal not later than the business day after the business day on which such funds are received (12 U.S.C. 4002(a)). That act also preempts any provision of state law that was not effective on September 1, 1989, that is inconsistent with that act or its implementing Regulation CC (12 CFR part 229). Accordingly, the Expedited Funds Availability Act and Regulation CC may preempt section 4A-404(a) as enacted in any state. In order to ensure that section 4A-404(a), or other provisions of Article 4A, as incorporated in subpart B of this part, do not take precedence over provisions of the Expedited Funds Availability Act, this section 210.25(b)(4) provides that where subpart B of this part establishes rights or obligations that are also governed by the Expedited Funds Availability Act or Regulation CC, the Expedited Funds Availability Act or Regulation CC provision shall apply and subpart B of this part shall not apply.
(c)
Operating Circulars.
The Federal Reserve Banks issue Operating Circulars consistent with this subpart that contain additional provisions applicable to payment orders and other messages sent through the Fedwire Funds Service. Under section 4A-107, these Operating Circulars supersede inconsistent provisions of Article 4A, both as set forth in appendix A of this part and as enacted in any state. These Operating Circulars are not funds-transfer system rules, but, by their terms, they are binding on all parties covered by this subpart.
(d)
Government senders, receiving banks, and beneficiaries.
This section clarifies that unless a statute of the United States provides otherwise, subpart B of this part applies to governmental entities, domestic or foreign, including foreign central banks as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(e)
Financial messaging standards.
This paragraph makes clear that financial messaging standards, including the financial messaging components, elements, technical documentation, tags, and terminology used to implement those standards, do not confer or connote legal status or responsibilities. Instead, subpart B of this part and Federal Reserve Bank operating circulars govern the rights and obligations of parties to funds transfers sent through the Fedwire Funds Service as provided in § 210.25(b). Thus, to the extent there is any inconsistency between a financial messaging standard adopted by the Fedwire Funds Service and subpart B of this part, subpart B of this part, including Article 4A as adopted in appendix B to subpart B of this part, will prevail. In the ISO 20022 financial messaging standard, for example, the term
agent
is used to refer to a variety of bank parties to a funds transfer (
e.g., debtor agent,
creditor agent, intermediary agent
). Notwithstanding use of that term in the standard and in message tags, such banks are not the agents of any party to a funds transfer and owe no duty to any other party to such a funds transfer except as provided in subpart B of this part (including Article 4A) or by express agreement. The ISO 20022 financial messaging standard also permits information to be carried in a funds-transfer message regarding persons that are not parties to that funds transfer (
e.g., ultimate debtor,
ultimate creditor, initiating party
) for regulatory, compliance, remittance, or other purposes. An “ultimate debtor” is not an “originator” as defined in Article 4A. The relationship between the ultimate debtor and the originator (what the ISO 20022 standard calls the “debtor”) is determined by law other than Article 4A.

# Section 210.26—Definitions
Article 4A defines many terms (
e.g., beneficiary, intermediary bank, receiving bank, security procedure
) used in subpart B of this part. These terms are defined or listed in sections 4A-103 through 4A-105. These terms, such as the term
bank
(defined in section 4A-105(d)(2)), may differ from comparable terms in subpart A and subpart C of this part. As subpart B of this part incorporates consistent provisions of Article 4A, it incorporates these definitions unless these terms are expressly defined otherwise in subpart B of this part. Subpart B modifies the definitions of five Article 4A terms,
beneficiary, beneficiary's bank, payment order, receiving bank,
and
sender
. Subpart B also defines terms not defined in Article 4A.
Article 4A. Article 4A
means the version of that article of the Uniform Commercial Code set forth in appendix A of this part. It does not refer to the law of any particular state unless the context indicates otherwise. Subject to the express provisions of this subpart, this version of Article 4A is incorporated into this subpart and made Federal law for transactions covered by subpart B of this part. (
See
§ 210.25(b)(1) and accompanying commentary.) Because section 4A-105 refers to other provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code (
e.g.,
definitions in article 1 of the UCC), these other provisions of the UCC, as approved by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, which is now also known as the Uniform Law Commission, and the American Law Institute, from time to time, are also incorporated into subpart B of this part.
Beneficiary, beneficiary's bank, receiving bank,
and
sender.
The definitions of “beneficiary,” “beneficiary's bank,” “receiving bank,” and “sender” in subpart B of this part differ from the definitions in sections 4A-103(a)(2) through (4). The subpart B definitions clarify that, for the purposes of subpart B of this part, these terms are limited to parties in a funds transfer that is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service. For example, the parties to a funds transfer that is sent through the FedNow Service would be governed by subpart C of this part, and would not be a “beneficiary,” “beneficiary's bank,” “receiving bank,” or “sender” governed by subpart B of this part. The subpart B definition of “beneficiary's bank” further clarifies that where a Federal Reserve Bank functions as the beneficiary's bank, it need not be identified in the payment order as the beneficiary's bank and that a Federal Reserve Bank that receives a payment order as beneficiary is also the beneficiary's bank with respect to that payment order.
Fedwire Funds Service.
This term refers to the funds-transfer system owned and operated by the Federal Reserve Banks that is governed by this subpart. The term does not refer to any particular computer, telecommunications facility, or funds transfer, but rather to the system as a whole, which may include transfers by telephone or by
written instrument in particular circumstances. The term does not include the FedNow Service or the system used for automated clearing house transfers.
Off-line bank.
Most Fedwire payment orders are sent electronically from a sender to a Federal Reserve Bank or from a Federal Reserve Bank to a receiving bank. Banks that send payment orders to Federal Reserve Banks electronically are often referred to as on-line banks. Some Fedwire Funds Service participants, however, send payment orders to a Federal Reserve Bank or receive payment orders from a Federal Reserve Bank orally by telephone or, in unusual circumstances, in writing. A bank that does not use either a terminal or a computer that links it electronically to a terminal or computer at its Federal Reserve Bank to send payment orders through the Fedwire Funds Service is an off-line bank.
Payment Order.
(1) The definition of “payment order” in subpart B of this part differs from the section 4A-103(a)(1) definition. The subpart B definition clarifies that, for the purposes of subpart B of this part, the term includes only instructions transmitted through the Fedwire Funds Service. For example, instructions transmitted through the FedNow Service would be governed by subpart C of this part, and not subpart B of this part. Additionally, the subpart B definition provides that certain messages that are transmitted through the Fedwire Funds Service are not payment orders. Federal Reserve Banks and banks participating in the Fedwire Funds Service send various types of messages relating to payment orders or to other matters, through the Fedwire Funds Service, that are not intended to be payment orders. In some cases, messages sent through the Fedwire Funds Service, such as certain requests for credit transfer, may be payment orders under Article 4A, but are not treated as payment orders under subpart B because they are not an instruction to a Federal Reserve Bank to pay or cause another bank to pay money. Under the subpart B definition, these messages are not “payment orders” governed by subpart B of this part. The operating circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks may specify those messages that may be transmitted through the Fedwire Funds Service but that are not payment orders.
(2) Subpart B of this part, including its incorporation of Article 4A, governs a payment order even though the originator's or beneficiary's account may be a consumer account established primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. Under section 4A-108, Article 4A does not apply to a funds transfer any part of which is governed by the Electronic Fund Transfer Act. That act and Regulation E (12 CFR part 1005) implementing it do not apply to funds transfers through the Fedwire Funds Service (see 15 U.S.C. 1693a(7)(B) and 12 CFR 1005.3(c)(3)), except that section 919 of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act may govern a Fedwire funds transfer that is a “remittance transfer.” Such remittance transfers that are Fedwire funds transfers continue to be governed by subpart B. Thus, subpart B applies to all funds transfers through the Fedwire Funds Service even though some such transfers involve originators or beneficiaries who are consumers. (
See
also § 210.25(b) and accompanying commentary.)

# Section 210.27—Reliance on Identifying Number
(a)
Reliance by a Federal Reserve Bank on number to identify intermediary bank or beneficiary's bank.
Section 4A-208 provides that a receiving bank, such as a Federal Reserve Bank, may rely on the routing number of an intermediary bank or the beneficiary's bank specified in a payment order as identifying the appropriate intermediary bank or beneficiary's bank, even if the payment order identifies another bank by name, provided that the receiving bank does not know of the inconsistency. Under section 4A-208(b)(2), if the sender of the payment order is not a bank, a receiving bank may rely on the number only if the sender had notice before the receiving bank accepted the sender's order that the receiving bank might rely on the number. This section provides this notice to entities that are not banks, such as the Department of the Treasury, that send payment orders directly to a Federal Reserve Bank.
(b)
Reliance by a Federal Reserve Bank on number to identify beneficiary.
Section 4A-207 provides that a beneficiary's bank, such as a Federal Reserve Bank, may rely on the number identifying a beneficiary, such as the beneficiary's account number, specified in a payment order as identifying the appropriate beneficiary, even if the payment order identifies another beneficiary by name, provided that the beneficiary's bank does not know of the inconsistency. Under section 4A-207(c)(2), if the originator is not a bank, an originator is not obliged to pay for a payment order if the originator did not have notice that the beneficiary's bank might rely on the identifying number and the person paid on the basis of the identifying number was not entitled to receive payment. This section of subpart B provides this notice to entities that are not banks, such as the Department of the Treasury, that are originators of payment orders sent directly by the originators to a Federal Reserve Bank, where that Federal Reserve Bank or another Federal Reserve Bank is the beneficiary's bank (
see also
section 4A-402(b), providing that a sender must pay a beneficiary's bank for a payment order accepted by the beneficiary's bank).

# Section 210.28—Agreement of Sender
(a)
Payment of sender's obligation to a Federal Reserve Bank.
When a sender sends a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank and the Federal Reserve Bank accepts the payment order by issuing a conforming order executing the sender's payment order, under section 4A-402 the sender is indebted to the Federal Reserve Bank for the amount of the payment order. Section 4A-403 specifies the various methods by which a sender may settle the obligation under section 4A-402. With respect to a payment order sent through the Fedwire Funds Service, the obligation of a sender (other than a Federal Reserve Bank) is settled by a debit to the account of the sender at a Federal Reserve Bank. Section 210.28(a) provides that a sender, other than a Federal Reserve Bank, that maintains or uses an account at a Federal Reserve Bank authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank to debit that account so that the Federal Reserve Bank can obtain payment for the payment order.
(b)
Overdrafts.
(1) In some cases, debits to a sender's account will create an overdraft in the sender's account. The Board and the Federal Reserve Banks have established policies concerning when a Federal Reserve Bank will permit a bank to incur an overdraft in its account at a Federal Reserve Bank. These policies do not give a bank or other sender a right to an overdraft in its account. Subpart B clarifies that a sender does not have a right to such an overdraft. If an overdraft arises, it becomes immediately due and payable at the earliest of the following times: The end of the Fedwire Funds Service funds-transfer business day; the time the Federal Reserve Bank, in its sole discretion, deems itself insecure and gives notice to the sender; or the time that the sender suspends payments or is closed by governmental action, such as the appointment of a receiver. In some cases, a Federal Reserve Bank extends its Fedwire Funds Service operations beyond the standard cut-off time for that funds-transfer business day. For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise specified by the Federal Reserve Bank making such an extension, an overdraft becomes due and payable at the end of the extended operating hours. An overdraft becomes due and payable prior to a Federal Reserve Bank's cut-off time if the Federal Reserve Bank deems itself insecure and gives notice to the sender. A Federal Reserve Bank that deems itself insecure may give such notice in accordance with the provisions on notice in section 1-202(d) of the UCC, in accordance with any other applicable law or agreement, or by any other reasonable means. An overdraft also becomes due and payable at the time that a bank is closed or suspends payments. For example, an overdraft becomes due and payable if a receiver is appointed for the bank or the bank is prevented from making payments by governmental order. The Federal Reserve Bank need not make demand on the sender for the overdraft to become due and payable.
(2) A sender must cover any overdraft and any other obligation of the sender to the Federal Reserve Bank by the time the overdraft becomes due and payable. By sending a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank, the sender grants a security interest to the Federal Reserve Bank in all of the assets of the sender possessed or controlled by, or held for the account of, the Federal Reserve Bank in order to secure all obligations due or to become due to the Federal Reserve Bank. The security interest attaches when the overdraft, or other obligation of the sender to the Federal Reserve Bank, becomes due and payable. The security interest does not apply to assets held by the sender as custodian or trustee for the sender's customers or third parties. Once an overdraft is due and payable, a Federal Reserve Bank may exercise its right of setoff, liquidate collateral, or take other similar action to satisfy the obligation the sender owes to the Federal Reserve Bank.
(c)
Review of payment orders.
(1) Under section 4A-204, a receiving bank is required to refund the principal amount of an unauthorized payment order that the sender was not obliged to pay, together with interest on the refundable amount calculated from the date that the receiving bank received payment to the date of the refund. The sender is not entitled to compensation in the form of interest if the sender fails to exercise ordinary care to determine that the order was not authorized and to notify the receiving bank within a reasonable period of time after the sender receives a notice that the payment order was accepted or that the sender's account was debited with respect to the order. Similarly, under section 4A-304, if a sender of a payment order that was erroneously executed does not notify the bank receiving the payment order within a reasonable time, the bank is not liable to the sender for compensation in the form of interest on any amount refundable to the sender. Section 210.28(c) establishes 30 calendar days as the reasonable period of time for the purposes of these provisions of Article 4A.
(2) Section 4A-505 provides that, in order for a customer to assert a claim objecting to a debit to its account by a receiving bank, the customer must notify the receiving bank of its objection within one year after the customer received notification reasonably identifying the payment order. Subpart B of this part does not vary this one-year claim preclusion period.

# Section 210.29—Agreement of Receiving Bank
(b)
Off-line banks.
(1) Generally, an on-line bank receiving payment orders or advices of
credit for payment orders from a Federal Reserve Bank receives the payment orders or advices electronically a short time after the corresponding payment orders are received by the on-line bank's Federal Reserve Bank. An off-line bank receiving payment orders or advices of credit from a Federal Reserve Bank does not have an electronic connection with the Federal Reserve Bank; therefore, payment orders or advices are transmitted either by telephone on the day the payment order is received by the receiving bank's Federal Reserve Bank, or sent by courier or mail along with the off-line bank's daily account statement, on the funds-transfer business day following the day the payment order is received by the off-line bank's Federal Reserve Bank.
(2) Under section 4A-302(a)(2), a Federal Reserve Bank must transmit payment orders at a time and by means reasonably necessary to allow payment to the beneficiary on the payment date, or as soon thereafter as is feasible. Therefore, where an off-line receiving bank is an intermediary bank or beneficiary's bank in a payment order, its Federal Reserve Bank attempts to transmit the payment order to the off-line bank by telephone on the day the payment order is received by the Federal Reserve Bank. A Federal Reserve Bank can generally identify these payment orders from the type code designated in the payment order.
(3) Under section 4A-404(b), if a payment order instructs payment to the account of the beneficiary, the beneficiary's bank must notify the beneficiary of the receipt of a payment order before midnight of the next funds-transfer business day following the payment date. Where an off-line bank is the beneficiary of a payment order, telephone notice by a Federal Reserve Bank to the off-line bank of the receipt of the order is not required by Article 4A because the Federal Reserve Bank sends notice to the off-line bank by courier or mail, along with its daily account statement, on the day after the payment order is received by its Federal Reserve Bank. Payment orders for which an off-line bank is the beneficiary of the order are generally designated as settlement transactions.
(4) If an off-line receiving bank maintains an account for another bank, the off-line bank may receive payment orders designated as settlement transactions in its capacity as beneficiary's bank or intermediary bank. A Federal Reserve Bank cannot readily distinguish these payment orders from settlement transactions for which the off-line bank is the beneficiary of the order. If an off-line bank notifies its Federal Reserve Bank that it maintains an account for another bank, the Federal Reserve Bank will attempt to telephone the off-line bank with respect to all settlement transactions received by such bank, whether the off-line bank is the beneficiary, the beneficiary's bank, or an intermediary bank in the payment order. Under this section, an off-line bank that does not expressly notify its Federal Reserve Bank in writing that it maintains an account for another bank warrants to that Federal Reserve Bank that it does not act as an intermediary bank or a beneficiary's bank for a bank beneficiary with respect to payment orders received through Fedwire.

# Section 210.30—Payment Orders
(a)
Rejection.
(1) A sender must make arrangements with its Federal Reserve Bank before it can send payment orders to the Federal Reserve Bank. Federal Reserve Banks reserve the right to reject or impose conditions on the acceptance of payment orders for any reason. For example, a Federal Reserve Bank might reject or impose conditions on accepting a payment order where a sender does not have sufficient funds in its account with the Federal Reserve Bank to cover the amount of the sender's payment order and other obligations of the sender due or to become due to the Federal Reserve Bank. A Federal Reserve Bank may require a sender to execute a written agreement concerning security procedures or other matters before the sender may send payment orders to the Federal Reserve Bank.
(b)
Selection of an intermediary bank.
(1) Under section 4A-302, if a receiving bank (other than a beneficiary's bank), such as a Federal Reserve Bank, accepts a payment order, it must issue a payment order that complies with the sender's order. The sender's order may include instructions concerning an intermediary bank to be used that must be followed by a receiving bank (
see
section 4A-302(a)(1)). If the sender does not designate any intermediary bank in its payment order, the receiving bank may select an intermediary bank through which the sender's payment order can be expeditiously issued to the beneficiary's bank so long as the receiving bank exercises ordinary care in selecting the intermediary bank (
see
section 4A-302(b)).
(2) This section provides that in an interdistrict transfer, a Federal Reserve Bank is authorized and directed to select another Federal Reserve Bank as an intermediary bank. A sender may, however, instruct a Federal Reserve Bank to use a particular intermediary bank by designating that bank as the bank to be credited by that Federal Reserve Bank (or the second Federal Reserve Bank in the case of an interdistrict transfer) in its payment order, in which case the Federal Reserve Bank will send the payment order to that bank if that bank receives payment orders through the Fedwire Funds Service. A sender may not instruct a Federal Reserve Bank to use its discretion to select an intermediary bank other than a Federal
Reserve Bank or an intermediary bank designated by the sender. In addition, a sender may not send a payment order through the Fedwire Funds Service that instructs a Federal Reserve Bank to use a funds-transfer system or means of transmission other than the Fedwire Funds Service unless the sender and the Federal Reserve Bank agree in writing to the use of that funds-transfer system or means of transmission.
(c)
Execution date and payment date.
Generally, the Fedwire Funds Service is a same-day value transfer system through which funds may be transferred from the originator to the beneficiary on the same funds-transfer business day. A sender may not send a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank that specifies an execution date or payment date later than the day on which the payment order is issued, unless the sender of the order and the Federal Reserve Bank agree in writing to the arrangement.

# Section 210.31—Payment by a Federal Reserve Bank to a Receiving Bank or Beneficiary
(a)
Payment to a receiving bank.
(1) Under section 4A-402, when a Federal Reserve Bank executes a sender's payment order by issuing a conforming order to a receiving bank that accepts the payment order, the Federal Reserve Bank must pay the receiving bank the amount of the payment order. Section 210.29(a) authorizes a Federal Reserve Bank to make the payment by crediting the account at the Federal Reserve Bank maintained or used by the receiving bank. Section 210.31(a) provides that the payment occurs when the receiving bank's account is credited or when the payment order is sent by the Federal Reserve Bank to the receiving bank, whichever is earlier. Ordinarily, payment will occur during the funds-transfer business day a short time after the payment order is received, even if the receiving bank is an off-line bank. This credit is final and irrevocable when made and constitutes final settlement under section 4A-403. Payment does not waive a Federal Reserve Bank's right of recovery under the applicable law of mistake and restitution (
see
§ 210.32(c)), affect a Federal Reserve Bank's right to apply the funds to any obligation due or to become due to the Federal Reserve Bank, or affect legal process or claims by third parties on the funds.
(2) This section on final payment does not apply to settlement for payment orders between Federal Reserve Banks. These payment orders are settled by other means.
(b)
Payment to a beneficiary.
Section 210.31(b) specifies when a Federal Reserve Bank makes payment to a beneficiary for which it is the beneficiary's bank. As in the case of payment to a receiving bank, this payment occurs at the earlier of the time that the Federal Reserve Bank credits the beneficiary's account or sends notice of the credit to the beneficiary, and is final and irrevocable when made.

# Section 210.32—Federal Reserve Bank Liability; Payment of Compensation
(a)
Damages.
(1) Under section 4A-305(d), damages for failure of a receiving bank to execute a payment order that it was obligated to execute by express agreement are limited to expenses in the transaction and incidental expenses and interest and do not include additional damages, including consequential damages, unless they are provided for in an express written agreement of the receiving bank. This section clarifies that in connection with the handling of payment orders, Federal Reserve Banks may not agree to be liable for consequential damages under this provision and shall not be liable for damages other than those that may be due under Article 4A to parties governed by this subpart. Any agreement in conflict with these provisions would not be effective, because it would be in violation of subpart B.
(2) This section does not affect the ability of other parties to a funds transfer to agree to be liable for consequential damages, the liability of a Federal Reserve Bank under section 4A-404 (relating to obligation of beneficiary's bank to pay and give notice to beneficiary), or the liability to parties governed by subpart B for claims not based on the handling of a payment order under subpart B.
(b)
Payment of compensation.
(1) Under article 4A, a Federal Reserve Bank may be required to pay compensation in the form of interest to another party in connection with its handling of a funds transfer. For example, payment of compensation in the form of interest is required in certain situations pursuant to sections 4A-204 (relating to refund of payment and duty of customer to report with respect to unauthorized payment order), 4A-209 (relating to acceptance of payment order), 4A-210 (relating to rejection of payment order), 4A-304 (relating to duty of sender to report erroneously executed payment order), 4A-305 (relating to liability for late or improper execution or failure to execute a payment order), 4A-402 (relating to obligation of sender to pay receiving bank), and 4A-404 (relating to obligation of beneficiary's bank to pay and give notice to beneficiary).
(2) Section 210.32(b) requires Federal Reserve Banks to provide compensation through payment in the form of interest. Under section 4A-506(a), the amount of such interest may be determined by agreement between the sender and receiving bank or by funds-transfer system rule. If there is no such agreement, under section 4A-506(b), the amount of interest is based on the Federal funds rate. Similarly, compensation in the form of interest will be paid to government
senders, receiving banks, or beneficiaries described in § 210.25(d) if they are entitled to interest under subpart B. A Federal Reserve Bank may also, in its discretion, pay compensation in the form of interest directly to a remote party to a Fedwire funds transfer that is entitled to interest, rather than providing compensation to its sender or receiving bank.
(3) If a sender or receiving bank that received a payment of compensation is not the party entitled to compensation under Article 4A, the sender or receiving bank must pass the benefit of the payment made to it to the party that is entitled to compensation. The benefit may be passed on either in the form of a direct payment of interest or in the form of a compensating balance if the party entitled to interest agrees to accept the other form of compensation. In the latter case, the value of the compensating balance must be at least equivalent to the value of the interest payment that otherwise would have been provided.
(c)
Nonwaiver of right of recovery.
Several sections of Article 4A allow a party to a funds transfer to make a claim pursuant to the applicable law of mistake and restitution. Nothing in subpart B of this part or any operating circular issued in accordance with subpart B of this part waives any such claim by a Federal Reserve Bank. A Federal Reserve Bank, however, may waive such a claim by express written agreement in order to settle litigation or for other purposes.
[55 FR 40801, Oct. 5, 1990; 55 FR 47428, Nov. 13, 1990, as amended by Reg. J, 77 FR 21859, Apr. 12, 2012; 83 FR 61517, 61522, Nov. 30, 2018; 87 FR 34359, June 6, 2022]

# Subpart C—Funds Transfers Through the FedNow Service

# Source:
Reg. J, 87 FR 34362, June 6, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 210.40
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority and purpose.
This subpart provides rules to govern funds transfers through the FedNow Service, and has been issued pursuant to the Federal Reserve Act—section 13 (12 U.S.C. 342), paragraph (f) of section 19 (12 U.S.C. 464), paragraph 14 of section 16 (12 U.S.C. 248(o)), and paragraphs (i) and (j) of section 11 (12 U.S.C. 248(i) and (j))—and other laws and has the force and effect of Federal law. This subpart is not a funds-transfer system rule as defined in Section 4A-501(b) of Article 4A.
(b)
Scope.
(1) This subpart incorporates the provisions of Article 4A set forth in appendix A of this part. In the event of an inconsistency between the provisions of the sections of this subpart and appendix A of this part, the provisions of the sections of this subpart shall prevail.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section, this subpart, including Article 4A as incorporated herein and operating circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks issued in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, governs the rights and obligations of the following parties with respect to the FedNow Service:
(i) Federal Reserve Banks that send or receive payment orders;
(ii) Senders that send payment orders directly to a Federal Reserve Bank;
(iii) Receiving banks that receive payment orders directly from a Federal Reserve Bank;
(iv) Beneficiaries that receive payment for payment orders by means of credit to the beneficiary's settlement account; and
(v) Other parties to a funds transfer any part of which is carried out through the FedNow Service to the same extent as if this subpart were considered a funds-transfer system rule under Article 4A.
(3) A Federal Reserve Bank that is not the sender's Federal Reserve Bank, receiving bank's Federal Reserve Bank, or beneficiary's Federal Reserve Bank is not a party to the funds transfer for purposes of this subpart and Article 4A.
(4) This subpart governs a funds transfer that is sent through the FedNow Service, even if a portion of the funds transfer is governed by the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, but in the event of an inconsistency between the provisions this subpart and the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.
(c)
Operating Circulars.
Each Federal Reserve Bank shall issue an Operating Circular consistent with this subpart that governs the details of its funds-transfer operations in connection with the FedNow Service and other matters it deems appropriate. Among other things, the Operating Circular may: set cut-off times and funds-transfer business days; address security procedures offered by the Federal Reserve Banks
to verify the authenticity of a payment order; specify format and media requirements for payment orders; specify the time and method of receipt, execution, and acceptance of a payment order and settlement of a Federal Reserve Bank's payment obligation for purposes of Article 4A; prescribe time limits for the processing of payment orders; specify service terms governing ancillary features of the FedNow Service; provide for the acceptance of documents in electronic form to the extent any provision in Article 4A requires an agreement or other document to be in writing; identify messages that are not payment orders; and impose charges for funds-transfer services.
(d)
Government senders, receiving banks, and beneficiaries.
Except as otherwise expressly provided by the statutes of the United States, the parties specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) through (v) of this section include a department, agency, instrumentality, independent establishment, or office of the United States, or a wholly-owned or controlled government corporation.
(e)
Financial messaging standards.
Financial messaging standards (
e.g.,
ISO 20022), including the financial messaging components, elements, technical documentation, tags, and terminology used to implement those standards, do not confer or connote legal status or responsibilities. This subpart, including Article 4A as incorporated herein, and the operating circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks issued in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section govern the rights and obligations of parties to funds transfers sent through the FedNow Service as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. To the extent there is any inconsistency between a financial messaging standard adopted by the Federal Reserve Banks for the FedNow Service and this subpart, this subpart shall prevail.
§ 210.41
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following definitions apply:
Article 4A
means Article 4A of the Uniform Commercial Code as set forth in appendix A of this part, which is incorporated into this subpart in accordance with § 210.40(b).
Beneficiary
has the same meaning as in Article 4A, except that the term is limited to a beneficiary in a funds transfer that is sent through the FedNow Service.
Beneficiary's bank
has the same meaning as in Article 4A, except that:
(1) The term is limited to a beneficiary's bank in a funds transfer that is sent through the FedNow Service;
(2) A Federal Reserve Bank need not be identified in the payment order in order to be the beneficiary's bank; and
(3) The term includes a Federal Reserve Bank when that Federal Reserve Bank is the beneficiary of a payment order.
Federal Reserve Bank
with respect to an entity means the Federal Reserve Bank in whose District the entity is located, as determined under the procedure described in Part 204 of this chapter (Regulation D), even if the entity is not otherwise subject to that section, or, if the entity maintains an account on the books of a different Federal Reserve Bank, the Federal Reserve Bank at which the entity maintains an account.
FedNow Service
means the funds-transfer system owned and operated by the Federal Reserve Banks to support instant payments that is used primarily for the transmission and settlement of payment orders governed by this subpart. The FedNow Service does not include the Fedwire Funds Service.
Interdistrict transfer
means a funds transfer involving entries to settlement accounts maintained at two Federal Reserve Banks.
Payment order
has the same meaning as in Article 4A, except that the term includes only instructions sent or received through the FedNow Service, and does not include automated clearing house transfers or any communication designated as not being a payment order in an Operating Circular issued by a Federal Reserve Bank under this subpart.
Receiving bank
has the same meaning as in Article 4A, except that the term is limited to a receiving bank in a funds transfer that is sent through the FedNow Service.
Sender
has the same meaning as in Article 4A, except that the term is limited to a sender in a funds transfer that is sent through the FedNow Service.
Sender's settlement account, receiving bank's settlement account,
and
beneficiary's settlement account
mean an account on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank maintained by the sender, receiving bank, or beneficiary, respectively. The term also includes any account on a Federal Reserve Bank's books used with respect to the FedNow Service by the sender, receiving bank, or beneficiary, respectively, by agreement with its Federal Reserve Bank, any other Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the settlement account is maintained, and the account-holder.
§ 210.42
Reliance on identifying number.
(a)
Reliance by a Federal Reserve Bank on number to identify a beneficiary's bank.
A Federal Reserve Bank that receives a payment order from a sender containing a number that identifies the beneficiary's bank may rely on the number, even if it identifies a bank different from the bank identified by name in the payment order, if the Federal Reserve Bank does not know of such an inconsistency in identification. A Federal Reserve Bank has no duty to detect any such inconsistency in identification.
(b)
Reliance by a Federal Reserve Bank on number to identify beneficiary.
A Federal Reserve Bank, acting as a beneficiary's bank, that receives a payment order from a sender containing a number that identifies the beneficiary may rely on the number, even if it identifies a person different from the person identified by name in the payment order, if the Federal Reserve Bank does not know of such an inconsistency in identification. A Federal Reserve Bank has no duty to detect any such inconsistency in identification.
§ 210.43
Agreement of sender.
(a)
Payment of sender's obligation to a Federal Reserve Bank.
A sender (other than a Federal Reserve Bank), by maintaining or using a settlement account with a Federal Reserve Bank, authorizes the sender's Federal Reserve Bank to obtain payment for the sender's payment orders by debiting, or causing any other Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the settlement account is maintained to debit, the amount of the payment order from the settlement account. The sender remains responsible for payment if the Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the settlement account is maintained does not, for any reason, obtain payment by debiting that account.
(b)
Overdrafts.
(1) A sender does not have the right to an overdraft in its settlement account. In the event an overdraft is created, the overdraft shall be due and payable immediately, without the need for a demand by the Federal Reserve Bank, at the earliest of the following times:
(i) At the end of the FedNow funds-transfer business day;
(ii) At the time the Federal Reserve Bank, in its sole discretion, deems itself insecure and gives notice thereof to the sender; or
(iii) At the time the sender suspends payments or is closed.
(2) The sender shall have in its settlement account, at the time the overdraft is due and payable, a balance of actually and finally collected funds sufficient to cover the aggregate amount of all its obligations to the Federal Reserve Bank, whether the obligations result from the acceptance of a payment order or otherwise.
(3) To secure any overdraft, as well as any other obligation due or to become due to its Federal Reserve Bank, a sender, by sending a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank that is accepted by the Federal Reserve Bank, grants to the Federal Reserve Bank a security interest in all of its assets in the possession or control of, or held for the account of, the Federal Reserve Bank. The security interest attaches when an overdraft, or any other obligation to the Federal Reserve Bank, becomes due and payable.
(4) A Federal Reserve Bank may take any action authorized by law to recover the amount of an overdraft that is due and payable, including, but not limited to, the exercise of rights of set off, the realization on any available collateral, and any other rights it may have as a creditor under applicable law.
(5) If a sender, other than a government sender described in § 210.40(d), incurs an overdraft in its settlement account as a result of a debit to the account by a Federal Reserve Bank under paragraph (a) of this section, the settlement account will be subject to any applicable overdraft charges, regardless of whether the overdraft has become due and payable. A Federal Reserve Bank may debit the settlement account under paragraph (a) of this section immediately on acceptance of the payment order.
(c)
Review of payment orders.
A sender, by sending a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank, agrees that for the purposes of sections 4A-204(a) and 4A-304 of Article 4A, a reasonable time to notify a Federal Reserve Bank of the relevant facts concerning an unauthorized or erroneously executed payment order is within 60 calendar days after the sender receives notice that the payment order was accepted or that the sender's settlement account was debited with respect to the payment order.
§ 210.44
Agreement of receiving bank.
(a)
Payment.
A receiving bank (other than a Federal Reserve Bank) that receives a payment order from its Federal Reserve Bank authorizes that Federal Reserve Bank to pay for the payment order by crediting, or causing any other Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the settlement account is maintained to credit, the amount of the payment order to the settlement account.
(b)
Funds availability.
(1) A beneficiary's bank (other than a Federal Reserve Bank) that accepts a payment order over the FedNow Service is obliged to pay the amount of the order to the beneficiary of the order immediately after its acceptance of the payment order, by crediting an account of the beneficiary in accordance with section 4A-405(a) of Article 4A. The rights and obligations with respect to the availability of funds are also governed by the Expedited Funds Availability Act and the Board's Regulation CC, Availability of Funds and Collection of Checks.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or any Operating Circular issued hereunder shall create any rights that the beneficiary or any party other than a Federal Reserve Bank may assert against the beneficiary's bank, or affect any liability of the beneficiary's bank to the beneficiary or any party other than a Federal Reserve Bank under Article 4A or other law.
(3) In circumstances where the beneficiary's bank (other than a Federal Reserve Bank) has reasonable cause to believe that the beneficiary is not entitled or permitted to receive payment, the beneficiary's bank may notify its Federal Reserve Bank that it requires additional time to determine whether to accept the payment order. In the event the beneficiary's bank gives such notice to its Federal Reserve Bank, for purposes of this subpart and Article 4A the beneficiary's bank does not accept the payment order upon its receipt of payment in the amount of the payment order by a Federal Reserve Bank.
§ 210.45
Payment orders.
(a)
Rejection.
A sender shall not send a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank unless authorized to do so by the Federal Reserve Bank. A Federal Reserve Bank may reject, or impose conditions that must be satisfied before it will accept, a payment order for any reason.
(b)
Selection of an intermediary bank.
For an interdistrict transfer through the FedNow Service, a Federal Reserve Bank is authorized and directed to execute a payment order through another Federal Reserve Bank. A sender shall not send a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank that requires the Federal Reserve Bank to send a payment order to an intermediary bank (other than a Federal Reserve Bank). A sender shall not send to a Federal Reserve Bank a payment order through the FedNow Service that instructs use by a Federal Reserve Bank of a funds-transfer system or means of transmission other than the FedNow Service, unless the Federal Reserve Bank agrees with the sender in writing to follow such instructions.
(c)
Execution date and payment date.
A sender shall not issue a payment order through the FedNow Service that instructs a Federal Reserve Bank to execute the payment order or to pay the
beneficiary on a FedNow funds-transfer business day that is later than the funds-transfer business day on which the order is received by the Federal Reserve Bank, unless the Federal Reserve Bank agrees with the sender in writing to follow such instructions.
§ 210.46
Payment by a Federal Reserve Bank to a receiving bank or beneficiary.
(a)
Payment to a receiving bank.
Payment of a Federal Reserve Bank's obligation to pay a receiving bank (other than a Federal Reserve Bank) occurs at the earlier of the time when the amount of the payment order is credited to the receiving bank's settlement account or when the payment order is sent to the receiving bank.
(b)
Payment to a beneficiary.
Payment by a Federal Reserve Bank to a beneficiary of a payment order, where the Federal Reserve Bank is the beneficiary's bank, occurs at the earlier of the time when the amount of the payment order is credited to the beneficiary's settlement account or when notice of the credit is sent to the beneficiary.
§ 210.47
Federal Reserve Bank liability; payment of compensation.
(a)
Damages.
In connection with its handling of a payment order under this subpart, a Federal Reserve Bank shall not be liable to a sender, receiving bank, beneficiary, or other Federal Reserve Bank, governed by this subpart, for any damages other than those payable under Article 4A. A Federal Reserve Bank shall not agree to be liable to a sender, receiving bank, beneficiary, or other Federal Reserve Bank for consequential damages under section 4A-305(d) of Article 4A.
(b)
Payment of compensation.
(1) A Federal Reserve Bank shall satisfy its obligation, or that of another Federal Reserve Bank, to pay compensation in the form of interest under Article 4A by paying such compensation to a sender, receiving bank, beneficiary, or another party to the funds transfer that is entitled to such payment in an amount that is calculated in accordance with section 4A-506 of Article 4A.
(2) If the sender or receiving bank that is the recipient of the payment of compensation is not the party entitled to compensation under Article 4A, the sender or receiving bank shall pass through the benefit of the compensation by making an interest payment, as of the day the compensation was paid by the Federal Reserve Bank, to the party entitled to compensation. The interest payment that is made to the party entitled to compensation shall not be less than the value of the compensation that was paid by the Federal Reserve Bank to the sender or receiving bank. The party entitled to compensation may agree to accept compensation in a form other than a direct interest payment, provided that such an alternative form of compensation is not less than the value of the interest payment that otherwise would be made.
(c)
Nonwaiver of right of recovery.
Nothing in this subpart or any operating circular issued hereunder shall constitute, or be construed as constituting, a waiver by a Federal Reserve Bank of a cause of action for recovery under any applicable law of mistake and restitution.
Pt. 210, Subpt. C, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 210—Commentary
The Commentary provides background material to explain the intent of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) in adopting a particular provision in the subpart and to help readers interpret that provision. In some comments, examples are offered. The Commentary constitutes an official Board interpretation of subpart C of this part. Commentary is not provided for every provision of subpart C of this part, as some provisions are self-explanatory.

# Section 210.40—Authority, Purpose, and Scope
(a)
Authority and purpose.
Section 210.40(a) states that the purpose of subpart C of this part is to provide rules to govern funds transfers through the FedNow Service and recites the Board's rulemaking authority for this subpart. Subpart C of this part is Federal law and is not a “funds-transfer system rule,” as defined in section 4A-501(b) of Article 4A, Funds Transfers, of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), as set forth in appendix A of this part. Certain provisions of Article 4A may not be varied by a funds-transfer system rule, but under section 4A-107, regulations of the Board and Operating Circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks supersede inconsistent provisions of Article 4A to the extent of the inconsistency. In addition, regulations
of the Board may preempt inconsistent provisions of state law. Accordingly, subpart C of this part supersedes or preempts inconsistent provisions of state law. It does not affect state law governing funds transfers that does not conflict with the provisions of subpart C of this part, such as Article 4A, as enacted in any state, as such state law may apply to parties to funds transfers through the FedNow Service whose rights and obligations are not governed by subpart C of this part.
(b)
Scope.
(1) Subpart C of this part incorporates the provisions of Article 4A set forth in appendix A of this part. The provisions set forth expressly in the sections of subpart C of this part supersede or preempt any inconsistent provisions of Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part or as enacted in any state. The official comments to Article 4A are not incorporated in subpart C of this part or this commentary to subpart C of this part, but the official comments may be useful in interpreting Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part. Because section 4A-105 refers to other provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code (
e.g.,
definitions in article 1 of the UCC), these other provisions of the UCC, as approved by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, which is now also known as the Uniform Law Commission, and the American Law Institute, from time to time, are also incorporated into subpart C of this part. Subpart C of this part applies to any party to a funds transfer sent through the FedNow Service that is in privity with a Federal Reserve Bank. These parties include a sender (bank or nonbank) that sends a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service, a receiving bank that receives a payment order from a Federal Reserve Bank, and a beneficiary that receives credit to an account that it uses or maintains at a Federal Reserve Bank as payment for a payment order accepted by a Federal Reserve Bank. Subpart C of this part also applies to Federal Reserve Banks that send or receive payment orders over the FedNow Service. For example, if a sender settles its activity over the FedNow Service in the account of a correspondent bank, the sender's Federal Reserve Bank would be a bank in the funds transfer chain, but the Federal Reserve Bank of the correspondent bank would not be a sender or receiving bank with respect to the payment order and would not be a party to the funds transfer. Other parties to a funds transfer sent through the FedNow Service are covered by this subpart to the same extent that this subpart would apply to them if this subpart were a “funds-transfer system rule” under Article 4A that selected subpart C of this part as the governing law.
(2) The scope of the applicability of a funds-transfer system rule under Article 4A is specified in section 4A-501(b), and the scope of the choice of law provision is specified in section 4A-507(c). Under section 4A-507(c), a choice of law provision is binding on the participants in a funds-transfer system and certain other parties having notice that the funds-transfer system might be used for the funds transfer and of the choice of law provision. The Uniform Commercial Code provides that a person has notice of a fact when the person has actual knowledge of it, receives a notice or notification of it, or has reason to know that it exists from all the facts and circumstances known to the person at the time in question. (
See
UCC sec. 1-202.) However, under sections 4A-507(b) and 4A-507(d), a choice of law by agreement of the parties takes precedence over a choice of law made by funds-transfer system rule.
(3) With respect to funds transfers sent through the FedNow Service, if originators and beneficiaries that are not in privity with a Federal Reserve Bank have the notice contemplated by Section 4A-507(c) or if those parties agree to be bound by subpart C of this part, subpart C of this part generally would apply to those remote parties. If remote parties to a funds transfer, a portion of which is sent through the FedNow Service, have expressly selected by agreement a law other than subpart C of this part under section 4A-507(b), subpart C of this part would not take precedence over the choice of law made by the agreement even though the remote parties had notice that the FedNow Service may be used and of the governing law. (
See
4A-507(d).) In addition, subpart C of this part would not apply to a funds transfer sent through a funds-transfer system other than the FedNow Service, even though settlement for the funds transfer is made by means of a separate funds transfer through the FedNow Service.
(4) Under section 4A-108, Article 4A does not apply to a funds transfer, any part of which is governed by the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) (15 U.S.C. 1693
et seq.
). A funds transfer from a consumer originator or a funds transfer to a consumer beneficiary could be carried out through the FedNow Service and could potentially be subject to the EFTA and Regulation E (12 CFR part 1005) implementing it. If so, the funds transfer continues to also be governed by subpart C, except that, in the event of an inconsistency between the provisions of subpart C and the EFTA, the EFTA shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. (See also the commentary to section 210.41 in this appendix, “Payment Order.”) For example, a funds transfer may be initiated from a consumer's account at a depository institution, and the depository institution may execute that payment order by sending a conforming payment order to a Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service. If that transfer is subject to the EFTA, then examples of how the provisions of subpart C may govern the transfer
include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Where the consumer subsequently gives timely notice that the transfer was an unauthorized electronic fund transfer to its depository institution and exercises the right to obtain a refund under the EFTA, the depository institution would be required to comply with the EFTA and the applicable provisions of the EFTA would govern the institution's obligations to its customer, even if under subpart C the institution does not have a right to receive a refund or reverse the payment order sent to the Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service.
(ii) Where the customer properly asserts an error under the EFTA with respect to the transfer and exercises the right to obtain a refund to correct the error under the EFTA, the depository institution would be required to comply with the EFTA and the applicable provisions of the EFTA would govern the institution's obligations to its customer, even if under subpart C the institution is obliged to pay its payment order sent to the Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service.
(c)
Operating Circulars.
The Federal Reserve Banks issue Operating Circulars consistent with this subpart that contain additional provisions applicable to payment orders and other messages sent through the FedNow Service. Under section 4A-107, this Operating Circular supersedes inconsistent provisions of Article 4A, both as set forth in appendix A of this part and as enacted in any state. These Operating Circulars are not funds-transfer system rules, but, by their terms, they are binding on all parties covered by this subpart.
(d)
Government senders, receiving banks, and beneficiaries.
This section clarifies that unless a statute of the United States provides otherwise, subpart C of this part applies to governmental entities.
(e)
Financial messaging standards.
This paragraph makes clear that financial messaging standards, including the financial messaging components, elements, technical documentation, tags, and terminology used to implement those standards, do not confer or connote legal status or responsibilities. Instead, subpart C of this part and Federal Reserve Bank operating circulars govern the rights and obligations of parties to funds transfers sent through the FedNow Service as provided in § 210.40(b). Thus, to the extent there is any inconsistency between a financial messaging standard adopted by the FedNow Service and subpart C of this part, subpart C of this part, including Article 4A as set forth in appendix A of this part, will prevail. In the ISO 20022 financial messaging standard, for example, the term agent is used to refer to a variety of bank parties to a funds transfer (
e.g., debtor agent, creditor agent, intermediary agent
). Notwithstanding use of that term in the standard and in message tags, such banks are not the agents of any party to a funds transfer and owe no duty to any other party to such a funds transfer except as provided in subpart C of this part (including Article 4A) or by express agreement. The ISO 20022 financial messaging standard also permits information to be carried in a funds-transfer message regarding persons that are not parties to that funds transfer (
e.g., ultimate debtor, ultimate creditor, initiating party
) for regulatory, compliance, remittance, or other purposes. An “ultimate debtor” is not an “originator” as defined in Article 4A. The relationship between the ultimate debtor and the originator (what the ISO 20022 standard calls the “debtor”) is determined by law other than Article 4A.

# Section 210.41— Definitions
Article 4A defines many terms (
e.g., beneficiary, intermediary bank, receiving bank, security procedure
) used in this subpart. These terms are defined or listed in sections 4A-103 through 4A-105. These terms, such as the term bank (defined in section 4A-105(d)(2)), may differ from comparable terms in subpart A and subpart B of this part. As subpart C of this part incorporates consistent provisions of Article 4A, it incorporates these definitions unless these terms are expressly defined otherwise in subpart C of this part. This subpart modifies the definitions of five Article 4A terms:
beneficiary, beneficiary's bank, payment order, receiving bank,
and
sender
. This subpart also defines terms not defined in Article 4A.
Article 4A. Article 4A
means the version of that article of the Uniform Commercial Code set forth in appendix A of this part. It does not refer to the law of any particular state unless the context indicates otherwise. Subject to the express provisions of this Subpart, this version of Article 4A is incorporated into this subpart and made Federal law for transactions covered by this subpart. (
See
§ 210.40(b)(1) and accompanying commentary.) Because section 4A-105 refers to other provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code (
e.g.,
definitions in article 1 of the UCC) these other provisions of the UCC, as approved by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, which is now also known as the Uniform Law Commission, and the American Law Institute, from time to time, are also incorporated in subpart C of this part.
Beneficiary, beneficiary's bank, receiving bank,
and
sender.
The definitions of “beneficiary,” “beneficiary's bank,” “receiving bank,” and “sender” in subpart C of this part differ from the definitions in sections 4A-103(a)(2)-(4). The subpart C definition clarifies that, for the purposes of subpart C of this part, these terms are limited to parties in a funds transfer that is sent through the
FedNow Service. For example, the parties to a funds transfer that is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service would be governed by subpart B of this part, and would not be a “beneficiary,” “beneficiary's bank,” “receiving bank,” or “sender” governed by subpart C. The definition of “beneficiary's bank” in subpart C further clarifies that where a Federal Reserve Bank functions as the beneficiary's bank, it need not be identified in the payment order as the beneficiary's bank and that a Federal Reserve Bank that receives a payment order as beneficiary is also the beneficiary's bank with respect to that payment order.
The FedNow Service.
The FedNow Service refers to the funds-transfer system owned and operated by the Federal Reserve Banks to support instant payments that is governed by this Subpart. The term does not refer to any particular computer, telecommunications facility, or funds transfer, but rather to the system as a whole. The FedNow Service does not include the Fedwire Funds Service or the system used for automated clearing house transfers.
Payment Order.
(1) The definition of “payment order” in subpart C of this part differs from the section 4A-103(a)(1) definition. The subpart C definition clarifies that, for the purposes of subpart C of this part, the term includes only instructions transmitted through the FedNow Service. For example, instructions transmitted through the Fedwire Funds Service would be governed by subpart B of this part, and not subpart C.
Additionally, the subpart C definition provides that certain messages that are transmitted through the FedNow Service are not payment orders. Federal Reserve Banks and banks participating in the FedNow Service send various types of messages relating to payment orders or to other matters, through the FedNow Service, that are not intended to be payment orders. In some cases, messages sent through the FedNow Service, such as certain requests for payment, may be payment orders under Article 4A, but are not treated as payment orders under subpart C because they are not an instruction to a Federal Reserve Bank to pay or cause another bank to pay money. Under the subpart C definition, these messages are not “payment orders” governed by this subpart. The operating circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks may specify those messages that may be transmitted through the FedNow Service but that are not payment orders.
(2) Subpart C, including its incorporation of Article 4A, governs a payment order even though the originator's or beneficiary's account may be a consumer account established primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. Under section 4A-108, Article 4A does not apply to a funds transfer any part of which is governed by the Electronic Fund Transfer Act. That Act, and Regulation E (12 CFR part 1005) implementing it, may govern a transfer through the FedNow Service that is from a consumer originator or to a consumer beneficiary. In the event that a transfer through the FedNow Service is subject to the EFTA, the transfer continues to also be governed by this subpart, except that, in the event of an inconsistency between the provisions of subpart C and the EFTA, the EFTA shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. (See also § 210.40(b) and accompanying commentary.) Thus, this subpart applies to all funds transfers through the FedNow Service even though some such transfers involve originators or beneficiaries that are consumers.
Sender's settlement account, receiving bank's settlement acc
ount, and
beneficiary's settlement account.
A FedNow participant must designate an account on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank that the Federal Reserve Banks may use to settle the participant's activity over the FedNow Service. A FedNow participant may settle its activity over the FedNow Service in its master account. Alternatively, it may designate the account of a correspondent bank that the Federal Reserve Banks may use to settle activity through the service, subject to the correspondent bank's agreement to any such designation.

# Section 210.42—Reliance on Identifying Number
(a)
Reliance by a Federal Reserve Bank on number to identify intermediary bank or beneficiary's bank.
Section 4A-208 provides that a receiving bank, such as a Federal Reserve Bank, may rely on the routing number of an intermediary bank or the beneficiary's bank specified in a payment order as identifying the appropriate intermediary bank or beneficiary's bank, even if the payment order identifies another bank by name, provided that the receiving bank does not know of the inconsistency. Under section 4A-208(b)(2), if the sender of the payment order is not a bank, a receiving bank may rely on the number only if the sender had notice before the receiving bank accepted the sender's order that the receiving bank might rely on the number. This section provides this notice to entities that are not banks, such as the Department of the Treasury, that send payment orders directly to a Federal Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service.
(b)
Reliance by a Federal Reserve Bank on number to identify beneficiary.
Section 4A-207 provides that a beneficiary's bank, such as a Federal Reserve Bank, may rely on the number identifying a beneficiary, such as the beneficiary's account number, specified in a payment order as identifying the appropriate beneficiary, even if the payment order identifies another beneficiary by name, provided that the beneficiary's bank does not know of the inconsistency. Under section 4A-207(c)(2), if the originator is not a bank, an originator
is not obliged to pay for a payment order if the originator did not have notice that the beneficiary's bank might rely on the identifying number and the person paid on the basis of the identifying number was not entitled to receive payment. This section of subpart C provides this notice to entities that are not banks, such as the Department of the Treasury, that are originators of payment orders sent directly by the originators to a Federal Reserve Bank through the FedNow Service, where that Federal Reserve Bank or another Federal Reserve Bank is the beneficiary's bank (see also section 4A-402(b), providing that a sender must pay a beneficiary's bank for a payment order accepted by the beneficiary's bank).

# Section 210.43—Agreement of Sender
(a)
Payment of sender's obligation to a Federal Reserve Bank.
When a sender sends a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank and the Federal Reserve Bank accepts the payment order by issuing a conforming order executing the sender's payment order, under section 4A-402, the sender is indebted to the Federal Reserve Bank for the amount of the payment order. Section 4A-403 specifies the various methods by which a sender may settle the obligation under section 4A-402. With respect to a payment order sent through the FedNow Service, the obligation of a sender (other than a Federal Reserve Bank) is settled by a debit to the account of the sender at a Federal Reserve Bank. Section 210.43(a) provides that a sender, other than a Federal Reserve Bank, that maintains or uses a settlement account at a Federal Reserve Bank authorizes its Federal Reserve Bank to debit, or cause any other Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the settlement account is maintained to debit, that account, so that the Federal Reserve Bank can obtain payment for the payment order.
(b)
Overdrafts.
(1) In some cases, debits to a sender's settlement account will create an overdraft in the settlement account. The Board and the Federal Reserve Banks have established policies concerning when a Federal Reserve Bank will permit a bank to incur an overdraft in its account at a Federal Reserve Bank. These policies do not give a bank or other sender a right to an overdraft in its account. Subpart C clarifies that a sender does not have a right to such an overdraft. If an overdraft arises, it becomes immediately due and payable at the earliest of the following times: The end of the FedNow funds-transfer business day; the time the Federal Reserve Bank in its sole discretion, deems itself insecure and gives notice to the sender; or the time that the sender suspends payments or is closed by governmental action, such as the appointment of a receiver. In some cases, a Federal Reserve Bank extends its FedNow operations beyond the standard cut-off time for that FedNow funds-transfer business day. For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise specified by the Federal Reserve Bank making such an extension, an overdraft becomes due and payable at the end of the extended operating hours. An overdraft becomes due and payable prior to a Federal Reserve Bank's cut-off time if the Federal Reserve Bank deems itself insecure and gives notice to the sender. A Federal Reserve Bank that deems itself insecure may give such notice in accordance with the provisions on notice in section 1-202(d) of the UCC, in accordance with any other applicable law or agreement, or by any other reasonable means. An overdraft also becomes due and payable at the time that a bank is closed or suspends payments. For example, an overdraft becomes due and payable if a receiver is appointed for the bank or the bank is prevented from making payments by governmental order. The Federal Reserve Bank need not make demand on the sender for the overdraft to become due and payable.
(2) A sender must cover any overdraft and any other obligation of the sender to the Federal Reserve Bank by the time the overdraft becomes due and payable. By sending a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank, the sender grants a security interest to the Federal Reserve Bank in all of the assets of the sender possessed or controlled by, or held for the account of, the Federal Reserve Bank in order to secure all obligations due or to become due to the Federal Reserve Bank. The security interest attaches when the overdraft, or other obligation of the sender to the Federal Reserve Bank, becomes due and payable. The security interest does not apply to assets held by the sender as custodian or trustee for the sender's customers or third parties. Once an overdraft is due and payable, a Federal Reserve Bank may exercise its right of set off, liquidate collateral, or take other similar action to satisfy the obligation the sender owes to the Federal Reserve Bank.
(c)
Review of payment orders.
(1) Under section 4A-204, a receiving bank is required to refund the principal amount of an unauthorized payment order that the sender was not obliged to pay, together with interest on the refundable amount calculated from the date that the receiving bank received payment to the date of the refund. The sender is not entitled to compensation in the form of interest if the sender fails to exercise ordinary care to determine that the order was not authorized and to notify the receiving bank within a reasonable time after the sender receives a notice that the payment order was accepted or that the sender's account was debited with respect to the order. Similarly, under section 4A-304, if a sender of a payment order that was erroneously executed
does not notify the bank receiving the payment order within a reasonable time, the bank is not liable to the sender for compensation in the form of interest on any amount refundable to the sender. Section 210.43(c) establishes 60 calendar days as the reasonable period of time for the purposes of these provisions of Article 4A.
(2) Section 4A-505 provides that in order for a customer to assert a claim objecting to a debit to its account by a receiving bank, the customer must notify the receiving bank of its objection within one year after the customer received notification reasonably identifying the payment order. Subpart C of this part does not vary this one-year claim preclusion period.

# Section 210.44—Agreement of Receiving Bank
(b)
Funds availability.
(1) Section 4A-209(b) provides that a beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order at the earliest of certain specified events, including when the bank receives payment for the entire amount of the order from the sender (
see
section 4A-209(b)(2)). Section 4A-404(a) provides that if a beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order, it is obliged to pay the amount of a payment order to the beneficiary on the payment date unless acceptance of the payment order occurs on the payment date after the close of the funds-transfer business day of the bank. Section 4A-405(a) provides that if a beneficiary's bank pays the beneficiary by crediting an account of the beneficiary on its own books, payment of the bank's obligation under Section 4A-404(a) occurs when and to the extent (i) the bank notifies the beneficiary that it may withdraw the amount of the credit, (ii) the bank lawfully applies the credit to a debt of the beneficiary, or (iii) funds with respect to the payment order are otherwise made available to the beneficiary by the bank.
(2) Section 210.44(b)(1) provides that if a FedNow participant that is the beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order, it must pay the beneficiary by credit to the beneficiary's account in accordance with section 4A-405(a) of Article 4A, and it must do so immediately after its acceptance of the payment order. This section further clarifies that the provisions of the Expedited Funds Availability Act (12 U.S.C. 4002(a)) and its implementing regulation, Regulation CC (12 CFR part 229), also govern. Regulation CC provides that funds received by a bank by an electronic payment shall be available for withdrawal not later than the business day after the banking day on which such funds are received. (12 CFR 229.10(b).) Because Subpart C of this part requires funds to be made available on a more prompt basis than the availability requirements of the Expedited Funds Availability Act and Regulation CC, that act and Regulation CC do not preempt or invalidate subpart C. For example, if a beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order through the FedNow Service at 10 a.m. but does not make funds available to the beneficiary until 5 p.m., the bank has failed to satisfy its obligations under subpart C of this part even if it has satisfied its obligations under Regulation CC.
(3) Section 210.44(b)(2) clarifies that the obligation for the beneficiary's bank to provide immediate funds availability to the beneficiary under § 210.44(b)(1), and any Operating Circular issued in accordance with subpart C, should not be construed as creating any rights that the beneficiary or any party other than a Federal Reserve Bank may assert against the beneficiary's bank, or affect any liability of the beneficiary's bank to the beneficiary or any party other than a Federal Reserve Bank under Article 4A or other law. In the example above, where the beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order through the FedNow Service at 10 a.m. but does not make funds available to the beneficiary until 5 p.m., the bank has failed to satisfy its obligations under § 210.44(b)(1) but the beneficiary would not have a claim or right to assert against the bank under that provision.
(4) Section 210.46(a) provides that payment by a Federal Reserve Bank to a receiving bank occurs when the receiving bank's settlement account is credited or when the payment order is sent by the Federal Reserve Bank to the receiving bank, whichever is earlier, and would ordinarily be considered acceptance of the payment order by the beneficiary's bank under section 4A-209(b). Section 210.44(b)(3) provides that notwithstanding section 4A-209(b), in certain circumstances a beneficiary's bank is not deemed to accept a payment order at such time as it receives payment from its Federal Reserve Bank. Specifically, where the beneficiary's bank has reasonable cause to believe that the beneficiary is not entitled or permitted to receive payment and the beneficiary's bank notifies its Federal Reserve Bank that it requires additional time to determine whether to accept the payment order, this section provides that for purposes of subpart C and Article 4A, the beneficiary's bank does not accept the payment order even if it has received payment for the entire amount of the order from its Federal Reserve Bank as provided in § 210.46.
For example, if the beneficiary's bank has reasonable cause to believe that making funds available to the beneficiary may violate applicable U.S. sanctions, the beneficiary's bank may notify its Federal Reserve Bank that it requires additional time to determine whether to accept the payment order, including to investigate if the beneficiary is subject to applicable sanctions. As an additional example, if the beneficiary's bank has reasonable cause to believe that a
particular payment order may be related to fraudulent activity, the beneficiary's bank may notify its Federal Reserve Bank that it requires additional time to determine whether to accept the payment order, including to investigate the suspected fraudulent activity. In both examples, in the event the beneficiary's bank gives such notice, the beneficiary's bank would not be deemed to have accepted the payment order at the time it receives payment from its Federal Reserve Bank.

# Section 210.45—Payment Orders
(a)
Rejection.
(1) A sender must make arrangements with its Federal Reserve Bank before it can send payment orders to the Federal Reserve Bank. Federal Reserve Banks reserve the right to reject or impose conditions on the acceptance of payment orders for any reason. For example, a Federal Reserve Bank might reject or impose conditions on accepting a payment order where a sender does not have sufficient funds in its settlement account with the Federal Reserve Bank to cover the amount of the sender's payment order and other obligations of the sender due or to become due to the Federal Reserve Bank. As a further example, a Federal Reserve Bank may reject a payment order that is not successfully processed within time limits established by the Federal Reserve Banks. A Federal Reserve Bank may require a sender to execute a written agreement concerning security procedures or other matters before the sender may send payment orders to the Federal Reserve Bank.
(b)
Selection of an intermediary bank.
(1) Under section 4A-302, if a receiving bank (other than a beneficiary's bank), such as a Federal Reserve Bank, accepts a payment order, it must issue a payment order that complies with the sender's order. The sender's order may include instructions concerning an intermediary bank to be used that must be followed by a receiving bank (see section 4A-302(a)(1)). If the sender does not designate any intermediary bank in its payment order, the receiving bank may select an intermediary bank through which the sender's payment order can be expeditiously issued to the beneficiary's bank so long as the receiving bank exercises ordinary care in selecting the intermediary bank (see section 4A-302(b)).
(2) This section provides that in an interdistrict transfer, a Federal Reserve Bank is authorized and directed to select another Federal Reserve Bank as an intermediary bank. A sender may not instruct a Federal Reserve Bank to use a particular intermediary bank or to use its discretion to select an intermediary bank other than a Federal Reserve Bank. In addition, a sender may not send a payment order through the FedNow Service that instructs a Federal Reserve Bank to use a funds-transfer system or means of transmission other than the FedNow Service, unless the sender and the Federal Reserve Bank agree in writing to the use of that funds-transfer system or means of transmission.
(c)
Execution date and payment date.
(1) Under 4A-301(b), the “execution date” of a payment order means the day on which the receiving bank may properly issue a payment order in execution of the sender's order. Under section 4A-401, the “payment date” of a payment order is the day on which the amount of the order is payable to the beneficiary by the beneficiary's bank. The execution date and the payment date may be determined by instruction of the sender but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received and, unless otherwise determined, is the day the order is received (see sections 4A-301(b) and 4A-401). Section 4A-106, provides for the time that a payment order is received, including in the event that a receiving bank fixes a cut-off time for the receipt and processing of payment orders. If the bank receives a payment order after its cut-off time, the bank may treat the payment order as received at the opening of the next funds-transfer business day (see section 4A-106(a)).
(2) The FedNow Service is designed to be an instant value transfer system through which funds may be transferred from the originator to the beneficiary on the same funds-transfer business day. This section provides that a sender may not send a payment order to a Federal Reserve Bank that specifies an execution date or payment date later than the day on which the payment order is issued, unless the sender of the order and the Federal Reserve Bank agree in writing to the arrangement.

# Section 210.46—Payment by a Federal Reserve Bank to a Receiving Bank or Beneficiary
(a)
Payment to a receiving bank.
(1) Under section 4A-402, when a Federal Reserve Bank executes a sender's payment order by issuing a conforming order to a receiving bank that accepts the payment order, the Federal Reserve Bank must pay the receiving bank the amount of the payment order. Section 210.44(a) authorizes a Federal Reserve Bank to make the payment by crediting, or causing any other Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the settlement account is maintained to credit, the settlement account of the receiving bank. Section 210.46(a) provides that the payment occurs when the receiving bank's settlement account is credited or when the payment order is sent by the Federal Reserve Bank to the receiving bank, whichever is earlier. Ordinarily, payment will occur during the FedNow funds-transfer business day a short time after the payment
order is received. This credit is final and irrevocable when made and constitutes final settlement under section 4A-403. Payment does not waive a Federal Reserve Bank's right of recovery under the applicable law of mistake and restitution (
see
§ 210.47(c)), affect a Federal Reserve Bank's right to apply the funds to any obligation due or to become due to the Federal Reserve Bank, or affect legal process or claims by third parties on the funds.
(2) This section on final payment does not apply to settlement for payment orders between Federal Reserve Banks. These payment orders are settled by other means.
(b)
Payment to a beneficiary.
Section 210.46(b) specifies when a Federal Reserve Bank makes payment to a beneficiary for which it is the beneficiary's bank. As in the case of payment to a receiving bank, this payment occurs at the earlier of the time that the Federal Reserve Bank credits the beneficiary's settlement account or sends notice of the credit to the beneficiary, and is final and irrevocable when made.

# Section 210.47—Federal Reserve Bank Liability; Payment of Compensation
(a)
Damages.
(1) Under section 4A-305(d), damages for failure of a receiving bank to execute a payment order that it was obligated to execute by express agreement are limited to expenses in the transaction and incidental expenses and interest and do not include additional damages, including consequential damages, unless they are provided for in an express written agreement of the receiving bank. This section clarifies that in connection with the handling of payment orders, Federal Reserve Banks may not agree to be liable for consequential damages under this provision and shall not be liable for damages other than those that may be due under Article 4A to parties governed by this subpart. Any agreement in conflict with these provisions would not be effective, because it would be in violation of subpart C.
(2) This section does not affect the ability of other parties to a funds transfer to agree to be liable for consequential damages, the liability of a Federal Reserve Bank under section 4A-404 (relating to obligation of beneficiary's bank to pay and give notice to beneficiary), or the liability to parties governed by subpart C for claims not based on the handling of a payment order under subpart C.
(b)
Payment of compensation.
(1) Under Article 4A, a Federal Reserve Bank may be required to pay compensation in the form of interest to another party in connection with its handling of a funds transfer. For example, payment of compensation in the form of interest is required in certain situations pursuant to sections 4A-204 (relating to refund of payment and duty of customer to report with respect to unauthorized payment order), 4A-209 (relating to acceptance of payment order), 4A-210 (relating to rejection of payment order), 4A-304 (relating to duty of sender to report erroneously executed payment order), 4A-305 (relating to liability for late or improper execution or failure to execute a payment order), 4A-402 (relating to obligation of sender to pay receiving bank), and 4A-404 (relating to obligation of beneficiary's bank to pay and give notice to beneficiary).
(2) Section 210.47(b) requires Federal Reserve Banks to provide compensation through payment in the form of interest. Under section 4A-506(a), the amount of such interest may be determined by agreement between the sender and receiving bank or by funds-transfer system rule. If there is no such agreement, under section 4A-506(b), the amount of interest is based on the Federal funds rate. Similarly, compensation in the form of interest will be paid to government senders, receiving banks, or beneficiaries described in § 210.40(d) if they are entitled to interest under subpart C. A Federal Reserve Bank may also, in its discretion, pay compensation in the form of interest directly to a remote party to a transfer through the FedNow Service that is entitled to interest, rather than providing compensation to its sender or receiving bank.
(3) If a sender or receiving bank that received a payment of compensation is not the party entitled to compensation under Article 4A, the sender or receiving bank must pass the benefit of the compensation payment made to it to the party that is entitled to compensation. The benefit may be passed on either in the form of a direct payment of interest or in the form of a compensating balance, if the party entitled to interest agrees to accept the other form of compensation. In the latter case, the value of the compensating balance must be at least equivalent to the value of the interest payment that otherwise would have been provided.
(c)
Nonwaiver of right of recovery.
Several sections of Article 4A allow a party to a funds transfer to make a claim pursuant to the applicable law of mistake and restitution. Nothing in subpart C of this part or any Operating Circular issued in accordance with subpart C of this part waives any such claim by a Federal Reserve Bank. A Federal Reserve Bank, however, may waive such a claim by express written agreement in order to settle litigation or for other purposes.
Pt. 210, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 210—Article 4A, Funds Transfers

# Part 1—Subject Matter and Definitions

# Section 4A-101. Short Title
This Article may be cited as Uniform Commercial Code—Funds Transfers.

# Section 4A-102. Subject Matter
Except as otherwise provided in section 4A-108, this Article applies to funds transfers defined in section 4A-104.

# Section 4A-103. Payment Order—Definitions
(a) In this Article:
(1) Payment order means an instruction of a sender to a receiving bank, transmitted orally, electronically, or in writing, to pay, or to cause another bank to pay, a fixed or determinable amount of money to a beneficiary if:
(i) The instruction does not state a condition to payment to the beneficiary other than time of payment,
(ii) The receiving bank is to be reimbursed by debiting an account of, or otherwise receiving payment from, the sender, and
(iii) The instruction is transmitted by the sender directly to the receiving bank or to an agent, funds-transfer system, or communication system for transmittal to the receiving bank.
(2) Beneficiary means the person to be paid by the beneficiary's bank.
(3) “Beneficiary's bank” means the bank identified in a payment order in which an account of the beneficiary is to be credited pursuant to the order or which otherwise is to make payment to the beneficiary if the order does not provide for payment to an account.
(4) Receiving bank means the bank to which the sender's instruction is addressed.
(5) Sender means the person giving the instruction to the receiving bank.
(b) If an instruction complying with paragraph (a)(1) of this section is to make more than one payment to a beneficiary, the instruction is a separate payment order with respect to each payment.
(c) A payment order is issued when it is sent to the receiving bank.

# Section 4A-104. Funds Transfer—Definitions
In this Article:
(a) Funds transfer means the series of transactions, beginning with the originator's payment order, made for the purpose of making payment to the beneficiary of the order. The term includes any payment order issued by the originator's bank or an intermediary bank intended to carry out the originator's payment order. A funds transfer is completed by acceptance by the beneficiary's bank of a payment order for the benefit of the beneficiary of the originator's payment order.
(b) Intermediary bank means a receiving bank other than the originator's bank or the beneficiary's bank.
(c) Originator means the sender of the first payment order in a funds transfer.
(d) Originator's bank means:
(1) The receiving bank to which the payment order of the originator is issued if the originator is not a bank; or
(2) The originator if the originator is a bank.

# Section 4A-105. Other Definitions
(a) In this Article:
(1) Authorized account means a deposit account of a customer in a bank designated by the customer as a source of payment of payment orders issued by the customer to the bank. If a customer does not so designate an account, any account of the customer is an authorized account if payment of a payment order from that account is not inconsistent with a restriction on the use of that account.
(2) Bank means a person engaged in the business of banking and includes a savings bank, savings and loan association, credit union, and trust company. A branch or separate office of a bank is a separate bank for purposes of this Article.
(3) Customer means a person, including a bank, having an account with a bank or from whom a bank has agreed to receive payment orders.
(4) Funds-transfer business day of a receiving bank means the part of a day during which the receiving bank is open for the receipt, processing, and transmittal of payment orders and cancellations and amendments of payment orders.
(5) Funds-transfer system means a wire transfer network, automated clearing house, or other communication system of a clearing house or other association of banks through which a payment order by a bank may be transmitted to the bank to which the order is addressed.
(6) Good faith means honesty in fact and the observance of reasonable commercial standards of fair dealing.
(7) Prove with respect to a fact means to meet the burden of establishing the fact (Section 1-201(8)).
(b) Other definitions applying to this Article and the sections in which they appear are:
“Acceptance” .....Sec. 4A-209
“Beneficiary” .....Sec. 4A-103
“Beneficiary's bank” .....Sec. 4A-103
“Executed” .....Sec. 4A-301
“Execution date” .....Sec. 4A-301
“Funds transfer” .....Sec. 4A-104
“Funds-transfer system rule” .....Sec. 4A-501
“Intermediary bank” .....Sec. 4A-104
“Originator” .....Sec. 4A-104
“Originator's bank” .....Sec. 4A-104
“Payment by beneficiary's bank to beneficiary” .....Sec. 4A-405
“Payment by originator to beneficiary” .....Sec. 4A-406
“Payment by sender to receiving bank” .....Sec. 4A-403
“Payment date” .....Sec. 4A-401
“Payment order” .....Sec. 4A-103
“Receiving bank” .....Sec. 4A-103
“Security procedure” .....Sec. 4A-201
“Sender” .....Sec. 4A-103
(c) The following definitions in Article 4 apply to this Article:
“Clearing house” .....Sec. 4-104
“Item” .....Sec. 4-104
“Suspends payments” .....Sec. 4-104
(d) In addition Article 1 contains general definitions and principles of construction and interpretation applicable throughout this Article.

# Section 4A-106. Time Payment Order Is Received
(a) The time of receipt of a payment order or communication canceling or amending a payment order is determined by the rules applicable to receipt of a notice stated in Section 1-201(27). A receiving bank may fix a cut-off time or times on a funds-transfer business day for the receipt and processing of payment orders and communications canceling or amending payment orders. Different cut-off times may apply to payment orders, cancellations, or amendments, or to different categories of payment orders, cancellations, or amendments. A cut-off time may apply to senders generally or different cut-off times may apply to different senders or categories of payment orders. If a payment order or communication canceling or amending a payment order is received after the close of a funds-transfer business day or after the appropriate cut-off time on a funds-transfer business day, the receiving bank may treat the payment order or communication as received at the opening of the next funds-transfer business day.
(b) If this Article refers to an execution date or payment date or states a day on which a receiving bank is required to take action, and the date or day does not fall on a funds-transfer business day, the next day that is a funds-transfer business day is treated as the date or day stated, unless the contrary is stated in this Article.

# Section 4A-107. Federal Reserve Regulations and Operating Circulars
Regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and operating circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks supersede any inconsistent provision of this Article to the extent of the inconsistency.

# Section 4A-108. Relationship to Electronic Fund Transfer Act
(a) Except as provided in subsection (b), this Article does not apply to a funds transfer any part of which is governed by the Electronic Fund Transfer Act of 1978 (Title XX, Pub. L. 95-630, 92 Stat. 3728, 15 U.S.C. 1693
et seq.
) as amended from time to time.
(b) This Article applies to a funds transfer that is a remittance transfer as defined in the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693o-1) as amended from time to time, unless the remittance transfer is an electronic fund transfer as defined in the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693a) as amended from time to time.
(c) In a funds transfer to which this Article applies, in the event of an inconsistency between an applicable provision of this Article and an applicable provision of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the provision of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act governs to the extent of the inconsistency.

# Part 2—Issue and Acceptance of Payment Order

# Section 4A-201. Security Procedure
Security procedure means a procedure established by agreement of a customer and a receiving bank for the purpose of (i) verifying that a payment order or communication amending or canceling a payment order is that of the customer, or (ii) detecting error in the transmission or the content of the payment order or communication. A security procedure may require the use of algorithms or other codes, identifying words or numbers, encryption, callback procedures, or similar security devices. Comparison of a signature on a payment order or communication with an authorized specimen signature of the customer is not by itself a security procedure.

# Section 4A-202. Authorized and Verified Payment Orders
(a) A payment order received by the receiving bank is the authorized order of the person identified as sender if that person authorized the order or is otherwise bound by it under the law of agency.
(b) If a bank and its customer have agreed that the authenticity of payment orders issued to the bank in the name of the customer as sender will be verified pursuant to a security procedure, a payment order received by the receiving bank is effective as the order of the customer, whether or not authorized, if (i) the security procedure is a commercially reasonable method of providing security against unauthorized payment orders, and (ii) the bank proves that it accepted the payment order in good faith and in compliance with the security procedure and any written agreement or instruction of the customer restricting acceptance
of payment orders issued in the name of the customer. The bank is not required to follow an instruction that violates a written agreement with the customer or notice of which is not received at a time and in a manner affording the bank a reasonable opportunity to act on it before the payment order is accepted.
(c) Commercial reasonableness of a security procedure is a question of law to be determined by considering the wishes of the customer expressed to the bank, the circumstances of the customer known to the bank, including the size, type, and frequency of payment orders normally issued by the customer to the bank, alternative security procedures offered to the customer, and security procedures in general use by customers and receiving banks similarly situated. A security procedure is deemed to be commercially reasonable if (i) the security procedure was chosen by the customer after the bank offered, and the customer refused, a security procedure that was commercially reasonable for that customer, and (ii) the customer expressly agreed in writing to be bound by any payment order, whether or not authorized, issued in its name and accepted by the bank in compliance with the security procedure chosen by the customer.
(d) The term sender in this Article includes the customer in whose name a payment order is issued if the order is the authorized order of the customer under subsection (a) of this section, or it is effective as the order of the customer under subsection (b) of this section.
(e) This section applies to amendments and cancellations of payment orders to the same extent it applies to payment orders.
(f) Except as provided in this section and in section 4A-203(a)(1), rights and obligations arising under this section or section 4A-203 may not be varied by agreement.

# Section 4A-203. Unenforceability of Certain Verified Payment Orders
(a) If an accepted payment order is not, under section 4A-202(a), an authorized order of a customer identified as sender, but is effective as an order of the customer pursuant to section 4A-202(b), the following rules apply:
(1) By express written agreement, the receiving bank may limit the extent to which it is entitled to enforce or retain payment of the payment order.
(2) The receiving bank is not entitled to enforce or retain payment of the payment order if the customer proves that the order was not caused, directly or indirectly, by a person (i) entrusted at any time with duties to act for the customer with respect to payment orders or the security procedure, or (ii) who obtained access to transmitting facilities of the customer or who obtained, from a source controlled by the customer and without authority of the receiving bank, information facilitating breach of the security procedure, regardless of how the information was obtained or whether the customer was at fault. Information includes any access device, computer software, or the like.
(b) This section applies to amendments of payment orders to the same extent it applies to payment orders.

# Section 4A-204. Refund of Payment and Duty of Customer To Report With Respect to Unauthorized Payment Order
(a) If a receiving bank accepts a payment order issued in the name of its customer as sender which is (i) not authorized and not effective as the order of the customer under section 4A-202, or (ii) not enforceable, in whole or in part, against the customer under section 4A-203, the bank shall refund any payment of the payment order received from the customer to the extent the bank is not entitled to enforce payment and shall pay interest on the refundable amount calculated from the date the bank received payment to the date of the refund. However, the customer is not entitled to interest from the bank on the amount to be refunded if the customer fails to exercise ordinary care to determine that the order was not authorized by the customer and to notify the bank of the relevant facts within a reasonable time not exceeding 90 days after the date the customer received notification from the bank that the order was accepted or that the customer's account was debited with respect to the order The bank is not entitled to any recovery from the customer on account of a failure by the customer to give notification as stated in this section.
(b) Reasonable time under subsection (a) of this section may be fixed by agreement as stated in section 1-204(1), but the obligation of a receiving bank to refund payment as stated in subsection (a) may not otherwise be varied by agreement.

# Section 4A-205. Erroneous Payment Orders
(a) If an accepted payment order was transmitted pursuant to a security procedure for the detection of error and the payment order (i) erroneously instructed payment to a beneficiary not intended by the sender, (ii) erroneously instructed payment in an amount greater than the amount intended by the sender, or (iii) was an erroneously transmitted duplicate of a payment order previously sent by the sender, the following rules apply:
(1) If the sender proves that the sender or a person acting on behalf of the sender pursuant to section 4A-206 complied with the security procedure and that the error would have been detected if the receiving bank had also complied, the sender is not obliged to
pay the order to the extent stated in this paragraphs (2) and (3).
(2) If the funds transfer is completed on the basis of an erroneous payment order described in clause (i) or (iii) of subsection (a), the sender is not obliged to pay the order and the receiving bank is entitled to recover from the beneficiary any amount paid to the beneficiary to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake and restitution.
(3) If the funds transfer is completed on the basis of a payment order described in clause (ii) of subsection (a), the sender is not obliged to pay the order to the extent the amount received by the beneficiary is greater than the amount intended by the sender. In that case, the receiving bank is entitled to recover from the beneficiary the excess amount received to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake and restitution.
(b) If (i) the sender of an erroneous payment order described in subsection (a) is not obliged to pay all or part of the order, and (ii) the sender receives notification from the receiving bank that the order was accepted by the bank or that the sender's account was debited with respect to the order, the sender has a duty to exercise ordinary care, on the basis of information available to the sender, to discover the error with respect to the order and to advise the bank of the relevant facts within a reasonable time, not exceeding 90 days, after the bank's notification was received by the sender. If the bank proves that the sender failed to perform that duty, the sender is liable to the bank for the loss the bank proves it incurred as a result of the failure, but the liability of the sender may not exceed the amount of the sender's order.
(c) This section applies to amendments to payment orders to the same extent it applies to payment orders.

# Section 4A-206. Transmission of Payment Order Through Funds-Transfer or Other Communication System
(a) If a payment order addressed to a receiving bank is transmitted to a funds-transfer system or other third-party communication system for transmittal to the bank, the system is deemed to be an agent of the sender for the purpose of transmitting the payment order to the bank. If there is a discrepancy between the terms of the payment order transmitted to the system and the terms of the payment order transmitted by the system to the bank, the terms of the payment order of the sender are those transmitted by the system. This section does not apply to a funds-transfer system of the Federal Reserve Banks.
(b) This section applies to cancellations and amendments of payment orders to the same extent it applies to payment orders.

# Section 4A-207. Misdescription of Beneficiary
(a) Subject to subsection (b), if, in a payment order received by the beneficiary's bank, the name, bank account number, or other identification of the beneficiary refers to a nonexistent or unidentifiable person or account, no person has rights as a beneficiary of the order and acceptance of the order cannot occur.
(b) If a payment order received by the beneficiary's bank identifies the beneficiary both by name and by an identifying or bank account number and the name and number identify different persons, the following rules apply:
(1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c), if the beneficiary's bank does not know that the name and number refer to different persons, it may rely on the number as the proper identification of the beneficiary of the order. The beneficiary's bank need not determine whether the name and number refer to the same person.
(2) If the beneficiary's bank pays the person identified by name or knows that the name and number identify different persons, no person has rights as beneficiary except the person paid by the beneficiary's bank if that person was entitled to receive payment from the originator of the funds transfer. If no person has rights as beneficiary, acceptance of the order cannot occur.
(c) If (i) a payment order described in subsection (b) is accepted, (ii) the originator's payment order described the beneficiary inconsistently by name and number, and (iii) the beneficiary's bank pays the person identified by number as permitted by subsection (b)(1), the following rules apply:
(1) If the originator is a bank, the originator is obliged to pay its order.
(2) If the originator is not a bank and proves that the person identified by number was not entitled to receive payment from the originator, the originator is not obliged to pay its order unless the originator's bank proves that the originator, before acceptance of the originator's order, had notice that payment of a payment order issued by the originator might be made by the beneficiary's bank on the basis of an identifying or bank account number even if it identifies a person different from the named beneficiary. Proof of notice may be made by any admissible evidence. The originator's bank satisfies the burden of proof if it proves that the originator, before the payment order was accepted, signed a writing stating the information to which the notice relates.
(d) In a case governed by subsection (b)(1), if the beneficiary's bank rightfully pays the person identified by number and that person was not entitled to receive payment from the originator, the amount paid may be recovered from that person to the extent allowed
by the law governing mistake and restitution as follows:
(1) If the originator is obliged to pay its payment order as stated in subsection (c), the originator has the right to recover.
(2) If the originator is not a bank and is not obliged to pay its payment order, the originator's bank has the right to recover.

# Section 4A-208. Misdescription of Intermediary Bank or Beneficiary's Bank
(a) This subsection applies to a payment order identifying an intermediary bank or the beneficiary's bank only by an identifying number.
(1) The receiving bank may rely on the number as the proper identification of the intermediary or beneficiary's bank and need not determine whether the number identifies a bank.
(2) The sender is obliged to compensate the receiving bank for any loss and expenses incurred by the receiving bank as a result of its reliance on the number in executing or attempting to execute the order.
(b) This subsection applies to a payment order identifying an intermediary bank or the beneficiary's bank both by name and an identifying number if the name and number identify different persons.
(1) If the sender is a bank, the receiving bank may rely on the number as the proper identification of the intermediary or beneficiary's bank if the receiving bank, when it executes the sender's order, does not know that the name and number identify different persons. The receiving bank need not determine whether the name and number refer to the same person or whether the number refers to a bank. The sender is obliged to compensate the receiving bank for any loss and expenses incurred by the receiving bank as a result of its reliance on the number in executing or attempting to execute the order.
(2) If the sender is not a bank and the receiving bank proves that the sender, before the payment order was accepted, had notice that the receiving bank might rely on the number as the proper identification of the intermediary or beneficiary's bank even if it identifies a person different from the bank identified by name, the rights and obligations of the sender and the receiving bank are governed by subsection (b)(1), as though the sender were a bank. Proof of notice may be made by any admissible evidence. The receiving bank satisfies the burden of proof if it proves that the sender, before the payment order was accepted, signed a writing stating the information to which the notice relates.
(3) Regardless of whether the sender is a bank, the receiving bank may rely on the name as the proper identification of the intermediary or beneficiary's bank if the receiving bank, at the time it executes the sender's order, does not know that the name and number identify different persons. The receiving bank need not determine whether the name and number refer to the same person.
(4) If the receiving bank knows that the name and number identify different persons, reliance on either the name or the number in executing the sender's payment order is a breach of the obligation stated in section 4A-302(a)(1).

# Section 4A-209. Acceptance of Payment Order
(a) Subject to subsection (d), a receiving bank other than the beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order when it executes the order.
(b) Subject to subsections (c) and (d), a beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order at the earliest of the following times:
(1) When the bank (i) pays the beneficiary as stated in section 4A-405(a) or 4A-405(b), or (ii) notifies the beneficiary of receipt of the order or that the account of the beneficiary has been credited with respect to the order unless the notice indicates that the bank is rejecting the order or that funds with respect to the order may not be withdrawn or used until receipt of payment from the sender of the order;
(2) When the bank receives payment of the entire amount of the sender's order pursuant to section 4A-403(a)(1) or (2); or
(3) The opening of the next funds-transfer business day of the bank following the payment date of the order if, at that time, the amount of the sender's order is fully covered by a withdrawable credit balance in an authorized account of the sender or the bank has otherwise received full payment from the sender, unless the order was rejected before that time or is rejected within (i) one hour after that time, or (ii) one hour after the opening of the next business day of the sender following the payment date if that time is later. If notice of rejection is received by the sender after the payment date and the authorized account of the sender does not bear interest, the bank is obliged to pay interest to the sender on the amount of the order for the number of days elapsing after the payment date to the day the sender receives notice or learns that the order was not accepted, counting that day as an elapsed day. If the withdrawable credit balance during that period falls below the amount of the order, the amount of interest payable is reduced accordingly.
(c) Acceptance of a payment order cannot occur before the order is received by the receiving bank. Acceptance does not occur under subsection (b)(2) or (3) if the beneficiary of the payment order does not have an account with the receiving bank, the account has been closed, or the receiving bank is not permitted by law to receive credits for the beneficiary's account.
(d) A payment order issued to the originator's bank cannot be accepted until the payment date if the bank is the beneficiary's bank, or the execution date if the bank is not the beneficiary's bank. If the originator's bank executes the originator's payment order before the execution date or pays the beneficiary of the originator's payment order before the payment date and the payment order is subsequently canceled pursuant to section 4A-211(b), the bank may recover from the beneficiary any payment received to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake and restitution.

# Section 4A-210. Rejection of Payment Order
(a) A payment order is rejected by the receiving bank by a notice of rejection transmitted to the sender orally, electronically, or in writing. A notice of rejection need not use any particular words and is sufficient if it indicates that the receiving bank is rejecting the order or will not execute or pay the order. Rejection is effective when the notice is given if transmission is by a means that is reasonable in the circumstances. If notice of rejection is given by a means that is not reasonable, rejection is effective when the notice is received. If an agreement of the sender and receiving bank establishes the means to be used to reject a payment order, (i) any means complying with the agreement is reasonable, and (ii) any means not complying is not reasonable unless no significant delay in receipt of the notice resulted from the use of the noncomplying means.
(b) This subsection applies if a receiving bank other than the beneficiary's bank fails to execute a payment order despite the existence on the execution date of a withdrawable credit balance in an authorized account of the sender sufficient to cover the order. If the sender does not receive notice of rejection of the order on the execution date and the authorized account of the sender does not bear interest, the bank is obliged to pay interest to the sender on the amount of the order for the number of days elapsing after the execution date to the earlier of the day the order is canceled pursuant to section 4A-211(d) or the day the sender receives notice or learns that the order was not executed, counting the final day of the period as an elapsed day. If the withdrawable credit balance during that period falls below the amount of the order, the amount of interest is reduced accordingly.
(c) If a receiving bank suspends payments, all unaccepted payment orders issued to it are deemed rejected at the time the bank suspends payments.
(d) Acceptance of a payment order precludes a later rejection of the order. Rejection of a payment order precludes a later acceptance of the order.

# Section 4A-211. Cancellation and Amendment of Payment Order
(a) A communication of the sender of a payment order canceling or amending the order may be transmitted to the receiving bank orally, electronically, or in writing. If a security procedure is in effect between the sender and the receiving bank, the communication is not effective to cancel or amend the order unless the communication is verified pursuant to the security procedure or the bank agrees to the cancellation or amendment.
(b) Subject to subsection (a), a communication by the sender canceling or amending a payment order is effective to cancel or amend the order if notice of the communication is received at a time and in a manner affording the receiving bank a reasonable opportunity to act on the communication before the bank accepts the payment order.
(c) After a payment order has been accepted, cancellation or amendment of the order is not effective unless the receiving bank agrees or a funds-transfer system rule allows cancellation or amendment without agreement of the bank.
(1) With respect to a payment order accepted by a receiving bank other than the beneficiary's bank, cancellation or amendment is not effective unless a conforming cancellation or amendment of the payment order issued by the receiving bank is also made.
(2) With respect to a payment order accepted by the beneficiary's bank, cancellation or amendment is not effective unless the order was issued in execution of an unauthorized payment order, or because of a mistake by a sender in the funds transfer which resulted in the issuance of a payment order (i) that is a duplicate of a payment order previously issued by the sender, (ii) that orders payment to a beneficiary not entitled to receive payment from the originator, or (iii) that orders payment in an amount greater than the amount the beneficiary was entitled to receive from the originator. If the payment order is canceled or amended, the beneficiary's bank is entitled to recover from the beneficiary any amount paid to the beneficiary to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake and restitution.
(d) An unaccepted payment order is canceled by operation of law at the close of the fifth funds-transfer business day of the receiving bank after the execution date or payment date of the order.
(e) A canceled payment order cannot be accepted. If an accepted payment order is canceled, the acceptance is nullified and no person has any right or obligation based on the acceptance. Amendment of a payment order is deemed to be cancellation of the original order at the time of amendment and issue of a new payment order in the amended form at the same time.
(f) Unless otherwise provided in an agreement of the parties or in a funds-transfer system rule, if the receiving bank, after accepting a payment order, agrees to cancellation or amendment of the order by the sender or is bound by a funds-transfer system rule allowing cancellation or amendment without the bank's agreement, the sender, whether or not cancellation or amendment is effective, is liable to the bank for any loss and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees, incurred by the bank as a result of the cancellation or amendment or attempted cancellation or amendment.
(g) A payment order is not revoked by the death or legal incapacity of the sender unless the receiving bank knows of the death or of an adjudication of incapacity by a court of competent jurisdiction and has reasonable opportunity to act before acceptance of the order.
(h) A funds-transfer system rule is not effective to the extent it conflicts with subsection (c)(2) of this section.

# Section 4A-212. Liability and Duty of Receiving Bank Regarding Unaccepted Payment Order
If a receiving bank fails to accept a payment order that it is obliged by express agreement to accept, the bank is liable for breach of the agreement to the extent provided in the agreement or in this Article, but does not otherwise have any duty to accept a payment order or, before acceptance, to take any action, or refrain from taking action, with respect to the order except as provided in this Article or by express agreement. Liability based on acceptance arises only when acceptance occurs as stated in section 4A-209, and liability is limited to that provided in this Article. A receiving bank is not the agent of the sender or beneficiary of the payment order it accepts, or of any other party to the funds transfer, and the bank owes no duty to any party to the funds transfer except as provided in this Article or by express agreement.

# Part 3—Execution of Sender's Payment Order by Receiving Bank

# Section 4A-301. Execution and Execution Date
(a) A payment order is “executed” by the receiving bank when it issues a payment order intended to carry out the payment order received by the bank. A payment order received by the beneficiary's bank can be accepted but cannot be executed.
(b) Execution date of a payment order means the day on which the receiving bank may properly issue a payment order in execution of the sender's order. The execution date may be determined by instruction of the sender but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received and, unless otherwise determined, is the day the order is received. If the sender's instruction states a payment date, the execution date is the payment date or an earlier date on which execution is reasonably necessary to allow payment to the beneficiary on the payment date.

# Section 4A-302. Obligations of Receiving Bank in Execution of Payment Order
(a) Except as provided in subsections (b) through (d), if the receiving bank accepts a payment order pursuant to section 4A-209(a), the bank has the following obligations in executing the order:
(1) The receiving bank is obliged to issue, on the execution date, a payment order complying with the sender's order and to follow the sender's instructions concerning (i) any intermediary bank or funds-transfer system to be used in carrying out the funds transfer, or (ii) the means by which payment orders are to be transmitted in the funds transfer. If the originator's bank issues a payment order to an intermediary bank, the originator's bank is obliged to instruct the intermediary bank according to the instruction of the originator. An intermediary bank in the funds transfer is similarly bound by an instruction given to it by the sender of the payment order it accepts.
(2) If the sender's instruction states that the funds transfer is to be carried out telephonically or by wire transfer or otherwise indicates that the funds transfer is to be carried out by the most expeditious means, the receiving bank is obliged to transmit its payment order by the most expeditious available means, and to instruct any intermediary bank accordingly. If a sender's instruction states a payment date, the receiving bank is obliged to transmit its payment order at a time and by means reasonably necessary to allow payment to the beneficiary on the payment date or as soon thereafter as is feasible.
(b) Unless otherwise instructed, a receiving bank executing a payment order may (i) use any funds-transfer system if use of that system is reasonable in the circumstances, and (ii) issue a payment order to the beneficiary's bank or to an intermediary bank through which a payment order conforming to the sender's order can expeditiously be issued to the beneficiary's bank if the receiving bank exercises ordinary care in the selection of the intermediary bank. A receiving bank is not required to follow an instruction of the sender designating a funds-transfer system to be used in carrying out the funds transfer if the receiving bank, in good faith, determines that it is not feasible to follow the instruction or that following the instruction would unduly delay completion of the funds transfer.
(c) Unless subsection (a)(2) applies or the receiving bank is otherwise instructed, the
bank may execute a payment order by transmitting its payment order by first class mail or by any means reasonable in the circumstances. If the receiving bank is instructed to execute the sender's order by transmitting its payment order by the means stated or by any means as expeditious as the means stated.
(d) Unless instructed by the sender, (i) the receiving bank may not obtain payment of its charges for services and expenses in connection with the execution of the sender's order by issuing a payment order in an amount equal to the amount of the sender's order less the amount of the charges, and (ii) may not instruct a subsequent receiving bank to obtain payment of its charges in the same manner.

# Section 4A-303. Erroneous Execution of Payment Order
(a) A receiving bank that (i) executes the payment order of the sender by issuing a payment order in an amount greater than the amount of the sender's order, or (ii) issues a payment order in execution of the sender's order and then issues a duplicate order, is entitled to payment of the amount of the sender's order under section 4A-402(c) if that subsection is otherwise satisfied. The bank is entitled to recover from the beneficiary of the erroneous order the excess payment received to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake and restitution.
(b) A receiving bank that executes the payment order of the sender by issuing a payment order in an amount less than the amount of the sender's order is entitled to payment of the amount of the sender's order under section 4A-402(c) if (i) that subsection is otherwise satisfied and (ii) the bank corrects its mistake by issuing an additional payment order for the benefit of the beneficiary of the sender's order. If the error is not corrected, the issuer of the erroneous order is entitled to receive or retain payment from the sender of the order it accepted only to the extent of the amount of the erroneous order. This subsection does not apply if the receiving bank executes the sender's payment order by issuing a payment order in an amount less than the amount of the sender's order for the purpose of obtaining payment of its charges for services and expenses pursuant to instruction of the sender.
(c) If a receiving bank executes the payment order of the sender by issuing a payment order to a beneficiary different from the beneficiary of the sender's order and the funds transfer is completed on the basis of that error, the sender of the payment order that was erroneously executed and all previous senders in the funds transfer are not obliged to pay the payment orders they issued. The issuer of the erroneous order is entitled to recover from the beneficiary of the order the payment received to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake and restitution.

# Section 4A-304. Duty of Sender To Report Erroneously Executed Payment Order
If the sender of a payment order that is erroneously executed as stated in section 4A-303 receives notification from the receiving bank that the order was executed or that the sender's account was debited with respect to the order, the sender has a duty to exercise ordinary care to determine, on the basis of information available to the sender, that the order was erroneously executed and to notify the bank of the relevant facts within a reasonable time not exceeding 90 days after the notification from the bank was received by the sender. If the sender fails to perform that duty, the bank is not obliged to pay interest on any amount refundable to the sender under section 4A-402(d) for the period before the bank learns of the execution error. The bank is not entitled to any recovery from the sender on account of a failure by the sender to perform the duty stated in this section.

# Section 4A-305. Liability for Late or Improper Execution or Failure To Execute Payment Order
(a) If a funds transfer is completed but execution of a payment order by the receiving bank in breach of section 4A-302 results in delay in payment to the beneficiary, the bank is obliged to pay interest to either the originator or the beneficiary of the funds transfer for the period of delay caused by the improper execution. Except as provided in subsection (c), additional damages are not recoverable.
(b) If execution of a payment order by a receiving bank in breach of section 4A-302 results in (i) noncompletion of the funds transfer, (ii) failure to use an intermediary bank designated by the originator, or (iii) issuance of a payment order that does not comply with the terms of the payment order of the originator, the bank is liable to the originator for its expenses in the funds transfer and for incidental expenses and interest losses, to the extent not covered by subsection (a), resulting from the improper execution. Except as provided in subsection (c), additional damages are not recoverable.
(c) In addition to the amounts payable under subsections (a) and (b), damages, including consequential damages, are recoverable to the extent provided in an express written agreement of the receiving bank.
(d) If a receiving bank fails to execute a payment order it was obliged by express agreement to execute, the receiving bank is liable to the sender for its expenses in the transaction and for incidential expenses and interest losses resulting from the failure to
execute. Additional damages, including consequential damages, are recoverable to the extent provided in an express written agreement of the receiving bank, but are not otherwise recoverable.
(e) Reasonable attorney's fees are recoverable if demand for compensation under subsection (a) or (b) of this section is made and refused before an action is brought on the claim. If a claim is made for breach of an agreement under subsection (d) and the agreement does not provide for damages, reasonable attorney's fees are recoverable if demand for compensation under subsection (d) is made and refused before an action is brought on the claim.
(f) Except as stated in this section, the liability of a receiving bank under subsections (a) and (b) of this section may not be varied by agreement.

# Part 4—Payment

# Section 4A-401. Payment Date
Payment date of a payment order means the day on which the amount of the order is payable to the beneficiary by the beneficiary's bank. The payment date may be determined by instruction of the sender but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received by the beneficiary's bank and, unless otherwise determined, is the day the order is received by the beneficiary's bank.

# Section 4A-402. Obligation of Sender To Pay Receiving Bank
(a) This section is subject to sections 4A-205 and 4A-207.
(b) With respect to a payment order issued to the beneficiary's bank, acceptance of the order by the bank obliges the sender to pay the bank the amount of the order, but payment is not due until the payment date of the order.
(c) This subsection is subject to subsection (e) and to section 4A-303. With respect to a payment order issued to a receiving bank other than the beneficiary's bank, acceptance of the order by the receiving bank obliges the sender to pay the bank the amount of the sender's order. Payment by the sender is not due until the execution date of the sender's order. The obligation of that sender to pay its payment order is excused if the funds transfer is not completed by acceptance by the beneficiary's bank of a payment order instructing payment to the beneficiary of that sender's payment order.
(d) If the sender of a payment order pays the order and was not obliged to pay all or part of the amount paid, the bank receiving payment is obliged to refund payment to the extent the sender was not obliged to pay. Except as provided in sections 4A-204 and 4A-304, interest is payable on the refundable amount from the date of payment.
(e) If a funds transfer is not completed as stated in subsection (c) and an intermediary bank is obliged to refund payment as stated in subsection (d) but is unable to do so because not permitted by applicable law or because the bank suspends payments, a sender in the funds transfer that executed a payment order in compliance with an instruction, as stated in section 4A-302(a)(1), to route the funds transfer through that intermediary bank is entitled to receive or retain payment from the sender of the payment order that it accepted. The first sender in the funds transfer that issued an instruction requiring routing through that intermediary bank is subrogated to the right of the bank that paid the intermediary bank to refund as stated in subsection (d) of this section.
(f) The right of the sender of a payment order to be excused from the obligation to pay the order as stated in this subsection (c) or to receive refund under subsection (d) may not be varied by agreement.

# Section 4A-403. Payment by Sender to Receiving Bank
(a) Payment of the sender's obligation under section 4A-402 to pay the receiving bank occurs as follows:
(1) If the sender is a bank, payment occurs when the receiving bank receives final settlement of the obligation through a Federal Reserve Bank or through a funds-transfer system.
(2) If the sender is a bank and the sender (i) credited an account of the receiving bank with the sender, or (ii) caused an account of the receiving bank in another bank to be credited, payment occurs when the credit is withdrawn or, if not withdrawn, at midnight of the day on which the credit is withdrawable and the receiving bank learns of that fact.
(3) If the receiving bank debits an account of the sender with the receiving bank, payment occurs when the debit is made to the extent the debit is covered by a withdrawable credit balance in the account.
(b) If the sender and receiving bank are members of a funds-transfer system that nets obligations multilaterally among participants, the receiving bank receives final settlement when settlement is complete in accordance with the rules of the system. The obligation of the sender to pay the amount of a payment order transmitted through the funds-transfer system may be satisfied, to the extent permitted by the rules of the system, by setting off and applying against the sender's obligation the right of the sender to receive payment from the receiving bank of the amount of any other payment order transmitted to the sender by the receiving bank through the funds-transfer system. The aggregate balance of obligations owed by each sender to each receiving bank in the funds-transfer system may be satisfied, to
the extent permitted by the rules of the system, by setting off and applying against that balance the aggregate balance of obligations owed to the sender by other members of the system. The aggregate balance is determined after the right of setoff stated in the second sentence of this subsection has been exercised.
(c) If two banks transmit payment orders to each other under an agreement that settlement of the obligations of each bank to the other under section 4A-402 will be made at the end of the day or other period, the total amount owed with respect to all orders transmitted by one bank shall be set off against the total amount owed with respect to all orders transmitted by the other bank. To the extent of the setoff, each bank has made payment to the other.
(d) In a case not covered by paragraph (a) of this section, the time when payment of the sender's obligation under section 4A-402(b) or 4A-402(c) occurs is governed by applicable principles of law that determine when an obligation is satisfied.

# Section 4A-404. Obligation of Beneficiary's Bank to Pay and Give Notice to Beneficiary
(a) Subject to sections 4A-211(e), 4A-405(d), and 4A-405(e), if a beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order, the bank is obliged to pay the amount of the order to the beneficiary of the order. Payment is due on the payment date of the order, but if acceptance occurs on the payment date after the close of the funds-transfer business day of the bank, payment is due on the next funds-transfer business day. If the bank refuses to pay after demand by the beneficiary and receipt of notice of particular circumstances that will give rise to consequential damages as a result of nonpayment, the beneficiary may recover damages resulting from the refusal to pay to the extent the bank had notice of the damages, unless the bank proves that it did not pay because of a reasonable doubt concerning the right of the beneficiary to payment.
(b) If a payment order accepted by the beneficiary's bank instructs payment to an account of the beneficiary, the bank is obliged to notify the beneficiary of receipt of the order before midnight of the next funds-transfer business day following the payment date. If the payment order does not instruct payment to an account of the beneficiary, the bank is required to notify the beneficiary only if notice is required by the order. Notice may be given by first class mail or any other means reasonable in the circumstances. If the bank fails to give the required notice, the bank is obliged to pay interest to the beneficiary on the amount of the payment order from the day notice should have been given until the day the beneficiary learned of receipt of the payment order by the bank. No other damages are recoverable. Reasonable attorney's fees are also recoverable if demand for interest is made and refused before an action is brought on the claim.
(c) The right of a beneficiary to receive payment and damages as stated in subsection (a) may not be varied by agreement or a funds-transfer system rule. The right of a beneficiary to be notified as stated in subsection (b) of this section may be varied by agreement of the beneficiary or by a funds-transfer system rule if the beneficiary is notified of the rule before initiation of the funds transfer.

# Section 4A-405. Payment by Beneficiary's Bank To Beneficiary
(a) If the beneficiary's bank credits an account of the beneficiary of a payment order, payment of the bank's obligation under section 4A-404(a) occurs when and to the extent (i) the beneficiary is notified of the right to withdraw the credit, (ii) the bank lawfully applies the credit to a debt of the beneficiary, or (iii) funds with respect to the order are otherwise made available to the beneficiary by the bank.
(b) If the beneficiary's bank does not credit an account of the beneficiary of a payment order, the time when payment of the bank's obligation under section 4A-404(a) occurs is governed by principles of law that determine when an obligation is satisfied.
(c) Except as stated in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, if the beneficiary's bank pays the beneficiary of a payment order under a condition to payment or agreement of the beneficiary giving the bank the right to recover payment from the beneficiary if the bank does not receive payment of the order, the condition to payment or agreement is not enforceable.
(d) A funds-transfer system rule may provide that payments made to beneficiaries of funds transfer made through the system are provisional until receipt of payment by the beneficiary's bank of the payment order it accepted. A beneficiary's bank that makes a payment that is provisional under the rule is entitled to refund from the beneficiary if (i) the rule requires that both the beneficiary and the originator be given notice of the provisional nature of the payment before the funds transfer is initiated, (ii) the beneficiary, the beneficiary's bank and the originator's bank agreed to be bound by the rule, and (iii) the beneficiary's bank did not receive payment of the payment order that it accepted. If the beneficiary is obliged to refund payment to the beneficiary's bank, acceptance of the payment order by the beneficiary's bank is nullified and no payment by the originator of the funds transfer to the beneficiary occurs under section 4A-406.
(e) This paragraph applies to a funds transfer that includes a payment order transmitted over a funds-transfer system that (i)
nets obligations-multilaterally among participants, and (ii) has in effect a loss-sharing agreement among participants for the purpose of providing funds necessary to complete settlement of the obligations of one or more participants that do not meet their settlement obligations. If the beneficiary's bank in the funds transfer accepts a payment order and the system fails to complete settlement pursuant to its rules with respect to any payment order in the funds transfer, (i) the acceptance by the beneficiary's bank is nullified and no person has any right or obligation based on the acceptance, (ii) the beneficiary's bank is entitled to recover payment from the beneficiary, (iii) no payment by the originator to the beneficiary occurs under section 4A-406, and (iv) subject to section 4A-402(e), each sender in the funds transfer is excused from its obligation to pay its payment order under section 4A-402(c) because the funds transfer has not been completed.

# Section 4A-406. Payment by Originator to Beneficiary; Discharge of Underlying Obligation
(a) Subject to sections 4A-211(e), 4A-405(d), and 4A-405(e), the originator of a funds transfer pays the beneficiary of the originator's payment order (i) at the time a payment order for the benefit of the beneficiary is accepted by the beneficiary's bank in the funds transfer and (ii) in an amount equal to the amount of the order *40813 accepted by the beneficiary's bank, but not more than the amount of the originator's order.
(b) If payment under paragraph (a) of this section is made to satisfy an obligation, the obligation is discharged to the same extent discharge would result from payment to the beneficiary of the same amount in money, unless (i) the payment under subsection (a) was made by a means prohibited by the contract of the beneficiary with respect to the obligation; (ii) the beneficiary, within a reasonable time after receiving notice of receipt of the order by the beneficiary's bank, notified the originator of the beneficiary's refusal of the payment; (iii) funds with respect to the order were not withdrawn by the beneficiary or applied to a debt of the beneficiary; and (iv) the beneficiary would suffer a loss that could reasonably have been avoided if payment had been made by a means complying with the contract. If payment by the originator does not result in discharge under this section, the originator is subrogated to the rights of the beneficiary to receive payment from the beneficiary's bank under section 4A-404(a).
(c) For the purpose of determining whether discharge of an obligation occurs under paragraph (b) of this section, if the beneficiary's bank accepts a payment order in an amount equal to the amount of the originator's payment order less charges of one or more receiving banks in the funds transfer, payment to the beneficiary is deemed to be in the amount of the originator's order unless upon demand by the beneficiary the originator does not pay the beneficiary the amount of the deducted charges.
(d) Rights of the originator or of the beneficiary of a funds transfer under this section may be varied only by agreement of the originator and the beneficiary.

# Part 5—Miscellaneous Provisions

# Section 4A-501. Variation by Agreement and Effect of Funds-Transfer System Rule
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Article, the rights and obligations of a party to a funds transfer may be varied by agreement of the affected party.
(b) Funds-transfer system rule means a rule of an association of banks (i) governing transmission of payment orders by means of a funds-transfer system of the association or rights and obligations with respect to those orders, or (ii) to the extent the rule governs rights and obligations between banks that are parties to a funds transfer in which a Federal Reserve Bank, acting as an intermediary bank, sends a payment order to the beneficiary's bank. Except as otherwise provided in this Article, a funds-transfer system rule governing rights and obligations between participating banks using the system may be effective even if the rule conflicts with this Article and indirectly affects another party to the funds transfer who does not consent to the rule. A funds-transfer system rule may also govern rights and obligations of parties other than participating banks using the system to the extent stated in sections 4A-404(c), 4A-405(d), and 4A-507(c).

# Section 4A-502. Creditor Process Served on Receiving Bank; Setoff by Beneficiary's Bank
(a) As used in this section, creditor process means levy, attachment, garnishment, notice of lien, sequestration, or similar process issued by or on behalf of a creditor or other claimant with respect to an account.
(b) This subsection applies to creditor process with respect to an authorized account of the sender of a payment order if the creditor process is served on the receiving bank. For the purpose of determining rights with respect to the creditor process, if the receiving bank accepts the payment order the balance in the authorized account is deemed to be reduced by the amount of the payment order to the extent the bank did not otherwise receive payment of the order, unless the creditor process is served at a time and in a manner affording the bank a reasonable opportunity to act on it before the bank accepts the payment order.
(c) If a beneficiary's bank has received a payment order for payment to the beneficiary's account in the bank, the following rules apply:
(1) The bank may credit the beneficiary's account. The amount credited may be set off against an obligation owed by the beneficiary to the bank or may be applied to satisfy creditor process served on the bank with respect to the account.
(2) The bank may credit the beneficiary's account and allow withdrawal of the amount credited unless creditor process with respect to the account is served at a time and in a manner affording the bank a reasonable opportunity to act to prevent withdrawal.
(3) If creditor process with respect to the beneficiary's account has been served and the bank has had a reasonable opportunity to act on it, the bank may not reject the payment order except for a reason unrelated to the service of process.
(d) Creditor process with respect to a payment by the originator to the beneficiary pursuant to a funds transfer may be served only on the beneficiary's bank with respect to the debt owned by that bank to the beneficiary. Any other bank served with the creditor process is not obliged to act with respect to the process.

# Section 4A-503. Injunction or Restraining Order With Respect to Funds Transfer
For proper cause and in compliance with applicable law, a court may restrain:
(i) a person from issuing a payment order to initiate a funds transfer,
(ii) an originator's bank from executing the payment order of the originator, or
(iii) the beneficiary's bank from releasing funds to the beneficiary or the beneficiary from withdrawing the funds. A court may not otherwise restrain a person from issuing a payment order, paying or receiving payment of a payment order, or otherwise acting with respect to a funds transfer.

# Section 4A-504. Order In Which Items and Payment Orders May Be Charged to Account; Order of Withdrawals from Account
(a) If a receiving bank has received more than one payment order of the sender or one or more payment orders and other items that are payable from the sender's account, the bank may charge the sender's account with respect to the various orders and items in any sequence.
(b) In determining whether a credit to an account has been withdrawn by the holder of the account or applied to a debt of the holder of the account, credits first made to the account are first withdrawn or applied.

# Section 4A-505. Preclusion of Objection to Debit of Customer's Account
If a receiving bank has received payment from its customer with respect to a payment order issued in the name of the customer as sender and accepted by the bank, and the customer received notification reasonably identifying the order, the customer is precluded from asserting that the bank is not entitled to retain the payment unless the customer notifies the bank of the customer's objection to the payment within one year after the notification was received by the customer.

# Section 4A-506. Rate of Interest
(a) If, under this Article, a receiving bank is obliged to pay interest with respect to a payment order issued to the bank, the amount payable may be determined (i) by agreement of the sender and receiving bank, or (ii) by a funds-transfer system rule if the payment order is transmitted through a funds-transfer system.
(b) If the amount of interest is not determined by an agreement or rule as stated in subsection (a), the amount is calculated by multiplying the applicable Federal Funds rate by the amount on which interest is payable, and then multiplying the product by the number of days for which interest is payable. The applicable Federal Funds rate is the average of the Federal Funds rates published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for each of the days for which interest is payable divided by 360. The Federal Funds rate for any day on which a published rate is not available is the same as the published rate for the next preceding day for which there is a published rate. If a receiving bank that accepted a payment order is required to refund payment to the sender of the order because the funds transfer was not completed, but the failure to complete was not due to any fault by the bank, the interest payable is reduced by a percentage equal to the reserve requirement on deposits of the receiving bank.

# Section 4A-507. Choice of Law
(a) The following rules apply unless the affected parties otherwise agree or paragraph (c) of this section applies:
(1) The rights and obligations between the sender of a payment order and the receiving bank are governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the receiving bank is located.
(2) The rights and obligations between the beneficiary's bank and the beneficiary are governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the beneficiary's bank is located.
(3) The issue of when payment is made pursuant to a funds transfer by the originator to the beneficiary is governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the beneficiary's bank is located.
(b) If the parties described in each subsection of paragraph (a) of this section have made an agreement selecting the law of a particular jurisdiction to govern rights and obligations between each other, the law of that jurisdiction governs those rights and obligations, whether or not the payment order or the funds transfer bears a reasonable relation to that jurisdiction.
(c) A funds-transfer system rule may select the law of a particular jurisdiction to govern (i) rights and obligations between participating banks with respect to payment orders transmitted or processed through the system, or (ii) the rights and obligations of some or all parties to a funds transfer any part of which is carried out by means of the system. A choice of law made pursuant to clause (i) is binding on participating banks. A choice of law made pursuant to clause (ii) is binding on the originator, other sender, or a receiving bank having notice that the funds-transfer system might be used in the funds transfer and of the choice of law by the system when the originator, other sender, or receiving bank issued or accepted a payment order. The beneficiary of a funds transfer is bound by the choice of law if, when the funds transfer is initiated, the beneficiary has notice that the funds-transfer system might be used in the funds transfer and of the choice of law by the system. The law of a jurisdiction selected pursuant to this subsection may govern, whether or not that law bears a reasonable relation to the matter in issue.
(d) In the event of inconsistency between an agreement under paragraph (b) of this section and a choice-of-law rule under paragraph (c) of this section, the agreement under paragraph (b) prevails.
(e) If a funds transfer is made by use of more than one funds-transfer system and there is inconsistency between choice-of-law rules of the systems, the matter in issue is governed by the law of the selected jurisdiction that has the most significant relationship to the matter in issue.
[Reg. J, 87 FR 34369, June 6, 2022]
Pt. 211

# PART 211—INTERNATIONAL BANKING OPERATIONS (REGULATION K)

# Subpart A—International Operations of U.S. Banking Organizations
Sec.
211.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
211.2
Definitions.
211.3
Foreign branches of U.S. banking organizations.
211.4
Permissible investments and activities of foreign branches of member banks.
211.5
Edge and agreement corporations.
211.6
Permissible activities of Edge and agreement corporations in the United States.
211.7
Voluntary liquidation of Edge and agreement corporations.
211.8
Investments and activities abroad.
211.9
Investment procedures.
211.10
Permissible activities abroad.
211.11
Advisory opinions under Regulation K.
211.12
Lending limits and capital requirements.
211.13
Supervision and reporting.

# Subpart B—Foreign Banking Organizations
211.20
Authority, purpose, and scope.
211.21
Definitions.
211.22
Interstate banking operations of foreign banking organizations.
211.23
Nonbanking activities of foreign banking organizations.
211.24
Approval of offices of foreign banks; procedures for applications; standards for approval; representative office activities and standards for approval; preservation of existing authority.
211.25
Termination of offices of foreign banks.
211.26
Examination of offices and affiliates of foreign banks.
211.27
Disclosure of supervisory information to foreign supervisors.
211.28
Provisions applicable to branches and agencies: limitation on loans to one borrower.
211.29
Applications by state branches and state agencies to conduct activities not permissible for federal branches.
211.30
Criteria for evaluating the U.S. operations of foreign banks not subject to consolidated supervision.

# Subpart C—Export Trading Companies
211.31
Authority, purpose, and scope.
211.32
Definitions.
211.33
Investments and extensions of credit.
211.34
Procedures for filing and processing notices.

# Subpart D—International Lending Supervision
211.41
Authority, purpose, and scope.
211.42
Definitions.
211.43
Allocated transfer risk reserve.
211.44
Reporting and disclosure of international assets.
211.45
Accounting for fees on international loans.

# Interpretations
211.601
Status of certain offices for purposes of the International Banking Act restrictions on interstate banking operations.
211.602
Investments by United States banking organizations in foreign companies that transact business in the United States.
211.603
Commodity swap transactions.
211.604
Data processing activities.
211.605
Permissible underwriting activities of foreign banks.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 221
et seq.,
1818, 1835a, 1841
et seq.,
3101
et seq.,
3901
et seq.,
and 5101
et seq.;
15 U.S.C. 1681s, 1681w, 6801 and 6805.

# Subpart A—International Operations of U.S. Banking Organizations

# Source:
Reg. K, 66 FR 54374, Oct. 26, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 211.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) under the authority of the Federal Reserve Act (FRA) (12 U.S.C. 221
et seq.
); the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act) (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
); and the International Banking Act of 1978 (IBA) (12 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
).
(b)
Purpose.
This subpart sets out rules governing the international and foreign activities of U.S. banking organizations, including procedures for establishing foreign branches and Edge and agreement corporations to engage in international banking, and for investments in foreign organizations.
(c)
Scope.
This subpart applies to:
(1) Member banks with respect to their foreign branches and investments in foreign banks under section 25 of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 601-604a);
1
and
1
Section 25 of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 601-604a), which refers to national banking associations, also applies to state member banks of the Federal Reserve System by virtue of section 9 of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 321)
(2) Corporations organized under section 25A of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 611-631) (Edge corporations);
(3) Corporations having an agreement or undertaking with the Board under section 25 of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 601-604a) (agreement corporations); and
(4) Bank holding companies with respect to the exemption from the nonbanking prohibitions of the BHC Act afforded by section 4(c)(13) of that act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(13)).
§ 211.2
Definitions.
Unless otherwise specified, for purposes of this subpart:
(a) An
affiliate
of an organization means:
(1) Any entity of which the organization is a direct or indirect subsidiary; or
(2) Any direct or indirect subsidiary of the organization or such entity.
(b)
Capital and surplus
means, unless otherwise provided in this part:
(1) For organizations subject to the capital rule:
(i) Tier 1 and tier 2 capital included in an organization's risk-based capital (under the capital rule); and
(ii) The balance of allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable, not included in an organization's tier 2 capital for calculation of risk-based capital, based on the organization's most recent consolidated Report of Condition and Income.
(iii) For qualifying community banking organizations (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter) that are subject to the community bank leverage ratio framework (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter), tier 1 capital (as defined in § 217.2 of this chapter and calculated in accordance with § 217.12(b) of this chapter) plus allowances for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable.
(2) For all other organizations, paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus, and includes undivided profits but does not include the proceeds of capital notes or debentures.
(c)
Capital rule
means part 217 of this chapter.
(d)
Directly
or
indirectly,
when used in reference to activities or investments of an organization, means activities or investments of the organization or of any subsidiary of the organization.
(e)
Eligible country
means any country:
(1) For which an allocated transfer risk reserve is required pursuant to § 211.43 of this part and that has restructured its sovereign debt held by foreign creditors; and
(2) Any other country that the Board deems to be eligible.
(f) An Edge corporation is
engaged in banking
if it is ordinarily engaged in
the business of accepting deposits in the United States from nonaffiliated persons.
(g)
Engaged in business
or
engaged in activities
in the United States means maintaining and operating an office (other than a representative office) or subsidiary in the United States.
(h)
Equity
means an ownership interest in an organization, whether through:
(1) Voting or nonvoting shares;
(2) General or limited partnership interests;
(3) Any other form of interest conferring ownership rights, including warrants, debt, or any other interests that are convertible into shares or other ownership rights in the organization; or
(4) Loans that provide rights to participate in the profits of an organization, unless the investor receives a determination that such loans should not be considered equity in the circumstances of the particular investment.
(i)
Foreign
or
foreign country
refers to one or more foreign nations, and includes the overseas territories, dependencies, and insular possessions of those nations and of the United States, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(j)
Foreign bank
means an organization that:
(1) Is organized under the laws of a foreign country;
(2) Engages in the business of banking;
(3) Is recognized as a bank by the bank supervisory or monetary authority of the country of its organization or principal banking operations;
(4) Receives deposits to a substantial extent in the regular course of its business; and
(5) Has the power to accept demand deposits.
(k)
Foreign branch
means an office of an organization (other than a representative office) that is located outside the country in which the organization is legally established and at which a banking or financing business is conducted.
(l)
Foreign person
means an office or establishment located outside the United States, or an individual residing outside the United States.
(m)
Investment
means:
(1) The ownership or control of equity;
(2) Binding commitments to acquire equity;
(3) Contributions to the capital and surplus of an organization; or
(4) The holding of an organization's subordinated debt when the investor and the investor's affiliates hold more than 5 percent of the equity of the organization.
(n)
Investment grade
means a security that is rated in one of the four highest rating categories by:
(1) Two or more NRSROs; or
(2) One NRSRO if the security has been rated by only one NRSRO.
(o)
Investor
means an Edge corporation, agreement corporation, bank holding company, or member bank.
(p)
Joint venture
means an organization that has 20 percent or more of its voting shares held directly or indirectly by the investor or by an affiliate of the investor under any authority, but which is not a subsidiary of the investor or of an affiliate of the investor.
(q)
Loans and extensions of credit
means all direct and indirect advances of funds to a person made on the basis of any obligation of that person to repay the funds.
(r)
NRSRO
means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization as designated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(s)
Organization
means a corporation, government, partnership, association, or any other entity.
(t)
Person
means an individual or an organization.
(u)
Portfolio investment
means an investment in an organization other than a subsidiary or joint venture.
(v)
Representative office
means an office that:
(1) Engages solely in representational and administrative functions (such as soliciting new business or acting as liaison between the organization's head office and customers in the United States); and
(2) Does not have authority to make any business decision (other than decisions relating to its premises or personnel) for the account of the organization it represents, including contracting for any deposit or deposit-like liability on behalf of the organization.
(w)
Subsidiary
means an organization that has more than 50 percent of its voting shares held directly or indirectly, or that otherwise is controlled or capable of being controlled, by the investor or an affiliate of the investor under any authority. Among other circumstances, an investor is considered to control an organization if:
(1) The investor or an affiliate is a general partner of the organization; or
(2) The investor and its affiliates directly or indirectly own or control more than 50 percent of the equity of the organization.
(x)
Tier 1 capital
has the same meaning as provided in § 217.2 of this chapter. A qualifying community banking organization (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter) that is subject to the community bank leverage ratio framework (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter), calculates its tier 1 capital in accordance with § 217.12(b) of this chapter.
(y)
Well capitalized
means:
(1) In relation to a parent member or insured bank, that the standards set out in § 208.43(b)(1) of Regulation H (12 CFR 208.43(b)(1)) are satisfied;
(2) In relation to a bank holding company, that the standards set out in § 225.2(r)(1) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.2(r)(1)) are satisfied; and
(3) In relation to an Edge or agreement corporation, that it has tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios of 6.0 and 10.0 percent, respectively, or greater.
(z)
Well managed
means that the Edge or agreement corporation, any parent insured bank, and the bank holding company either received a composite rating of 1 or 2 or is considered satisfactory under the applicable rating system, and has at least a satisfactory rating for management if such a rating is given, at their most recent examination or review.
[Reg. K, 66 FR 54374, Oct. 26, 2001, as amended at 83 FR 58734, Nov. 21, 2018; 84 FR 4241, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 61797, Nov. 13, 2019]
§ 211.3
Foreign branches of U.S. banking organizations.
(a)
General
—(1)
Definition of banking organization.
For purposes of this section, a
banking organization
is defined as a member bank and its affiliates.
(2) A banking organization is considered to be operating a branch in a foreign country if it has an affiliate that is a member bank, Edge or agreement corporation, or foreign bank that operates an office (other than a representative office) in that country.
(3) For purposes of this subpart, a foreign office of an operating subsidiary of a member bank shall be treated as a foreign branch of the member bank and may engage only in activities permissible for a branch of a member bank.
(4) At any time upon notice, the Board may modify or suspend branching authority conferred by this section with respect to any banking organization.
(b)(1)
Establishment of foreign branches.
(i) Foreign branches may be established by any member bank having capital and surplus of $1,000,000 or more, an Edge corporation, an agreement corporation, any subsidiary the shares of which are held directly by the member bank, or any other subsidiary held pursuant to this subpart.
(ii) The Board grants its general consent under section 25 of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 601-604a) for a member bank to establish a branch in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the overseas territories, dependencies, and insular possessions of the United States.
(2)
Prior notice.
Unless otherwise provided in this section, the establishment of a foreign branch requires 30 days' prior written notice to the Board.
(3)
Branching into additional foreign countries.
After giving the Board 12 business days prior written notice, a banking organization that operates branches in two or more foreign countries may establish a branch in an additional foreign country.
(4)
Additional branches within a foreign country.
No prior notice is required to establish additional branches in any foreign country where the banking organization operates one or more branches.
(5)
Branching by nonbanking affiliates.
No prior notice is required for a nonbanking affiliate of a banking organization (
i.e.,
an organization that is not a member bank, an Edge or agreement corporation, or foreign bank) to establish branches within a foreign country or in additional foreign countries.
(6)
Expiration of branching authority.
Authority to establish branches, when granted following prior written notice to the Board, shall expire one year from the earliest date on which the authority could have been exercised, unless extended by the Board.
(c)
Reporting.
Any banking organization that opens, closes, or relocates a branch shall report such change in a manner prescribed by the Board.
(d)
Reserves of foreign branches of member banks.
Member banks shall maintain reserves against foreign branch deposits when required by Regulation D (12 CFR part 204).
(e)
Conditional approval; access to information.
The Board may impose such conditions on authority granted by it under this section as it deems necessary, and may require termination of any activities conducted under authority of this section if a member bank is unable to provide information on its activities or those of its affiliates that the Board deems necessary to determine and enforce compliance with U.S. banking laws.
§ 211.4
Permissible activities and investments of foreign branches of member banks.
(a)
Permissible activities and investments.
In addition to its general banking powers, and to the extent consistent with its charter, a foreign branch of a member bank may engage in the following activities and make the following investments, so far as is usual in connection with the business of banking in the country where it transacts business:
(1)
Guarantees.
Guarantee debts, or otherwise agree to make payments on the occurrence of readily ascertainable events (including, but not limited to, nonpayment of taxes, rentals, customs duties, or costs of transport, and loss or nonconformance of shipping documents) if the guarantee or agreement specifies a maximum monetary liability; however, except to the extent that the member bank is fully secured, it may not have liabilities outstanding for any person on account of such guarantees or agreements which, when aggregated with other unsecured obligations of the same person, exceed the limit contained in section 5200(a)(1) of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 84) for loans and extensions of credit;
(2)
Government obligations.
(i) Underwrite, distribute, buy, sell, and hold obligations of:
(A) The national government of the country where the branch is located and any political subdivision of that country;
(B) An agency or instrumentality of the national government of the country where the branch is located where such obligations are supported by the taxing authority, guarantee, or full faith and credit of that government;
(C) The national government or political subdivision of any country, where such obligations are rated investment grade; and
(D) An agency or instrumentality of any national government where such obligations are rated investment grade and are supported by the taxing authority, guarantee or full faith and credit of that government.
(ii) No member bank, under authority of this paragraph (a)(2), may hold, or be under commitment with respect to, such obligations for its own account in relation to any one country in an amount exceeding the greater of:
(A) 10 percent of its tier 1 capital; or
(B) 10 percent of the total deposits of the bank's branches in that country on the preceding year-end call report date (or the date of acquisition of the branch, in the case of a branch that has not been so reported);
(3)
Other investments.
(i) Invest in:
(A) The securities of the central bank, clearinghouses, governmental entities other than those authorized under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and government-sponsored development banks of the country where the foreign branch is located;
(B) Other debt securities eligible to meet local reserve or similar requirements; and
(C) Shares of automated electronic-payments networks, professional societies, schools, and the like necessary to the business of the branch;
(ii) The total investments of a bank's branches in a country under this paragraph (a)(3) (exclusive of securities held as required by the law of that country or as authorized under section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24, Seventh)) may not exceed 1 percent of the total deposits of the bank's branches in that country on the preceding year-end call report date (or on the date of acquisition of the branch, in the case of a branch that has not been so reported);
(4)
Real estate loans.
Take liens or other encumbrances on foreign real estate in connection with its extensions of credit, whether or not of first priority and whether or not the real estate has been improved;
(5)
Insurance.
Act as insurance agent or broker;
(6)
Employee benefits program.
Pay to an employee of the branch, as part of an employee benefits program, a greater rate of interest than that paid to other depositors of the branch;
(7)
Repurchase agreements.
Engage in repurchase agreements involving securities and commodities that are the functional equivalents of extensions of credit;
(8)
Investment in subsidiaries.
With the Board's prior approval, acquire all of the shares of a company (except where local law requires other investors to hold directors' qualifying shares or similar types of instruments) that engages solely in activities:
(i) In which the member bank is permitted to engage; or
(ii) That are incidental to the activities of the foreign branch.
(b)
Other activities.
With the Board's prior approval, engage in other activities that the Board determines are usual in connection with the transaction of the business of banking in the places where the member bank's branches transact business.
§ 211.5
Edge and agreement corporations.
(a)
Board Authority.
The Board shall have the authority to approve:
(1) The establishment of Edge corporations;
(2) Investments in agreement corporations; and
(3) A member bank's proposal to invest more than 10 percent of its capital and surplus in the aggregate amount of stock held in all Edge and agreement corporations.
(b)
Organization of an Edge corporation
—(1)
Permit.
A proposed Edge corporation shall become a body corporate when the Board issues a permit approving its proposed name, articles of association, and organization certificate.
(2)
Name.
The name of the Edge corporation shall include
international, foreign, overseas,
or a similar word, but may not resemble the name of another organization to an extent that might mislead or deceive the public.
(3)
Federal Register notice.
The Board shall publish in the
Federal Register
notice of any proposal to organize an Edge corporation and shall give interested persons an opportunity to express their views on the proposal.
(4)
Factors considered by Board.
The factors considered by the Board in acting on a proposal to organize an Edge corporation include:
(i) The financial condition and history of the applicant;
(ii) The general character of its management;
(iii) The convenience and needs of the community to be served with respect to international banking and financing services; and
(iv) The effects of the proposal on competition.
(5)
Authority to commence business.
After the Board issues a permit, the Edge corporation may elect officers and otherwise complete its organization, invest in obligations of the U.S. government, and maintain deposits with depository institutions, but it may not exercise any other powers until at least 25 percent of the authorized capital stock specified in the articles of association has been paid in cash, and each shareholder has paid in cash at least 25 percent of that shareholder's stock subscription.
(6)
Expiration of unexercised authority.
Unexercised authority to commence business as an Edge corporation shall expire one year after issuance of the
permit, unless the Board extends the period.
(c)
Other provisions regarding Edge corporations
—(1)
Amendments to articles of association.
No amendment to the articles of association shall become effective until approved by the Board.
(2)
Shareholders' meeting.
An Edge corporation shall provide in its bylaws that:
(i) A shareholders' meeting shall be convened at the request of the Board within five business days after the Board gives notice of the request to the Edge corporation;
(ii) Any shareholder or group of shareholders that owns or controls 25 percent or more of the shares of the Edge corporation shall attend such a meeting in person or by proxy; and
(iii) Failure by a shareholder or authorized representative to attend such meeting in person or by proxy may result in removal or barring of the shareholder or representative from further participation in the management or affairs of the Edge corporation.
(3)
Nature and ownership of shares
—(i)
Shares.
Shares of stock in an Edge corporation may not include no-par-value shares and shall be issued and transferred only on its books and in compliance with section 25A of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 611
et seq.
) and this subpart.
(ii)
Contents of share certificates.
The share certificates of an Edge corporation shall:
(A) Name and describe each class of shares, indicating its character and any unusual attributes, such as preferred status or lack of voting rights; and
(B) Conspicuously set forth the substance of:
(
1
) Any limitations on the rights of ownership and transfer of shares imposed by section 25A of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 611
et seq.
); and
(
2
) Any rules that the Edge corporation prescribes in its bylaws to ensure compliance with this paragraph (c).
(4)
Change in status of shareholder.
Any change in status of a shareholder that causes a violation of section 25A of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 611
et seq.
) shall be reported to the Board as soon as possible, and the Edge corporation shall take such action as the Board may direct.
(d)
Ownership of Edge corporations by foreign institutions
—(1)
Prior Board approval.
One or more foreign or foreign-controlled domestic institutions referred to in section 25A(11) of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 619) may apply for the Board's prior approval to acquire, directly or indirectly, a majority of the shares of the capital stock of an Edge corporation.
(2)
Conditions and requirements.
Such an institution shall:
(i) Provide the Board with information related to its financial condition and activities and such other information as the Board may require;
(ii) Ensure that any transaction by an Edge corporation with an affiliate
2
is on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions by the Edge corporation with nonaffiliated persons, and does not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features;
2
For purposes of this paragraph (d)(2),
affiliate
means any organization that would be an affiliate under section 23A of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 371c) if the Edge corporation were a member bank.
(iii) Ensure that the Edge corporation will not provide funding on a continual or substantial basis to any affiliate or office of the foreign institution through transactions that would be inconsistent with the international and foreign business purposes for which Edge corporations are organized; and
(iv) Comply with the limitation on aggregate investments in all Edge and agreement corporations set forth in paragraph (h) of this section.
(3)
Foreign institutions not subject to the BHC Act.
In the case of a foreign institution not subject to section 4 of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843), that institution shall:
(i) Comply with any conditions that the Board may impose that are necessary to prevent undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices in the United States; and
(ii) Give the Board 30 days' prior written notice before engaging in any nonbanking activity in the United
States, or making any initial or additional investments in another organization, that would require prior Board approval or notice by an organization subject to section 4 of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843); in connection with such notice, the Board may impose conditions necessary to prevent adverse effects that may result from such activity or investment.
(e)
Change in control of an Edge corporation
—(1)
Prior notice.
(i) Any person shall give the Board 60 days' prior written notice before acquiring, directly or indirectly, 25 percent or more of the voting shares, or otherwise acquiring control, of an Edge corporation.
(ii) The Board may extend the 60-day period for an additional 30 days by notifying the acquiring party.
(iii) A notice under this paragraph (e) need not be filed where a change in control is effected through a transaction requiring the Board's approval under section 3 of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1842).
(2)
Board review.
In reviewing a notice filed under this paragraph (e), the Board shall consider the factors set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and may disapprove a notice or impose any conditions that it finds necessary to assure the safe and sound operation of the Edge corporation, to assure the international character of its operation, and to prevent adverse effects, such as decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or undue concentration of resources.
(f)
Domestic branching by Edge corporations
—(1)
Prior notice.
(i) An Edge corporation may establish branches in the United States 30 days after the Edge corporation has given written notice of its intention to do so to its Reserve Bank, unless the Edge corporation is notified to the contrary within that time.
(ii) The notice to the Reserve Bank shall include a copy of the notice of the proposal published in a newspaper of general circulation in the communities to be served by the branch.
(iii) The newspaper notice may appear no earlier than 90 calendar days prior to submission of notice of the proposal to the Reserve Bank. The newspaper notice shall provide an opportunity for the public to give written comment on the proposal to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank for at least 30 days after the date of publication.
(2)
Factors considered.
The factors considered in acting upon a proposal to establish a branch are enumerated in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(3)
Expiration of authority.
Authority to establish a branch under prior notice shall expire one year from the earliest date on which that authority could have been exercised, unless the Board extends the period.
(g)
Agreement corporations
—(1)
General.
With the prior approval of the Board, a member bank or bank holding company may invest in a federally or state-chartered corporation that has entered into an agreement or undertaking with the Board that it will not exercise any power that is impermissible for an Edge corporation under this subpart.
(2)
Factors considered by Board.
The factors considered in acting upon a proposal to establish an agreement corporation are enumerated in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(h)(1)
Limitation on investment in Edge and agreement corporations.
A member bank may invest up to 10 percent of its capital and surplus in the capital stock of Edge and agreement corporations or, with the prior approval of the Board, up to 20 percent of its capital and surplus in such stock.
(2)
Factors considered by Board.
The factors considered by the Board in acting on a proposal under paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall include:
(i) The composition of the assets of the bank's Edge and agreement corporations;
(ii) The total capital invested by the bank in its Edge and agreement corporations when combined with retained earnings of the Edge and agreement corporations (including amounts invested in and retained earnings of any foreign bank subsidiaries) as a percentage of the bank's capital;
(iii) Whether the bank, bank holding company, and Edge and agreement corporations are well-capitalized and well-managed;
(iv) Whether the bank is adequately capitalized after deconsolidating and deducting the aggregate investment in
and assets of all Edge or agreement corporations and all foreign bank subsidiaries; and
(v) Any other factor the Board deems relevant to the safety and soundness of the member bank.
(i)
Reserve requirements and interest rate limitations.
The deposits of an Edge or agreement corporation are subject to Regulations D and Q (12 CFR parts 204 and 217) in the same manner and to the same extent as if the Edge or agreement corporation were a member bank.
(j)
Liquid funds.
Funds of an Edge or agreement corporation that are not currently employed in its international or foreign business, if held or invested in the United States, shall be in the form of:
(1) Cash;
(2) Deposits with depository institutions, as described in Regulation D (12 CFR part 204), and other Edge and agreement corporations;
(3) Money-market instruments (including repurchase agreements with respect to such instruments), such as bankers' acceptances, federal funds sold, and commercial paper; and
(4) Short- or long-term obligations of, or fully guaranteed by, federal, state, and local governments and their instrumentalities.
(k)
Reports by Edge and agreement corporations of crimes and suspected crimes.
An Edge or agreement corporation, or any branch or subsidiary thereof, shall file a suspicious-activity report in accordance with the provisions of § 208.62 of Regulation H (12 CFR 208.62).
(l)
Protection of customer information and consumer information.
An Edge or agreement corporation shall comply with the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards prescribed pursuant to sections 501 and 505 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801 and 6805) and, with respect to the proper disposal of consumer information, section 216 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (15 U.S.C. 1681w), set forth in appendix D-2 to part 208 of this chapter.
(m)
Procedures for monitoring Bank Secrecy Act compliance.
(1)
Establishment of Compliance Program.
Each Edge corporation and each agreement corporation shall, in accordance with the provisions of § 208.63 of the Board's Regulation H, 12 CFR 208.63, develop and provide for the continued administration of a program reasonably designed to assure and monitor compliance with the provisions of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code, the Bank Secrecy Act, and the implementing regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR part 103. The compliance program shall be reduced to writing, approved by the board of directors, and noted in the minutes.
(2)
Customer identification program.
Each Edge or agreement corporation is subject to the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) and the implementing regulation jointly promulgated by the Board and the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR 103.121, which require a customer identification program.
[66 FR 54374, Oct. 26, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 58655, Nov. 23, 2001; 68 FR 25112, May 9, 2003; 69 FR 77618, Dec. 28, 2004; 71 FR 13936, Mar. 20, 2006]
§ 211.6
Permissible activities of Edge and agreement corporations in the United States.
(a)
Activities incidental to international or foreign business.
An Edge or agreement corporation may engage, directly or indirectly, in activities in the United States that are permitted by section 25A(6) of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 615) and are incidental to international or foreign business, and in such other activities as the Board determines are incidental to international or foreign business. The following activities will ordinarily be considered incidental to an Edge or agreement corporation's international or foreign business:
(1)
Deposit-taking activities
—(i)
Deposits from foreign governments and foreign persons.
An Edge or agreement corporation may receive in the United States transaction accounts, savings, and time deposits (including issuing negotiable certificates of deposits) from foreign governments and their agencies and instrumentalities, and from foreign persons.
(ii)
Deposits from other persons.
An Edge or agreement corporation may receive from any other person in the United States transaction accounts,
savings, and time deposits (including issuing negotiable certificates of deposit) if such deposits:
(A) Are to be transmitted abroad;
(B) Consist of funds to be used for payment of obligations to the Edge or agreement corporation or collateral securing such obligations;
(C) Consist of the proceeds of collections abroad that are to be used to pay for exported or imported goods or for other costs of exporting or importing or that are to be periodically transferred to the depositor's account at another financial institution;
(D) Consist of the proceeds of extensions of credit by the Edge or agreement corporation;
(E) Represent compensation to the Edge or agreement corporation for extensions of credit or services to the customer;
(F) Are received from Edge or agreement corporations, foreign banks, and other depository institutions (as described in Regulation D (12 CFR part 204)); or
(G) Are received from an organization that by its charter, license, or enabling law is limited to business that is of an international character, including foreign sales corporations, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 922; transportation organizations engaged exclusively in the international transportation of passengers or in the movement of goods, wares, commodities, or merchandise in international or foreign commerce; and export trading companies established under subpart C of this part.
(2)
Borrowings.
An Edge or agreement corporation may:
(i) Borrow from offices of other Edge and agreement corporations, foreign banks, and depository institutions (as described in Regulation D (12 CFR part 204));
(ii) Issue obligations to the United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities;
(iii) Incur indebtedness from a transfer of direct obligations of, or obligations that are fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof that the Edge or agreement corporation is obligated to repurchase; and
(iv) Issue long-term subordinated debt that does not qualify as a
deposit
under Regulation D (12 CFR part 204).
(3)
Credit activities.
An Edge or agreement corporation may:
(i) Finance the following:
(A) Contracts, projects, or activities performed substantially abroad;
(B) The importation into or exportation from the United States of goods, whether direct or through brokers or other intermediaries;
(C) The domestic shipment or temporary storage of goods being imported or exported (or accumulated for export); and
(D) The assembly or repackaging of goods imported or to be exported;
(ii) Finance the costs of production of goods and services for which export orders have been received or which are identifiable as being directly for export;
(iii) Assume or acquire participations in extensions of credit, or acquire obligations arising from transactions the Edge or agreement corporation could have financed, including acquisition of obligations of foreign governments;
(iv) Guarantee debts, or otherwise agree to make payments on the occurrence of readily ascertainable events (including, but not limited to, nonpayment of taxes, rentals, customs duties, or cost of transport, and loss or nonconformance of shipping documents), so long as the guarantee or agreement specifies the maximum monetary liability thereunder and is related to a type of transaction described in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section; and
(v) Provide credit and other banking services for domestic and foreign purposes to foreign governments and their agencies and instrumentalities, foreign persons, and organizations of the type described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(G) of this section.
(4)
Payments and collections.
An Edge or agreement corporation may receive checks, bills, drafts, acceptances, notes, bonds, coupons, and other instruments for collection abroad, and collect such instruments in the United States for a customer abroad; and may transmit and receive wire transfers of funds and securities for depositors.
(5)
Foreign exchange.
An Edge or agreement corporation may engage in foreign exchange activities.
(6)
Fiduciary and investment advisory activities.
An Edge or agreement corporation may:
(i) Hold securities in safekeeping for, or buy and sell securities upon the order and for the account and risk of, a person, provided such services for U.S. persons are with respect to foreign securities only;
(ii) Act as paying agent for securities issued by foreign governments or other entities organized under foreign law;
(iii) Act as trustee, registrar, conversion agent, or paying agent with respect to any class of securities issued to finance foreign activities and distributed solely outside the United States;
(iv) Make private placements of participations in its investments and extensions of credit; however, except to the extent permissible for member banks under section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh)), no Edge or agreement corporation otherwise may engage in the business of underwriting, distributing, or buying or selling securities in the United States;
(v) Act as investment or financial adviser by providing portfolio investment advice and portfolio management with respect to securities, other financial instruments, real-property interests, and other investment assets,
3
and by providing advice on mergers and acquisitions, provided such services for U.S. persons are with respect to foreign assets only; and
3
For purposes of this section, management of an investment portfolio does not include operational management of real property, or industrial or commercial assets.
(vi) Provide general economic information and advice, general economic statistical forecasting services, and industry studies, provided such services for U.S. persons shall be with respect to foreign economies and industries only.
(7)
Banking services for employees.
Provide banking services, including deposit services, to the officers and employees of the Edge or agreement corporation and its affiliates; however, extensions of credit to such persons shall be subject to the restrictions of Regulation O (12 CFR part 215) as if the Edge or agreement corporation were a member bank.
(b)
Other activities.
With the Board's prior approval, an Edge or agreement corporation may engage, directly or indirectly, in other activities in the United States that the Board determines are incidental to their international or foreign business.
§ 211.7
Voluntary liquidation of Edge and agreement corporations.
(a)
Prior notice.
An Edge or agreement corporation desiring voluntarily to discontinue normal business and dissolve, shall provide the Board with 45 days' prior written notice of its intent to do so.
(b)
Waiver of notice period.
The Board may waive the 45-day period if it finds that immediate action is required by the circumstances presented.
§ 211.8
Investments and activities abroad.
(a)
General policy.
Activities abroad, whether conducted directly or indirectly, shall be confined to activities of a banking or financial nature and those that are necessary to carry on such activities. In doing so, investors
4
shall at all times act in accordance with high standards of banking or financial prudence, having due regard for diversification of risks, suitable liquidity, and adequacy of capital. Subject to these considerations and the other provisions of this section, it is the Board's policy to allow activities abroad to be organized and operated as best meets corporate policies.
4
For purposes of this section and §§ 211.9 and 211.10 of this part, a direct subsidiary of a member bank is deemed to be an investor.
(b)
Direct investments by member banks.
A member bank's direct investments under section 25 of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
) shall be limited to:
(1) Foreign banks;
(2) Domestic or foreign organizations formed for the sole purpose of holding shares of a foreign bank;
(3) Foreign organizations formed for the sole purpose of performing nominee, fiduciary, or other banking services incidental to the activities of a
foreign branch or foreign bank affiliate of the member bank; and
(4) Subsidiaries established pursuant to § 211.4(a)(8) of this part.
(c)
Eligible investments.
Subject to the limitations set out in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, an investor may, directly or indirectly:
(1)
Investment in subsidiary.
Invest in a subsidiary that engages solely in activities listed in § 211.10 of this part, or in such other activities as the Board has determined in the circumstances of a particular case are permissible; provided that, in the case of an acquisition of a going concern, existing activities that are not otherwise permissible for a subsidiary may account for not more than 5 percent of either the consolidated assets or consolidated revenues of the acquired organization;
(2)
Investment in joint venture.
Invest in a joint venture; provided that, unless otherwise permitted by the Board, not more than 10 percent of the joint venture's consolidated assets or consolidated revenues are attributable to activities not listed in § 211.10 of this part; and
(3)
Portfolio investments.
Make portfolio investments in an organization, provided that:
(i)
Individual investment limits.
The total direct and indirect portfolio investments by the investor and its affiliates in an organization engaged in activities that are not permissible for joint ventures, when combined with all other shares in the organization held under any other authority, do not exceed:
(A) 40 percent of the total equity of the organization; or
(B) 19.9 percent of the organization's voting shares.
(ii)
Aggregate Investment Limit.
Portfolio investments made under authority of this subpart shall be subject to the aggregate equity limit of § 211.10(a)(15)(iii).
(iii)
Loans and extensions of credit.
Any loans and extensions of credit made by an investor or its affiliates to the organization are on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions between the investor or its affiliates and nonaffiliated persons; and
(iv)
Protecting shareholder rights.
Nothing in this paragraph (c)(3) shall prohibit an investor from otherwise exercising rights it may have as shareholder to protect the value of its investment, so long as the exercise of such rights does not result in the investor's direct or indirect control of the organization.
(d)
Investment limit.
In calculating the amount that may be invested in any organization under this section and §§ 211.9 and 211.10 of this part, there shall be included any unpaid amount for which the investor is liable and any investments in the same organization held by affiliates under any authority.
(e)
Divestiture.
An investor shall dispose of an investment promptly (unless the Board authorizes retention) if:
(1) The organization invested in:
(i) Engages in impermissible activities to an extent not permitted under paragraph (c) of this section; or
(ii) Engages directly or indirectly in other business in the United States that is not permitted to an Edge corporation in the United States; provided that an investor may:
(A) Retain portfolio investments in companies that derive no more than 10 percent of their total revenue from activities in the United States; and
(B) Hold up to 5 percent of the shares of a foreign company that engages directly or indirectly in business in the United States that is not permitted to an Edge corporation; or
(2) After notice and opportunity for hearing, the investor is advised by the Board that such investment is inappropriate under the FRA, the BHC Act, or this subpart.
(f)
Debts previously contracted.
Shares or other ownership interests acquired to prevent a loss upon a debt previously contracted in good faith are not subject to the limitations or procedures of this section; provided that such interests shall be disposed of promptly but in no event later than two years after their acquisition, unless the Board authorizes retention for a longer period.
(g)
Investments made through debt-for-equity conversions
—(1)
Permissible investments.
A bank holding company may
make investments through the conversion of sovereign-or private-debt obligations of an eligible country, either through direct exchange of the debt obligations for the investment, or by a payment for the debt in local currency, the proceeds of which, including an additional cash investment not exceeding in the aggregate more than 10 percent of the fair value of the debt obligations being converted as part of such investment, are used to purchase the following investments:
(i)
Public-sector companies.
A bank holding company may acquire up to and including 100 percent of the shares of (or other ownership interests in) any foreign company located in an eligible country, if the shares are acquired from the government of the eligible country or from its agencies or instrumentalities.
(ii)
Private-sector companies.
A bank holding company may acquire up to and including 40 percent of the shares, including voting shares, of (or other ownership interests in) any other foreign company located in an eligible country subject to the following conditions:
(A) A bank holding company may acquire more than 25 percent of the voting shares of the foreign company only if another shareholder or group of shareholders unaffiliated with the bank holding company holds a larger block of voting shares of the company;
(B) The bank holding company and its affiliates may not lend or otherwise extend credit to the foreign company in amounts greater than 50 percent of the total loans and extensions of credit to the foreign company; and
(C) The bank holding company's representation on the board of directors or on management committees of the foreign company may be no more than proportional to its shareholding in the foreign company.
(2)
Investments by bank subsidiary of bank holding company.
Upon application, the Board may permit an indirect investment to be made pursuant to this paragraph (g) through an insured bank subsidiary of the bank holding company, where the bank holding company demonstrates that such ownership is consistent with the purposes of the FRA. In granting its consent, the Board may impose such conditions as it deems necessary or appropriate to prevent adverse effects, including prohibiting loans from the bank to the company in which the investment is made.
(3)
Divestiture
—(i)
Time limits for divestiture.
A bank holding company shall divest the shares of, or other ownership interests in, any company acquired pursuant to this paragraph (g) within the longer of:
(A) Ten years from the date of acquisition of the investment, except that the Board may extend such period if, in the Board's judgment, such an extension would not be detrimental to the public interest; or
(B) Two years from the date on which the bank holding company is permitted to repatriate in full the investment in the foreign company.
(ii)
Maximum retention period.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section:
(A) Divestiture shall occur within 15 years of the date of acquisition of the shares of, or other ownership interests in, any company acquired pursuant to this paragraph (g); and
(B) A bank holding company may retain such shares or ownership interests if such retention is otherwise permissible at the time required for divestiture.
(iii)
Report to Board.
The bank holding company shall report to the Board on its plans for divesting an investment made under this paragraph (g) two years prior to the final date for divestiture, in a manner to be prescribed by the Board.
(iv)
Other conditions requiring divestiture.
All investments made pursuant to this paragraph (g) are subject to paragraph (e) of this section requiring prompt divestiture (unless the Board upon application authorizes retention), if the company invested in engages in impermissible business in the United States that exceeds in the aggregate 10 percent of the company's consolidated assets or revenues calculated on an annual basis; provided that such company may not engage in activities in the United States that consist of banking or financial operations (as defined in § 211.23(f)(5)(iii)(B)) of this part, or
types of activities permitted by regulation or order under section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)), except under regulations of the Board or with the prior approval of the Board.
(4)
Investment procedures
—(i)
General consent.
Subject to the other limitations of this paragraph (g), the Board grants its general consent for investments made under this paragraph (g) if the total amount invested does not exceed the greater of $25 million or 1 percent of the tier 1 capital of the investor.
(ii) All other investments shall be made in accordance with the procedures of § 211.9(f) and (g) of this part, requiring prior notice or specific consent.
(5)
Conditions
—(i)
Name.
Any company acquired pursuant to this paragraph (g) shall not bear a name similar to the name of the acquiring bank holding company or any of its affiliates.
(ii)
Confidentiality.
Neither the bank holding company nor its affiliates shall provide to any company acquired pursuant to this paragraph (g) any confidential business information or other information concerning customers that are engaged in the same or related lines of business as the company.
[66 FR 54374, Oct. 26, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 58655, Nov. 23, 2001]
§ 211.9
Investment procedures.
(a)
General provisions.
1
Direct and indirect investments shall be made in accordance with the general consent, limited general consent, prior notice, or specific consent procedures contained in this section.
1
When necessary, the provisions of this section relating to general consent and prior notice constitute the Board's approval under section 25A(8) of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 615) for investments in excess of the limitations therein based on capital and surplus.
(1)
Minimum capital adequacy standards.
Except as the Board may otherwise determine, in order for an investor to make investments pursuant to the procedures set out in this section, the investor, the bank holding company, and the member bank shall be in compliance with applicable minimum standards for capital adequacy set out in the capital rule; provided that, if the investor is an Edge or agreement corporation, the minimum capital required is total and tier 1 capital ratios of 8 percent and 4 percent, respectively.
(2)
Composite rating.
Except as the Board may otherwise determine, in order for an investor to make investments under the general consent or limited general consent procedures of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, at the most recent examination the investor and any parent insured bank must have either received a composite rating of at least 2 or be considered satisfactory under the applicable rating system.
(3)
Board's authority to modify or suspend procedures.
The Board, at any time upon notice, may modify or suspend the procedures contained in this section with respect to any investor or with respect to the acquisition of shares of organizations engaged in particular kinds of activities.
(4)
Long-range investment plan.
Any investor may submit to the Board for its specific consent a long-range investment plan. Any plan so approved shall be subject to the other procedures of this section only to the extent determined necessary by the Board to assure safety and soundness of the operations of the investor and its affiliates.
(5)
Prior specific consent for initial investment.
An investor shall apply for and receive the prior specific consent of the Board for its initial investment under this subpart in its first subsidiary or joint venture, unless an affiliate previously has received approval to make such an investment.
(6)
Expiration of investment authority.
Authority to make investments granted under prior notice or specific consent procedures shall expire one year from the earliest date on which the authority could have been exercised, unless the Board determines a longer period shall apply.
(7)
Conditional approval; Access to information.
The Board may impose such conditions on authority granted by it under this section as it deems necessary, and may require termination of any activities conducted under authority of this subpart if an investor is unable to provide information on its activities or those of its affiliates that
the Board deems necessary to determine and enforce compliance with U.S. banking laws.
(b)
General consent.
The Board grants its general consent for a well capitalized and well managed investor to make investments, subject to the following:
(1)
Well capitalized and well managed investor.
In order to qualify for making investments under authority of this paragraph (b), both before and immediately after the proposed investment, the investor, any parent insured bank, and any parent bank holding company shall be well capitalized and well managed.
(2)
Individual limit for investment in subsidiary.
In the case of an investment in a subsidiary, the total amount invested directly or indirectly in such subsidiary (in one transaction or a series of transactions) does not exceed:
(i) 10 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a bank holding company; or
(ii) 2 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a member bank; or
(iii) The lesser of 2 percent of the tier 1 capital of any parent insured bank or 10 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, for any other investor.
(3)
Individual limit for investment in joint venture.
In the case of an investment in a joint venture, the total amount invested directly or indirectly in such joint venture (in one transaction or a series of transactions) does not exceed:
(i) 5 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a bank holding company; or
(ii) 1 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a member bank; or
(iii) The lesser of 1 percent of the tier 1 capital of any parent insured bank or 5 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, for any other investor.
(4)
Individual limit for portfolio investment.
In the case of a portfolio investment, the total amount invested directly or indirectly in such company (in one transaction or a series of transactions) does not exceed the lesser of $25 million, or
(i) 5 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital in the case of a bank holding company or its subsidiary, or Edge corporation engaged in banking; or
(ii) 25 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital in the case of an Edge corporation not engaged in banking.
(5)
Investment in a general partnership or unlimited liability company.
An investment in a general partnership or unlimited liability company may be made under authority of paragraph (b) of this section, subject to the limits set out in paragraph (c) of this section.
(6)
Aggregate investment limits
—(i)
Investment limits.
All investments made, directly or indirectly, during the previous 12-month period under authority of this section, when aggregated with the proposed investment, shall not exceed:
(A) 20 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a bank holding company;
(B) 10 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a member bank; or
(C) The lesser of 10 percent of the tier 1 capital of any parent insured bank or 50 percent of the tier 1 capital of the investor, for any other investor.
(ii)
Downstream investments.
In determining compliance with the aggregate limits set out in this paragraph (b), an investment by an investor in a subsidiary shall be counted only once, notwithstanding that such subsidiary may, within 12 months of the date of making the investment, downstream all or any part of such investment to another subsidiary.
(7)
Application of limits.
In determining compliance with the limits set out in this paragraph (b), an investor is not required to combine the value of all shares of an organization held in trading or dealing accounts under § 211.10(a)(15) of this part with investments in the same organization.
(c)
Limited general consent
—(1)
Individual limit.
The Board grants its general consent for an investor that is not well capitalized and well managed to make an investment in a subsidiary or joint venture, or to make a portfolio investment, if the total amount invested directly or indirectly (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) does not exceed the lesser of $25 million or:
(i) 5 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a bank holding company;
(ii) 1 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a member bank; or
(iii) The lesser of 1 percent of any parent insured bank's tier 1 capital or 5 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, for any other investor.
(2)
Aggregate limit.
The amount of general consent investments made by any investor directly or indirectly under authority of this paragraph (c) during the previous 12-month period, when aggregated with the proposed investment, shall not exceed:
(i) 10 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a bank holding company;
(ii) 5 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a member bank; and
(iii) The lesser of 5 percent of any parent insured bank's tier 1 capital or 25 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, for any other investor.
(3)
Application of limits.
In calculating compliance with the limits of this paragraph (c), the rules set forth in paragraphs (b)(6)(ii) and (b)(7) of this section shall apply.
(d)
Other eligible investments under general consent.
In addition to the authority granted under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Board grants its general consent for any investor to make the following investments:
(1)
Investment in organization equal to cash dividends.
Any investment in an organization in an amount equal to cash dividends received from that organization during the preceding 12 calendar months; and
(2)
Investment acquired from affiliate.
Any investment that is acquired from an affiliate at net asset value or through a contribution of shares.
(e)
Investments ineligible for general consent.
An investment in a foreign bank may not be made under authority of paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section if:
(1) After the investment, the foreign bank would be an affiliate of a member bank; and
(2) The foreign bank is located in a country in which the member bank and its affiliates have no existing banking presence.
(f)
Prior notice.
An investment that does not qualify for general consent under paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section may be made after the investor has given the Board 30 days' prior written notice, such notice period to commence at the time the notice is received, provided that:
(1) The Board may waive the 30-day period if it finds the full period is not required for consideration of the proposed investment, or that immediate action is required by the circumstances presented; and
(2) The Board may suspend the 30-day period or act on the investment under the Board's specific consent procedures.
(g)
Specific consent.
Any investment that does not qualify for either the general consent or the prior notice procedure may not be consummated without the specific consent of the Board.
[66 FR 54374, Oct. 26, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 58655, Nov. 23, 2001; Reg. K, 83 FR 58734, Nov. 21, 2018; 84 FR 61797, Nov. 13, 2019]
§ 211.10
Permissible activities abroad.
(a)
Activities usual in connection with banking.
The Board has determined that the following activities are usual in connection with the transaction of banking or other financial operations abroad:
(1) Commercial and other banking activities;
(2) Financing, including commercial financing, consumer financing, mortgage banking, and factoring;
(3) Leasing real or personal property, or acting as agent, broker, or advisor in leasing real or personal property consistent with the provisions of Regulation Y (12 CFR part 225);
(4) Acting as fiduciary;
(5) Underwriting credit life insurance and credit accident and health insurance;
(6) Performing services for other direct or indirect operations of a U.S. banking organization, including representative functions, sale of long-term debt, name-saving, holding assets acquired to prevent loss on a debt previously contracted in good faith, and other activities that are permissible
domestically for a bank holding company under sections 4(a)(2)(A) and 4(c)(1)(C) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(a)(2)(A), (c)(1)(C));
(7) Holding the premises of a branch of an Edge or agreement corporation or member bank or the premises of a direct or indirect subsidiary, or holding or leasing the residence of an officer or employee of a branch or subsidiary;
(8) Providing investment, financial, or economic advisory services;
(9) General insurance agency and brokerage;
(10) Data processing;
(11) Organizing, sponsoring, and managing a mutual fund, if the fund's shares are not sold or distributed in the United States or to U.S. residents and the fund does not exercise managerial control over the firms in which it invests;
(12) Performing management consulting services, if such services, when rendered with respect to the U.S. market, shall be restricted to the initial entry;
(13) Underwriting, distributing, and dealing in debt securities outside the United States;
(14) Underwriting and distributing equity securities outside the United States as follows:
(i)
Limits for well-capitalized and well-managed investor
—(A)
General.
After providing 30 days' prior written notice to the Board, an investor that is well capitalized and well managed may underwrite equity securities, provided that commitments by an investor and its subsidiaries for the shares of a single organization do not, in the aggregate, exceed:
(
1
) 15 percent of the bank holding company's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a bank holding company;
(
2
) 3 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a member bank; or
(
3
) The lesser of 3 percent of any parent insured bank's tier 1 capital or 15 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, for any other investor;
(B)
Qualifying criteria.
An investor will be considered well-capitalized and well-managed for purposes of paragraph (a)(14)(i) of this section only if each of the bank holding company, member bank, and Edge or agreement corporation qualify as well-capitalized and well-managed.
(ii)
Limits for investor that is not well capitalized and well managed.
After providing 30 days' prior written notice to the Board, an investor that is not well capitalized and well managed may underwrite equity securities, provided that commitments by the investor and its subsidiaries for the shares of an organization do not, in the aggregate, exceed $60 million; and
(iii)
Application of limits.
For purposes of determining compliance with the limitations of this paragraph (a)(14), the investor may subtract portions of an underwriting that are covered by binding commitments obtained by the investor or its affiliates from sub-underwriters or other purchasers;
(15) Dealing in equity securities outside the United States as follows:
(i)
Grandfathered authority.
By an investor, or an affiliate, that had commenced such activities prior to March 27, 1991, and subject to the limitations in effect at that time (See 12 CFR part 211, revised January 1, 1991); or
(ii)
Limit on shares of a single issuer.
After providing 30 days' prior written notice to the Board, an investor may deal in the shares of an organization where the shares held in the trading or dealing accounts of an investor and its affiliates under authority of this paragraph (a)(15) do not in the aggregate exceed the lesser of:
(A) $40 million; or
(B) 10 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital;
(iii)
Aggregate equity limit.
The total shares held directly and indirectly by the investor and its affiliates under authority of this paragraph (a)(15) and § 211.8(c)(3) of this part in organizations engaged in activities that are not permissible for joint ventures do not exceed:
(A) 25 percent of the bank holding company's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a bank holding company;
(B) 20 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, where the investor is a member bank;
6
and
6
For this purpose, a direct subsidiary of a member bank is deemed to be an investor.
(C) The lesser of 20 percent of any parent insured bank's tier 1 capital or
100 percent of the investor's tier 1 capital, for any other investor;
(iv)
Determining compliance with limits
—(A)
General.
For purposes of determining compliance with all limits set out in this paragraph (a)(15):
(
1
) Long and short positions in the same security may be netted; and
(
2
) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(15)(iv)(B)(
4
) of this section, equity securities held in order to hedge bank permissible equity derivatives contracts shall not be included.
(B)
Use of internal hedging models.
After providing 30 days' prior written notice to the Board the investor may use an internal hedging model that:
(
1
) Nets long and short positions in the same security and offsets positions in a security by futures, forwards, options, and other similar instruments referenced to the same security, for purposes of determining compliance with the single issuer limits of paragraph (a)(15)(ii) of this section;
7
and
7
A basket of stocks, specifically segregated as an offset to a position in a stock index derivative product, as computed by the investor's internal model, may be offset against the stock index.
(
2
) Offsets its long positions in equity securities by futures, forwards, options, and similar instruments, on a portfolio basis, and for purposes of determining compliance with the aggregate equity limits of paragraph (a)(15)(iii) of this section.
(
3
) With respect to all equity securities held under authority of paragraph (a)(15) of this section, no net long position in a security shall be deemed to have been reduced by more than 75 percent through use of internal hedging models under this paragraph (a)(15)(iv)(B); and
(
4
) With respect to equity securities acquired to hedge bank permissible equity derivatives contracts under authority of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, any residual position that remains in the securities of a single issuer after netting and offsetting of positions relating to the security under the investor's internal hedging models shall be included in calculating compliance with the limits of this paragraph (a)(15)(ii) and (iii).
(C)
Underwriting commitments.
Any shares acquired pursuant to an underwriting commitment that are held for longer than 90 days after the payment date for such underwriting shall be subject to the limits set out in paragraph (a)(15) of this section and the investment provisions of §§ 211.8 and 211.9 of this part.
(v)
Authority to deal in shares of U.S. organization.
The authority to deal in shares under paragraph (a)(15) of this section includes the authority to deal in the shares of a U.S. organization:
(A) With respect to foreign persons only; and
(B) Subject to the limitations on owning or controlling shares of a company in section 4(c)(6) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(6)) and Regulation Y (12 CFR part 225).
(vi)
Report to senior management.
Any shares held in trading or dealing accounts for longer than 90 days shall be reported to the senior management of the investor;
(16) Operating a travel agency, but only in connection with financial services offered abroad by the investor or others;
(17) Underwriting life, annuity, pension fund-related, and other types of insurance, where the associated risks have been previously determined by the Board to be actuarially predictable; provided that:
(i) Investments in, and loans and extensions of credit (other than loans and extensions of credit fully secured in accordance with the requirements of section 23A of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 371c), or with such other standards as the Board may require) to, the company by the investor or its affiliates are deducted from the capital of the investor (with 50 percent of such capital deduction to be taken from tier 1 capital); and
(ii) Activities conducted directly or indirectly by a subsidiary of a U.S. insured bank are excluded from the authority of this paragraph (a)(17), unless authorized by the Board;
(18) Providing futures commission merchant services (including clearing without executing and executing without clearing) for nonaffiliated persons with respect to futures and options on futures contracts for financial and nonfinancial commodities; provided that prior notice under § 211.9(f) of this part shall be provided to the Board before
any subsidiaries of a member bank operating pursuant to this subpart may join a mutual exchange or clearinghouse, unless the potential liability of the investor to the exchange, clearinghouse, or other members of the exchange, as the case may be, is legally limited by the rules of the exchange or clearinghouse to an amount that does not exceed applicable general consent limits under § 211.9 of this part;
(19) Acting as principal or agent in commodity-swap transactions in relation to:
(i) Swaps on a cash-settled basis for any commodity, provided that the investor's portfolio of swaps contracts is hedged in a manner consistent with safe and sound banking practices; and
(ii) Contracts that require physical delivery of a commodity, provided that:
(A) Such contracts are entered into solely for the purpose of hedging the investor's positions in the underlying commodity or derivative contracts based on the commodity;
(B) The contract allows for assignment, termination or offset prior to expiration; and
(C) Reasonable efforts are made to avoid delivery.
(b)
Regulation Y activities.
An investor may engage in activities that the Board has determined in § 225.28(b) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.28(b)) are closely related to banking under section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)).
(c)
Specific approval.
With the Board's specific approval, an investor may engage in other activities that the Board determines are usual in connection with the transaction of the business of banking or other financial operations abroad and are consistent with the FRA or the BHC Act.
§ 211.11
Advisory opinions under Regulation K.
(a)
Request for advisory opinion.
Any person may submit a request to the Board for an advisory opinion regarding the scope of activities permissible under any subpart of this part.
(b)
Form and content of the request.
Any request for an advisory opinion under this section shall be:
(1) Submitted in writing to the Board;
(2) Contain a clear description of the proposed parameters of the activity, or the service or product, at issue; and
(3) Contain a concise explanation of the grounds on which the submitter contends the activity is or should be considered by the Board to be permissible under this part.
(c)
Response to request.
In response to a request received under this section, the Board shall:
(1) Direct the submitter to provide such additional information as the Board may deem necessary to complete the record for a full consideration of the issue presented; and
(2) Provide an advisory opinion within 45 days after the record on the request has been determined to be complete.
§ 211.12
Lending limits and capital requirements.
(a)
Acceptances of Edge corporations.
(1) Limitations. An Edge corporation shall be and remain fully secured for acceptances of the types described in section 13(7) of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 372), as follows:
(i) All acceptances outstanding in excess of 200 percent of its tier 1 capital; and
(ii) All acceptances outstanding for any one person in excess of 10 percent of its tier 1 capital.
(2)
Exceptions.
These limitations do not apply if the excess represents the international shipment of goods, and the Edge corporation is:
(i) Fully covered by primary obligations to reimburse it that are guaranteed by banks or bankers; or
(ii) Covered by participation agreements from other banks, as described in 12 CFR 250.165.
(b)
Loans and extensions of credit to one person
—(1)
Loans and extensions of credit defined. Loans and extensions of credit
has the meaning set forth in § 211.2(q) of this part
8
and, for purposes of this paragraph (b), also include:
8
In the case of a foreign government, these includes loans and extensions of credit to the foreign government's departments or agencies deriving their current funds principally from general tax revenues. In the case of a partnership or firm, these include loans and
extensions of credit to its members and, in the case of a corporation, these include loans and extensions of credit to the corporation's affiliates, where the affiliate incurs the liability for the benefit of the corporation.
(i) Acceptances outstanding that are not of the types described in section 13(7) of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 372);
(ii) Any liability of the lender to advance funds to or on behalf of a person pursuant to a guarantee, standby letter of credit, or similar agreements;
(iii) Investments in the securities of another organization other than a subsidiary; and
(iv) Any underwriting commitments to an issuer of securities, where no binding commitments have been secured from subunderwriters or other purchasers.
(2)
Limitations.
Except as the Board may otherwise specify:
(i) The total loans and extensions of credit outstanding to any person by an Edge corporation engaged in banking, and its direct or indirect subsidiaries, may not exceed 15 percent of the Edge corporation's tier 1 capital;
9
and
9
For purposes of this paragraph (b),
subsidiaries
includes subsidiaries controlled by the Edge corporation, but does not include companies otherwise controlled by affiliates of the Edge corporation.
(ii) The total loans and extensions of credit to any person by a foreign bank or Edge corporation subsidiary of a member bank, and by majority-owned subsidiaries of a foreign bank or Edge corporation, when combined with the total loans and extensions of credit to the same person by the member bank and its majority-owned subsidiaries, may not exceed the member bank's limitation on loans and extensions of credit to one person.
(3)
Exceptions.
The limitations of paragraph (b)(2) of this section do not apply to:
(i) Deposits with banks and federal funds sold;
(ii) Bills or drafts drawn in good faith against actual goods and on which two or more unrelated parties are liable;
(iii) Any banker's acceptance, of the kind described in section 13(7) of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 372), that is issued and outstanding;
(iv) Obligations to the extent secured by cash collateral or by bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, or Treasury bills of the United States;
(v) Loans and extensions of credit that are covered by bona fide participation agreements; and
(vi) Obligations to the extent supported by the full faith and credit of the following:
(A) The United States or any of its departments, agencies, establishments, or wholly owned corporations (including obligations, to the extent insured against foreign political and credit risks by the Export-Import Bank of the United States or the Foreign Credit Insurance Association), the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Finance Corporation, the International Development Association, the Inter-American Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development;
(B) Any organization, if at least 25 percent of such an obligation or of the total credit is also supported by the full faith and credit of, or participated in by, any institution designated in paragraph (b)(3)(vi)(A) of this section in such manner that default to the lender would necessarily include default to that entity. The total loans and extensions of credit under this paragraph (b)(3)(vi)(B) to any person shall at no time exceed 100 percent of the tier 1 capital of the Edge corporation.
(c)
Capitalization.
(1) An Edge corporation shall at all times be capitalized in an amount that is adequate in relation to the scope and character of its activities.
(2) In the case of an Edge corporation engaged in banking, the minimum ratio of qualifying total capital to risk-weighted assets, as determined under the capital rule, shall not be less than 10 percent, of which at least 50 percent shall consist of tier 1 capital.
(3) For purposes of this paragraph (c), no limitation shall apply on the inclusion of subordinated debt that qualifies as tier 2 capital under the capital rule.
[Reg. K, 66 FR 54374, Oct. 26, 2001, as amended at 84 FR 61797, Nov. 13, 2019]
§ 211.13
Supervision and reporting.
(a)
Supervision
—(1)
Foreign branches and subsidiaries.
U.S. banking organizations conducting international operations under this subpart shall supervise and administer their foreign branches and subsidiaries in such a manner as to ensure that their operations conform to high standards of banking and financial prudence.
(i) Effective systems of records, controls, and reports shall be maintained to keep management informed of their activities and condition.
(ii) Such systems shall provide, in particular, information on risk assets, exposure to market risk, liquidity management, operations, internal controls, legal and operational risk, and conformance to management policies.
(iii) Reports on risk assets shall be sufficient to permit an appraisal of credit quality and assessment of exposure to loss, and, for this purpose, provide full information on the condition of material borrowers.
(iv) Reports on operations and controls shall include internal and external audits of the branch or subsidiary.
(2)
Joint ventures.
Investors shall maintain sufficient information with respect to joint ventures to keep informed of their activities and condition.
(i) Such information shall include audits and other reports on financial performance, risk exposure, management policies, operations, and controls.
(ii) Complete information shall be maintained on all transactions with the joint venture by the investor and its affiliates.
(3)
Availability of reports and information to examiners.
The reports specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section and any other information deemed necessary to determine compliance with U.S. banking law shall be made available to examiners of the appropriate bank supervisory agencies.
(b)
Examinations.
Examiners appointed by the Board shall examine each Edge corporation once a year. An Edge or agreement corporation shall make available to examiners information sufficient to assess its condition and operations and the condition and activities of any organization whose shares it holds.
(c)
Reports
—(1)
Reports of condition.
Each Edge or agreement corporation shall make reports of condition to the Board at such times and in such form as the Board may prescribe. The Board may require that statements of condition or other reports be published or made available for public inspection.
(2)
Foreign operations.
Edge and agreement corporations, member banks, and bank holding companies shall file such reports on their foreign operations as the Board may require.
(3)
Acquisition or disposition of shares.
Member banks, Edge and agreement corporations, and bank holding companies shall report, in a manner prescribed by the Board, any acquisition or disposition of shares.
(d)
Filing and processing procedures
—(1)
Place of filing.
Unless otherwise directed by the Board, applications, notices, and reports required by this part shall be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank of the District in which the parent bank or bank holding company is located or, if none, the Reserve Bank of the District in which the applying or reporting institution is located. Instructions and forms for applications, notices, and reports are available from the Reserve Banks.
(2)
Timing.
The Board shall act on an application under this subpart within 60 calendar days after the Reserve Bank has received the application, unless the Board notifies the investor that the 60-day period is being extended and states the reasons for the extension.

# Subpart B—Foreign Banking Organizations

# Source:
Reg. K, 66 FR 54374, Oct. 26, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 211.20
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) under the authority of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act) (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
) and the International Banking Act of 1978 (IBA) (12 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
).
(b)
Purpose and scope.
This subpart is in furtherance of the purposes of the
BHC Act and the IBA. It applies to foreign banks and foreign banking organizations with respect to:
(1) The limitations on interstate banking under section 5 of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3103);
(2) The exemptions from the nonbanking prohibitions of the BHC Act and the IBA afforded by sections 2(h) and 4(c)(9) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(h), 1843(c)(9));
(3) Board approval of the establishment of an office of a foreign bank in the United States under sections 7(d) and 10(a) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3105(d), 3107(a));
(4) The termination by the Board of a foreign bank's representative office, state branch, state agency, or commercial lending company subsidiary under sections 7(e) and 10(b) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3105(e), 3107(b)), and the transmission of a recommendation to the Comptroller to terminate a federal branch or federal agency under section 7(e)(5) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3105(e)(5));
(5) The examination of an office or affiliate of a foreign bank in the United States as provided in sections 7(c) and 10(c) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3105(c), 3107(c));
(6) The disclosure of supervisory information to a foreign supervisor under section 15 of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3109);
(7) The limitations on loans to one borrower by state branches and state agencies of a foreign bank under section 7(h)(2) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3105(h)(2));
(8) The limitation of a state branch and a state agency to conducting only activities that are permissible for a federal branch under section (7)(h)(1) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3105(h)(1)); and
(9) The deposit insurance requirement for retail deposit taking by a foreign bank under section 6 of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3104).
(10) The management of shell branches (12 U.S.C. 3105(k)).
(c)
Additional requirements.
Compliance by a foreign bank with the requirements of this subpart and the laws administered and enforced by the Board does not relieve the foreign bank of responsibility to comply with the laws and regulations administered by the licensing authority.
§ 211.21
Definitions.
The definitions contained in §§ 211.1 and 211.2 apply to this subpart, except as a term is otherwise defined in this section:
(a)
Affiliate
of a foreign bank or of a parent of a foreign bank means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the foreign bank or the parent of the foreign bank.
(b)
Agency
means any place of business of a foreign bank, located in any state, at which credit balances are maintained, checks are paid, money is lent, or, to the extent not prohibited by state or federal law, deposits are accepted from a person or entity that is not a citizen or resident of the United States. Obligations shall not be considered credit balances unless they are:
(1) Incidental to, or arise out of the exercise of, other lawful banking powers;
(2) To serve a specific purpose;
(3) Not solicited from the general public;
(4) Not used to pay routine operating expenses in the United States such as salaries, rent, or taxes;
(5) Withdrawn within a reasonable period of time after the specific purpose for which they were placed has been accomplished; and
(6) Drawn upon in a manner reasonable in relation to the size and nature of the account.
(c)(1)
Appropriate Federal Reserve Bank
means, unless the Board designates a different Federal Reserve Bank:
(i) For a foreign banking organization, the Reserve Bank assigned to the foreign banking organization in § 225.3(b)(2) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.3(b)(2));
(ii) For a foreign bank that is not a foreign banking organization and proposes to establish an office, an Edge corporation, or an agreement corporation, the Reserve Bank of the Federal Reserve District in which the foreign bank proposes to establish such office or corporation; and
(iii) In all other cases, the Reserve Bank designated by the Board.
(2) The appropriate Federal Reserve Bank need not be the Reserve Bank of the Federal Reserve District in which
the foreign bank's home state is located.
(d)
Banking subsidiary,
with respect to a specified foreign bank, means a bank that is a subsidiary as the terms
bank
and
subsidiary
are defined in section 2 of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841).
(e)
Branch
means any place of business of a foreign bank, located in any state, at which deposits are received, and that is not an agency, as that term is defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(f)
Change the status
of an office means to convert a representative office into a branch or agency, or an agency or limited branch into a branch, but does not include renewal of the license of an existing office.
(g)
Commercial lending company
means any organization, other than a bank or an organization operating under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act (FRA) (12 U.S.C. 601-604a), organized under the laws of any state, that maintains credit balances permissible for an agency, and engages in the business of making commercial loans.
Commercial lending company
includes any company chartered under article XII of the banking law of the State of New York.
(h)
Comptroller
means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
(i)
Control
has the same meaning as in section 2(a) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)), and the terms
controlled
and
controlling
shall be construed consistently with the term
control.
(j)
Domestic branch
means any place of business of a foreign bank, located in any state, that may accept domestic deposits and deposits that are incidental to or for the purpose of carrying out transactions in foreign countries.
(k) A foreign bank
engages directly in the business of banking outside the United States
if the foreign bank engages directly in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the countries where it is organized or operating.
(l) To
establish
means:
(1) To open and conduct business through an office;
(2) To acquire directly, through merger, consolidation, or similar transaction with another foreign bank, the operations of an office that is open and conducting business;
(3) To acquire an office through the acquisition of a foreign bank subsidiary that will cease to operate in the same corporate form following the acquisition;
(4) To change the status of an office; or
(5) To relocate an office from one state to another.
(m)
Federal agency, federal branch, state agency,
and
state branch
have the same meanings as in section 1 of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3101).
(n)
Foreign bank
means an organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country and that engages directly in the business of banking outside the United States. The term
foreign bank
does not include a central bank of a foreign country that does not engage or seek to engage in a commercial banking business in the United States through an office.
(o)
Foreign banking organization
means:
(1) A foreign bank, as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3101(7)), that:
(i) Operates a branch, agency, or commercial lending company subsidiary in the United States;
(ii) Controls a bank in the United States; or
(iii) Controls an Edge corporation acquired after March 5, 1987; and
(2) Any company of which the foreign bank is a subsidiary.
(p)
Home country,
with respect to a foreign bank, means the country in which the foreign bank is chartered or incorporated.
(q)
Home country supervisor,
with respect to a foreign bank, means the governmental entity or entities in the foreign bank's home country with responsibility for the supervision and regulation of the foreign bank.
(r)
Licensing authority
means:
(1) The relevant state supervisor, with respect to an application to establish a state branch, state agency, commercial lending company, or representative office of a foreign bank; or
(2) The Comptroller, with respect to an application to establish a federal branch or federal agency.
(s)
Limited branch
means a branch of a foreign bank that receives only such deposits as would be permitted for a
corporation organized under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611-631).
(t)
Office
or
office of a foreign bank
means any branch, agency, representative office, or commercial lending company subsidiary of a foreign bank in the United States.
(u) A
parent
of a foreign bank means a company of which the foreign bank is a subsidiary. An
immediate parent
of a foreign bank is a company of which the foreign bank is a direct subsidiary. An
ultimate parent
of a foreign bank is a parent of the foreign bank that is not the subsidiary of any other company.
(v)
Regional administrative office
means a representative office that:
(1) Is established by a foreign bank that operates two or more branches, agencies, commercial lending companies, or banks in the United States;
(2) Is located in the same city as one or more of the foreign bank's branches, agencies, commercial lending companies, or banks in the United States;
(3) Manages, supervises, or coordinates the operations of the foreign bank or its affiliates, if any, in a particular geographic area that includes the United States or a region thereof, including by exercising credit approval authority in that area pursuant to written standards, credit policies, and procedures established by the foreign bank; and
(4) Does not solicit business from actual or potential customers of the foreign bank or its affiliates.
(w)
Relevant state supervisor
means the state entity that is authorized to supervise and regulate a state branch, state agency, commercial lending company, or representative office.
(x)
Representative office
means any office of a foreign bank which is located in any state and is not a Federal branch, Federal agency, State branch, State agency, or commercial lending company subsidiary.
(y)
State
means any state of the United States or the District of Columbia.
(z)
Subsidiary
means any organization that:
(1) Has 25 percent or more of its voting shares directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or held with the power to vote by a company, including a foreign bank or foreign banking organization; or
(2) Is otherwise controlled, or capable of being controlled, by a foreign bank or foreign banking organization.
§ 211.22
Interstate banking operations of foreign banking organizations.
(a)
Determination of home state.
(1) A foreign bank that, as of December 10, 1997, had declared a home state or had a home state determined pursuant to the law and regulations in effect prior to that date shall have that state as its home state.
(2) A foreign bank that has any branches, agencies, commercial lending company subsidiaries, or subsidiary banks in one state, and has no such offices or subsidiaries in any other states, shall have as its home state the state in which such offices or subsidiaries are located.
(b)
Change of home state
—(1)
Prior notice.
A foreign bank may change its home state once, if it files 30 days' prior notice of the proposed change with the Board.
(2)
Application to change home state.
(i) A foreign bank, in addition to changing its home state by filing prior notice under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, may apply to the Board to change its home state, upon showing that a national bank or state-chartered bank with the same home state as the foreign bank would be permitted to change its home state to the new home state proposed by the foreign bank.
(ii) A foreign bank may apply to the Board for such permission one or more times.
(iii) In determining whether to grant the request of a foreign bank to change its home state, the Board shall consider whether the proposed change is consistent with competitive equity between foreign and domestic banks.
(3)
Effect of change in home state.
The home state of a foreign bank and any change in its home state by a foreign bank shall not affect which Federal Reserve Bank or Reserve Banks supervise the operations of the foreign bank, and shall not affect the obligation of the foreign bank to file required reports and applications with the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank.
(4)
Conforming branches to new home state.
Upon any change in home state by a foreign bank under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, the domestic branches of the foreign bank established in reliance on any previous home state of the foreign bank shall be conformed to those which a foreign bank with the new home state could permissibly establish or operate as of the date of such change.
(c)
Prohibition against interstate deposit production offices.
A covered interstate branch of a foreign bank may not be used as a deposit production office in accordance with the provisions in § 208.7 of Regulation H (12 CFR 208.7).
§ 211.23
Nonbanking activities of foreign banking organizations.
(a)
Qualifying foreign banking organizations.
Unless specifically made eligible for the exemptions by the Board, a foreign banking organization shall qualify for the exemptions afforded by this section only if, disregarding its United States banking, more than half of its worldwide business is banking; and more than half of its banking business is outside the United States.
10
In order to qualify, a foreign banking organization shall:
10
None of the assets, revenues, or net income, whether held or derived directly or indirectly, of a subsidiary bank, branch, agency, commercial lending company, or other company engaged in the business of banking in the United States (including any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the Virgin Islands) shall be considered held or derived from the business of banking “outside the United States”.
(1) Meet at least two of the following requirements:
(i) Banking assets held outside the United States exceed total worldwide nonbanking assets;
(ii) Revenues derived from the business of banking outside the United States exceed total revenues derived from its worldwide nonbanking business; or
(iii) Net income derived from the business of banking outside the United States exceeds total net income derived from its worldwide nonbanking business; and
(2) Meet at least two of the following requirements:
(i) Banking assets held outside the United States exceed banking assets held in the United States;
(ii) Revenues derived from the business of banking outside the United States exceed revenues derived from the business of banking in the United States; or
(iii) Net income derived from the business of banking outside the United States exceeds net income derived from the business of banking in the United States.
(b)
Determining assets, revenues, and net income.
(1)(i) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the total assets, revenues, and net income of an organization may be determined on a consolidated or combined basis.
(ii) The foreign banking organization shall include assets, revenues, and net income of companies in which it owns 50 percent or more of the voting shares when determining total assets, revenues, and net income.
(iii) The foreign banking organization may include assets, revenues, and net income of companies in which it owns 25 percent or more of the voting shares, if all such companies within the organization are included.
(2) Assets devoted to, or revenues or net income derived from, activities listed in § 211.10(a) shall be considered banking assets, or revenues or net income derived from the banking business, when conducted within the foreign banking organization by a foreign bank or its subsidiaries.
(c)
Limited exemptions available to foreign banking organizations in certain circumstances.
The following shall apply where a foreign bank meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section but its ultimate parent does not:
(1) Such foreign bank shall be entitled to the exemptions available to a qualifying foreign banking organization if its ultimate parent meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and could meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section but for the requirement in paragraph (b)(2) of this section that activities must be conducted by the foreign bank or its subsidiaries in order to be considered derived from the banking business;
(2) An ultimate parent as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be eligible for the exemptions available to a qualifying foreign banking organization except for those provided in § 211.23(f)(5)(iii).
(d)
Loss of eligibility for exemptions
—(1)
Failure to meet qualifying test.
A foreign banking organization that qualified under paragraph (a) or (c) of this section shall cease to be eligible for the exemptions of this section if it fails to meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) or (c) of this section for two consecutive years, as reflected in its annual reports (FR Y-7) filed with the Board.
(2)
Continuing activities and investments.
(i) A foreign banking organization that ceases to be eligible for the exemptions of this section may continue to engage in activities or retain investments commenced or acquired prior to the end of the first fiscal year for which its annual report reflects nonconformance with paragraph (a) or (c) of this section.
(ii)
Termination or divestiture.
Activities commenced or investments made after that date shall be terminated or divested within three months of the filing of the second annual report, or at such time as the Board may determine upon request by the foreign banking organization to extend the period, unless the Board grants consent to continue the activity or retain the investment under paragraph (e) of this section.
(3)
Request for specific determination of eligibility.
(i) A foreign banking organization that ceases to qualify under paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, or an affiliate of such foreign banking organization, that requests a specific determination of eligibility under paragraph (e) of this section may, prior to the Board's determination on eligibility, continue to engage in activities and make investments under the provisions of paragraphs (f)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section.
(ii) The Board may grant consent for the foreign banking organization or its affiliate to make investments under paragraph (f)(5) of this section.
(e)
Specific determination of eligibility for organizations that do not qualify for the exemptions
—(1)
Application.
(i) A foreign organization that is not a foreign banking organization or a foreign banking organization that does not qualify under paragraph (a) or (c) of this section for some or all of the exemptions afforded by this section, or that has lost its eligibility for the exemptions under paragraph (d) of this section, may apply to the Board for a specific determination of eligibility for some or all of the exemptions.
(ii) A foreign banking organization may apply for a specific determination prior to the time it ceases to be eligible for the exemptions afforded by this section.
(2)
Factors considered by Board.
In determining whether eligibility for the exemptions would be consistent with the purposes of the BHC Act and in the public interest, the Board shall consider:
(i) The history and the financial and managerial resources of the foreign organization or foreign banking organization;
(ii) The amount of its business in the United States;
(iii) The amount, type, and location of its nonbanking activities, including whether such activities may be conducted by U.S. banks or bank holding companies;
(iv) Whether eligibility of the foreign organization or foreign banking organization would result in undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices; and
(v) The extent to which the foreign banking organization is subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis or the foreign organization is subject to oversight by regulatory authorities in its home country.
(3)
Conditions and limitations.
The Board may impose any conditions and limitations on a determination of eligibility, including requirements to cease activities or dispose of investments.
(4)
Eligibility not granted.
Determinations of eligibility generally would not be granted where a majority of the business of the foreign organization or foreign banking organization derives from commercial or industrial activities.
(f)
Permissible activities and investments.
A foreign banking organization that qualifies under paragraph (a) of this section may:
(1) Engage in activities of any kind outside the United States;
(2) Engage directly in activities in the United States that are incidental to its activities outside the United States;
(3) Own or control voting shares of any company that is not engaged, directly or indirectly, in any activities in the United States, other than those that are incidental to the international or foreign business of such company;
(4) Own or control voting shares of any company in a fiduciary capacity under circumstances that would entitle such shareholding to an exemption under section 4(c)(4) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(4)) if the shares were held or acquired by a bank;
(5) Own or control voting shares of a foreign company that is engaged directly or indirectly in business in the United States other than that which is incidental to its international or foreign business, subject to the following limitations:
(i) More than 50 percent of the foreign company's consolidated assets shall be located, and consolidated revenues derived from, outside the United States; provided that, if the foreign company fails to meet the requirements of this paragraph (f)(5)(i) for two consecutive years (as reflected in annual reports (FR Y-7) filed with the Board by the foreign banking organization), the foreign company shall be divested or its activities terminated within one year of the filing of the second consecutive annual report that reflects nonconformance with the requirements of this paragraph (f)(5)(i), unless the Board grants consent to retain the investment under paragraph (g) of this section;
(ii) The foreign company shall not directly underwrite, sell, or distribute, nor own or control more than 10 percent of the voting shares of a company that underwrites, sells, or distributes securities in the United States, except to the extent permitted bank holding companies;
(iii) If the foreign company is a subsidiary of the foreign banking organization, the foreign company must be, or must control, an operating company, and its direct or indirect activities in the United States shall be subject to the following limitations:
(A) The foreign company's activities in the United States shall be the same kind of activities, or related to the activities, engaged in directly or indirectly by the foreign company abroad, as measured by the “establishment” categories of the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC). An activity in the United States shall be considered related to an activity outside the United States if it consists of supply, distribution, or sales in furtherance of the activity;
(B) The foreign company may engage in activities in the United States that consist of banking, securities, insurance, or other financial operations, or types of activities permitted by regulation or order under section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)), only under regulations of the Board or with the prior approval of the Board, subject to the following;
(
1
) Activities within Division H (Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate) of the SIC shall be considered banking or financial operations for this purpose, with the exception of acting as operators of nonresidential buildings (SIC 6512), operators of apartment buildings (SIC 6513), operators of dwellings other than apartment buildings (SIC 6514), and operators of residential mobile home sites (SIC 6515); and operating title abstract offices (SIC 6541); and
(
2
) The following activities shall be considered financial activities and may be engaged in only with the approval of the Board under paragraph (g) of this section: credit reporting services (SIC 7323); computer and data processing services (SIC 7371, 7372, 7373, 7374, 7375, 7376, 7377, 7378, and 7379); armored car services (SIC 7381); management consulting (SIC 8732, 8741, 8742, and 8748); certain rental and leasing activities (SIC 4741, 7352, 7353, 7359, 7513, 7514, 7515, and 7519); accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services (SIC 8721); courier services (SIC 4215 and 4513); and arrangement of passenger transportation (SIC 4724, 4725, and 4729).
(g)
Exemptions under section 4(c)(9) of the BHC Act.
A foreign banking organization that is of the opinion that other activities or investments may, in particular circumstances, meet the conditions for an exemption under section 4(c)(9) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(9)) may apply to the Board for such a determination by submitting to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank a letter setting forth the basis for that opinion.
(h)
Reports.
The foreign banking organization shall report in a manner prescribed by the Board any direct activities in the United States by a foreign subsidiary of the foreign banking organization and the acquisition of all shares of companies engaged, directly or indirectly, in activities in the United States that were acquired under the authority of this section.
(i)
Availability of information.
If any information required under this section is unknown and not reasonably available to the foreign banking organization (either because obtaining it would involve unreasonable effort or expense, or because it rests exclusively within the knowledge of a company that is not controlled by the organization) the organization shall:
(1) Give such information on the subject as it possesses or can reasonably acquire, together with the sources thereof; and
(2) Include a statement showing that unreasonable effort or expense would be involved, or indicating that the company whose shares were acquired is not controlled by the organization, and stating the result of a request for information.
§ 211.24
Approval of offices of foreign banks; procedures for applications; standards for approval; representative office activities and standards for approval; preservation of existing authority.
(a)
Board approval of offices of foreign banks
—(1)
Prior Board approval of branches, agencies, commercial lending companies, or representative offices of foreign banks.
(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, a foreign bank shall obtain the approval of the Board before it:
(A) Establishes a branch, agency, commercial lending company subsidiary, or representative office in the United States; or
(B) Acquires ownership or control of a commercial lending company subsidiary.
(2)
Prior notice for certain offices.
(i) After providing 45 days' prior written notice to the Board, a foreign bank may establish:
(A) An additional office (other than a domestic branch outside the home state of the foreign bank established pursuant to section 5(a)(3) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3103(a)(3))), provided that the Board has previously determined the foreign bank to be subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis by its home country supervisor (
comprehensive consolidated supervision
or
CCS
); or
(B) A representative office, if:
(
1
) The Board has not yet determined the foreign bank to be subject to consolidated comprehensive supervision, but the foreign bank is subject to the BHC Act, either directly or through section 8(a) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3106(a)); or
(
2
) The Board previously has approved an application by the foreign bank to establish a branch or agency pursuant to the standard set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section; or
(
3
) The Board previously has approved an application by the foreign bank to establish a representative office.
(ii) The Board may waive the 45-day notice period if it finds that immediate action is required by the circumstances presented. The notice period shall commence at the time the notice is received by the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank. The Board may suspend the period or require Board approval prior to the establishment of such office if the notification raises significant policy or supervisory concerns.
(3)
General consent for certain representative offices.
(i) The Board grants its general consent for a foreign bank that is subject to the BHC Act, either directly or through section 8(a) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3106(a)), to establish:
(A) A representative office, but only if the Board has previously determined
that the foreign bank proposing to establish a representative office is subject to consolidated comprehensive supervision;
(B) A regional administrative office; or
(C) An office that solely engages in limited administrative functions (such as separately maintaining back-office support systems) that:
(
1
) Are clearly defined;
(
2
) Are performed in connection with the U.S. banking activities of the foreign bank; and
(
3
) Do not involve contact or liaison with customers or potential customers, beyond incidental contact with existing customers relating to administrative matters (such as verification or correction of account information).
(4)
Suspension of general consent or prior notice procedures.
The Board may, at any time, upon notice, modify or suspend the prior notice and general consent procedures in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section for any foreign bank with respect to the establishment by such foreign bank of any U.S. office of such foreign bank.
(5)
Temporary offices.
The Board may, in its discretion, determine that a foreign bank has not established an office if the foreign bank temporarily operates at one or more additional locations in the same city of an existing branch or agency due to renovations, an expansion of activities, a merger or consolidation of the operations of affiliated foreign banks or companies, or other similar circumstances. The foreign bank must provide reasonable advance notice of its intent temporarily to utilize additional locations, and the Board may impose such conditions in connection with its determination as it deems necessary.
(6)
After-the-fact Board approval.
Where a foreign bank proposes to establish an office in the United States through the acquisition of, or merger or consolidation with, another foreign bank with an office in the United States, the Board may, in its discretion, allow the acquisition, merger, or consolidation to proceed before an application to establish the office has been filed or acted upon under this section if:
(i) The foreign bank or banks resulting from the acquisition, merger, or consolidation, will not directly or indirectly own or control more than 5 percent of any class of the voting securities of, or control, a U.S. bank;
(ii) The Board is given reasonable advance notice of the proposed acquisition, merger, or consolidation; and
(iii) Prior to consummation of the acquisition, merger, or consolidation, each foreign bank, as appropriate, commits in writing either:
(A) To comply with the procedures for an application under this section within a reasonable period of time; to engage in no new lines of business, or otherwise to expand its U.S. activities until the disposition of the application; and to abide by the Board's decision on the application, including, if necessary, a decision to terminate the activities of any such U.S. office, as the Board or the Comptroller may require; or
(B) Promptly to wind-down and close any office, the establishment of which would have required an application under this section; and to engage in no new lines of business or otherwise to expand its U.S. activities prior to the closure of such office.
(7)
Notice of change in ownership or control or conversion of existing office or establishment of representative office under general-consent authority.
A foreign bank with a U.S. office shall notify the Board in writing within 10 days of the occurrence of any of the following events:
(i) A change in the foreign bank's ownership or control, where the foreign bank is acquired or controlled by another foreign bank or company and the acquired foreign bank with a U.S. office continues to operate in the same corporate form as prior to the change in ownership or control;
(ii) The conversion of a branch to an agency or representative office; an agency to a representative office; or a branch or agency from a federal to a state license, or a state to a federal license; or
(iii) The establishment of a representative office under general-consent authority.
(8)
Transactions subject to approval under Regulation Y.
Subpart B of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.11-225.17) governs
the acquisition by a foreign banking organization of direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting securities of a bank or bank holding company in the United States if the acquisition results in the foreign banking organization's ownership or control of more than 5 percent of any class of voting securities of a U.S. bank or bank holding company, including through acquisition of a foreign bank or foreign banking organization that owns or controls more than 5 percent of any class of the voting securities of a U.S. bank or bank holding company.
(b)
Procedures for application
—(1)
Filing application.
An application for the Board's approval pursuant to this section shall be filed in the manner prescribed by the Board.
(2)
Publication requirement
—(i)
Newspaper notice.
Except with respect to a proposed transaction where more extensive notice is required by statute or as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, an applicant under this section shall publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the community in which the applicant proposes to engage in business.
(ii)
Contents of notice.
The newspaper notice shall:
(A) State that an application is being filed as of the date of the newspaper notice; and
(B) Provide the name of the applicant, the subject matter of the application, the place where comments should be sent, and the date by which comments are due, pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(iii)
Copy of notice with application.
The applicant shall furnish with its application to the Board a copy of the newspaper notice, the date of its publication, and the name and address of the newspaper in which it was published.
(iv)
Exception.
The Board may modify the publication requirement of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section in appropriate circumstances.
(v)
Federal branch or federal agency.
In the case of an application to establish a federal branch or federal agency, compliance with the publication procedures of the Comptroller shall satisfy the publication requirement of this section. Comments regarding the application should be sent to the Board and the Comptroller.
(3)
Written comments.
(i) Within 30 days after publication, as required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any person may submit to the Board written comments and data on an application.
(ii) The Board may extend the 30-day comment period if the Board determines that additional relevant information is likely to be provided by interested persons, or if other extenuating circumstances exist.
(4)
Board action on application
—(i)
Time limits.
(A) The Board shall act on an application from a foreign bank to establish a branch, agency, or commercial lending company subsidiary within 180 calendar days after the receipt of the application.
(B) The Board may extend for an additional 180 calendar days the period within which to take final action, after providing notice of and reasons for the extension to the applicant and the licensing authority.
(C) The time periods set forth in this paragraph (b)(4)(i) may be waived by the applicant.
(ii)
Additional information.
The Board may request any information in addition to that supplied in the application when the Board believes that the information is necessary for its decision, and may deny an application if it does not receive the information requested from the applicant or its home country supervisor in sufficient time to permit adequate evaluation of the information within the time periods set forth in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
(5)
Coordination with other regulators.
Upon receipt of an application by a foreign bank under this section, the Board shall promptly notify, consult with, and consider the views of the licensing authority.
(c)
Standards for approval of U.S. offices of foreign banks
—(1)
Mandatory standards
—(i)
General.
As specified in section 7(d) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3105(d)), the Board may not approve an application to establish a branch or an agency, or to establish or acquire ownership or control of a commercial lending company, unless it determines that:
(A) Each of the foreign bank and any parent foreign bank engages directly in the business of banking outside the United States and, except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, is subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis by its home country supervisor; and
(B) The foreign bank has furnished to the Board the information that the Board requires in order to assess the application adequately.
(ii)
Basis for determining comprehensive consolidated supervision.
In determining whether a foreign bank and any parent foreign bank is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, the Board shall determine whether the foreign bank is supervised or regulated in such a manner that its home country supervisor receives sufficient information on the worldwide operations of the foreign bank (including the relationships of the bank to any affiliate) to assess the foreign bank's overall financial condition and compliance with law and regulation. In making such a determination, the Board shall assess, among other factors, the extent to which the home country supervisor:
(A) Ensures that the foreign bank has adequate procedures for monitoring and controlling its activities worldwide;
(B) Obtains information on the condition of the foreign bank and its subsidiaries and offices outside the home country through regular reports of examination, audit reports, or otherwise;
(C) Obtains information on the dealings and relationship between the foreign bank and its affiliates, both foreign and domestic;
(D) Receives from the foreign bank financial reports that are consolidated on a worldwide basis, or comparable information that permits analysis of the foreign bank's financial condition on a worldwide, consolidated basis;
(E) Evaluates prudential standards, such as capital adequacy and risk asset exposure, on a worldwide basis.
(iii)
Determination of comprehensive consolidated supervision not required in certain circumstances.
(A) If the Board is unable to find, under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, that a foreign bank is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, the Board may, nevertheless, approve an application by the foreign bank if:
(
1
) The home country supervisor is actively working to establish arrangements for the consolidated supervision of such bank; and
(
2
) All other factors are consistent with approval.
(B) In deciding whether to use its discretion under this paragraph (c)(1)(iii), the Board also shall consider whether the foreign bank has adopted and implemented procedures to combat money laundering. The Board also may take into account whether the home country supervisor is developing a legal regime to address money laundering or is participating in multilateral efforts to combat money laundering. In approving an application under this paragraph (c)(1)(iii), the Board, after requesting and taking into consideration the views of the licensing authority, may impose any conditions or restrictions relating to the activities or business operations of the proposed branch, agency, or commercial lending company subsidiary, including restrictions on sources of funding. The Board shall coordinate with the licensing authority in the implementation of such conditions or restrictions.
(2)
Additional standards.
In acting on any application under this subpart, the Board may take into account:
(i)
Consent of home country supervisor.
Whether the home country supervisor of the foreign bank has consented to the proposed establishment of the branch, agency, or commercial lending company subsidiary;
(ii)
Financial resources.
The financial resources of the foreign bank (including the foreign bank's capital position, projected capital position, profitability, level of indebtedness, and future prospects) and the condition of any U.S. office of the foreign bank;
(iii)
Managerial resources.
The managerial resources of the foreign bank, including the competence, experience, and integrity of the officers and directors; the integrity of its principal shareholders; management's experience and capacity to engage in international banking; and the record of the foreign bank and its management of complying with laws and regulations, and of fulfilling any commitments to, and any
conditions imposed by, the Board in connection with any prior application;
(iv)
Sharing information with supervisors.
Whether the foreign bank's home country supervisor and the home country supervisor of any parent of the foreign bank share material information regarding the operations of the foreign bank with other supervisory authorities;
(v)
Assurances to Board.
(A) Whether the foreign bank has provided the Board with adequate assurances that information will be made available to the Board on the operations or activities of the foreign bank and any of its affiliates that the Board deems necessary to determine and enforce compliance with the IBA, the BHC Act, and other applicable federal banking statutes.
(B) These assurances shall include a statement from the foreign bank describing the laws that would restrict the foreign bank or any of its parents from providing information to the Board;
(vi)
Measures for prevention of money laundering.
Whether the foreign bank has adopted and implemented procedures to combat money laundering, whether there is a legal regime in place in the home country to address money laundering, and whether the home country is participating in multilateral efforts to combat money laundering;
(vii)
Compliance with U.S. law.
Whether the foreign bank and its U.S. affiliates are in compliance with applicable U.S. law, and whether the applicant has established adequate controls and procedures in each of its offices to ensure continuing compliance with U.S. law, including controls directed to detection of money laundering and other unsafe or unsound banking practices; and (viii) The needs of the community and the history of operation of the foreign bank and its relative size in its home country, provided that the size of the foreign bank is not the sole factor in determining whether an office of a foreign bank should be approved.
(3)
Additional standards for certain interstate applications.
(i) As specified in section 5(a)(3) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3103(a)(3)), the Board may not approve an application by a foreign bank to establish a branch, other than a limited branch, outside the home state of the foreign bank under section 5(a)(1) or (2) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3103(a)(1), (2)) unless the Board:
(A) Determines that the foreign bank's financial resources, including the capital level of the bank, are equivalent to those required for a domestic bank to be approved for branching under section 5155 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 36) and section 44 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) (12 U.S.C. 1831u);
(B) Consults with the Department of the Treasury regarding capital equivalency;
(C) Applies the standards specified in section 7(d) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3105(d)) and this paragraph (c); and
(D) Applies the same requirements and conditions to which an application by a domestic bank for an interstate merger is subject under section 44(b)(1), (3), and (4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1831u(b)(1), (3), (4)); and
(ii) As specified in section 5(a)(7) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3103(a)(7)), the Board may not approve an application to establish a branch through a change in status of an agency or limited branch outside the foreign bank's home state unless:
(A) The establishment and operation of such branch is permitted by such state; and
(B) Such agency or branch has been in operation in such state for a period of time that meets the state's minimum age requirement permitted under section 44(a)(5) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 183u(a)(5)).
(4)
Board conditions on approval.
The Board may impose any conditions on its approval as it deems necessary, including a condition which may permit future termination by the Board of any activities or, in the case of a federal branch or a federal agency, by the Comptroller, based on the inability of the foreign bank to provide information on its activities or those of its affiliates that the Board deems necessary to determine and enforce compliance with U.S. banking laws.
(d)
Representative offices
—(1)
Permissible activities.
A representative office may engage in:
(i)
Representational and administrative functions.
Representational and administrative functions in connection with the banking activities of the foreign bank, which may include soliciting new business for the foreign bank; conducting research; acting as liaison between the foreign bank's head office and customers in the United States; performing preliminary and servicing steps in connection with lending;
11
or performing back-office functions; but shall not include contracting for any deposit or deposit-like liability, lending money, or engaging in any other banking activity for the foreign bank;
11
See
12 CFR 250.141(h) for activities that constitute preliminary and servicing steps.
(ii)
Credit approvals under certain circumstances.
Making credit decisions if the foreign bank also operates one or more branches or agencies in the United States, the loans approved at the representative office are made by a U.S. office of the bank, and the loan proceeds are not disbursed in the representative office; and
(iii)
Other functions.
Other functions for or on behalf of the foreign bank or its affiliates, such as operating as a regional administrative office of the foreign bank, but only to the extent that these other functions are not banking activities and are not prohibited by applicable federal or state law, or by ruling or order of the Board.
(2)
Standards for approval of representative offices.
As specified in section 10(a)(2) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3107(a)(2)), in acting on the application of a foreign bank to establish a representative office, the Board shall take into account, to the extent it deems appropriate, the standards for approval set out in paragraph (c) of this section. The standard regarding supervision by the foreign bank's home country supervisor (as set out in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section) will be met, in the case of a representative office application, if the Board makes a finding that the applicant bank is subject to a supervisory framework that is consistent with the activities of the proposed representative office, taking into account the nature of such activities and the operating record of the applicant.
(3)
Special-purpose foreign government-owned banks.
A foreign government-owned organization engaged in banking activities in its home country that are not commercial in nature may apply to the Board for a determination that the organization is not a foreign bank for purposes of this section. A written request setting forth the basis for such a determination may be submitted to the Reserve Bank of the District in which the foreign organization's representative office is located in the United States, or to the Board, in the case of a proposed establishment of a representative office. The Board shall review and act upon each request on a case-by-case basis.
(4)
Additional requirements.
The Board may impose any additional requirements that it determines to be necessary to carry out the purposes of the IBA.
(e)
Preservation of existing authority.
Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to relieve any foreign bank or foreign banking organization from any otherwise applicable requirement of federal or state law, including any applicable licensing requirement.
(f)
Reports of crimes and suspected crimes.
Except for a federal branch or a federal agency or a state branch that is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), a branch, agency, or representative office of a foreign bank operating in the United States shall file a suspicious activity report in accordance with the provisions of § 208.62 of Regulation H (12 CFR 208.62).
(g)
Management of shell branches.
(1) A state-licensed branch or agency shall not manage, through an office of the foreign bank which is located outside the United States and is managed or controlled by such state-licensed branch or agency, any type of activity that a bank organized under the laws of the United States or any state is not permitted to manage at any branch or subsidiary of such bank which is located outside the United States.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (g), an office of a foreign bank located outside the United States is “managed or controlled” by a state-licensed branch or agency if a majority of the responsibility for business decisions, including
but not limited to decisions with regard to lending or asset management or funding or liability management, or the responsibility for recordkeeping in respect of assets or liabilities for that non-U.S. office, resides at the state-licensed branch or agency.
(3) The types of activities that a state-licensed branch or agency may manage through an office located outside the United States that it manage or controls include the types of activities authorized to a U.S. bank by state or federal charters, regulations issued by chartering or regulatory authorities, and other U.S. banking laws, including the Federal Reserve Act, and the implementing regulations, but U.S. procedural or quantitative requirements that may be applicable to the conduct of such activities by U.S. banks shall not apply.
(h)
Government securities sales practices.
An uninsured state-licensed branch or agency of a foreign bank that is required to give notice to the Board under section 15C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-5) and the Department of the Treasury rules under section 15C (17 CFR 400.1(d) and part 401) shall be subject to the provisions of 12 CFR 208.37 to the same extent as a state member bank that is required to give such notice.
(i)
Protection of customer information and consumer information.
An uninsured state-licensed branch or agency of a foreign bank shall comply with the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards prescribed pursuant to sections 501 and 505 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801 and 6805) and, with respect to the proper disposal of consumer information, section 216 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (15 U.S.C. 1681w), set forth in appendix D-2 to part 208 of this chapter.
(j)
Procedures for monitoring Bank Secrecy Act compliance
—(1)
Establishment of Compliance Program.
Except for a Federal branch or a Federal agency or a state branch that is insured by the FDIC, a branch, agency, or representative office of a foreign bank operating in the United States shall, in accordance with the provisions of § 208.63 of the Board's Regulation H, 12 CFR 208.63, develop and provide for the continued administration of a program reasonably designed to assure and monitor compliance with the provisions of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code, the Bank Secrecy Act, and the implementing regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR part 103. The compliance program shall be reduced to writing, and either:
(i) Approved by the foreign bank's board of directors and noted in the minutes, or
(ii) Approved by a delegee acting under the express authority of the board of directors to approve the Bank Secrecy Act compliance program.
(2)
Customer identification program.
Except for a federal branch or a federal agency or a state branch that is insured by the FDIC, a branch, agency, or representative office of a foreign bank operating in the United States is subject to the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) and the implementing regulation jointly promulgated by the Board and the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR 103.121, which require a customer identification program.
[66 FR 53474, Oct. 26, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 35112, May 9, 2003; 69 FR 77618, Dec. 28, 2004; 71 FR 13936, Mar. 20, 2006; 75 FR 44692, July 28, 2010; 84 FR 21692, May 15, 2019]
§ 211.25
Termination of offices of foreign banks.
(a)
Grounds for termination
—(1)
General.
Under sections 7(e) and 10(b) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3105(d), 3107(b)), the Board may order a foreign bank to terminate the activities of its representative office, state branch, state agency, or commercial lending company subsidiary if the Board finds that:
(i) The foreign bank is not subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision in accordance with § 211.24(c)(1), and the home country supervisor is not making demonstrable progress in establishing arrangements for the consolidated supervision of the foreign bank; or
(ii) Both of the following criteria are met:
(A) There is reasonable cause to believe that the foreign bank, or any of its affiliates, has committed a violation of law or engaged in an unsafe or
unsound banking practice in the United States; and
(B) As a result of such violation or practice, the continued operation of the foreign bank's representative office, state branch, state agency, or commercial lending company subsidiary would not be consistent with the public interest, or with the purposes of the IBA, the BHC Act, or the FDIA.
(2)
Additional ground.
The Board also may enforce any condition imposed in connection with an order issued under § 211.24.
(b)
Factor.
In making its findings under this section, the Board may take into account the needs of the community, the history of operation of the foreign bank, and its relative size in its home country, provided that the size of the foreign bank shall not be the sole determining factor in a decision to terminate an office.
(c)
Consultation with relevant state supervisor.
Except in the case of termination pursuant to the expedited procedure in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the Board shall request and consider the views of the relevant state supervisor before issuing an order terminating the activities of a state branch, state agency, representative office, or commercial lending company subsidiary under this section.
(d)
Termination procedures
—(1)
Notice and hearing.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, an order issued under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be issued only after notice to the relevant state supervisor and the foreign bank and after an opportunity for a hearing.
(2)
Procedures for hearing.
Hearings under this section shall be conducted pursuant to the Board's Rules of Practice for Hearings (12 CFR part 263).
(3)
Expedited procedure.
The Board may act without providing an opportunity for a hearing, if it determines that expeditious action is necessary in order to protect the public interest. When the Board finds that it is necessary to act without providing an opportunity for a hearing, the Board, solely in its discretion, may:
(i) Provide the foreign bank that is the subject of the termination order with notice of the intended termination order;
(ii) Grant the foreign bank an opportunity to present a written submission opposing issuance of the order; or
(iii) Take any other action designed to provide the foreign bank with notice and an opportunity to present its views concerning the order.
(e)
Termination of federal branch or federal agency.
The Board may transmit to the Comptroller a recommendation that the license of a federal branch or federal agency be terminated if the Board has reasonable cause to believe that the foreign bank or any affiliate of the foreign bank has engaged in conduct for which the activities of a state branch or state agency may be terminated pursuant to this section.
(f)
Voluntary termination.
A foreign bank shall notify the Board at least 30 days prior to terminating the activities of any office. Notice pursuant to this paragraph (f) is in addition to, and does not satisfy, any other federal or state requirements relating to the termination of an office or the requirement for prior notice of the closing of a branch, pursuant to section 39 of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1831p).
§ 211.26
Examination of offices and affiliates of foreign banks.
(a)
Conduct of examinations
—(1)
Examination of branches, agencies, commercial lending companies, and affiliates.
The Board may examine:
(i) Any branch or agency of a foreign bank;
(ii) Any commercial lending company or bank controlled by one or more foreign banks, or one or more foreign companies that control a foreign bank; and
(iii) Any other office or affiliate of a foreign bank conducting business in any state.
(2)
Examination of representative offices.
The Board may examine any representative office in the manner and with the frequency it deems appropriate.
(b)
Coordination of examinations.
To the extent possible, the Board shall coordinate its examinations of the U.S. offices and U.S. affiliates of a foreign bank with the licensing authority and, in the case of an insured branch, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), including through simultaneous examinations of the U.S. offices and U.S. affiliates of a foreign bank.
(c)
Frequency of on-site examination
—(1)
General.
Each branch or agency of a foreign bank shall be examined on-site at least once during each 12-month period (beginning on the date the most recent examination of the office ended) by—
(i) The Board;
(ii) The FDIC, if the branch of the foreign bank accepts or maintains insured deposits;
(iii) The Comptroller, if the branch or agency of the foreign bank is licensed by the Comptroller; or
(iv) The state supervisor, if the office of the foreign bank is licensed or chartered by the state.
(2)
18-month cycle for certain small institutions
—(i)
Mandatory standards.
The Board may conduct a full-scope, on-site examination at least once during each 18-month period, rather than each 12-month period as required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if the branch or agency—
(A) Has total assets of less than $3 billion;
(B) Has received a composite ROCA supervisory rating (which rates risk management, operational controls, compliance, and asset quality) of 1 or 2 at its most recent examination;
(C) Satisfies the requirement of either the following paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C)(
1
) or (
2
):
(
1
) The foreign bank's most recently reported capital adequacy position consists of, or is equivalent to, tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios of at least 6 percent and 10 percent, respectively, on a consolidated basis; or
(
2
) The branch or agency has maintained on a daily basis, over the past three quarters, eligible assets in an amount not less than 108 percent of the preceding quarter's average third-party liabilities (determined consistent with applicable federal and state law) and sufficient liquidity is currently available to meet its obligations to third parties;
(D) Is not subject to a formal enforcement action or order by the Board, FDIC, or OCC; and
(E) Has not experienced a change in control during the preceding 12-month period in which a full-scope, on-site examination would have been required but for this section.
(ii)
Discretionary standards.
In determining whether a branch or agency of a foreign bank that meets the standards of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section should not be eligible for an 18-month examination cycle pursuant to this paragraph (c)(2), the Board may consider additional factors, including whether—
(A) Any of the individual components of the ROCA supervisory rating of a branch or agency of a foreign bank is rated “3” or worse;
(B) The results of any off-site surveillance indicate a deterioration in the condition of the office;
(C) The size, relative importance, and role of a particular office when reviewed in the context of the foreign bank's entire U.S. operations otherwise necessitate an annual examination; and
(D) The condition of the foreign bank gives rise to such a need.
(iii)(A) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, from December 2, 2020 through December 31, 2021, for purposes of determining eligibility for the extended examination cycle described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the total assets of a branch or agency shall be determined based on the lesser of:
(
1
) The total assets of the branch or agency as of December 31, 2019; and
(
2
) The total assets of the branch or agency as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter.
(B) The relief provided under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section does not apply to a branch or agency if the Board determines that permitting the branch or agency to determine its assets in accordance with that paragraph would not be commensurate with the risk profile of the branch or agency. When making this determination, the Board will consider all relevant factors, including the extent of asset growth of the branch or agency since December 31, 2019; the causes of such growth, including whether growth occurred as a result of mergers or acquisitions; whether such growth is likely
to be temporary or permanent; whether the branch or agency has become involved in any additional activities since December 31, 2019; the asset size of any parent companies; and the type of assets held by the branch or agency. In making a determination pursuant to this paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B), the Board will apply notice and response procedures in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures in 12 CFR 263.202.
(3)
Authority to conduct more frequent examinations.
Nothing in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section limits the authority of the Board to examine any U.S. branch or agency of a foreign bank as frequently as it deems necessary.
[Reg. K, 66 FR 54374, Oct. 26, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 17802, Apr. 10, 2007; 81 FR 10069, Feb. 29, 2016; 83 FR 43965, Aug. 29, 2018; 85 FR 77360, Dec. 2, 2020]
§ 211.27
Disclosure of supervisory information to foreign supervisors.
(a)
Disclosure by Board.
The Board may disclose information obtained in the course of exercising its supervisory or examination authority to a foreign bank regulatory or supervisory authority, if the Board determines that disclosure is appropriate for bank supervisory or regulatory purposes and will not prejudice the interests of the United States.
(b)
Confidentiality.
Before making any disclosure of information pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the Board shall obtain, to the extent necessary, the agreement of the foreign bank regulatory or supervisory authority to maintain the confidentiality of such information to the extent possible under applicable law.
§ 211.28
Provisions applicable to branches and agencies: limitation on loans to one borrower.
(a)
Limitation on loans to one borrower.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the total loans and extensions of credit by all the state branches and state agencies of a foreign bank outstanding to a single borrower at one time shall be aggregated with the total loans and extensions of credit by all federal branches and federal agencies of the same foreign bank outstanding to such borrower at the time; and shall be subject to the limitations and other provisions of section 5200 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 84), and the regulations promulgated thereunder, in the same manner that extensions of credit by a federal branch or federal agency are subject to section 4(b) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3102(b)) as if such state branches and state agencies were federal branches and federal agencies.
(b)
Preexisting loans and extensions of credit.
Any loans or extensions of credit to a single borrower that were originated prior to December 19, 1991, by a state branch or state agency of the same foreign bank and that, when aggregated with loans and extensions of credit by all other branches and agencies of the foreign bank, exceed the limits set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, may be brought into compliance with such limitations through routine repayment, provided that any new loans or extensions of credit (including renewals of existing unfunded credit lines, or extensions of the maturities of existing loans) to the same borrower shall comply with the limits set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 211.29
Applications by state branches and state agencies to conduct activities not permissible for federal branches.
(a)
Scope.
A state branch or state agency shall file with the Board a prior written application for permission to engage in or continue to engage in any type of activity that:
(1) Is not permissible for a federal branch, pursuant to statute, regulation, official bulletin or circular, or order or interpretation issued in writing by the Comptroller; or
(2) Is rendered impermissible due to a subsequent change in statute, regulation, official bulletin or circular, written order or interpretation, or decision of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(b)
Exceptions.
No application shall be required by a state branch or state agency to conduct any activity that is otherwise permissible under applicable state and federal law or regulation and that:
(1) Has been determined by the FDIC, pursuant to 12 CFR 362.4(c)(3)(i) through (c)(3)(ii)(A), not to present a
significant risk to the affected deposit insurance fund;
(2) Is permissible for a federal branch, but the Comptroller imposes a quantitative limitation on the conduct of such activity by the federal branch;
(3) Is conducted as agent rather than as principal, provided that the activity is one that could be conducted by a state-chartered bank headquartered in the same state in which the branch or agency is licensed; or
(4) Any other activity that the Board has determined may be conducted by any state branch or state agency of a foreign bank without further application to the Board.
(c)
Contents of application.
An application submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be in letter form and shall contain the following information:
(1) A brief description of the activity, including the manner in which it will be conducted, and an estimate of the expected dollar volume associated with the activity;
(2) An analysis of the impact of the proposed activity on the condition of the U.S. operations of the foreign bank in general, and of the branch or agency in particular, including a copy, if available, of any feasibility study, management plan, financial projections, business plan, or similar document concerning the conduct of the activity;
(3) A resolution by the applicant's board of directors or, if a resolution is not required pursuant to the applicant's organizational documents, evidence of approval by senior management, authorizing the conduct of such activity and the filing of this application;
(4) If the activity is to be conducted by a state branch insured by the FDIC, statements by the applicant:
(i) Of whether or not it is in compliance with 12 CFR 346.19 (Pledge of Assets) and 12 CFR 346.20 (Asset Maintenance);
(ii) That it has complied with all requirements of the FDIC concerning an application to conduct the activity and the status of the application, including a copy of the FDIC's disposition of such application, if available; and
(iii) Explaining why the activity will pose no significant risk to the deposit insurance fund; and
(5) Any other information that the Reserve Bank deems appropriate.
(d)
Factors considered in determination.
(1) The Board shall consider the following factors in determining whether a proposed activity is consistent with sound banking practice:
(i) The types of risks, if any, the activity poses to the U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization in general, and the branch or agency in particular;
(ii) If the activity poses any such risks, the magnitude of each risk; and
(iii) If a risk is not de minimis, the actual or proposed procedures to control and minimize the risk.
(2) Each of the factors set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be evaluated in light of the financial condition of the foreign bank in general and the branch or agency in particular and the volume of the activity.
(e)
Application procedures.
Applications pursuant to this section shall be filed with the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank. An application shall not be deemed complete until it contains all the information requested by the Reserve Bank and has been accepted. Approval of such an application may be conditioned on the applicant's agreement to conduct the activity subject to specific conditions or limitations.
(f)
Divestiture or cessation.
(1) If an application for permission to continue to conduct an activity is not approved by the Board or, if applicable, the FDIC, the applicant shall submit a detailed written plan of divestiture or cessation of the activity to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank within 60 days of the disapproval.
(i) The divestiture or cessation plan shall describe in detail the manner in which the applicant will divest itself of or cease the activity, and shall include a projected timetable describing how long the divestiture or cessation is expected to take.
(ii) Divestiture or cessation shall be complete within one year from the date of the disapproval, or within such shorter period of time as the Board shall direct.
(2) If a foreign bank operating a state branch or state agency chooses not to apply to the Board for permission to continue to conduct an activity that is not permissible for a federal branch, or which is rendered impermissible due to a subsequent change in statute, regulation, official bulletin or circular, written order or interpretation, or decision of a court of competent jurisdiction, the foreign bank shall submit a written plan of divestiture or cessation, in conformance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section within 60 days of the effective date of this part or of such change or decision.
§ 211.30
Criteria for evaluating U.S. operations of foreign banks not subject to consolidated supervision.
(a)
Development and publication of criteria.
Pursuant to the Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act, Pub. L. 102-242, 105 Stat. 2286 (1991), the Board shall develop and publish criteria to be used in evaluating the operations of any foreign bank in the United States that the Board has determined is not subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision.
(b)
Criteria considered by Board.
Following a determination by the Board that, having taken into account the standards set forth in § 211.24(c)(1), a foreign bank is not subject to CCS, the Board shall consider the following criteria in determining whether the foreign bank's U.S. operations should be permitted to continue and, if so, whether any supervisory constraints should be placed upon the bank in connection with those operations:
(1) The proportion of the foreign bank's total assets and total liabilities that are located or booked in its home country, as well as the distribution and location of its assets and liabilities that are located or booked elsewhere;
(2) The extent to which the operations and assets of the foreign bank and any affiliates are subject to supervision by its home country supervisor;
(3) Whether the home country supervisor of such foreign bank is actively working to establish arrangements for comprehensive consolidated supervision of the bank, and whether demonstrable progress is being made;
(4) Whether the foreign bank has effective and reliable systems of internal controls and management information and reporting, which enable its management properly to oversee its worldwide operations;
(5) Whether the foreign bank's home country supervisor has any objection to the bank continuing to operate in the United States;
(6) Whether the foreign bank's home country supervisor and the home country supervisor of any parent of the foreign bank share material information regarding the operations of the foreign bank with other supervisory authorities;
(7) The relationship of the U.S. operations to the other operations of the foreign bank, including whether the foreign bank maintains funds in its U.S. offices that are in excess of amounts due to its U.S. offices from the foreign bank's non-U.S. offices;
(8) The soundness of the foreign bank's overall financial condition;
(9) The managerial resources of the foreign bank, including the competence, experience, and integrity of the officers and directors, and the integrity of its principal shareholders;
(10) The scope and frequency of external audits of the foreign bank;
(11) The operating record of the foreign bank generally and its role in the banking system in its home country;
(12) The foreign bank's record of compliance with relevant laws, as well as the adequacy of its anti-money-laundering controls and procedures, in respect of its worldwide operations;
(13) The operating record of the U.S. offices of the foreign bank;
(14) The views and recommendations of the Comptroller or the relevant state supervisors in those states in which the foreign bank has operations, as appropriate;
(15) Whether the foreign bank, if requested, has provided the Board with adequate assurances that such information will be made available on the operations or activities of the foreign bank and any of its affiliates as the Board deems necessary to determine and enforce compliance with the IBA, the BHC Act, and other U.S. banking statutes; and
(16) Any other information relevant to the safety and soundness of the U.S. operations of the foreign bank.
(c)
Restrictions on U.S. operations
—(1)
Terms of agreement.
Any foreign bank that the Board determines is not subject to CCS may be required to enter into an agreement to conduct its U.S. operations subject to such restrictions as the Board, having considered the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, determines to be appropriate in order to ensure the safety and soundness of its U.S. operations.
(2)
Failure to enter into or comply with agreement.
A foreign bank that is required by the Board to enter into an agreement pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section and either fails to do so, or fails to comply with the terms of such agreement, may be subject to:
(i) Enforcement action, in order to ensure safe and sound banking operations, under 12 U.S.C. 1818; or
(ii) Termination or a recommendation for termination of its U.S. operations, under § 211.25(a) and (e) and section (7)(e) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3105(e)).

# Subpart C—Export Trading Companies

# Source:
Reg. K, 66 FR 54374, Oct. 26, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 211.31
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) under the authority of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act) (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
), the Bank Export Services Act (title II, Pub. L. 97-290, 96 Stat. 1235 (1982)) (BESA), and the Export Trading Company Act Amendments of 1988 (title III, Pub. L. 100-418, 102 Stat. 1384 (1988)) (ETC Act Amendments).
(b)
Purpose and scope.
This subpart is in furtherance of the purposes of the BHC Act, the BESA, and the ETC Act Amendments, the latter two statutes being designed to increase U.S. exports by encouraging investments and participation in export trading companies by bank holding companies and the specified investors. The provisions of this subpart apply to eligible investors as defined in this subpart.
§ 211.32
Definitions.
The definitions in §§ 211.1 and 211.2 of subpart A apply to this subpart, subject to the following:
(a)
Appropriate Federal Reserve Bank
has the same meaning as in § 211.21(c).
(b)
Bank
has the same meaning as in section 2(c) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)).
(c)
Company
has the same meaning as in section 2(b) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(b)).
(d)
Eligible investors
means:
(1) Bank holding companies, as defined in section 2(a) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(a));
(2) Edge and agreement corporations that are subsidiaries of bank holding companies but are not subsidiaries of banks;
(3) Banker's banks, as described in section 4(c)(14)(F)(iii) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(14)(F)(iii)); and
(4) Foreign banking organizations, as defined in § 211.21(o).
(e)
Export trading company
means a company that is exclusively engaged in activities related to international trade and, by engaging in one or more export trade services, derives:
(1) At least one-third of its revenues in each consecutive four-year period from the export of, or from facilitating the export of, goods and services produced in the United States by persons other than the export trading company or its subsidiaries; and
(2) More revenues in each four-year period from export activities as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section than it derives from the import, or facilitating the import, into the United States of goods or services produced outside the United States. The four-year period within which to calculate revenues derived from its activities under this section shall be deemed to have commenced with the first fiscal year after the respective export trading company has been in operation for two years.
(f)
Revenues
shall include net sales revenues from exporting, importing, or third-party trade in goods by the export trading company for its own account and gross revenues derived from all other activities of the export trading company.
(g)
Subsidiary
has the same meaning as in section 2(d) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(d)).
(h)
Well capitalized
has the same meaning as in § 225.2(r) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.2(r)).
(i)
Well managed
has the same meaning as in § 225.2(s) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.2(s)).
§ 211.33
Investments and extensions of credit.
(a)
Amount of investments.
In accordance with the procedures of § 211.34, an eligible investor may invest no more than 5 percent of its consolidated capital and surplus in one or more export trading companies, except that an Edge or agreement corporation not engaged in banking may invest as much as 25 percent of its consolidated capital and surplus but no more than 5 percent of the consolidated capital and surplus of its parent bank holding company.
(b)
Extensions of credit
—(1)
Amount.
An eligible investor in an export trading company or companies may extend credit directly or indirectly to the export trading company or companies in a total amount that at no time exceeds 10 percent of the investor's consolidated capital and surplus.
(2)
Terms.
(i) An eligible investor in an export trading company may not extend credit directly or indirectly to the export trading company or any of its customers or to any other investor holding 10 percent or more of the shares of the export trading company on terms more favorable than those afforded similar borrowers in similar circumstances, and such extensions of credit shall not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features.
(ii) For the purposes of this section, an investor in an export trading company includes any affiliate of the investor.
(3)
Collateral requirements.
Covered transactions between a bank and an affiliated export trading company in which a bank holding company has invested pursuant to this subpart are subject to the collateral requirements of section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c), except where a bank issues a letter of credit or advances funds to an affiliated export trading company solely to finance the purchase of goods for which:
(i) The export trading company has a bona fide contract for the subsequent sale of the goods; and
(ii) The bank has a security interest in the goods or in the proceeds from their sale at least equal in value to the letter of credit or the advance.
§ 211.34
Procedures for filing and processing notices.
(a)
General policy.
Direct and indirect investments by eligible investors in export trading companies shall be made in accordance with the general consent or prior notice procedures contained in this section. The Board may at any time, upon notice, modify or suspend the general-consent procedures with respect to any eligible investor.
(b)
General consent
—(1)
Eligibility for general consent.
Subject to the other limitations of this subpart, the Board grants its general consent for any investment an export trading company:
(i) If the eligible investor is well capitalized and well managed;
(ii) In an amount equal to cash dividends received from that export trading company during the preceding 12 calendar months; or
(iii) That is acquired from an affiliate at net asset value or through a contribution of shares.
(2)
Post-investment notice.
By the end of the month following the month in which the investment is made, the investor shall provide the Board with the following information:
(i) The amount of the investment and the source of the funds with which the investment was made; and
(ii) In the case of an initial investment, a description of the activities in which the export trading company proposes to engage and projections for the export trading company for the first year following the investment.
(c)
Filing notice
—(1)
Prior notice.
An eligible investor shall give the Board 60 days' prior written notice of any investment in an export trading company that does not qualify under the general consent procedure.
(2)
Notice of change of activities.
(i) An eligible investor shall give the Board 60 days' prior written notice of changes in
the activities of an export trading company that is a subsidiary of the investor if the export trading company expands its activities beyond those described in the initial notice to include:
(A) Taking title to goods where the export trading company does not have a firm order for the sale of those goods;
(B) Product research and design;
(C) Product modification; or
(D) Activities not specifically covered by the list of activities contained in section 4(c)(14)(F)(ii) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(14)(F)(ii)).
(ii) Such an expansion of activities shall be regarded as a proposed investment under this subpart.
(d)
Time period for Board action.
(1) A proposed investment that has not been disapproved by the Board may be made 60 days after the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank accepts the notice for processing. A proposed investment may be made before the expiration of the 60-day period if the Board notifies the investor in writing of its intention not to disapprove the investment.
(2) The Board may extend the 60-day period for an additional 30 days if the Board determines that the investor has not furnished all necessary information or that any material information furnished is substantially inaccurate. The Board may disapprove an investment if the necessary information is provided within a time insufficient to allow the Board reasonably to consider the information received.
(3) Within three days of a decision to disapprove an investment, the Board shall notify the investor in writing and state the reasons for the disapproval.
(e)
Time period for investment.
An investment in an export trading company that has not been disapproved shall be made within one year from the date of the notice not to disapprove, unless the time period is extended by the Board or by the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank.

# Subpart D—International Lending Supervision

# Source:
49 FR 5592, Feb. 13, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 211.41
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) under the authority of the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (Pub. L. 98-181, title IX, 97 Stat. 1153) (International Lending Supervision Act); the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 221
et seq.
) (FRA), and the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
) (BHC Act).
(b)
Purpose and scope.
This subpart is issued in furtherance of the purposes of the International Lending Supervision Act. It applies to State banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System (State member banks); corporations organized under section 25A of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 611 through 631) (Edge Corporations); corporations operating subject to an agreement with the Board under section 25 of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 601 through 604a) (Agreement Corporations); and bank holding companies (as defined in section 2 of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)) but not including a bank holding company that is a foreign banking organization as defined in § 211.21(o).
[Reg. K, 68 FR 1159, Jan. 9, 2003]
§ 211.42
Definitions.
For the purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Administrative cost
means those costs which are specifically identified with negotiating, processing and consummating the loan. These costs include, but are not necessarily limited to: legal fees; costs of preparing and processing loan documents; and an allocable portion of salaries and related benefits of employees engaged in the international lending function. No portion of supervisory and administrative expenses or other indirect expenses such as occupancy and other similar overhead costs shall be included.
(b)
Banking institution
means a State member bank; bank holding company; Edge Corporation and Agreement Corporation engaged in banking. Banking institution does not include a foreign banking organization as defined in § 211.21(o).
(c)
Federal banking agencies
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Comptroller of the
Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(d)
International assets
means those assets required to be included in banking institutions'
Country Exposure Report
forms (FFIEC No. 009).
(e)
International loan
means a loan as defined in the instructions to the
Report of Condition and Income
for the respective banking institution (FFIEC Nos. 031 and 041) and made to a foreign government, or to an individual, a corporation, or other entity not a citizen of, resident in, or organized or incorporated in the United States.
(f)
Restructured international loan
means a loan that meets the following criteria:
(1) The borrower is unable to service the existing loan according to its terms and is a resident of a foreign country in which there is a generalized inability of public and private sector obligors to meet their external debt obligations on a timely basis because of a lack of, or restraints on the availability of, needed foreign exchange in the country; and
(2) The terms of the existing loan are amended to reduce stated interest or extend the schedule of payments; or
(3) A new loan is made to, or for the benefit of, the borrower, enabling the borrower to service or refinance the existing debt.
(g)
Transfer risk
means the possibility that an asset cannot be serviced in the currency of payment because of a lack of, or restraints on the availability of, needed foreign exchange in the country of the obligor.
[Reg. K, 68 FR 1159, Jan. 9, 2003]
§ 211.43
Allocated transfer risk reserve.
(a)
Establishment of Allocated Transfer Risk Reserve.
A banking institution shall establish an allocated transfer risk reserve (ATRR) for specified international assets when required by the Board in accordance with this section.
(b)
Procedures and standards
—(1)
Joint agency determination.
At least annually, the Federal banking agencies shall determine jointly, based on the standards set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the following:
(i) Which international assets subject to transfer risk warrant establishment of an ATRR;
(ii) The amount of the ATRR for the specified assets; and
(iii) Whether an ATRR established for specified assets may be reduced.
(2)
Standards for requiring ATRR
—(i)
Evaluation of assets.
The Federal banking agencies shall apply the following criteria in determining whether an ATRR is required for particular international assets:
(A) Whether the quality of a banking institution's assets has been impaired by a protracted inability of public or private obligors in a foreign country to make payments on their external indebtedness as indicated by such factors, among others, as whether:
(
1
) Such obligors have failed to make full interest payments on external indebtedness; or
(
2
) Such obligors have failed to comply with the terms of any restructured indebtedness; or
(
3
) A foreign country has failed to comply with any International Monetary Fund or other suitable adjustment program; or
(B) Whether no definite prospects exist for the orderly restoration of debt service.
(ii)
Determination of amount of ATRR.
(A) In determining the amount of the ATRR, the Federal banking agencies shall consider:
(
1
) The length of time the quality of the asset has been impaired;
(
2
) Recent actions taken to restore debt service capability;
(
3
) Prospects for restored asset quality; and
(
4
) Such other factors as the Federal banking agencies may consider relevant to the quality of the asset.
(B) The initial year's provision for the ATRR shall be ten percent of the principal amount of each specified international asset, or such greater or lesser percentage determined by the Federal banking agencies. Additional provision, if any, for the ATRR in subsequent years shall be fifteen percent of the principal amount of each specified international asset, or such greater or lesser percentage determined by the Federal banking agencies.
(3)
Board notification.
Based on the joint agency determinations under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the
Board shall notify each banking institution holding assets subject to an ATRR:
(i) Of the amount of the ATRR to be established by the institution for specified international assets; and
(ii) That an ATRR established for specified assets may be reduced.
(c)
Accounting treatment of ATRR
—(1)
Charge to current income.
A banking institution shall establish an ATRR by a charge to current income and the amounts so charged shall not be included in the banking institution's capital or surplus.
(2)
Separate accounting.
A banking institution shall account for an ATRR separately from the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses, and shall deduct the ATRR from “gross loans and leases” to arrive at “net loans and leases.” The ATRR must be established for each asset subject to the ATRR in the percentage amount specified.
(3)
Consolidation.
A banking institution shall establish an ATRR, as required, on a consolidated basis. For banks, consolidation should be in accordance with the procedures and tests of significance set forth in the instructions for preparation of
Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income
(FFIEC 031 and 041). For bank holding companies, the consolidation shall be in accordance with the principles set forth in the “Instructions to Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies” (Form F.R. Y-9C). Edge and Agreement corporations engaged in banking shall report in accordance with instructions for preparation of the Report of Condition for Edge and Agreement Corporations (Form F.R. 2886b).
(4)
Alternative accounting treatment.
A banking institution is not required to establish an ATRR if it writes down in the period in which the ATRR is required, or has written down in prior periods, the value of the specified international assets in the requisite amount for each such asset. For purposes of this paragraph, international assets may be written down by a charge to the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses or the allowance for credit losses, as applicable, to the extent permitted under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or a reduction in the principal amount of the asset by application of interest payments or other collections on the asset. However, the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses or allowance for credit losses, as applicable, must be replenished in such amount necessary to restore it to a level which adequately provides for the estimated losses inherent in the banking institution's loan portfolio.
(5)
Reduction of ATRR.
A banking institution may reduce an ATRR when notified by the Board or, at any time, by writing down such amount of the international asset for which the ATRR was established.
[Reg. K, 68 FR 1159, Jan. 9, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 4241, Feb. 14, 2019]
§ 211.44
Reporting and disclosure of international assets.
(a)
Requirements.
(1) Pursuant to section 907(a) of the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (Title IX, Pub. L. 98-181, 97 Stat. 1153) (ILSA), a banking institution shall submit to the Board, at least quarterly, information regarding the amounts and composition of its holdings of international assets.
(2) Pursuant to section 907(b) of ILSA, a banking institution shall submit to the Board information regarding concentrations in its holdings of international assets that are material in relation to total assets and to capital of the institution, such information to be made publicly available by the Board on request.
(b)
Procedures.
The format, content and reporting and filing dates of the reports required under paragraph (a) of this section shall be determined jointly by the Federal banking agencies. The requirements to be prescribed by the Federal banking agencies may include changes to existing reporting forms (such as the Country Exposure Report, form FFIEC No. 009) or such other requirements as the Federal banking agencies deem appropriate. The Federal banking agencies also may determine to exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section banking institutions that, in the Federal banking agencies' judgment, have
de minimis
holdings of international assets.
(c)
Reservation of authority.
Nothing contained in this rule shall preclude
the Board from requiring from a banking institution such additional or more frequent information on the institution's holding of international assets as the Board may consider necessary.
[Reg. K, 68 FR 1159, Jan. 9, 2003]
§ 211.45
Accounting for fees on international loans.
(a)
Restrictions on fees for restructured international loans.
No banking institution shall charge, in connection with the restructuring of an international loan, any fee exceeding the administrative cost of the restructuring unless it amortizes the amount of the fee exceeding the administrative cost over the effective life of the loan.
(b)
Accounting treatment.
Subject to paragraph (a) of this section, banking institutions shall account for fees on international loans in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
[Reg. K, 68 FR 1159, Jan. 9, 2003]

# Interpretations
§ 211.601
Status of certain offices for purposes of the International Banking Act restrictions on interstate banking operations.
The Board has considered the question of whether a foreign bank's California office that may accept deposits from certain foreign sources (e.g., a United States citizen residing abroad) is a branch or an agency for the purposes of the grandfather provisions of section 5 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3103(b)). The question has arisen as a result of the definitions in the International Banking Act of
branch
and
agency,
and the limited deposit-taking capabilities of certain California offices of foreign banks.
The International Banking Act defines
agency
as “any office * * * at which deposits may not be accepted from citizens or residents of the United States,” and defines
branch
as “any office * * * of a foreign bank * * * at which deposits are received” (12 U.S.C. 3101(1) and (3)). Offices of foreign banks in California prior to the International Banking Act were generally prohibited from accepting deposits by the requirement of State law that such offices obtain Federal deposit insurance (Cal. Fin. Code 1756); until the passage of the International Banking Act an office of a foreign bank could not obtain such insurance. California law, however, permits offices of foreign banks, with the approval of the Banking Department, to accept deposits from any person that resides, is domiciled, and maintains its principal place of business in a foreign country (Cal. Fin. Code 1756.2). Thus, under a literal reading of the definitions of
branch
and
agency
contained in the International Banking Act, a foreign bank's California office that accepts deposits from certain foreign sources (e.g., a U.S. citizen residing abroad), is a branch rather than an agency.
Section 5 of the International Banking Act establishes certain limitations on the expansion of the domestic deposit-taking capabilities of a foreign bank outside its home State. It also grandfathers offices established or applied for prior to July 27, 1978, and permits a foreign bank to select its home State from among the States in which it operated branches and agencies on the grandfather date. If a foreign bank's office that was established or applied for prior to June 27, 1978, is a
branch
as defined in the International Banking Act, then it is grandfathered as a branch. Accordingly, a foreign bank could designate a State other than California as its home State and subsequently convert its California office to a full domestic deposit-taking facility by obtaining Federal deposit insurance. If, however, the office is determined to be an
agency,
then it is grandfathered as such and the foreign bank may not expand its deposit-taking capabilities in California without declaring California its home State.
In the Board's view, it would be inconsistent with the purposes and the legislative history of the International Banking Act to enable a foreign bank to expand its domestic interstate deposit-taking capabilities by grandfathering these California offices as branches because of their ability to receive certain foreign source deposits. The Board also notes that such deposits are of the same general type that may be received by an Edge Corporation and, hence in accordance with section 5(a) of the International Banking
Act, by branches established and operated outside a foreign bank's home State. It would be inconsistent with the structure of the interstate banking provisions of the International Banking Act to grandfather as full deposit-taking offices those facilities whose activities have been determined by Congress to be appropriate for a foreign bank's out-of-home State branches.
Accordingly, the Board, in administering the interstate banking provisions of the IBA, regards as agencies those offices of foreign banks that do not accept domestic deposits but that may accept deposits from any person that resides, is domiciled, and maintains its principal place of business in a foreign country.
[45 FR 67309, Oct. 10, 1980]
§ 211.602
Investments by United States Banking Organizations in foreign companies that transact business in the United States.
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611, the “Edge Act”) provides for the establishment of corporations to engage in international or foreign banking or other international or foreign financial operations (“Edge Corporations”). Congress has declared that Edge Corporations are to serve the purpose of stimulating the provision of international banking and financing services throughout the United States and are to have powers sufficiently broad to enable them to compete effectively with foreign-owned institutions in the United States and abroad. The Board was directed by the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101) to revise its regulations governing Edge Corporations in order to accomplish these and other objectives and was further directed to modify or eliminate any interpretations that impede the attainment of these purposes.
One of the powers of Edge Corporations is that of investing in foreign companies. Under the relevant statutes, however, an Edge Corporation is prohibited from investing in foreign companies that engage in the general business of buying or selling goods, wares, merchandise or commodities in the United States. In addition, an Edge Corporation may not invest in foreign companies that transact any business in the United States that is not, in the Board's judgment, “incidental” to its international or foreign business. The latter limitation also applies to investments by bank holding companies (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(13)) and member banks (12 U.S.C. 601).
The Board has been asked to determine whether an Edge Corporation's minority investment (involving less than 25 percent of the voting shares) in a foreign company would continue to be permissible after the foreign company establishes or acquires a United States subsidiary that engages in domestic activities that are closely related to banking. The Board has also been asked to determine whether an Edge Corporation's minority investment in a foreign bank would continue to be permissible after the foreign bank establishes a branch in the United States that engages in domestic banking activities. In the latter case, the branch would be located outside the State in which the Edge Corporation and its parent bank are located.
In the past the Board, in exercising its discretionary authority to determine those activities that are permissible in the United States, has followed the policy that an Edge Corporation could not hold even a minority interest in a foreign company that engaged, directly or indirectly, in any purely domestic business in the United States. The United States activities considered permissible were those internationally related activities that Edge Corporations may engage in directly. If this policy were applied to the subject requests, the Edge Corporations would be required to divest their interests in the foreign companies notwithstanding the fact that, in each case, the Edge Corporation, as a minority investor, did not control the decision to undertake activities in the United States, and that even after the United States activities are undertaken the business of the foreign company will remain predominantly outside the United States.
International banking and finance have undergone considerable growth and change in recent years. It is increasingly common, for example, for United States institutions to have direct or indirect offices in foreign countries and to engage in activities at
those offices that are domestically as well as internationally oriented. In this climate, United States banking organizations would be placed at a competitive disadvantage if their minority investments in foreign companies were limited to those companies that do no domestic business in the United States. Moreover, continued adherence to the existing policy would be contrary to the declaration in the International Banking Act of 1978 that Edge Corporations' powers are to be sufficiently broad to enable them to compete effectively in the United States and abroad. Furthermore, where the activities to be conducted in the United States by the foreign company are banking or closely related to banking, it does not appear that any regulatory or supervisory purpose would be served by prohibiting a minority investment in the foreign firm by a United States banking organization.
In view of these considerations, the Board has reviewed its policy relating to the activities that may be engaged in the United States by foreign companies (including foreign banks) in which Edge Corporations, member banks, and bank holding companies invest. As a result of that review, the Board has determined that it would be appropriate to interpret sections 25 and 25(a)of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 601, 611) and section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(13)) generally to allow United States banking organizations, with the prior consent of the Board, to acquire and hold investments in foreign companies that do business in the United States subject to the following conditions:
(1) The foreign company is engaged predominantly in business outside the United States or in internationally related activities in the United States;*
*This condition would ordinarily not be met where a foreign company merely maintains a majority of its business in international activities. Each case will be scrutinized to ensure that the activities in the United States do not alter substantially the international orientation of the foreign company's business.
(2) The direct or indirect activities of the foreign company in the United States are either banking or closely related to banking; and
(3) The United States banking organization does not own 25 percent or more of the voting stock of, or otherwise control, the foreign company.
In considering whether to grant its consent for such investments, the Board would also review the proposals to ensure that they are consistent with the purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act and the Federal Reserve Act.
[46 FR 8437, Jan. 27, 1981]
§ 211.603
Commodity swap transactions.
For text of interpretation relating to this subject, see § 208.128 of this chapter.
[56 FR 63408, Dec. 4, 1991]
§ 211.604
Data processing activities.
(a)
Introduction.
As a result of a recent proposal by a bank holding company to engage in data processing activities abroad, the Board has considered the scope of permissible data processing activities under Regulation K (12 CFR part 211). This question has arisen as a result of the fact that § 211.5(d)(10) of Regulation K does not specifically indicate the scope of data processing as a permissible activity abroad.
(b)
Scope of data processing activities.
(1) Prior to 1979, the Board authorized specific banking organizations to engage in data processing activities abroad with the expectation that such activity would be primarily related to financial activities. When Regulation K was issued in 1979, data processing was included as a permissible activity abroad. Although the regulation did not provide specific guidance on the scope of this authority, the Board has considered such authority to be coextensive with the authority granted in specific cases prior to the issuance of Regulation K, which relied on the fact that most of the activity would relate to financial data. Regulation K does not address related activities such as the manufacture of hardware or the provision of software or related or incidental services.
(2) In 1979, when the activity was included in Regulation K for the first time, the data processing authority in Regulation K was somewhat broader
than that permissible in the United States under Regulation Y (12 CFR part 225) at that time, as the Regulation K authority permitted limited non-financial data processing. In 1979, Regulation Y authorized only financial data processing activities for third parties, with very limited exceptions. By 1997, however, the scope of data processing activities under Regulation Y was expanded such that bank holding companies are permitted to derive up to 30 percent of their data processing revenues from processing data that is not financial, banking, or economic. Moreover, in other respects, the Regulation Y provision is broader than the data processing provision in Regulation K.
(3) In light of the fact that the permissible scope of data processing activities under Regulation Y is now equal to, and in some respects, broader than the activity originally authorized under Regulation K, the Board believes that § 211.5(d)(10) should be read to encompass all of the activities permissible under § 225.28(b)(14) of Regulation Y. In addition, the limitations of that section would also apply to § 211.5(d)(10).
(c)
Applications.
If a U.S. banking organization wishes to engage abroad in data processing or data transmission activities beyond those described in Regulation Y, it must apply for the Board's prior consent under § 211.5(d)(20) of Regulation K. In addition, if any investor has commenced activities beyond those permitted under § 225.28(b)(14) of Regulation Y in reliance on Regulation K, it should consult with staff of the Board to determine whether such activities have been properly authorized under Regulation K.
[Reg. K, 64 FR 58781, Nov. 1, 1999]
§ 211.605
Permissible underwriting activities of foreign banks.
(a)
Introduction.
A number of foreign banks that are subject to the Bank Holding Company Act (“BHC Act”) have participated as co-managers in the underwriting of securities to be distributed in the United States despite the fact that the foreign banks in question do not have authority to engage in underwriting activity in the United States under either the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLB Act”) or section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)). This interpretation clarifies the scope of existing restrictions on underwriting by such foreign banks with respect to securities that are distributed in the United States.
(b)
Underwriting transactions engaged in by foreign banks.
(1) In the transactions in question, a foreign bank typically becomes a member of the underwriting syndicate for securities that are registered and intended to be distributed in the United States. The lead underwriter, usually a registered U.S. broker-dealer not affiliated with the foreign bank, agrees to be responsible for distributing the securities being underwritten. The underwriting obligation is assumed by a foreign office or affiliate of the foreign bank.
(2) The foreign banks have used their U.S. offices or affiliates to act as liaison with the U.S. issuer and the lead underwriter in the United States, to prepare documentation and to provide other services in connection with the underwriting. In some cases, the U.S. offices or affiliates that assisted the foreign bank with the underwriting receive a substantial portion of the revenue generated by the foreign bank's participation in the underwriting. In other cases, the U.S. offices receive “credit” from the head office of the foreign bank for their assistance in generating profits arising from the underwriting.
(3) By assuming the underwriting risk and booking the underwriting fees in their foreign offices or affiliates, the foreign banks are able to take advantage of an exemption under U.S. securities laws; a foreign underwriter is not required to register in the United States if the underwriter either does not distribute any of the securities in the United States or distributes them only through a registered broker-dealer.
(c)
Permissible scope of underwriting activities.
(1) A foreign bank that is subject to the BHC Act may engage in underwriting activities in the United States only if it has been authorized under section 4 of the Act. The foreign banks in question have argued that they are not engaged in underwriting
activity in the United States because the underwriting activity takes place only outside the United States where the transaction is booked. The foreign banks refer to Regulation K, which defines “engaged in business” or “engaged in activities” to mean conducting an activity through an office or subsidiary in the United States. Because the underwriting is not booked in a U.S. office or subsidiary, the banks assert that the activity cannot be considered conducted in the United States.
(2) The Board believes that the position taken by the foreign banks is not supported by the Board's regulations or policies. Section 225.124 of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.124(d)) states that a foreign bank will not be considered to be engaged in the activity of underwriting in the United States if the shares to be underwritten are distributed outside the United States. In the transactions in question, all of the securities to be underwritten by the foreign banks are distributed in the United States.
(3) Regulation K (12 CFR part 211) was amended in 1985 to provide clarification that a foreign bank may not own or control voting shares of a foreign company that directly underwrites, sells or distributes securities in the United States (emphasis added). 12 CFR 211.23(f)(5)(ii). In proposing this latter provision, the Board clarified that no part of the prohibited underwriting process may take place in the United States and that the prohibition on the activity does not depend on the activity being conducted through an office or subsidiary in the United States. Moreover, in the transactions in question, there was significant participation by U.S. offices and affiliates of the foreign banks in the underwriting process. In some transactions, the foreign office at which the transactions were booked did not have any documentation on the particular transactions; all documentation was maintained in the United States office. In all cases, the U.S. offices or affiliates provided virtually all technical support for participation in the underwriting process and benefitted from profits generated by the activity.
(4) The fact that some technological and regulatory constraints on the delivery of cross-border services into the United States have been eliminated since the Regulation K definition of “engaged in business” was adopted in 1979 creates greater scope for banking organizations to deal with customers outside the U.S. bank regulatory framework. The definition in Regulation K, however, does not authorize foreign banking organizations to evade regulatory restrictions on securities activities in the United States by directly underwriting securities to be distributed in the United States or by using U.S. offices and affiliates to facilitate the prohibited activity. In the GLB Act, Congress established a framework within which both domestic and foreign banking organizations may underwrite and deal in securities in the United States. The GLB Act requires that banking organizations meet certain financial and managerial requirements in order to be able to engage in these activities in the United States. The Board believes the practices described above undermine this legislative framework and constitute an evasion of the requirements of the GLB Act and the Board's Regulation K. Foreign banking organizations that wish to conduct securities underwriting activity in the United States have long had the option of obtaining section 20 authority and now have the option of obtaining financial holding company status.
(d)
Conclusion.
The Board finds that the underwriting of securities to be distributed in the United States is an activity conducted in the United States, regardless of the location at which the underwriting risk is assumed and the underwriting fees are booked. Consequently, any banking organization that wishes to engage in such activity must either be a financial holding company under the GLB Act or have authority to engage in underwriting activity under section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act (so-called “section 20 authority”). Revenue generated by underwriting bank-ineligible securities in such transactions should be attributed to the section 20 company for those foreign banks that operate under section 20 authority.
[Reg. K, 68 FR 7899, Feb. 19, 2003]
Pt. 212

# PART 212—MANAGEMENT OFFICIAL INTERLOCKS
Sec.
212.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
212.2
Definitions.
212.3
Prohibitions.
212.4
Interlocking relationships permitted by statute.
212.5
Small market share exemption.
212.6
General exemption.
212.7
Change in circumstances.
212.8
Enforcement.
212.9
Effect of Interlocks Act on Clayton Act.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 3201-3208; 15 U.S.C. 19.

# Source:
61 FR 40302, Aug. 2, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 212.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued under the provisions of the Depository Institution Management Interlocks Act (Interlocks Act) (12 U.S.C. 3201
et seq.
), as amended.
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of the Interlocks Act and this part is to foster competition by generally prohibiting a management official from serving two nonaffiliated depository organizations in situations where the management interlock likely would have an anticompetitive effect.
(c)
Scope.
This part applies to management officials of state member banks, bank holding companies, and their affiliates.
§ 212.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Affiliate.
(1) The term
affiliate
has the meaning given in section 202 of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201). For purposes of that section 202, shares held by an individual include shares held by members of his or her immediate family. “Immediate family” means spouse, mother, father, child, grandchild, sister, brother, or any of their spouses, whether or not any of their shares are held in trust.
(2) For purposes of section 202(3)(B) of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201(3)(B)), an affiliate relationship based on common ownership does not exist if the Board determines, after giving the affected persons the opportunity to respond, that the asserted affiliation was established in order to avoid the prohibitions of the Interlocks Act and does not represent a true commonality of interest between the depository organizations. In making this determination, the Board considers, among other things, whether a person, including members of his or her immediate family, whose shares are necessary to constitute the group owns a nominal percentage of the shares of one of the organizations and the percentage is substantially disproportionate to that person's ownership of shares in the other organization.
(b)
Area median income
means:
(1) The median family income for the metropolitan statistical area (MSA), if a depository organization is located in an MSA; or
(2) The statewide nonmetropolitan median family income, if a depository organization is located outside an MSA.
(c)
Community
means a city, town, or village, and contiguous and adjacent cities, towns, or villages.
(d)
Contiguous or adjacent cities, towns, or villages
means cities, towns, or villages whose borders touch each other or whose borders are within 10 road miles of each other at their closest points. The property line of an office located in an unincorporated city, town, or village is the boundary line of that city, town, or village for the purpose of this definition.
(e)
Depository holding company
means a bank holding company or a savings and loan holding company (as more fully defined in section 202 of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201)) having its principal office located in the United States.
(f)
Depository institution
means a commercial bank (including a private bank), a savings bank, a trust company, a savings and loan association, a building and loan association, a homestead association, a cooperative bank, an industrial bank, or a credit union, chartered under the laws of the United States and having a principal office located in the United States. Additionally, a United States office, including a branch or agency, of a foreign commercial bank is a depository institution.
(g)
Depository institution affiliate
means a depository institution that is
an affiliate of a depository organization.
(h)
Depository organization
means a depository institution or a depository holding company.
(i)
Low- and moderate-income areas
means census tracts (or, if an area is not in a census tract, block numbering areas delineated by the United States Bureau of the Census) where the median family income is less than 100 percent of the area median income.
(j)
Management official.
(1) The term
management official
means:
(i) A director;
(ii) An advisory or honorary director of a depository institution with total assets of $100 million or more;
(iii) A senior executive officer as that term is defined in 12 CFR 225.71(c);
(iv) A branch manager;
(v) A trustee of a depository organization under the control of trustees; and
(vi) Any person who has a representative or nominee, as defined in paragraph (n) of this section, serving in any of the capacities in this paragraph (j)(1).
(2) The term
management official
does not include:
(i) A person whose management functions relate exclusively to the business of retail merchandising or manufacturing;
(ii) A person whose management functions relate principally to a foreign commercial bank's business outside the United States; or
(iii) A person described in the provisos of section 202(4) of the Interlocks Act (referring to an officer of a State-chartered savings bank, cooperative bank, or trust company that neither makes real estate mortgage loans nor accepts savings).
(k)
Office
means a principal or branch office of a depository institution located in the United States.
Office
does not include a representative office of a foreign commercial bank, an electronic terminal, a loan production office, or any office of a depository holding company.
(l)
Person
means a natural person, corporation, or other business entity.
(m)
Relevant metropolitan statistical area (RMSA)
means an MSA, a primary MSA, or a consolidated MSA that is not comprised of designated Primary MSAs to the extent that these terms are defined and applied by the Office of Management and Budget.
(n)
Representative or nominee
means a natural person who serves as a management official and has an obligation to act on behalf of another person with respect to management responsibilities. The Board will find that a person has an obligation to act on behalf of another person only if the first person has an agreement, express or implied, to act on behalf of the second person with respect to management responsibilities. The Board will determine, after giving the affected persons an opportunity to respond, whether a person is a
representative or nominee.
(o)
Total assets.
(1) The term
total assets
means assets measured on a consolidated basis and reported in the most recent fiscal year-end Consolidated Report of Condition and Income.
(2) The term
total assets
does not include:
(i) Assets of a diversified savings and loan holding company as defined by section 10(a)(1)(F) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a)(1)(F)) other than the assets of its depository institution affiliate;
(ii) Assets of a bank holding company that is exempt from the prohibitions of section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 pursuant to an order issued under section 4(d) of that Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(d)) other than the assets of its depository institution affiliate; or
(iii) Assets of offices of a foreign commercial bank other than the assets of its United States branch or agency.
(3)(i) Notwithstanding paragraph (o)(1) of this section, and except as provided in paragraph (o)(3)(ii) of this section, from December 2, 2020, through December 31, 2021, the term
total assets,
with respect to a depository organization, means the lesser of assets of the depository organization reported on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2019, and assets reported as of the end of the depository organization's most recent fiscal year on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2020.
(ii) The relief provided under paragraph (o)(3)(i) of this section does not apply to a depository organization if the Board determines that permitting
the depository organization to determine its assets in accordance with that paragraph would not be commensurate with the risk profile of the depository organization. When making this determination, the Board will consider all relevant factors, including the extent of asset growth of the depository organization since December 31, 2019; the causes of such growth, including whether growth occurred as a result of mergers or acquisitions; whether such growth is likely to be temporary or permanent; whether the depository organization has become involved in any additional activities since December 31, 2019; the asset size of any parent companies; and the type of assets held by the depository organization. In making a determination pursuant to this paragraph (o)(3)(ii), the Board will apply notice and response procedures in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures in 12 CFR 263.202.
(p)
United States
means the United States of America, any State or territory of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.
[61 FR 40302, Aug. 2, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 51679, Sept. 24, 1999; Reg. L, 72 FR 1276, Jan. 11, 2007; 85 FR 77361, Dec. 2, 2020]
§ 212.3
Prohibitions.
(a)
Community.
A management official of a depository organization may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization if the depository organizations in question (or a depository institution affiliate thereof) have offices in the same community.
(b)
RMSA.
A management official of a depository organization may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization if the depository organizations in question (or a depository institution affiliate thereof) have offices in the same RMSA and, in the case of depository institutions, each depository organization has total assets of $50 million or more.
(c)
Major assets.
A management official of a depository organization with total assets exceeding $10 billion (or any affiliate of such an organization) may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization with total assets exceeding $10 billion (or any affiliate of such an organization), regardless of the location of the two depository organizations. The Board will adjust these thresholds, as necessary, based on the year-to-year change in the average of the Consumer Price Index for the Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, not seasonally adjusted, with rounding to the nearest $100 million. The Board will announce the revised thresholds by publishing a final rule without notice and comment in the
Federal Register.
[61 FR 40302, Aug. 2, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 51679, Sept. 24, 1999; Reg. L, 72 FR 1276, Jan. 11, 2007; 84 FR 54471, Oct. 10, 2019]
§ 212.4
Interlocking relationships permitted by statute.
The prohibitions of § 212.3 do not apply in the case of any one or more of the following organizations or to a subsidiary thereof:
(a) A depository organization that has been placed formally in liquidation, or which is in the hands of a receiver, conservator, or other official exercising a similar function;
(b) A corporation operating under section 25 or section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
and 12 U.S.C. 611
et seq.,
respectively) (Edge Corporations and Agreement Corporations);
(c) A credit union being served by a management official of another credit union;
(d) A depository organization that does not do business within the United States except as an incident to its activities outside the United States;
(e) A State-chartered savings and loan guaranty corporation;
(f) A Federal Home Loan Bank or any other bank organized solely to serve depository institutions (a bankers' bank) or solely for the purpose of providing securities clearing services and services related thereto for depository institutions and securities companies;
(g) A depository organization that is closed or is in danger of closing as determined by the appropriate Federal depository institution's regulatory
agency and is acquired by another depository organization. This exemption lasts for five years, beginning on the date the depository organization is acquired; and
(h)(1) A diversified savings and loan holding company (as defined in section 10(a)(1)(F) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a)(1)(F)) with respect to the service of a director of such company who also is a director of an unaffiliated depository organization if:
(i) Both the diversified savings and loan holding company and the unaffiliated depository organization notify their appropriate Federal depository institutions regulatory agency at least 60 days before the dual service is proposed to begin; and
(ii) The appropriate regulatory agency does not disapprove the dual service before the end of the 60-day period.
(2) The Board may disapprove a notice of proposed service if it finds that:
(i) The service cannot be structured or limited so as to preclude an anticompetitive effect in financial services in any part of the United States;
(ii) The service would lead to substantial conflicts of interest or unsafe or unsound practices; or
(iii) The notificant failed to furnish all the information required by the Board.
(3) The Board may require that any interlock permitted under this paragraph (h) be terminated if a change in circumstances occurs with respect to one of the interlocked depository organizations that would have provided a basis for disapproval of the interlock during the notice period.
§ 212.5
Small market share exemption.
(a)
Exemption.
A management interlock that is prohibited by § 212.3 is permissible, if:
(1) The interlock is not prohibited by § 212.3(c); and
(2) The depository organizations (and their depository institution affiliates) hold, in the aggregate, no more than 20 percent of the deposits in each RMSA or community in which both depository organizations (or their depository institution affiliates) have offices. The amount of deposits shall be determined by reference to the most recent annual Summary of Deposits published by the FDIC for the RMSA or community.
(b)
Confirmation and records.
Each depository organization must maintain records sufficient to support its determination of eligibility for the exemption under paragraph (a) of this section, and must reconfirm that determination on an annual basis.
[64 FR 51679, Sept. 24, 1999]
§ 212.6
General exemption.
(a)
Exemption.
The Board may, by agency order, exempt an interlock from the prohibitions in § 212.3, if the Board finds that the interlock would not result in a monopoly or substantial lessening of competition, and would not present safety and soundness concerns.
(b)
Presumptions.
In reviewing an application for an exemption under this section, the Board will apply a rebuttable presumption that an interlock will not result in a monopoly or substantial lessening of competition if the depository organization seeking to add a management official:
(1) Primarily serves low- and moderate-income areas;
(2) Is controlled or managed by persons who are members of a minority group, or women;
(3) Is a depository institution that has been chartered for less than two years; or
(4) Is deemed to be in “troubled condition” as defined in 12 CFR 225.71.
(c)
Duration.
Unless a shorter expiration period is provided in the Board approval, an exemption permitted by paragraph (a) of this section may continue so long as it does not result in a monopoly or substantial lessening of competition, or is unsafe or unsound. If the Board grants an interlock exemption in reliance upon a presumption under paragraph (b) of this section, the interlock may continue for three years, unless otherwise provided by the Board in writing.
[64 FR 51679, Sept. 24, 1999]
§ 212.7
Change in circumstances.
(a)
Termination.
A management official shall terminate his or her service or apply for an exemption if a change in circumstances causes the service to
become prohibited. A change in circumstances may include an increase in asset size of an organization, a change in the delineation of the RMSA or community, the establishment of an office, an increase in the aggregate deposits of the depository organization, or an acquisition, merger, consolidation, or reorganization of the ownership structure of a depository organization that causes a previously permissible interlock to become prohibited.
(b)
Transition period.
A management official described in paragraph (a) of this section may continue to serve the state member bank or bank holding company involved in the interlock for 15 months following the date of the change in circumstances. The Board may shorten this period under appropriate circumstances.
[61 FR 40302, Aug. 2, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 51679, Sept. 24, 1999]
§ 212.8
Enforcement.
Except as provided in this section, the Board administers and enforces the Interlocks Act with respect to state member banks, bank holding companies, and affiliates of either, and may refer any case of a prohibited interlocking relationship involving these entities to the Attorney General of the United States to enforce compliance with the Interlocks Act and this part. If an affiliate of a state member bank or a bank holding company is subject to the primary regulation of another Federal depository organization supervisory agency, then the Board does not administer and enforce the Interlocks Act with respect to that affiliate.
§ 212.9
Effect of Interlocks Act on Clayton Act.
The Board regards the provisions of the first three paragraphs of section 8 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 19) to have been supplanted by the revised and more comprehensive prohibitions on management official interlocks between depository organizations in the Interlocks Act.
Pt. 213

# PART 213—CONSUMER LEASING (REGULATION M)
Sec.
213.1
Authority, scope, purpose, and enforcement.
213.2
Definitions.
213.3
General disclosure requirements.
213.4
Content of disclosures.
213.5
Renegotiations, extensions, and assumptions.
213.6
[Reserved]
213.7
Advertising.
213.8
Record retention.
213.9
Relation to state laws.
Appendix A to Part 213—Model Forms
Appendix B to Part 213—Federal Enforcement Agencies
Appendix C to Part 213—Issuance of Staff Interpretations
Supplement I to Part 213—Official Staff Commentary to Regulation M

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1604 and 1667f; Pub. L. No. 111-203 section 1100E, 124 Stat. 1376.

# Source:
Reg. M, 61 FR 52258, Oct. 7, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 213.1
Authority, scope, purpose, and enforcement.
(a)
Authority.
The regulation in this part, known as Regulation M, is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to implement the consumer leasing provisions of the Truth in Lending Act, which is title I of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
). Information collection requirements contained in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and have been assigned OMB control number 7100-0202.
(b)
Scope and purpose.
This part applies to all persons that are lessors of personal property under consumer leases as those terms are defined in § 213.2(e)(1) and (h). The purpose of this part is:
(1) To ensure that lessees of personal property receive meaningful disclosures that enable them to compare lease terms with other leases and, where appropriate, with credit transactions;
(2) To limit the amount of balloon payments in consumer lease transactions; and
(3) To provide for the accurate disclosure of lease terms in advertising.
(c)
Enforcement and liability.
Section 108 of the act contains the administrative enforcement provisions. Sections 112, 130, 131, and 185 of the act contain the liability provisions for failing to comply with the requirements of the act and this part.
[Reg. M, 61 FR 52258, Oct. 7, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 15367, Apr. 1, 1997]
§ 213.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part the following definitions apply:
(a)
Act
means the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) and the Consumer Leasing Act is chapter 5 of the Truth in Lending Act.
(b)
Advertisement
means a commercial message in any medium that directly or indirectly promotes a consumer lease transaction.
(c)
Board
refers to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(d)
Closed-end lease
means a consumer lease other than an open-end lease as defined in this section.
(e)(1)
Consumer lease
means a contract in the form of a bailment or lease for the use of personal property by a natural person primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, for a period exceeding four months and for a total contractual obligation not exceeding the applicable threshold amount, whether or not the lessee has the option to purchase or otherwise become the owner of the property at the expiration of the lease. The threshold amount is adjusted annually to reflect increases in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, as applicable. See the official staff commentary to this paragraph (e) for the threshold amount applicable to a specific consumer lease. Unless the context indicates otherwise, in this part “lease” means “consumer lease.”
(2) The term does not include a lease that meets the definition of a credit sale in Regulation Z (12 CFR 226.2(a)). It also does not include a lease for agricultural, business, or commercial purposes or a lease made to an organization.
(3) This part does not apply to a lease transaction of personal property which is incident to the lease of real property and which provides that:
(i) The lessee has no liability for the value of the personal property at the end of the lease term except for abnormal wear and tear; and
(ii) The lessee has no option to purchase the leased property.
(f)
Gross capitalized cost
means the amount agreed upon by the lessor and the lessee as the value of the leased property and any items that are capitalized or amortized during the lease term, including but not limited to taxes, insurance, service agreements, and any outstanding prior credit or lease balance.
Capitalized cost reduction
means the total amount of any rebate, cash payment, net trade-in allowance, and noncash credit that reduces the gross capitalized cost. The
adjusted capitalized cost
equals the gross capitalized cost less the capitalized cost reduction, and is the amount used by the lessor in calculating the base periodic payment.
(g)
Lessee
means a natural person who enters into or is offered a consumer lease.
(h)
Lessor
means a person who regularly leases, offers to lease, or arranges for the lease of personal property under a consumer lease. A person who has leased, offered, or arranged to lease personal property more than five times in the preceding calendar year or more than five times in the current calendar year is subject to the act and this part.
(i)
Open-end lease
means a consumer lease in which the lessee's liability at the end of the lease term is based on the difference between the residual value of the leased property and its realized value.
(j)
Organization
means a corporation, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, association, or government entity or instrumentality.
(k)
Person
means a natural person or an organization.
(l)
Personal property
means any property that is not real property under the law of the state where the property is located at the time it is offered or made available for lease.
(m)
Realized value
means:
(1) The price received by the lessor for the leased property at disposition;
(2) The highest offer for disposition of the leased property; or
(3) The fair market value of the leased property at the end of the lease term.
(n)
Residual value
means the value of the leased property at the end of the lease term, as estimated or assigned at consummation by the lessor, used in calculating the base periodic payment.
(o)
Security interest
and
security
mean any interest in property that secures the payment or performance of an obligation.
(p)
State
means any state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States.
[Reg. M, 61 FR 52258, Oct. 7, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 15367, Apr. 1, 1997; 76 FR 18353, Apr. 4, 2011]
§ 213.3
General disclosure requirements.
(a)
General requirements.
A lessor shall make the disclosures required by § 213.4, as applicable. The disclosures shall be made clearly and conspicuously in writing in a form the consumer may keep, in accordance with this section. The disclosures required by this part may be provided to the lessee in electronic form, subject to compliance with the consumer consent and other applicable provisions of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (E-Sign Act) (15 U.S.C. § 7001
et seq.
). For an advertisement accessed by the consumer in electronic form, the disclosures required by § 213.7 may be provided to the consumer in electronic form in the advertisement, without regard to the consumer consent or other provisions of the E-Sign Act.
(1)
Form of disclosures.
The disclosures required by § 213.4 shall be given to the lessee together in a dated statement that identifies the lessor and the lessee; the disclosures may be made either in a separate statement that identifies the consumer lease transaction or in the contract or other document evidencing the lease. Alternatively, the disclosures required to be segregated from other information under paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be provided in a separate dated statement that identifies the lease, and the other required disclosures may be provided in the lease contract or other document evidencing the lease. In a lease of multiple items, the property description required by § 213.4(a) may be given in a separate statement that is incorporated by reference in the disclosure statement required by this paragraph.
(2)
Segregation of certain disclosures.
The following disclosures shall be segregated from other information and shall contain only directly related information: §§ 213.4(b) through (f), (g)(2), (h)(3), (i)(1), (j), and (m)(1). The headings, content, and format for the disclosures referred to in this paragraph (a)(2) shall be provided in a manner substantially similar to the applicable model form in appendix A of this part.
(3)
Timing of disclosures.
A lessor shall provide the disclosures to the lessee prior to the consummation of a consumer lease.
(4)
Language of disclosures.
The disclosures required by § 213.4 may be made in a language other than English provided that they are made available in English upon the lessee's request.
(b)
Additional information; nonsegregated disclosures.
Additional information may be provided with any disclosure not listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, but it shall not be stated, used, or placed so as to mislead or confuse the lessee or contradict, obscure, or detract attention from any disclosure required by this part.
(c)
Multiple lessors or lessees.
When a transaction involves more than one lessor, the disclosures required by this part may be made by one lessor on behalf of all the lessors. When a lease involves more than one lessee, the lessor may provide the disclosures to any lessee who is primarily liable on the lease.
(d)
Use of estimates.
If an amount or other item needed to comply with a required disclosure is unknown or unavailable after reasonable efforts have been made to ascertain the information, the lessor may use a reasonable estimate that is based on the best information available to the lessor, is clearly identified as an estimate, and is not used to circumvent or evade any disclosures required by this part.
(e)
Effect of subsequent occurrence.
If a required disclosure becomes inaccurate because of an event occurring after consummation, the inaccuracy is not a violation of this part.
(f)
Minor variations.
A lessor may disregard the effects of the following in making disclosures:
(1) That payments must be collected in whole cents;
(2) That dates of scheduled payments may be different because a scheduled date is not a business day;
(3) That months have different numbers of days; and
(4) That February 29 occurs in a leap year.
[Reg. M, 61 FR 52258, Oct. 7, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 17328, Mar. 30, 2001; 72 FR 63461, Nov. 9, 2007]
§ 213.4
Content of disclosures.
For any consumer lease subject to this part, the lessor shall disclose the following information, as applicable:
(a)
Description of property.
A brief description of the leased property sufficient to identify the property to the lessee and lessor.
(b)
Amount due at lease signing or delivery.
The total amount to be paid prior to or at consummation or by delivery, if delivery occurs after consummation, using the term “amount due at lease signing or delivery.” The lessor shall itemize each component by type and amount, including any refundable security deposit, advance monthly or other periodic payment, and capitalized cost reduction; and in motor-vehicle leases, shall itemize how the amount due will be paid, by type and amount, including any net trade-in allowance, rebates, noncash credits, and cash payments in a format substantially similar to the model forms in appendix A of this part.
(c)
Payment schedule and total amount of periodic payments.
The number, amount, and due dates or periods of payments scheduled under the lease, and the total amount of the periodic payments.
(d)
Other charges.
The total amount of other charges payable to the lessor, itemized by type and amount, that are not included in the periodic payments. Such charges include the amount of any liability the lease imposes upon the lessee at the end of the lease term; the potential difference between the residual and realized values referred to in paragraph (k) of this section is excluded.
(e)
Total of payments.
The total of payments, with a description such as “the amount you will have paid by the end of the lease.” This amount is the sum of the amount due at lease signing (less any refundable amounts), the total amount of periodic payments (less any portion of the periodic payment paid at lease signing), and other charges under paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. In an open-end lease, a description such as “you will owe an additional amount if the actual value of the vehicle is less than the residual value” shall accompany the disclosure.
(f)
Payment calculation.
In a motor-vehicle lease, a mathematical progression of how the scheduled periodic payment is derived, in a format substantially similar to the applicable model form in appendix A of this part, which shall contain the following:
(1)
Gross capitalized cost.
The gross capitalized cost, including a disclosure of the agreed upon value of the vehicle, a description such as “the agreed upon value of the vehicle [state the amount] and any items you pay for over the lease term (such as service contracts, insurance, and any outstanding prior credit or lease balance),” and a statement of the lessee's option to receive a separate written itemization of the gross capitalized cost. If requested by the lessee, the itemization shall be provided before consummation.
(2)
Capitalized cost reduction.
The capitalized cost reduction, with a description such as “the amount of any net trade-in allowance, rebate, noncash credit, or cash you pay that reduces the gross capitalized cost.”
(3)
Adjusted capitalized cost.
The adjusted capitalized cost, with a description such as “the amount used in calculating your base [periodic] payment.”
(4)
Residual value.
The residual value, with a description such as “the value of the vehicle at the end of the lease used in calculating your base [periodic] payment.”
(5)
Depreciation and any amortized amounts.
The depreciation and any amortized amounts, which is the difference between the adjusted capitalized cost and the residual value, with a description such as “the amount charged for the vehicle's decline in
value through normal use and for any other items paid over the lease term.”
(6)
Rent charge.
The rent charge, with a description such as “the amount charged in addition to the depreciation and any amortized amounts.” This amount is the difference between the total of the base periodic payments over the lease term minus the depreciation and any amortized amounts.
(7)
Total of base periodic payments.
The total of base periodic payments with a description such as “depreciation and any amortized amounts plus the rent charge.”
(8)
Lease payments.
The lease payments with a description such as “the number of payments in your lease.”
(9)
Base periodic payment.
The total of the base periodic payments divided by the number of payment periods in the lease.
(10)
Itemization of other charges.
An itemization of any other charges that are part of the periodic payment.
(11)
Total periodic payment.
The sum of the base periodic payment and any other charges that are part of the periodic payment.
(g)
Early termination
—(1)
Conditions and disclosure of charges.
A statement of the conditions under which the lessee or lessor may terminate the lease prior to the end of the lease term; and the amount or a description of the method for determining the amount of any penalty or other charge for early termination, which must be reasonable.
(2)
Early-termination notice.
In a motor-vehicle lease, a notice substantially similar to the following: “Early Termination. You may have to pay a substantial charge if you end this lease early.
The charge may be up to several thousand dollars.
The actual charge will depend on when the lease is terminated. The earlier you end the lease, the greater this charge is likely to be.”
(h)
Maintenance responsibilities.
The following provisions are required:
(1)
Statement of responsibilities.
A statement specifying whether the lessor or the lessee is responsible for maintaining or servicing the leased property, together with a brief description of the responsibility;
(2)
Wear and use standard.
A statement of the lessor's standards for wear and use (if any), which must be reasonable; and
(3)
Notice of wear and use standard.
In a motor-vehicle lease, a notice regarding wear and use substantially similar to the following: “Excessive Wear and Use. You may be charged for excessive wear based on our standards for normal use.” The notice shall also specify the amount or method for determining any charge for excess mileage.
(i)
Purchase option.
A statement of whether or not the lessee has the option to purchase the leased property, and:
(1)
End of lease term.
If at the end of the lease term, the purchase price; and
(2)
During lease term.
If prior to the end of the lease term, the purchase price or the method for determining the price and when the lessee may exercise this option.
(j)
Statement referencing nonsegregated disclosures.
A statement that the lessee should refer to the lease documents for additional information on early termination, purchase options and maintenance responsibilities, warranties, late and default charges, insurance, and any security interests, if applicable.
(k)
Liability between residual and realized values.
A statement of the lessee's liability, if any, at early termination or at the end of the lease term for the difference between the residual value of the leased property and its realized value.
(l)
Right of appraisal.
If the lessee's liability at early termination or at the end of the lease term is based on the realized value of the leased property, a statement that the lessee may obtain, at the lessee's expense, a professional appraisal by an independent third party (agreed to by the lessee and the lessor) of the value that could be realized at sale of the leased property. The appraisal shall be final and binding on the parties.
(m)
Liability at end of lease term based on residual value.
If the lessee is liable at the end of the lease term for the difference between the residual value of the leased property and its realized value:
(1)
Rent and other charges.
The rent and other charges, paid by the lessee and required by the lessor as an incident to the lease transaction, with a
description such as “the total amount of rent and other charges imposed in connection with your lease [state the amount].”
(2)
Excess liability.
A statement about a rebuttable presumption that, at the end of the lease term, the residual value of the leased property is unreasonable and not in good faith to the extent that the residual value exceeds the realized value by more than three times the base monthly payment (or more than three times the average payment allocable to a monthly period, if the lease calls for periodic payments other than monthly); and that the lessor cannot collect the excess amount unless the lessor brings a successful court action and pays the lessee's reasonable attorney's fees, or unless the excess of the residual value over the realized value is due to unreasonable or excessive wear or use of the leased property (in which case the rebuttable presumption does not apply).
(3)
Mutually agreeable final adjustment.
A statement that the lessee and lessor are permitted, after termination of the lease, to make any mutually agreeable final adjustment regarding excess liability.
(n)
Fees and taxes.
The total dollar amount for all official and license fees, registration, title, or taxes required to be paid in connection with the lease.
(o)
Insurance.
A brief identification of insurance in connection with the lease including:
(1)
Through the lessor.
If the insurance is provided by or paid through the lessor, the types and amounts of coverage and the cost to the lessee; or
(2)
Through a third party.
If the lessee must obtain the insurance, the types and amounts of coverage required of the lessee.
(p)
Warranties or guarantees.
A statement identifying all express warranties and guarantees from the manufacturer or lessor with respect to the leased property that apply to the lessee.
(q)
Penalties and other charges for delinquency.
The amount or the method of determining the amount of any penalty or other charge for delinquency, default, or late payments, which must be reasonable.
(r)
Security interest.
A description of any security interest, other than a security deposit disclosed under paragraph (b) of this section, held or to be retained by the lessor; and a clear identification of the property to which the security interest relates.
(s)
Limitations on rate information.
If a lessor provides a percentage rate in an advertisement or in documents evidencing the lease transaction, a notice stating that “this percentage may not measure the overall cost of financing this lease” shall accompany the rate disclosure. The lessor shall not use the term “annual percentage rate,” “annual lease rate,” or any equivalent term.
(t)
Non-motor vehicle open-end leases.
Non-motor vehicle open-end leases remain subject to section 182(10) of the act regarding end of term liability.
[Reg. M, 61 FR 52258, Oct. 7, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 15367, Apr. 1, 1997; 63 FR 52109, Sept. 29, 1998]
§ 213.5
Renegotiations, extensions, and assumptions.
(a)
Renegotiation.
A renegotiation occurs when a consumer lease subject to this part is satisfied and replaced by a new lease undertaken by the same consumer. A renegotiation requires new disclosures, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Extension.
An extension is a continuation, agreed to by the lessor and the lessee, of an existing consumer lease beyond the originally scheduled end of the lease term, except when the continuation is the result of a renegotiation. An extension that exceeds six months requires new disclosures, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
Assumption.
New disclosures are not required when a consumer lease is assumed by another person, whether or not the lessor charges an assumption fee.
(d)
Exceptions.
New disclosures are not required for the following, even if they meet the definition of a renegotiation or an extension:
(1) A reduction in the rent charge;
(2) The deferment of one or more payments, whether or not a fee is charged;
(3) The extension of a lease for not more than six months on a month-to-month basis or otherwise;
(4) A substitution of leased property with property that has a substantially equivalent or greater economic value, provided no other lease terms are changed;
(5) The addition, deletion, or substitution of leased property in a multiple-item lease, provided the average periodic payment does not change by more than 25 percent; or
(6) An agreement resulting from a court proceeding.
[Reg. M, 61 FR 52258, Oct. 7, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 15367, Apr. 1, 1997]
§ 213.6
[Reserved]
§ 213.7
Advertising.
(a)
General rule.
An advertisement for a consumer lease may state that a specific lease of property at specific amounts or terms is available only if the lessor usually and customarily leases or will lease the property at those amounts or terms.
(b)
Clear and conspicuous standard.
Disclosures required by this section shall be made clearly and conspicuously.
(1)
Amount due at lease signing or delivery.
Except for the statement of a periodic payment, any affirmative or negative reference to a charge that is a part of the disclosure required under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section shall not be more prominent than that disclosure.
(2)
Advertisement of a lease rate.
If a lessor provides a percentage rate in an advertisement, the rate shall not be more prominent than any of the disclosures in § 213.4, with the exception of the notice in § 213.4(s) required to accompany the rate; and the lessor shall not use the term “annual percentage rate,” “annual lease rate,” or equivalent term.
(c)
Catalogs or other multipage advertisements; electronic advertisements.
A catalog or other multipage advertisement , or an electronic advertisement (such as an advertisement appearing on an Internet Web site), that provides a table or schedule of the required disclosures shall be considered a single advertisement if, for lease terms that appear without all the required disclosures, the advertisement refers to the page or pages on which the table or schedule appears.
(d)
Advertisement of terms that require additional disclosure
—(1)
Triggering terms.
An advertisement that states any of the following items shall contain the disclosures required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section:
(i) The amount of any payment; or
(ii) A statement of any capitalized cost reduction or other payment (or that no payment is required) prior to or at consummation or by delivery, if delivery occurs after consummation.
(2)
Additional terms.
An advertisement stating any item listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall also state the following items:
(i) That the transaction advertised is a lease;
(ii) The total amount due prior to or at consummation or by delivery, if delivery occurs after consummation;
(iii) The number, amounts, and due dates or periods of scheduled payments under the lease;
(iv) A statement of whether or not a security deposit is required; and
(v) A statement that an extra charge may be imposed at the end of the lease term where the lessee's liability (if any) is based on the difference between the residual value of the leased property and its realized value at the end of the lease term.
(e)
Alternative disclosures—merchandise tags.
A merchandise tag stating any item listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section may comply with paragraph (d)(2) of this section by referring to a sign or display prominently posted in the lessor's place of business that contains a table or schedule of the required disclosures.
(f)
Alternative disclosures—television or radio advertisements
—(1)
Toll-free number or print advertisement.
An advertisement made through television or radio stating any item listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section complies with paragraph (d)(2) of this section if the advertisement states the items listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, and:
(i) Lists a toll-free telephone number along with a reference that such number may be used by consumers to obtain the information required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section; or
(ii) Directs the consumer to a written advertisement in a publication of general circulation in the community served by the media station, including the name and the date of the publication, with a statement that information required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section is included in the advertisement. The written advertisement shall be published beginning at least three days before and ending at least ten days after the broadcast.
(2)
Establishment of toll-free number.
(i) The toll-free telephone number shall be available for no fewer than ten days, beginning on the date of the broadcast.
(ii) The lessor shall provide the information required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section orally, or in writing upon request.
[Reg. M, 61 FR 52258, Oct. 7, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 15368, Apr. 1, 1997; 63 FR 52109, Sept. 29, 1998; 72 FR 63461, Nov. 9, 2007]
§ 213.8
Record retention.
A lessor shall retain evidence of compliance with the requirements imposed by this part, other than the advertising requirements under § 213.7, for a period of not less than two years after the date the disclosures are required to be made or an action is required to be taken.
§ 213.9
Relation to state laws.
(a)
Inconsistent state law.
A state law that is inconsistent with the requirements of the act and this part is preempted to the extent of the inconsistency. If a lessor cannot comply with a state law without violating a provision of this part, the state law is inconsistent within the meaning of section 186(a) of the act and is preempted, unless the state law gives greater protection and benefit to the consumer. A state, through an official having primary enforcement or interpretative responsibilities for the state consumer leasing law, may apply to the Board for a preemption determination.
(b)
Exemptions
—(1)
Application.
A state may apply to the Board for an exemption from the requirements of the act and this part for any class of lease transactions within the state. The Board will grant such an exemption if the Board determines that:
(i) The class of leasing transactions is subject to state law requirements substantially similar to the act and this part or that lessees are afforded greater protection under state law; and
(ii) There is adequate provision for state enforcement.
(2)
Enforcement and liability.
After an exemption has been granted, the requirements of the applicable state law (except for additional requirements not imposed by federal law) will constitute the requirements of the act and this part. No exemption will extend to the civil liability provisions of sections 130, 131, and 185 of the act.
Pt. 213, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 213—Model Forms
A-1 Model Open-End or Finance Vehicle Lease Disclosures
A-2 Model Closed-End or Net Vehicle Lease Disclosures
A-3 Model Furniture Lease Disclosures
ER29SE98.000
ER29SE98.001
ER29SE98.002
ER29SE98.003
ER29SE98.004
ER29SE98.005
[Reg. M, 63 FR 52110, Sept. 29, 1998]
Pt. 213, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 213—Federal Enforcement Agencies
The following list indicates which federal agency enforces Regulation M (12 CFR Part 213) for particular classes of business. Any questions concerning compliance by a particular business should be directed to the appropriate enforcement agency. Terms that are not defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(s)) shall have the meaning given to them in the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101).
1.
National banks and federal branches and federal agencies of foreign banks
District office of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for the district in which the institution is located.
2.
State member banks, branches and agencies of foreign banks (other than federal branches, federal agencies, and insured state branches of foreign banks), commercial lending companies owned or controlled by foreign banks, and organizations operating under section 25 or 25A of the Federal Reserve Act
Federal Reserve Bank serving the District in which the institution is located.
3.
Nonmember insured banks and insured state branches of foreign banks
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Regional Director for the region in which the institution is located.
4.
Savings institutions insured under the Savings Association Insurance Fund of the FDIC and federally chartered savings banks insured under the Bank Insurance Fund of the FDIC (but not including state-chartered savings banks insured under the Bank Insurance Fund)
Office of Thrift Supervision regional director for the region in which the institution is located.
5.
Federal credit unions
Regional office of the National Credit Union Administration serving the area in which the federal credit union is located.
6.
Air carriers
Assistant General Counsel for Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings, Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20590
7.
Those subject to Packers and Stockyards Act
Nearest Packers and Stockyards Administration area supervisor.
8.
Federal Land Banks, Federal Land Bank Associations, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, and Production Credit Associations
Farm Credit Administration, 490 L'Enfant Plaza, S.W., Washington, DC 20578
9.
All other lessors (lessors operating on a local or regional basis should use the address of the FTC regional office in which they operate)
Division of Credit Practices, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, DC 20580
Pt. 213, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 213—Issuance of Staff Interpretations
Officials in the Board's Division of Consumer and Community Affairs are authorized to issue official staff interpretations of this Regulation M (12 CFR Part 213). These interpretations provide the formal protection afforded under section 130(f) of the act. Except in unusual circumstances, interpretations will not be issued separately but will be incorporated in an official commentary to Regulation M (Supplement I of this part), which will be amended periodically. No staff interpretations will be issued approving lessor's forms, statements, or calculation tools or methods.
Pt. 213, Supp. I

# Supplement I to Part 213—Official Staff Commentary to Regulation M

# Introduction
1.
Official status.
The commentary in Supplement I is the vehicle by which the Division of Consumer and Community Affairs of
the Federal Reserve Board issues official staff interpretations of Regulation M (12 CFR part 213). Good faith compliance with this commentary affords protection from liability under section 130(f) of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1640(f)). Section 130(f) protects lessors from civil liability for any act done or omitted in good faith in conformity with any interpretation issued by a duly authorized official or employee of the Federal Reserve System.
2.
Procedures for requesting interpretations.
Under appendix C of Regulation M, anyone may request an official staff interpretation. Interpretations that are adopted will be incorporated in this commentary following publication in the
Federal Register.
No official staff interpretations are expected to be issued other than by means of this commentary.
3.
Comment designations.
Each comment in the commentary is identified by a number and the regulatory section or paragraph that it interprets. The comments are designated with as much specificity as possible according to the particular regulatory provision addressed. For example, some of the comments to § 213.4(f) are further divided by subparagraph, such as comment 4(f)(1)-1 and comment 4(f)(2)-1. In other cases, comments have more general application and are designated, for example, as comment 4(a)-1. This introduction may be cited as comments I-1 through I-4. An appendix may be cited as comment app. A-1.
4.
Illustrations.
Lists that appear in the commentary may be exhaustive or illustrative; the appropriate construction should be clear from the context. Illustrative lists are introduced by phrases such as “including,” “such as,” “to illustrate,” and “for example.”

# Section 213.1—Authority, Scope, Purpose, and Enforcement
1.
Foreign applicability.
Regulation M applies to all persons (including branches of foreign banks or leasing companies located in the United States) that offer consumer leases to residents of any state (including foreign nationals) as defined in § 213.2(p). The regulation does not apply to a foreign branch of a U.S. bank or to a leasing company leasing to a U.S. citizen residing or visiting abroad or to a foreign national abroad.

# Section 213.2—Definitions

# 2(b) Advertisement
1.
Coverage.
The term advertisement includes messages inviting, offering, or otherwise generally announcing to prospective customers the availability of consumer leases, whether in visual, oral, print or electronic media. Examples include:
i. Messages in newspapers, magazines, leaflets, catalogs, and fliers.
ii. Messages on radio, television, and public address systems.
iii. Direct mail literature.
iv. Printed material on any interior or exterior sign or display, in any window display, in any point-of-transaction literature or price tag that is delivered or made available to a lessee or prospective lessee in any manner whatsoever.
v. Telephone solicitations.
vi. On-line messages, such as those on the Internet.
2.
Exclusions.
The term does not apply to the following:
i. Direct personal contacts, including follow-up letters, cost estimates for individual lessees, or oral or written communications relating to the negotiation of a specific transaction.
ii. Informational material distributed only to businesses.
iii. Notices required by federal or state law, if the law mandates that specific information be displayed and only the mandated information is included in the notice.
iv. News articles controlled by the news medium.
v. Market research or educational materials that do not solicit business.
3.
Persons covered.
See the commentary to § 213.7(a).

# 2(d) Closed-End Lease
1.
General.
In closed-end leases, sometimes referred to as “walk-away” leases, the lessee is not responsible for the residual value of the leased property at the end of the lease term.

# 2(e) Consumer Lease
1.
Primary purposes.
A lessor must determine in each case if the leased property will be used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. If a question exists as to the primary purpose for a lease, the fact that a lessor gives disclosures is not controlling on the question of whether the transaction is covered. The primary purpose of a lease is determined before or at consummation and a lessor need not provide Regulation M disclosures where there is a subsequent change in the primary use.
2.
Period of time.
To be a consumer lease, the initial term of the lease must be more than four months. Thus, a lease of personal property for four months, three months or on a month-to-month or week-to-week basis (even though the lease actually extends beyond four months) is not a consumer lease and is not subject to the disclosure requirements of the regulation. However, a lease that imposes a penalty for not continuing the lease beyond four months is considered to have a term of more than four months. To illustrate:
i. A three-month lease extended on a month-to-month basis and terminated after one year is not subject to the regulation.
ii. A month-to-month lease with a penalty, such as the forfeiture of a security deposit for terminating before one year, is subject to the regulation.
3.
Total contractual obligation.
The total contractual obligation is not necessarily the same as the total of payments disclosed under § 213.4(e). The total contractual obligation includes nonrefundable amounts a lessee is contractually obligated to pay to the lessor, but excludes items such as:
i. Residual value amounts or purchase-option prices;
ii. Amounts collected by the lessor but paid to a third party, such as taxes, licenses, and registration fees.
4.
Credit sale.
The regulation does not cover a lease that meets the definition of a credit sale in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 226.2(a)(16), which is defined, in part, as a bailment or lease (unless terminable without penalty at any time by the consumer) under which the consumer:
i. Agrees to pay as compensation for use a sum substantially equivalent to, or in excess of, the total value of the property and services involved; and
ii. Will become (or has the option to become), for no additional consideration or for nominal consideration, the owner of the property upon compliance with the agreement.
5.
Agricultural purpose.
Agricultural purpose means a purpose related to the production, harvest, exhibition, marketing, transportation, processing, or manufacture of agricultural products by a natural person who cultivates, plants, propagates, or nurtures those agricultural products, including but not limited to the acquisition of personal property and services used primarily in farming. Agricultural products include horticultural, viticultural, and dairy products, livestock, wildlife, poultry, bees, forest products, fish and shellfish, and any products thereof, including processed and manufactured products, and any and all products raised or produced on farms and any processed or manufactured products thereof.
6.
Organization or other entity.
A consumer lease does not include a lease made to an organization such as a corporation or a government agency or instrumentality. Such a lease is not covered by the regulation even if the leased property is used (by an employee, for example) primarily for personal, family or household purposes, or is guaranteed by or subsequently assigned to a natural person.
7.
Leases of personal property incidental to a service.
The following leases of personal property are deemed incidental to a service and thus are not subject to the regulation:
i. Home entertainment systems requiring the consumer to lease equipment that enables a television to receive the transmitted programming.
ii. Security alarm systems requiring the installation of leased equipment intended to monitor unlawful entries into a home and in some cases to provide fire protection.
iii. Propane gas service where the consumer must lease a propane tank to receive the service.
8.
Safe deposit boxes.
The lease of a safe deposit box is not a consumer lease under § 213.2(e).
9.
Threshold amount.
A consumer lease is exempt from the requirements of this part if the total contractual obligation exceeds the threshold amount in effect at the time of consummation. The threshold amount in effect during a particular time period is the amount stated in comment 2(e)-11 for that period. The threshold amount is adjusted effective January 1 of each year by any annual percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W) that was in effect on the preceding June 1. Comment 2(e)-11 will be amended to provide the threshold amount for the upcoming year after the annual percentage change in the CPI-W that was in effect on June 1 becomes available. Any increase in the threshold amount will be rounded to the nearest $100 increment. For example, if the annual percentage increase in the CPI-W would result in a $950 increase in the threshold amount, the threshold amount will be increased by $1,000. However, if the annual percentage increase in the CPI-W would result in a $949 increase in the threshold amount, the threshold amount will be increased by $900. If a consumer lease is exempt from the requirements of this part because the total contractual obligation exceeds the threshold amount in effect at the time of consummation, the lease remains exempt regardless of a subsequent increase in the threshold amount.
10.
No increase in the CPI-W.
If the CPI-W in effect on June 1 does not increase from the CPI-W in effect on June 1 of the previous year, the threshold amount effective the following January 1 through December 31 will not change from the previous year. When this occurs, for the years that follow, the threshold is calculated based on the annual percentage change in the CPI-W applied to the dollar amount that would have resulted, after rounding, if decreases and any subsequent increases in the CPI-W had been taken into account.
i.
Net increases.
If the resulting amount calculated, after rounding, is greater than the current threshold, then the threshold effective January 1 the following year will increase accordingly.
ii.
Net decreases.
If the resulting amount calculated, after rounding, is equal to or less than the current threshold, then the threshold effective January 1 the following year
will not change, but future increases will be calculated based on the amount that would have resulted.
11.
Threshold.
For purposes of § 213.2(e)(1), the threshold amount in effect during a particular period is the amount stated in the following for that period.
i. Prior to July 21, 2011, the threshold amount is $25,000.
ii. From July 21, 2011, through December 31, 2011, the threshold amount is $50,000.
iii. From January 1, 2012, through December 31, 2012, the threshold amount is $51,800.
iv. From January 1, 2013, through December 31, 2013, the threshold amount is $53,000.
v. From January 1, 2014, through December 31, 2014, the threshold amount is $53,500.
vi. From January 1, 2015, through December 31, 2015, the threshold amount is $54,600.
vii. From January 1, 2016, through December 31, 2016, the threshold amount is $54,600.
viii. From January 1, 2017, through December 31, 2017, the threshold amount is $54,600.
ix. From January 1, 2018, through December 31, 2018, the threshold amount is $55,800.
x. From January 1, 2019, through December 31, 2019, the threshold amount is $57,200.
xi. From January 1, 2020, through December 31, 2020, the threshold amount is $58,300.
xii. From January 1, 2021, through December 31, 2021, the threshold amount is $58,300.
xiii. From January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022, the threshold amount is $61,000.
xiv. From January 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023, the threshold amount is $66,400.
xv. From January 1, 2024, through December 31, 2024, the threshold amount is $69,500.
xvi. From January 1, 2025, through December 31, 2025, the threshold amount is $71,900.

# 2(g) Lessee
1.
Guarantors.
Guarantors are not lessees for purposes of the regulation.

# 2(h) Lessor
1.
Arranger of a lease.
To “arrange” for the lease of personal property means to provide or offer to provide a lease that is or will be extended by another person under a business or other relationship pursuant to which the person arranging the lease (a) receives or will receive a fee, compensation, or other consideration for the service or (b) has knowledge of the lease terms and participates in the preparation of the contract documents required in connection with the lease. To illustrate:
i. An automobile dealer who, pursuant to a business relationship, completes the necessary lease agreement before forwarding it for execution to the leasing company (to whom the obligation is payable on its face) is “arranging” for the lease.
ii. An automobile dealer who, without receiving a fee for the service, refers a customer to a leasing company that will prepare all relevant contract documents is not “arranging” for the lease.
2.
Consideration.
The term “other consideration” as used in comment 2(h)-1 refers to an actual payment corresponding to a fee or similar compensation and not to intangible benefits, such as the advantage of increased business, which may flow from the relationship between the parties.
3.
Assignees.
An assignee may be a lessor for purposes of the regulation in circumstances where the assignee has substantial involvement in the lease transaction. See cf.
Ford Motor Credit Co.
v.
Cenance,
452 U.S. 155 (1981) (held that an assignee was a creditor for purposes of the pre-1980 Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z because of its substantial involvement in the credit transaction).
4.
Multiple lessors.
See the commentary to § 213.3(c).

# 2(j) Organization
1.
Coverage.
The term “organization” includes joint ventures and persons operating under a business name.

# 2(l) Personal Property
1.
Coverage.
Whether property is personal property depends on state or other applicable law. For example, a mobile home or houseboat may be considered personal property in one state but real property in another.

# 2(m) Realized Value
1.
General.
Realized value refers to either the retail or wholesale value of the leased property at early termination or at the end of the lease term. It is not a required disclosure. Realized value is relevant only to leases in which the lessee's liability at early termination or at the end of the lease term typically is based on the difference between the residual value (or the adjusted lease balance) of the leased property and its realized value.
2.
Options.
Subject to the contract and to state or other applicable law, the lessor may calculate the realized value in determining the lessee's liability at the end of the lease term or at early termination in one of the three ways stated in § 213.2(m). If the lessor sells the property prior to making the determination about liability, the price received for the property (or the fair market value) is the realized value. If the lessor does not sell the property prior to making that determination, the highest offer or the fair market value is the realized value.
3.
Determination of realized value.
Disposition charges are not subtracted in determining the realized value but amounts attributable to taxes may be subtracted.
4.
Offers.
In determining the highest offer for disposition, the lessor may disregard offers that an offeror has withdrawn or is unable or unwilling to perform.
5.
Lessor's appraisal.
See commentary to § 213.4(l).

# 2(o) Security Interest and Security
1.
Disclosable interests.
For purposes of disclosure, a security interest is an interest taken by the lessor to secure performance of the lessee's obligation. For example, if a bank that is not a lessor makes a loan to a leasing company and takes assignments of consumer leases generated by that company to secure the loan, the bank's security interest in the lessor's receivables is not a security interest for purposes of this regulation.
2.
General coverage.
An interest the lessor may have in leased property must be disclosed only if it is considered a security interest under state or other applicable law. The term includes, but is not limited to, security interests under the Uniform Commercial Code; real property mortgages, deeds of trust, and other consensual or confessed liens whether or not recorded; mechanic's, materialman's, artisan's, and other similar liens; vendor's liens in both real and personal property; liens on property arising by operation of law; and any interest in a lease when used to secure payment or performance of an obligation.
3.
Insurance exception.
The lessor's right to insurance proceeds or unearned insurance premiums is not a security interest for purposes of this regulation.

# Section 213.3—General Disclosure Requirements

# 3(a) General Requirements
1.
Basis of disclosures.
Disclosures must reflect the terms of the legal obligation between the parties. For example:
i. In a three-year lease with no penalty for termination after a one-year minimum term, disclosures are based on the full three-year term of the lease. The one-year minimum term is only relevant to the early termination provisions of §§ 213.4 (g)(1), (k) and (l).
2.
Clear and conspicuous standard.
The clear and conspicuous standard requires that disclosures be reasonably understandable. For example, the disclosures must be presented in a way that does not obscure the relationship of the terms to each other; appendix A of this part contains model forms that meet this standard. In addition, although no minimum typesize is required, the disclosures must be legible, whether typewritten, handwritten, or printed by computer.
3.
Multipurpose disclosure forms.
A lessor may use a multipurpose disclosure form provided the lessor is able to designate the specific disclosures applicable to a given transaction, consistent with the requirement that disclosures be clearly and conspicuously provided.
4.
Number of transactions.
Lessors have flexibility in handling lease transactions that may be viewed as multiple transactions. For example:
i. When a lessor leases two items to the same lessee on the same day, the lessor may disclose the leases as either one or two lease transactions.
ii. When a lessor sells insurance or other incidental services in connection with a lease, the lessor may disclose in one of two ways: as a single lease transaction (in which case Regulation M, not Regulation Z, disclosures are required) or as a lease transaction and a credit transaction.
iii. When a lessor includes an outstanding lease or credit balance in a lease transaction, the lessor may disclose the outstanding balance as part of a single lease transaction (in which case Regulation M, not Regulation Z, disclosures are required) or as a lease transaction and a credit transaction.

# 3(a)(1) Form of Disclosures
1.
Cross-references.
Lessors may include in the nonsegregated disclosures a cross-reference to items in the segregated disclosures rather than repeat those items. A lessor may include in the segregated disclosures numeric or alphabetic designations as cross-references to related information so long as such references do not obscure or detract from the segregated disclosures.
2.
Identification of parties.
While disclosures must be made clearly and conspicuously, lessors are not required to use the word “lessor” and “lessee” to identify the parties to the lease transaction.
3.
Lessor's address.
The lessor must be identified by name; an address (and telephone number) may be provided.
4.
Multiple lessors and lessees.
In transactions involving multiple lessors and multiple lessees, a single lessor may make all the disclosures to a single lessee as long as the disclosure statement identifies all the lessors and lessees.
5.
Lessee's signature.
The regulation does not require that the lessee sign the disclosure statement, whether disclosures are separately provided or are part of the lease contract. Nevertheless, to provide evidence that disclosures are given before a lessee becomes obligated on the lease transaction, the lessor may, for example, ask the lessee to sign the disclosure statement or an acknowledgement of receipt, may place disclosures that are included in the lease documents above the lessee's signature, or include instructions alerting a lessee to read the disclosures prior to signing the lease.

# 3(a)(2) Segregation of Certain Disclosures
1.
Location.
The segregated disclosures referred to in § 213.3(a)(2) may be provided on a separate document and the other required disclosures may be provided in the lease contract, so long as all disclosures are given at the same time. Alternatively, all disclosures may be provided in a separate document or in the lease contract.
2.
Additional information among segregated disclosures.
The disclosures required to be segregated may contain only the information required or permitted to be included among the segregated disclosures.
3.
Substantially similar.
See commentary to appendix A of this part.

# 3(a)(3) Timing of Disclosures
1.
Consummation.
When a contractual relationship is created between the lessor and the lessee is a matter to be determined under state or other applicable law.

# 3(b) Additional Information; Nonsegregated Disclosures
1.
State law disclosures.
A lessor may include in the nonsegregated disclosures any state law disclosures that are not inconsistent with the act and regulation under § 213.9 as long as, in accordance with the standard set forth in § 213.3(b) for additional information, the state law disclosures are not used or placed to mislead or confuse or detract from any disclosure required by the regulation.

# 3(c) Multiple Lessors or Lessees
1.
Multiple lessors.
If a single lessor provides disclosures to a lessee on behalf of several lessors, all disclosures for the transaction must be given, even if the lessor making the disclosures would not otherwise have been obligated to make a particular disclosure.

# 3(d) Use of Estimates

# 3(d)(1) Standard
1.
Time of estimated disclosure.
The lessor may, after making a reasonable effort to obtain information, use estimates to make disclosures if necessary information is unknown or unavailable at the time the disclosures are made.
2.
Basis of estimates.
Estimates must be made on the basis of the best information reasonably available at the time disclosures are made. The “reasonably available” standard requires that the lessor, acting in good faith, exercise due diligence in obtaining information. The lessor may rely on the representations of other parties. For example, the lessor might look to the consumer to determine the purpose for which leased property will be used, to insurance companies for the cost of insurance, or to an automobile manufacturer or dealer for the date of delivery. See commentary to § 213.4(n) for estimating official fees and taxes.
3.
Residual value of leased property at termination.
In an open-end lease where the lessee's liability at the end of the lease term is based on the residual value of the leased property as determined at consummation, the estimate of the residual value must be reasonable and based on the best information reasonably available to the lessor (see § 213.4(m)). A lessor should generally use an accepted trade publication listing estimated current or future market prices for the leased property unless other information or a reasonable belief based on its experience provides the better information. For example:
i. An automobile lessor offering a three-year open-end lease assigns a wholesale value to the vehicle at the end of the lease term. The lessor may disclose as an estimate a wholesale value derived from a generally accepted trade publication listing current wholesale values.
ii. Same facts as above, except that the lessor discloses an estimated value derived by adjusting the residual value quoted in the trade publication because, in its experience, the trade publication values either understate or overstate the prices actually received in local used-vehicle markets. The lessor may adjust estimated values quoted in trade publications if the lessor reasonably believes based on its experience that the values are understated or overstated.
4.
Retail or wholesale value.
The lessor may choose either a retail or a wholesale value in estimating the value of leased property at termination of an open-end lease provided the choice is consistent with the lessor's general practice when determining the value of the property at the end of the lease term. The lessor should indicate whether the value disclosed is a retail or wholesale value.
5.
Labelling estimates.
Generally, only the disclosure for which the exact information is unknown is labelled as an estimate. Nevertheless, when several disclosures are affected because of the unknown information, the lessor has the option of labelling as an estimate every affected disclosure or only the disclosure primarily affected.

# 3(e) Effect of Subsequent Occurrence
1.
Subsequent occurrences.
Examples of subsequent occurrences include:
i. An agreement between the lessee and lessor to change from a monthly to a weekly payment schedule.
ii. An increase in official fees or taxes.
iii. An increase in insurance premiums or coverage caused by a change in the law.
iv. Late delivery of an automobile caused by a strike.
2.
Redisclosure.
When a disclosure becomes inaccurate because of a subsequent occurrence, the lessor need not make new disclosures unless new disclosures are required under § 213.5.
3.
Lessee's failure to perform.
The lessor does not violate the regulation if a previously given disclosure becomes inaccurate when a lessee fails to perform obligations under the contract and a lessor takes actions that are necessary and proper in such circumstances to protect its interest. For example, the addition of insurance or a security interest by the lessor because the lessee has not performed obligations contracted for in the lease is not a violation of the regulation.

# Section 213.4—Content of Disclosures

# 4(a) Description of Property
1.
Placement of description.
Although the description of leased property may not be included among the segregated disclosures, a lessor may choose to place the description directly above the segregated disclosures.

# 4(b) Amount Due at Lease Signing or Delivery
1.
Consummation.
See commentary to § 213.3(a)(3).
2.
Capitalized cost reduction.
A capitalized cost reduction is a payment in the nature of a downpayment on the leased property that reduces the amount to be capitalized over the term of the lease. This amount does not include any amounts included in a periodic payment paid at lease signing or delivery.
3.
“Negative” equity trade-in allowance.
If an amount owed on a prior lease or credit balance exceeds the agreed upon value of a trade-in, the difference is not reflected as a negative trade-in allowance under § 213.4(b). The lessor may disclose the trade-in allowance as zero or not applicable, or may leave a blank line.
4.
Rebates.
Only rebates applied toward an amount due at lease signing or delivery are required to be disclosed under § 213.4(b).
5.
Balance sheet approach.
In motor-vehicle leases, the total for the column labeled “total amount due at lease signing or delivery” must equal the total for the column labeled “how the amount due at lease signing or delivery will be paid.”
6.
Amounts to be paid in cash.
The term cash is intended to include payments by check or other payment methods in addition to currency; however, a lessor may add a line item under the column “how the amount due at lease signing or delivery will be paid” for non-currency payments such as credit cards.

# 4(c) Payment Schedule and Total Amount of Periodic Payments
1.
Periodic payments.
The phrase “number, amount, and due dates or periods of payments” requires the disclosure of all payments that are made at regular or irregular intervals and generally derived from rent, capitalized or amortized amounts such as depreciation, and other amounts that are collected by the lessor at the same interval(s), including, for example, taxes, maintenance, and insurance charges. Other periodic payments may, but need not, be disclosed under § 213.4(c).

# 4(d) Other charges
1.
Coverage.
Section 213.4(d) requires the disclosure of charges that are anticipated by the parties incident to the normal operation of the lease agreement. If a lessor is unsure whether a particular fee is an “other charge,” the lessor may disclose the fee as such without violating § 213.4(d) or the segregation rule under § 213.3(a)(2).
2.
Excluded charges.
This section does not require disclosure of charges that are imposed when the lessee terminates early, fails to abide by, or modifies the terms of the existing lease agreement, such as charges for:
i. Late payment.
ii. Default.
iii. Early termination.
iv. Deferral of payments.
v. Extension of the lease.
3.
Third-party fees and charges.
Third-party fees or charges collected by the lessor on behalf of third parties, such as taxes, are not disclosed under § 213.4(d).
4.
Relationship to other provisions.
The other charges mentioned in this paragraph are charges that are not required to be disclosed under some other provision of § 213.4. To illustrate:
i. The price of a mechanical breakdown protection (MBP) contract is sometimes disclosed as an “other charge.” Nevertheless, the price of MBP is sometimes reflected in the periodic payment disclosure under § 213.4(c) or in states where MBP is regarded as insurance, the cost is be disclosed in accordance with § 213.4(o).
5.
Lessee's liabilities at the end of the lease term.
Liabilities that the lessor imposes upon the lessee at the end of the scheduled lease term and that must be disclosed under § 213.4(d) include disposition and “pick-up” charges.
6.
Optional “disposition” charges.
Disposition and similar charges that are anticipated by the parties as an incident to the normal operation of the lease agreement must be disclosed under § 213.4(d). If, under a lease agreement, a lessee may return leased property to various locations, and the lessor charges a disposition fee depending upon the location chosen, under § 213.4(d), the lessor must disclose the highest amount charged. In such circumstances, the lessor may also include a brief explanation of the fee structure in the segregated disclosure. For example, if no fee or a lower fee is imposed for returning a leased vehicle to the originating
dealer as opposed to another location, that fact may be disclosed. By contrast, if the terms of the lease treat the return of the leased property to a location outside the lessor's service area as a default, the fee imposed is not disclosed as an “other charge,” although it may be required to be disclosed under § 213.4(q).

# 4(e) Total of payments
1.
Open-end lease.
The additional statement is required under § 213.4(e) for open-end leases because, with some limitations, a lessee is liable at the end of the lease term for the difference between the residual and realized values of the leased property.

# 4(f) Payment Calculation
1.
Motor-vehicle lease.
Whether leased property is a motor vehicle is determined by state or other applicable law.
2.
Multiple-items.
If a lease transaction involves multiple items of leased property, one of which is not a motor vehicle under state law, at their option, lessors may include all items in the disclosures required under § 213.4(f). See comment 3(a)-4 regarding disclosure of multiple transactions.

# 4(f)(1) Gross Capitalized Cost
1.
Agreed upon value of the vehicle.
The agreed upon value of a motor vehicle includes the amount of capitalized items such as charges for vehicle accessories and options, and delivery or destination charges. The lessor may also include taxes and fees for title, licenses, and registration that are capitalized. Charges for service or maintenance contracts, insurance products, guaranteed automobile protection, or an outstanding balance on a prior lease or credit transaction are not included in the agreed upon value.
2.
Itemization of the gross capitalized cost.
The lessor may choose to provide the itemization of the gross capitalized cost only on request or may provide the itemization as a matter of course. In the latter case, the lessor need not provide a statement of the lessee's option to receive an itemization. The gross capitalized cost must be itemized by type and amount. The lessor may include in the itemization an identification of the items and amounts of some or all of the items contained in the agreed upon value of the vehicle. The itemization must be provided at the same time as the other disclosures required by § 213.4, but it may not be included among the segregated disclosures.

# 4(f)(7) Total of Base Periodic Payment
1.
Accuracy of disclosure.
If the periodic payment calculation under § 213.4(f) has been calculated correctly, the amount disclosed under § 213.4(f)(7)—the total of base periodic payments—is correct for disclosure purposes even if that amount differs from the base periodic payment disclosed under § 213.4(f)(9) multiplied by the number of lease payments disclosed under § 213.4(f)(8), when the difference is due to rounding.

# 4(f)(8) Lease Payment
1.
Lease Term.
The lease term may be disclosed among the segregated disclosures.

# 4(g) Early Termination

# 4(g)(1) Conditions and Disclosure of Charges
1.
Reasonableness of charges.
See the commentary to § 213.4(q).
2.
Description of the method.
Section 213.4(g)(1) requires a full description of the method of determining an early termination charge. The lessor should attempt to provide consumers with clear and understandable descriptions of its early termination charges. Descriptions that are full, accurate, and not intended to be misleading will comply with § 213.4(g)(1), even if the descriptions are complex. In providing a full description of an early termination method, a lessor may use the name of a generally accepted method of computing the unamortized cost portion (also known as the “adjusted lease balance”) of its early termination charges. For example, a lessor may state that the “constant yield” method will be utilized in obtaining the adjusted lease balance, but must specify how that figure, and any other term or figure, is used in computing the total early termination charge imposed upon the consumer. Additionally, if a lessor refers to a named method in this manner, the lessor must provide a written explanation of that method if requested by the consumer. The lessor has the option of providing the explanation as a matter of course in the lease documents or on a separate document.
3.
Timing of written explanation of a named method.
While a lessor may provide an address or telephone number for the consumer to request a written explanation of the named method used to calculate the adjusted leased balance, if at consummation a consumer requests such an explanation, the lessor must provide a written explanation at that time. If a consumer requests an explanation after consummation, the lessor must provide a written explanation within a reasonable time after the request is made.
4.
Default.
When default is a condition for early termination of a lease, default charges must be disclosed under § 213.4(g)(1). See the commentary to § 213.4(q).
5.
Lessee's liability at early termination.
When the lessee is liable for the difference between the unamortized cost and the realized value at early termination, the method of determining the amount of the difference must be disclosed under § 213.4(g)(1).

# 4(h) Maintenance Responsibilities
1.
Standards for wear and use.
No disclosure is required if a lessor does not set standards or impose charges for wear and use (such as excess mileage).

# 4(i) Purchase Option
1.
Mandatory disclosure of no purchase option.
Generally the lessor need only make the specific required disclosures that apply to a transaction. In the case of a purchase option disclosure, however, a lessor must disclose affirmatively that the lessee has no option to purchase the leased property if the purchase option is inapplicable.
2.
Existence of purchase option.
Whether a purchase option exists under the lease is determined by state or other applicable law. The lessee's right to submit a bid to purchase property at termination of the lease is not an option to purchase under § 213.4(i) if the lessor is not required to accept the lessee's bid and the lessee does not receive preferential treatment.
3.
Purchase-option fee.
A purchase-option fee is disclosed under § 213.4(i), not § 213.4(d). The fee may be separately itemized or disclosed as part of the purchase-option price.
4.
Official fees and taxes.
Official fees such as those for taxes, licenses, and registration charged in connection with the exercise of a purchase option may be disclosed under § 213.4(i) as part of the purchase-option price (with or without a reference to their inclusion in that price) or may be separately disclosed and itemized by category. Alternatively, a lessor may provide a statement indicating that the purchase-option price does not include fees for tags, taxes, and registration.
5.
Purchase-option price.
Lessors must disclose the purchase-option price as a sum certain or as a sum certain to be determined at a future date by reference to a readily available independent source. The reference should provide sufficient information so that the lessee will be able to determine the actual price when the option becomes available. Statements of a purchase price as the “negotiated price” or the “fair market value” do not comply with the requirements of § 213.4(i).

# 4(j) Statement referencing nonsegregated disclosures
1.
Content.
A lessor may delete inapplicable items from the disclosure. For example, if a lease contract does not include a security interest, the reference to a security interest may be omitted.

# 4(l) Right of appraisal
1.
Disclosure inapplicable.
The lessee does not have the right to an independent appraisal merely because the lessee is liable at the end of the lease term or at early termination for unreasonable wear or use. Thus, the disclosure under § 213.4(l) does not apply. For example:
i. The automobile lessor might expect a lessee to return an undented car with four good tires at the end of the lease term. Even though it may hold the lessee liable for the difference between a dented car with bald tires and the value of a car in reasonably good repair, the disclosure under § 213.4(l) is not required.
2.
Lessor's appraisal.
If the lessor obtains an appraisal of the leased property to determine its realized value, that appraisal does not suffice for purposes of section 183(c) of the act; the lessor must disclose the lessee's right to an independent appraisal under § 213.4(l).
3.
Retail or wholesale.
In providing the disclosures in § 213.4(l), a lessor must indicate whether the wholesale or retail appraisal value will be used.
4.
Time restriction on appraisal.
The regulation does not specify a time period in which the lessee must exercise the appraisal right. The lessor may require a lessee to obtain the appraisal within a reasonable time after termination of the lease.

# 4(m) Liability at end of Lease Term Based on Residual Value
1.
Open-end leases.
Section 213.4(m) applies only to open-end leases.
2.
Lessor's payment of attorney's fees.
Section 183(a) of the act requires that the lessor pay the lessee's attorney's fees in all actions under § 213.4(m), whether successful or not.

# 4(m)(1) Rent and other charges
1.
General.
This disclosure is intended to represent the cost of financing an open-end lease based on charges and fees that the lessor requires the lessee to pay. Examples of disclosable charges, in addition to the rent charge, include acquisition, disposition, or assignment fees. Charges imposed by a third party whose services are not required by the lessor (such as official fees and voluntary insurance) are not included in the § 213.4(m)(1) disclosure.

# 4(m)(2) Excess liability
1.
Coverage.
The disclosure limiting the lessee's liability for the value of the leased property does not apply in the case of early termination.
2.
Leases with a minimum term.
If a lease has an alternative minimum term, the disclosures governing the liability limitation are not applicable for the minimum term.
3.
Charges not subject to rebuttable presumption.
The limitation on liability applies only to liability at the end of the lease term that is based on the difference between the residual value of the leased property and its realized value. The regulation does not preclude
a lessor from recovering other charges from the lessee at the end of the lease term. Examples of such charges include:
i. Disposition charges.
ii. Excess mileage charges.
iii. Late payment and default charges.
iv. In simple-interest accounting leases, amount by which the unamortized cost exceeds the residual value because the lessee has not made timely payments.

# 4(n) Fees and taxes
1.
Treatment of certain taxes.
Taxes paid in connection with the lease are generally disclosed under § 213.4(n), but there are exceptions. To illustrate:
i. Taxes paid by lease signing or delivery are disclosed under § 213.4(b) and § 213.4(n).
ii. Taxes that are part of the scheduled payments are reflected in the disclosure under § 213.4(c), (f), and (n).
iii. A tax payable by the lessor that is passed on to the consumer and is reflected in the lease documentation must be disclosed under § 213.4(n). A tax payable by the lessor and absorbed as a cost of doing business need not be disclosed.
iv. Taxes charged in connection with the exercise of a purchase option are disclosed under § 213.4(i), not § 213.4(n).
2.
Estimates.
In disclosing the total amount of fees and taxes under § 213.4(n), lessors may need to base the disclosure on estimated tax rates or amounts and are afforded great flexibility in doing so. Where a rate is applied to the future value of leased property, lessors have flexibility in estimating that value, including, but not limited to, using the mathematical average of the agreed upon value and the residual value or published valuation guides; or a lessor could prepare estimates using the agreed upon value and disclose a reasonable estimate of the total fees and taxes. Lessors may include a statement that the actual total of fees and taxes may be higher or lower depending on the tax rates in effect or the value of the leased property at the time a fee or tax is assessed.

# 4(o) Insurance
1.
Coverage.
If insurance is obtained through the lessor, information on the type and amount of insurance coverage (whether voluntary or required) as well as the cost, must be disclosed.
2.
Lessor's insurance.
Insurance purchased by the lessor primarily for its own benefit, and absorbed as a business expense and not separately charged to the lessee, need not be disclosed under § 213.4(o) even if it provides an incidental benefit to the lessee.
3.
Mechanical breakdown protection and other products.
Whether products purchased in conjunction with a lease, such as mechanical breakdown protection (MBP) or guaranteed automobile protection (GAP), should be treated as insurance is determined by state or other applicable law. In states that do not treat MBP or GAP as insurance, § 213.4(o) disclosures are not required. In such cases the lessor may, however, disclose this information in accordance with the additional information provision in § 213.3(b). For MBP insurance contracts not capped by a dollar amount, lessors may describe coverage by referring to a limitation by mileage or time period, for example, by indicating that the mechanical breakdown contract insures parts of the automobile for up to 100,000 miles.

# 4(p) Warranties or Guarantees
1.
Brief identification.
The statement identifying warranties may be brief and need not describe or list all warranties applicable to specific parts such as for air conditioning, radio, or tires in an automobile. For example, manufacturer's warranties may be identified simply by a reference to the standard manufacturer's warranty. If a lessor provides a comprehensive list of warranties that may not all apply, to comply with § 213.4(p) the lessor must indicate which warranties apply or, alternatively, which warranties do not apply.
2.
Warranty disclaimers.
Although a disclaimer of warranties is not required by the regulation, the lessor may give a disclaimer as additional information in accordance with § 213.3(b).
3.
State law.
Whether an express warranty or guaranty exists is determined by state or other law.

# 4(q) Penalties and Other Charges for Delinquency
1.
Collection costs.
The automatic imposition of collection costs or attorney fees upon default must be disclosed under § 213.4(q). Collection costs or attorney fees that are not imposed automatically, but are contingent upon expenditures in conjunction with a collection proceeding or upon the employment of an attorney to effect collection, need not be disclosed.
2.
Charges for early termination.
When default is a condition for early termination of a lease, default charges must also be disclosed under § 213.4(g)(1). The § 213.4(q) and (g)(1) disclosures may, but need not, be combined. Examples of combined disclosures are provided in the model lease disclosure forms in appendix A.
3.
Simple-interest leases.
In a simple-interest accounting lease, the additional rent charge that accrues on the lease balance when a periodic payment is made after the due date does not constitute a penalty or other charge for late payment. Similarly, continued accrual of the rent charge after termination of the lease because the lessee fails to return
the leased property does not constitute a default charge. But in either case, if the additional charge accrues at a rate higher than the normal rent charge, the lessor must disclose the amount of or the method of determining the additional charge under § 213.4(q).
4.
Extension charges.
Extension charges that exceed the rent charge in a simple-interest accounting lease or that are added separately are disclosed under § 213.4(q).
5.
Reasonableness of charges.
Pursuant to section 183(b) of the act, penalties or other charges for delinquency, default, or early termination may be specified in the lease but only in an amount that is reasonable in light of the anticipated or actual harm caused by the delinquency, default, or early termination, the difficulties of proof of loss, and the inconvenience or nonfeasibility of otherwise obtaining an adequate remedy.

# 4(r) Security Interest
1.
Disclosable security interests.
See § 213.2(o) and accompanying commentary to determine what security interests must be disclosed.

# 4(s) Limitations on Rate Information
1.
Segregated disclosures.
A lease rate may not be included among the segregated disclosures referenced in § 213.3(a)(2).

# Section 213.5—Renegotiations, Extensions and Assumptions
1.
Coverage.
Section 213.5 applies only to existing leases that are covered by the regulation. It does not apply to the renegotiation or extension of leases with an initial term of four months or less, because such leases are not covered by the definition of consumer lease in.
§ 213.2(e). Whether and when a lease is satisfied and replaced by a new lease is determined by state or other applicable law.

# 5(a) Renegotiations
1.
Basis of disclosures.
Lessors have flexibility in making disclosures so long as they reflect the legal obligation under the renegotiated lease. For example, assume that a 24-month lease is replaced by a 36-month lease. The initial lease began on January 1, 1998, and was renegotiated and replaced on July 1, 1998, so that the new lease term ends on January 1, 2001.
i. If the renegotiated lease covers the 36-month period beginning January 1, 1998, the new disclosures would reflect all payments made by the lessee on the initial lease and all payments on the renegotiated lease. In this example, since the renegotiated lease covers a 36-month period beginning January 1, 1998, the disclosures must reflect payments made since that date. On the model form, the “total of base periodic payments” disclosed under § 213.4(f)(7) should reflect periodic payments to be made over the entire 36-month term. Payments received since January 1, 1998, are added as a new line item disclosed as “total of payments received” and are subtracted from the “total of base periodic payments” in calculating a new item disclosed as the “total of base periodic payments remaining.” For example, if 6 monthly payments of $300 were received since January 1, 1998, the disclosure form should include a “total of base periodic payments” line from which $1,800 is subtracted to arrive at the “total of base periodic payments remaining.” The remainder of the disclosures would not change.
ii. If the renegotiated lease covers only the remaining 30 months, from July 1, 1998, to January 1, 2001, the disclosures would reflect only the charges incurred in connection with the renegotiation and the payments for the remaining period.

# 5(b) Extensions
1.
Time of extension disclosures.
If a consumer lease is extended for a specified term greater than six months, new disclosures are required at the time the extension is agreed upon. If the lease is extended on a month-to-month basis and the cumulative extensions exceed six months, new disclosures are required at the commencement of the seventh month and at the commencement of each seventh month thereafter for as long as the extensions continue. If a consumer lease is extended for terms of varying durations, one of which will exceed six months beyond the originally scheduled termination date of the lease, new disclosures are required at the commencement of the term that will exceed six months beyond the originally scheduled termination date.
2.
Content of disclosures for month-to-month extensions.
The disclosures for a lease extended on a month-to-month basis for more than six months should reflect the month-to-month nature of the transaction.
3.
Basis of disclosures.
The disclosures should be based on the extension period, including any upfront costs paid in connection with the extension. For example, assume that initially a lease ends on March 1, 1999. In January 1999, agreement is reached to extend the lease until October 1, 1999. The disclosure would include any extension fee paid in January and the periodic payments for the seven-month extension period beginning in March.

# Section 213.6 [Reserved]

# Section 213.7—Advertising

# 7(a) General Rule
1.
Persons covered.
All “persons” must comply with the advertising provisions in this section, not just those that meet the definition of a lessor in § 213.2(h). Thus, automobile
dealers, merchants, and others who are not themselves lessors must comply with the advertising provisions of the regulation if they advertise consumer lease transactions. Pursuant to section 184(b) of the act, however, owners and personnel of the media in which an advertisement appears or through which it is disseminated are not subject to civil liability for violations under section 185(b) of the act.
2.
“Usually and customarily.”
Section 213.7(a) does not prohibit the advertising of a single item or the promotion of a new leasing program, but prohibits the advertising of terms that are not and will not be available. Thus, an advertisement may state terms that will be offered for only a limited period or terms that will become available at a future date.
3.
Total contractual obligation of advertised lease.
Section 213.7 applies to advertisements for consumer leases, as defined in § 213.2(e). Under § 213.2(e), a consumer lease is exempt from the requirements of this Part if the total contractual obligation exceeds the threshold amount in effect at the time of consummation. See comment 2(e)-9. Accordingly, § 213.7 does not apply to an advertisement for a specific consumer lease if the total contractual obligation for that lease exceeds the threshold amount in effect when the advertisement is made. If a lessor promotes multiple consumer leases in a single advertisement, the entire advertisement must comply with § 213.7 unless all of the advertised leases are exempt under § 213.2(e). For example
A. Assume that, in an advertisement, a lessor states that certain terms apply to a consumer lease for a specific automobile. The total contractual obligation of the advertised lease exceeds the threshold amount in effect when the advertisement is made. Although the advertisement does not refer to any other lease, some or all of the advertised terms for the exempt lease also apply to other leases offered by the lessor with total contractual obligations that do not exceed the applicable threshold amount. The advertisement is not required to comply with § 213.7 because it refers only to an exempt lease.
B. Assume that, in an advertisement, a lessor states certain terms (such as the amount due at lease signing) that will apply to consumer leases for automobiles of a particular brand. However, the advertisement does not refer to a specific lease. The total contractual obligations of the leases for some of the automobiles will exceed the threshold amount in effect when the advertisement is made, but the total contractual obligations of the leases for other automobiles will not exceed the threshold. The entire advertisement must comply with § 213.7 because it refers to terms for consumer leases that are not exempt.
C. Assume that, in a single advertisement, a lessor states that certain terms apply to consumer leases for two different automobiles. The total contractual obligation of the lease for the first automobile exceeds the threshold amount in effect when the advertisement is made, but the total contractual obligation of the lease for the second automobile does not exceed the threshold. The entire advertisement must comply with § 213.7 because it refers to a consumer lease that is not exempt.

# 7(b) Clear and Conspicuous Standard
1.
Standard.
The disclosures in an advertisement in any media must be reasonably understandable. For example, very fine print in a television advertisement or detailed and very rapidly stated information in a radio advertisement does not meet the clear and conspicuous standard if consumers cannot see and read or hear, and cannot comprehend, the information required to be disclosed.

# 7(b)(1) Amount due at Lease Signing or Delivery
1.
Itemization not required.
Only a total of amounts due at lease signing or delivery is required to be disclosed, not an itemization of its component parts. Such an itemization is provided in any transaction-specific disclosures provided under § 213.4.
2.
Prominence rule.
Except for a periodic payment, oral or written references to components of the total due at lease signing or delivery (for example, a reference to a capitalized cost reduction, where permitted) may not be more prominent than the disclosure of the total amount due at lease signing or delivery.

# 7(b)(2) Advertisement of a Lease Rate
1.
Location of statement.
The notice required to accompany a percentage rate stated in an advertisement must be placed in close proximity to the rate without any other intervening language or symbols. For example, a lessor may not place an asterisk next to the rate and place the notice elsewhere in the advertisement. In addition, with the exception of the notice required by § 213.4(s), the rate cannot be more prominent than any other § 213.4 disclosure stated in the advertisement.

# 7(c) Catalogs or Other Multi-Page Advertisements; Electronic Advertisements
1.
General rule.
The multiple-page advertisements referred to in § 213.7(c) are advertisements consisting of a series of numbered pages—for example, a supplement to a newspaper. A mailing comprising several separate flyers or pieces of promotional material in a single envelope is not a single multiple-page advertisement.
2.
Cross references.
A catalog or other multiple-page advertisement or an electronic advertisement (such as an advertisement appearing on an Internet Web site) is a single advertisement (requiring only one set of lease disclosures) if it contains a table, chart, or schedule with the disclosures required under § 213.7(d)(2)(i) through (v). If one of the triggering terms listed in § 213.7(d)(1) appears in a catalog, or in a multiple-page or electronic advertisement, it must clearly direct the consumer to the page or location where the table, chart, or schedule begins. For example, in an electronic advertisement, a term triggering additional disclosures may be accompanied by a link that directly connects the consumer to the additional information.

# 7(d)(1) Triggering Terms
1.
Typical example.
When any triggering term appears in a lease advertisement, the additional terms enumerated in § 213.7(d)(2) (i) through (v) must also appear. In a multi-lease advertisement, an example of one or more typical leases with a statement of all the terms applicable to each may be used. The examples must be labeled as such and must reflect representative lease terms that are made available by the lessor to consumers.

# 7(d)(2) Additional Terms
1.
Third-party fees that vary by state or locality.
The disclosure of a periodic payment or total amount due at lease signing or delivery may:
i. Exclude third-party fees, such as taxes, licenses, and registration fees and disclose that fact; or
ii. Provide a periodic payment or total that includes third-party fees based on a particular state or locality as long as that fact and the fact that fees may vary by state or locality are disclosed.

# 7(e) Alternative Disclosures—Merchandise Tags
1.
Multiple-item leases.
Multiple-item leases that utilize merchandise tags requiring additional disclosures may use the alternate disclosure rule.

# 7(f) Alternative Disclosures—Television or Radio Advertisements

# 7(f)(1) Toll-Free Number or Print Advertisement
1.
Publication in general circulation.
A reference to a written advertisement appearing in a newspaper circulated nationally, for example, USA Today or the Wall Street Journal, may satisfy the general circulation requirement in § 213.7(f)(1)(ii).
2.
Toll-free number, local or collect calls.
In complying with the disclosure requirements of § 213.7(f)(1)(i), a lessor must provide a toll-free number for nonlocal calls made from an area code other than the one used in the lessor's dialing area. Alternatively, a lessor may provide any telephone number that allows a consumer to reverse the phone charges when calling for information.
3.
Multi-purpose number.
When an advertised toll-free number responds with a recording, lease disclosures must be provided early in the sequence to ensure that the consumer receives the required disclosures. For example, in providing several dialing options—such as providing directions to the lessor's place of business—the option allowing the consumer to request lease disclosures should be provided early in the telephone message to ensure that the option to request disclosures is not obscured by other information.
4.
Statement accompanying toll free number.
Language must accompany a telephone and television number indicating that disclosures are available by calling the toll-free number, such as “call 1-800-000-0000 for details about costs and terms.”

# Section 213.8—Record Retention
1.
Manner of retaining evidence.
A lessor must retain evidence of having performed required actions and of having made required disclosures. Such records may be retained in paper form, on microfilm, microfiche, or computer, or by any other method designed to reproduce records accurately. The lessor need retain only enough information to reconstruct the required disclosures or other records.

# Section 213.9—Relation to State Laws
1.
Exemptions granted.
Effective October 1, 1982, the Board granted the following exemptions from portions of the Consumer Leasing Act:
i.
Maine.
Lease transactions subject to the Maine Consumer Credit Code and its implementing regulations are exempt from chapters 2, 4, and 5 of the federal act. (The exemption does not apply to transactions in which a federally chartered institution is a lessor.)
ii.
Oklahoma.
Lease transactions subject to the Oklahoma Consumer Credit Code are exempt from chapters 2 and 5 of the federal act. (The exemption does not apply to sections 132 through 135 of the federal act, nor does it apply to transactions in which a federally chartered institution is a lessor.)

# Appendix A—Model Forms
1.
Permissible changes.
Although use of the model forms is not required, lessors using them properly will be deemed to be in compliance with the regulation. Generally, lessors may make certain changes in the format or content of the forms and may delete any disclosures that are inapplicable to a
transaction without losing the act's protection from liability. For example, the model form based on monthly periodic payments may be modified for single-payment lease transactions or for quarterly or other regular or irregular periodic payments. The model form may also be modified to reflect that a transaction is an extension. The content, format, and headings for the segregated disclosures must be substantially similar to those contained in the model forms; therefore, any changes should be minimal. The changes to the model forms should not be so extensive as to affect the substance and the clarity of the disclosures.
2.
Examples of acceptable changes.
i. Using the first person, instead of the second person, in referring to the lessee.
ii. Using “lessee,” “lessor,” or names instead of pronouns.
iii. Rearranging the sequence of the nonsegregated disclosures.
iv. Incorporating certain state “plain English” requirements.
v. Deleting or blocking out inapplicable disclosures, filling in “N/A” (not applicable) or “0,” crossing out, leaving blanks, checking a box for applicable items, or circling applicable items (this should facilitate use of multipurpose standard forms).
vi. Adding language or symbols to indicate estimates.
vii. Adding numeric or alphabetic designations.
viii. Rearranging the disclosures into vertical columns, except for § 213.4 (b) through (e) disclosures.
ix. Using icons and other graphics.
3.
Model closed-end or net vehicle lease disclosure.
Model A-2 is designed for a closed-end or net vehicle lease. Under the “Early Termination and Default” provision a reference to the lessee's right to an independent appraisal of the leased vehicle under § 213.4(l) is included for those closed-end leases in which the lessee's liability at early termination is based on the vehicle's realized value.
4.
Model furniture lease disclosures.
Model A-3 is a closed-end lease disclosure statement designed for a typical furniture lease. It does not include a disclosure of the appraisal right at early termination required under § 213.4(l) because few closed-end furniture leases base the lessee's liability at early termination on the realized value of the leased property. The disclosure should be added if it is applicable.
[Reg. M, 62 FR 16058, Apr. 4, 1997]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting supplement I to part 213, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 214

# PART 214—RELATIONS WITH FOREIGN BANKS AND BANKERS (REGULATION N)

# Regulations
Sec.
214.1
Scope of part.
214.2
Information to be furnished to the Board.
214.3
Conferences and negotiations with foreign banks, bankers, or States.
214.4
Agreements with foreign banks, bankers, or States, and participation in foreign accounts.
214.5
Accounts with foreign banks.
214.6
Amendments.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 248, 348a, 358, 632.

# Source:
Reg. N, 8 FR 17290, Dec. 24, 1943, unless otherwise noted.

# Regulations
§ 214.1
Scope of part.
Pursuant to the authority conferred upon it by section 14 of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended (40 Stat. 235, 48 Stat. 181; 12 U.S.C. 358, 348a), and by other provisions of law, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System prescribes the following regulations governing relationships and transactions between Federal Reserve Banks and foreign banks or bankers or groups of foreign banks, or bankers, or a foreign State as defined in section 25(b) of the Federal Reserve Act (55 Stat. 131; 12 U.S.C. 632).
§ 214.2
Information to be furnished to the Board.
In order that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may perform its statutory duty of exercising special supervision over all relationships and transactions of any kind entered into by any Federal Reserve Bank with any foreign bank or banker or with any group of foreign banks or bankers or with any foreign State, each Federal Reserve Bank shall promptly submit to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in writing full information concerning all existing relationships and transactions of any kind heretofore entered into by such Federal Reserve Bank with any foreign bank or banker or with any group of foreign banks or bankers or with any foreign State and
copies of all written agreements between it and any foreign bank or banker or any group of foreign banks or bankers or any foreign State which are now in force, unless copies have heretofore been furnished to the Board. Each Federal Reserve Bank shall also keep the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System promptly and fully advised of all transactions with any foreign bank or banker or with any group of foreign banks or bankers or with any foreign State, except transactions of a routine character.
§ 214.3
Conferences and negotiations with foreign banks, bankers, or States.
(a) Without first obtaining the permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, no officer or other representative of any Federal Reserve Bank shall conduct negotiations of any kind with the officers or representatives of any foreign bank or banker or any group of foreign banks or bankers of any foreign State, except communications in the ordinary course of business in connection with transactions pursuant to agreements previously approved by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Any request for the Board's permission to conduct any such negotiations shall be submitted in writing and shall include a full statement of the occasion and objects of the proposed negotiations.
(b) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System reserves the right, in its discretion, to be represented by such representatives as it may designate in any negotiations between any officer or other representative of any Federal Reserve Bank and any officers or representatives of any foreign bank or banker or any group of foreign banks or bankers or any foreign State; and the Board shall be given reasonable notice in advance of the time and place of any such negotiations; and may itself designate the time and place of any such negotiations.
(c) A full report of all such conferences or negotiations and all understandings or agreements arrived at or transactions agreed upon and all other material facts appertaining to such conferences or negotiations shall be filed with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in writing by a duly authorized officer of each Federal Reserve Bank which shall have participated in such conferences or negotiations, including copies of all correspondence appertaining thereto.
§ 214.4
Agreements with foreign banks, bankers, or States, and participation in foreign accounts.
(a) No Federal Reserve Bank shall enter into any agreement, contract, or understanding with any foreign bank or banker or with any group of foreign banks or bankers or with any foreign State without first obtaining the permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(b) When any Federal Reserve Bank, with the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, has opened an account for any foreign bank or banker or group of foreign banks or bankers or for any foreign State, or has entered into any agreement, contract, or understanding with reference to opening or maintaining such an account, or with reference to any other matter or matters, any other Federal Reserve Bank may participate in such account, or in such agreement, contract, or understanding, and in operations and transactions performed therein or pursuant thereto, with the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
§ 214.5
Accounts with foreign banks.
(a) Any Federal Reserve Bank, with the consent of the Board, may open and maintain accounts payable in foreign currencies with such foreign banks as may be designated by the Board.
(b) Notwithstanding other provisions of this part, any officer or other representatives of the Federal Reserve Bank which maintains an account with a foreign bank may conduct such negotiations and enter into such agreements, contracts, or understandings with such foreign bank as may be authorized or directed by the Federal Open Market Committee in order to effectuate the conduct of open market transactions of the Federal Reserve Banks incident to the opening, maintenance, operation, increase, reduction, or discontinuance of such account; and,
in any such case, such negotiations, agreements, contracts, or understandings shall be subject to such authorizations, directions, regulations, and limitations as may be prescribed by, or pursuant to authority of, the Federal Open Market Committee.
(c) Any Federal Reserve Bank may, when authorized or directed so to do by, or under the authority of, the Federal Open Market Committee, carry on or conduct, through any other Federal Reserve Bank which maintains an account with a foreign bank, any open market transactions authorized by section 14 of the Federal Reserve Act. Transactions authorized by section 14 which are not open market transactions may be carried on or conducted through such other Federal Reserve Bank only with the approval of the Board.
(d) Notwithstanding other provisions of this part, reports with respect to any accounts opened and maintained, and negotiations, agreements, contracts, and understandings entered into, pursuant to this section shall be made to the Board at least quarterly, and more frequently if so requested by the Board, by a duly authorized officer of the Federal Reserve Bank involved.
[Reg. N, 27 FR 1719, Feb. 22, 1962]
§ 214.6
Amendments.
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System reserves the right, in its discretion, to alter, amend or repeal these regulations and to prescribe such additional regulations, conditions, and limitations as it may deem desirable, respecting relationships and transactions of any kind entered into by any Federal Reserve Bank with any foreign bank or banker or with any group of foreign banks or bankers or with any foreign State.
[Reg. N, 8 FR 17290, Dec. 24, 1943. Redesignated at 27 FR 1719, Feb. 22, 1962]
Pt. 215

# PART 215—LOANS TO EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, AND PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS OF MEMBER BANKS (REGULATION O)
Sec.
215.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
215.2
Definitions.
215.3
Extension of credit.
215.4
General prohibitions.
215.5
Additional restrictions on loans to executive officers of member banks.
215.6
Prohibition on knowingly receiving unauthorized extension of credit.
215.7
Extensions of credit outstanding on March 10, 1979.
215.8
Records of member banks.
215.9
Disclosure of credit from member banks to executive officers and principal shareholders.
215.10
Reporting requirement for credit secured by certain bank stock.
215.11
Civil penalties.
215.12
Application to savings associations.
Appendix to Part 215—Section 5200 of the Revised Statutes Total Loans and Extensions of Credit

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 248(a), 375a(10), 375b(9) and (10), 1468, 1817(k), 5412; and Pub. L. 102-242, 105 Stat. 2236 (1991) (12 U.S.C. 1811 note).

# Source:
Reg. O, 59 FR 8837, Feb. 24, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 215.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued pursuant to sections 11(a), 22(g), and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(a), 375a, and 375b), 12 U.S.C. 1817(k), section 306 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (Pub. L. 102-242, 105 Stat. 2236 (1991)), section 11 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1468), and section 312(b)(2)(A) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5412).
(b)
Purpose and scope.
(1) This part governs any extension of credit made by a member bank to an executive officer, director, or principal shareholder of the member bank, of any company of which the member bank is a subsidiary, and of any other subsidiary of that company.
(2) This part also applies to any extension of credit made by a member bank to a company controlled by such a person, or to a political or campaign committee that benefits or is controlled by such a person.
(3) This part also implements the reporting requirements of 12 U.S.C. 1817(k) concerning extensions of credit by a member bank to its executive officers or principal shareholders (or to the related interests of such persons).
(4) Extensions of credit made to an executive officer, director, or principal
shareholder of a bank (or to a related interest of such person) by a correspondent bank also are subject to restrictions set forth in 12 U.S.C. 1972(2).
[Reg. O, 71 FR 71474, Dec. 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 56530, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 215.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply unless otherwise specified:
(a)
Affiliate
means any company of which a member bank is a subsidiary or any other subsidiary of that company.
(b)
Company
means any corporation, partnership, trust (business or otherwise), association, joint venture, pool syndicate, sole proprietorship, unincorporated organization, or any other form of business entity not specifically listed herein. However, the term does not include:
(1) An insured depository institution (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813); or
(2) A corporation the majority of the shares of which are owned by the United States or by any State.
(c)(1)
Control of a company or bank
means that a person directly or indirectly, or acting through or in concert with one or more persons:
(i) Owns, controls, or has the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the company or bank;
(ii) Controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors of the company or bank; or
(iii) Has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of the company or bank.
(2) A person is presumed to have control, including the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies, of a company or bank if:
(i) The person is:
(A) An executive officer or director of the company or bank; and
(B) Directly or indirectly owns, controls, or has the power to vote more than 10 percent of any class of voting securities of the company or bank; or
(ii)(A) The person directly or indirectly owns, controls, or has the power to vote more than 10 percent of any class of voting securities of the company or bank; and
(B) No other person owns, controls, or has the power to vote a greater percentage of that class of voting securities.
(3) An individual is not considered to have control, including the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies, of a company or bank solely by virtue of the individual's position as an officer or director of the company or bank.
(4) A person may rebut a presumption established by paragraph (c)(2) of this section by submitting to the appropriate Federal banking agency (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(q)) written materials that, in the agency's judgment, demonstrate an absence of control.
(d)(1)
Director of a company or bank
means any director of the company or bank, whether or not receiving compensation. An advisory director is not considered a director if the advisory director:
(i) Is not elected by the shareholders of the company or bank;
(ii) Is not authorized to vote on matters before the board of directors; and
(iii) Provides solely general policy advice to the board of directors.
(2) Extensions of credit to a director of an affiliate of a bank are not subject to §§ 215.4, 215.6, and 215.8 if—
(i) The director of the affiliate is excluded, by resolution of the board of directors or by the bylaws of the bank, from participation in major policymaking functions of the bank, and the director does not actually participate in such functions;
(ii) The affiliate does not control the bank;
(iii) As determined annually, the assets of the affiliate do not constitute more than 10 percent of the consolidated assets of the company that—
(A) Controls the bank; and
(B) Is not controlled by any other company; and
(iv) The director of the affiliate is not otherwise subject to §§ 215.4, 215.6, and 215.8.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, a resolution of the board of directors or a corporate bylaw may—
(i) Include the director (by name or by title) in a list of persons excluded from participation in such functions; or
(ii) Not include the director in a list of persons authorized (by name or by title) to participate in such functions.
(e)(1)
Executive officer
of a company or bank means a person who participates or has authority to participate (other than in the capacity of a director) in major policymaking functions of the company or bank, whether or not: the officer has an official title; the title designates the officer an assistant; or the officer is serving without salary or other compensation.
1
The chairman of the board, the president, every vice president, the cashier, the secretary, and the treasurer of a company or bank are considered executive officers, unless the officer is excluded, by resolution of the board of directors or by the bylaws of the bank or company, from participation (other than in the capacity of a director) in major policymaking functions of the bank or company, and the officer does not actually participate therein.
1
The term is not intended to include persons who may have official titles and may exercise a certain measure of discretion in the performance of their duties, including discretion in the making of loans, but who do not participate in the determination of major policies of the bank or company and whose decisions are limited by policy standards fixed by the senior management of the bank or company. For example, the term does not include a manager or assistant manager of a branch of a bank unless that individual participates, or is authorized to participate, in major policymaking functions of the bank or company.
(2) Extensions of credit to an executive officer of an affiliate of a bank are not subject to §§ 215.4, 215.6, and 215.8 if—
(i) The executive officer is excluded, by resolution of the board of directors or by the bylaws of the bank, from participation in major policymaking functions of the bank, and the executive officer does not actually participate in such functions;
(ii) The affiliate does not control the bank;
(iii) As determined annually, the assets of the affiliate do not constitute more than 10 percent of the consolidated assets of the company that—
(A) Controls the bank; and
(B) Is not controlled by any other company; and
(iv) The executive officer of the affiliate is not otherwise subject to §§ 215.4, 215.6, and 215.8.
(3) For purposes of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2)(i) of this section, a resolution of the board of directors or a corporate bylaw may—
(i) Include the executive officer (by name or by title) in a list of persons excluded from participation in such functions; or
(ii) Not include the executive officer in a list of persons authorized (by name or by title) to participate in such functions.
(f)
Foreign bank
has the meaning given in 12 U.S.C. 3101(7).
(g)
Immediate family
means the spouse of an individual, the individual's minor children, and any of the individual's children (including adults) residing in the individual's home.
(h)
Insider
means an executive officer, director, or principal shareholder, and includes any related interest of such a person.
(i)
Lending limit.
The lending limit for a member bank is an amount equal to the limit of loans to a single borrower established by section 5200 of the Revised Statutes,
2
12 U.S.C. 84. This amount is 15 percent of the bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus in the case of loans that are not fully secured, and an additional 10 percent of the bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus in the case of loans that are fully secured by readily marketable collateral having a market value, as determined by reliable and continuously available price quotations, at least equal to the amount of the loan. The lending limit also includes any higher amounts that are permitted by section 5200 of the Revised Statutes for the types of obligations listed therein as exceptions to
the limit. A member bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus equals:
2
Where State law establishes a lending limit for a State member bank that is lower than the amount permitted in section 5200 of the Revised Statutes, the lending limit established by applicable State laws shall be the lending limit for the State member bank.
(1) The bank's tier 1 and tier 2 capital included in the bank's risk-based capital under the capital rule of the appropriate Federal banking agency, based on the bank's most recent consolidated report of condition filed under 12 U.S.C. 1817(a)(3); and
(2) The balance of the bank's allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable, not included in the bank's tier 2 capital for purposes of the calculation of risk-based capital under the capital rule of the appropriate Federal banking agency, based on the bank's most recent consolidated reports of condition filed under 12 U.S.C. 1817(a)(3).
(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section, for a member bank that is a qualifying community banking organization (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter) that is subject to the community bank leverage ratio framework (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter), unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus equals Tier 1 capital (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter and calculated in accordance with § 217.12(b) of this chapter) plus allowances for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable.
(j)
Member bank
means any banking institution that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, including any subsidiary of a member bank. The term does not include any foreign bank that maintains a branch in the United States, whether or not the branch is insured (within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 1813(s)) and regardless of the operation of 12 U.S.C. 1813(h) and 12 U.S.C. 1828(j)(3)(B).
(k)
Pay an overdraft on an account
means to pay an amount upon the order of an account holder in excess of funds on deposit in the account.
(l)
Person
means an individual or a company.
(m)(1)
Principal shareholder
means a person (other than an insured bank) that directly or indirectly, or acting through or in concert with one or more persons, owns, controls, or has the power to vote more than 10 percent of any class of voting securities of a member bank or company. Shares owned or controlled by a member of an individual's immediate family are considered to be held by the individual.
(2) A principal shareholder of a member bank does not include a company of which a member bank is a subsidiary.
(n)
Related interest
of a person means:
(1) A company that is controlled by that person; or
(2) A political or campaign committee that is controlled by that person or the funds or services of which will benefit that person.
(o)
Subsidiary
has the meaning given in 12 U.S.C. 1841(d), but does not include a subsidiary of a member bank.
[Reg. O, 59 FR 8837, Feb. 24, 1994; 59 FR 37930, July 26, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 31054, June 13, 1995; 61 FR 57770, Nov. 8, 1996; 62 FR 13298, Mar. 20, 1997; 71 FR 71474, Dec. 11, 2006; 84 FR 4241, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 61797, Nov. 13, 2019]
§ 215.3
Extension of credit.
(a) An extension of credit is a making or renewal of any loan, a granting of a line of credit, or an extending of credit in any manner whatsoever, and includes:
(1) A purchase under repurchase agreement of securities, other assets, or obligations;
(2) An advance by means of an overdraft, cash item, or otherwise;
(3) Issuance of a standby letter of credit (or other similar arrangement regardless of name or description) or an ineligible acceptance, as those terms are defined in § 208.24 of this chapter;
(4) An acquisition by discount, purchase, exchange, or otherwise of any note, draft, bill of exchange, or other evidence of indebtedness upon which an insider may be liable as maker, drawer, endorser, guarantor, or surety;
(5) An increase of an existing indebtedness, but not if the additional funds are advanced by the bank for its own protection for:
(i) Accrued interest; or
(ii) Taxes, insurance, or other expenses incidental to the existing indebtedness;
(6) An advance of unearned salary or other unearned compensation for a period in excess of 30 days; and
(7) Any other similar transaction as a result of which a person becomes obligated to pay money (or its equivalent) to a bank, whether the obligation arises directly or indirectly, or because of an endorsement on an obligation or otherwise, or by any means whatsoever.
(b) An extension of credit does not include:
(1) An advance against accrued salary or other accrued compensation, or an advance for the payment of authorized travel or other expenses incurred or to be incurred on behalf of the bank;
(2) A receipt by a bank of a check deposited in or delivered to the bank in the usual course of business unless it results in the carrying of a cash item for or the granting of an overdraft (other than an inadvertent overdraft in a limited amount that is promptly repaid, as described in § 215.4(e) of this part);
(3) An acquisition of a note, draft, bill of exchange, or other evidence of indebtedness through:
(i) A merger or consolidation of banks or a similar transaction by which a bank acquires assets and assumes liabilities of another bank or similar organization; or
(ii) Foreclosure on collateral or similar proceeding for the protection of the bank, provided that such indebtedness is not held for a period of more than three years from the date of the acquisition, subject to extension by the appropriate Federal banking agency for good cause;
(4)(i) An endorsement or guarantee for the protection of a bank of any loan or other asset previously acquired by the bank in good faith; or
(ii) Any indebtedness to a bank for the purpose of protecting the bank against loss or of giving financial assistance to it;
(5) Indebtedness of $15,000 or less arising by reason of any general arrangement by which a bank:
(i) Acquires charge or time credit accounts; or
(ii) Makes payments to or on behalf of participants in a bank credit card plan, check credit plan, or similar open-end credit plan, provided:
(A) The indebtedness does not involve prior individual clearance or approval by the bank other than for the purposes of determining authority to participate in the arrangement and compliance with any dollar limit under the arrangement; and
(B) The indebtedness is incurred under terms that are not more favorable than those offered to the general public;
(6) Indebtedness of $5,000 or less arising by reason of an interest-bearing overdraft credit plan of the type specified in § 215.4(e);
(7) A discount of promissory notes, bills of exchange, conditional sales contracts, or similar paper, without recourse; or
(8) Except for purposes of § 215.5 of this part, a loan:
(i) Made pursuant to the “Paycheck Protection Program” in which the participation by the Small Business Administration on a deferred basis is 100 percent;
(ii) For which material terms, including the maturity and the interest rate, are set by the Small Business Administration;
(iii) That is made during the “covered period,” as that term is defined in 15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36)(A)(iii), but in no case later than March 31, 2022; and
(iv) That would not be prohibited by 13 CFR 120.110(o) or rules or interpretations thereof issued by the Small Business Administration.
(c) Non-interest-bearing deposits to the credit of a bank are not considered loans, advances, or extensions of credit to the bank of deposit; nor is the giving of immediate credit to a bank upon uncollected items received in the ordinary course of business considered to be a loan, advance or extension of credit to the depositing bank.
(d) For purposes of § 215.4 of this part, an extension of credit by a member bank is considered to have been made at the time the bank enters into a binding commitment to make the extension of credit.
(e) A participation without recourse is considered to be an extension of credit by the participating bank, not by the originating bank.
(f)
Tangible economic benefit rule
—(1)
In general.
An extension of credit is considered made to an insider to the
extent that the proceeds are transferred to the insider or are used for the tangible economic benefit of the insider.
(2)
Exception.
An extension of credit is not considered made to an insider under paragraph (f)(1) of this section if:
(i) The credit is extended on terms that would satisfy the standard set forth in § 215.4(a) of this part for extensions of credit to insiders; and
(ii) The proceeds of the extension of credit are used in a bona fide transaction to acquire property, goods, or services from the insider.
[Reg. O, 59 FR 8837, Feb. 24, 1994; 59 FR 37930, July 26, 1994; 63 FR 58621, Nov. 2, 1998; 85 FR 22349, Apr. 22, 2020; 85 FR 43121, July 16, 2020; 86 FR 9839, Feb. 17, 2021; 86 FR 27509, May 21, 2021]
§ 215.4
General prohibitions.
(a)
Terms and creditworthiness
—(1)
In general.
No member bank may extend credit to any insider of the bank or insider of its affiliates unless the extension of credit:
(i) Is made on substantially the same terms (including interest rates and collateral) as, and following credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than, those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions by the bank with other persons that are not covered by this part and who are not employed by the bank; and
(ii) Does not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features.
(2)
Exception.
Nothing in this paragraph (a) or paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section shall prohibit any extension of credit made pursuant to a benefit or compensation program—
(i) That is widely available to employees of the member bank and, in the case of extensions of credit to an insider of its affiliates, is widely available to employees of the affiliates at which that person is an insider; and
(ii) That does not give preference to any insider of the member bank over other employees of the member bank and, in the case of extensions of credit to an insider of its affiliates, does not give preference to any insider of its affiliates over other employees of the affiliates at which that person is an insider.
(b)
Prior approval.
(1) No member bank may extend credit (which term includes granting a line of credit) to any insider of the bank or insider of its affiliates in an amount that, when aggregated with the amount of all other extensions of credit to that person and to all related interests of that person, exceeds the higher of $25,000 or 5 percent of the member bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus, unless:
(i) The extension of credit has been approved in advance by a majority of the entire board of directors of that bank; and
(ii) The interested party has abstained from participating directly or indirectly in the voting.
(2) In no event may a member bank extend credit to any insider of the bank or insider of its affiliates in an amount that, when aggregated with all other extensions of credit to that person, and all related interests of that person, exceeds $500,000, except by complying with the requirements of this paragraph (b).
(3) Approval by the board of directors under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section is not required for an extension of credit that is made pursuant to a line of credit that was approved under paragraph (b)(1) of this section within 14 months of the date of the extension of credit. The extension of credit must also be in compliance with the requirements of § 215.4(a) of this part.
(4) Participation in the discussion, or any attempt to influence the voting, by the board of directors regarding an extension of credit constitutes indirect participation in the voting by the board of directors on an extension of credit.
(c)
Individual lending limit.
No member bank may extend credit to any insider of the bank or insider of its affiliates in an amount that, when aggregated with the amount of all other extensions of credit by the member bank to that person and to all related interests of that person, exceeds the lending limit of the member bank specified in § 215.2(i) of this part. This prohibition does not apply to an extension of credit by a member bank to a company of which the member bank is a subsidiary
or to any other subsidiary of that company.
(d)
Aggregate lending limit
—(1)
General limit.
A member bank may not extend credit to any insider of the bank or insider of its affiliates unless the extension of credit is in an amount that, when aggregated with the amount of all outstanding extensions of credit by that bank to all such insiders, does not exceed the bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus (as defined in § 215.2(i) of this part).
(2)
Member banks with deposits of less than $100,000,000.
(i) A member bank with deposits of less than $100,000,000 may by an annual resolution of its board of directors increase the general limit specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to a level not to exceed two times the bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus, if:
(A) The board of directors determines that such higher limit is consistent with prudent, safe, and sound banking practices in light of the bank's experience in lending to its insiders and is necessary to attract or retain directors or to prevent restricting the availability of credit in small communities;
(B) The resolution sets forth the facts and reasoning on which the board of directors bases the finding, including the amount of the bank's lending to its insiders as a percentage of the bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus as of the date of the resolution;
(C) The bank meets or exceeds, on a fully-phased in basis, all applicable capital requirements established by the appropriate Federal banking agency; and
(D) The bank received a satisfactory composite rating in its most recent report of examination.
(ii) If a member bank has adopted a resolution authorizing a higher limit pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section and subsequently fails to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(i)(C) or (d)(2)(i)(D) of this section, the member bank shall not extend any additional credit (including a renewal of any existing extension of credit) to any insider of the bank or its affiliates unless such extension or renewal is consistent with the general limit in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(3)
Exceptions.
(i) The general limit specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not apply to the following:
(A) Extensions of credit secured by a perfected security interest in bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, or Treasury bills of the United States or in other such obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States;
(B) Extensions of credit to or secured by unconditional takeout commitments or guarantees of any department, agency, bureau, board, commission or establishment of the United States or any corporation wholly owned directly or indirectly by the United States;
(C) Extensions of credit secured by a perfected security interest in a segregated deposit account in the lending bank; or
(D) Extensions of credit arising from the discount of negotiable or nonnegotiable installment consumer paper that is acquired from an insider and carries a full or partial recourse endorsement or guarantee by the insider, provided that:
(
1
) The financial condition of each maker of such consumer paper is reasonably documented in the bank's files or known to its officers;
(
2
) An officer of the bank designated for that purpose by the board of directors of the bank certifies in writing that the bank is relying primarily upon the responsibility of each maker for payment of the obligation and not upon any endorsement or guarantee by the insider; and
(
3
) The maker of the instrument is not an insider.
(ii) The exceptions in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A) through (d)(3)(i)(C) of this section apply only to the amounts of such extensions of credit that are secured in the manner described therein.
(e)
Overdrafts.
(1) No member bank may pay an overdraft of an executive officer or director of the bank or executive officer or director of its affiliates
3
on an account at the bank, unless the
payment of funds is made in accordance with:
3
This prohibition does not apply to the payment by a member bank of an overdraft of a principal shareholder of the member bank, unless the principal shareholder is also an executive officer or director. This prohibition also does not apply to the payment by a
member bank of an overdraft of a related interest of an executive officer, director, or principal shareholder of the member bank or executive officer, director, or principal shareholder of its affiliates.
(i) A written, preauthorized, interest-bearing extension of credit plan that specifies a method of repayment; or
(ii) A written, preauthorized transfer of funds from another account of the account holder at the bank.
(2) The prohibition in paragraph (e)(1) of this section does not apply to payment of inadvertent overdrafts on an account in an aggregate amount of $1,000 or less, provided:
(i) The account is not overdrawn for more than 5 business days; and
(ii) The member bank charges the executive officer or director the same fee charged any other customer of the bank in similar circumstances.
[Reg. O, 59 FR 8837, Feb. 24, 1994; 59 FR 37930, July 26, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 57770, Nov. 8, 1996; 62 FR 13298, Mar. 20, 1997]
§ 215.5
Additional restrictions on loans to executive officers of member banks.
The following restrictions on extensions of credit by a member bank to any of its executive officers apply in addition to any restrictions on extensions of credit by a member bank to insiders of itself or its affiliates set forth elsewhere in this part. The restrictions of this section apply only to executive officers of the member bank and not to executive officers of its affiliates.
(a) No member bank may extend credit to any of its executive officers, and no executive officer of a member bank shall borrow from or otherwise become indebted to the bank, except in the amounts, for the purposes, and upon the conditions specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(b) No member bank may extend credit in an aggregate amount greater than the amount permitted in paragraph (c)(4) of this section to a partnership in which one or more of the bank's executive officers are partners and, either individually or together, hold a majority interest. For the purposes of paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the total amount of credit extended by a member bank to such partnership is considered to be extended to each executive officer of the member bank who is a member of the partnership.
(c) A member bank is authorized to extend credit to any executive officer of the bank:
(1) In any amount to finance the education of the executive officer's children;
(2) In any amount to finance or refinance the purchase, construction, maintenance, or improvement of a residence of the executive officer, provided:
(i) The extension of credit is secured by a first lien on the residence and the residence is owned (or expected to be owned after the extension of credit) by the executive officer; and
(ii) In the case of a refinancing, that only the amount thereof used to repay the original extension of credit, together with the closing costs of the refinancing, and any additional amount thereof used for any of the purposes enumerated in this paragraph (c)(2), are included within this category of credit;
(3) In any amount, if the extension of credit is secured in a manner described in § 215.4(d)(3)(i)(A) through (d)(3)(i)(C) of this part; and
(4) For any other purpose not specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section, if the aggregate amount of extensions of credit to that executive officer under this paragraph does not exceed at any one time the higher of 2.5 per cent of the bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus or $25,000, but in no event more than $100,000.
(d) Any extension of credit by a member bank to any of its executive officers shall be:
(1) Promptly reported to the member bank's board of directors;
(2) In compliance with the requirements of § 215.4(a) of this part;
(3) Preceded by the submission of a detailed current financial statement of the executive officer; and
(4) Made subject to the condition in writing that the extension of credit will, at the option of the member bank, become due and payable at any time that the officer is indebted to any
other bank or banks in an aggregate amount greater than the amount specified for a category of credit in paragraph (c) of this section.
[Reg. O, 59 FR 8837, Feb. 24, 1994; 59 FR 37930, July 26, 1994; 60 FR 17636, Apr. 7, 1995]
§ 215.6
Prohibition on knowingly receiving unauthorized extension of credit.
No executive officer, director, or principal shareholder of a member bank or any of its affiliates shall knowingly receive (or knowingly permit any of that person's related interests to receive) from a member bank, directly or indirectly, any extension of credit not authorized under this part.
§ 215.7
Extensions of credit outstanding on March 10, 1979.
(a) Any extension of credit that was outstanding on March 10, 1979, and that would, if made on or after March 10, 1979, violate § 215.4(c) of this part, shall be reduced in amount by March 10, 1980, to be in compliance with the lending limit in § 215.4(c) of this part. Any renewal or extension of such an extension of credit on or after March 10, 1979, shall be made only on terms that will bring the extension of credit into compliance with the lending limit of § 215.4(c) of this part by March 10, 1980. However, any extension of credit made before March 10, 1979, that bears a specific maturity date of March 10, 1980, or later, shall be repaid in accordance with its repayment schedule in existence on or before March 10, 1979.
(b) If a member bank is unable to bring all extensions of credit outstanding on March 10, 1979, into compliance as required by paragraph (a) of this section, the member bank shall promptly report that fact to the Comptroller of the Currency, in the case of a national bank, or to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank, in the case of a State member bank, and explain the reasons why all the extensions of credit cannot be brought into compliance. The Comptroller or the Reserve Bank, as the case may be, is authorized, on the basis of good cause shown, to extend the March 10, 1980, date for compliance for any extension of credit for not more than two additional one-year periods.
§ 215.8
Records of member banks.
(a)
In general.
Each member bank shall maintain records necessary for compliance with the requirements of this part.
(b)
Recordkeeping for insiders of the member bank.
Any recordkeeping method adopted by a member bank shall:
(1) Identify, through an annual survey, all insiders of the bank itself; and
(2) Maintain records of all extensions of credit to insiders of the bank itself, including the amount and terms of each such extension of credit.
(c)
Recordkeeping for insiders of the member bank's affiliates.
Any recordkeeping method adopted by a member bank shall maintain records of extensions of credit to insiders of the member bank's affiliates by:
(1)
Survey method.
(i) Identifying, through an annual survey, each insider of the member bank's affiliates; and
(ii) Maintaining records of the amount and terms of each extension of credit by the member bank to such insiders; or
(2)
Borrower inquiry method.
(i) Requiring as part of each extension of credit that the borrower indicate whether the borrower is an insider of an affiliate of the member bank; and
(ii) Maintaining records that identify the amount and terms of each extension of credit by the member bank to borrowers so identifying themselves.
(3)
Alternative recordkeeping methods for insiders of affiliates.
A member bank may employ a recordkeeping method other than those identified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section if the appropriate Federal banking agency determines that the bank's method is at least as effective as the identified methods.
(d)
Special rule for non-commercial lenders.
A member bank that is prohibited by law or by an express resolution of the board of directors of the bank from making an extension of credit to any company or other entity that is covered by this part as a company is not required to maintain any records of the related interests of the insiders of the bank or its affiliates or to inquire of borrowers whether they are related interests of the insiders of the bank or its affiliates.
§ 215.9
Disclosure of credit from member banks to executive officers and principal shareholders.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Principal shareholder of a member bank
means any person other than an insured bank, or a foreign bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 3101(7), that, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, or has power to vote more than 10 percent of any class of voting securities of the member bank. The term includes a person that controls a principal shareholder (
e.g.,
a person that controls a bank holding company). Shares of a bank (including a foreign bank), bank holding company, savings and loan holding company or other company owned or controlled by a member of an individual's immediate family are presumed to be owned or controlled by the individual for the purposes of determining principal shareholder status.
(2)
Related interest
means:
(i) Any company controlled by a person; or
(ii) Any political or campaign committee the funds or services of which will benefit a person or that is controlled by a person. For the purpose of this section, a related interest does not include a bank or a foreign bank (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 3101(7)).
(b)
Public disclosure.
(1) Upon receipt of a written request from the public, a member bank shall make available the names of each of its executive officers and each of its principal shareholders to whom, or to whose related interests, the member bank had outstanding as of the end of the latest previous quarter of the year, an extension of credit that, when aggregated with all other outstanding extensions of credit at such time from the member bank to such person and to all related interests of such person, equaled or exceeded 5 percent of the member bank's capital and unimpaired surplus or $500,000, whichever amount is less. No disclosure under this paragraph is required if the aggregate amount of all extensions of credit outstanding at such time from the member bank to the executive officer or principal shareholder of the member bank and to all related interests of such a person does not exceed $25,000.
(2) A member bank is not required to disclose the specific amounts of individual extensions of credit.
(c)
Maintaining records.
Each member bank shall maintain records of all requests for the information described in paragraph (b) of this section and the disposition of such requests. These records may be disposed of after two years from the date of the request.
[Reg. O, 59 FR 8837, Feb. 24, 1994; 59 FR 37930, July 26, 1994. Redesignated and amended at 71 FR 71474, Dec. 11, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 56530, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 215.10
Reporting requirement for credit secured by certain bank stock.
Each executive officer or director of a member bank the shares of which are not publicly traded shall report annually to the board of directors of the member bank the outstanding amount of any credit that was extended to the executive officer or director and that is secured by shares of the member bank.
[Reg. O, 59 FR 8837, Feb. 24, 1994. Redesignated at 71 FR 71474, Dec. 11, 2006]
§ 215.11
Civil penalties.
Any member bank, or any officer, director, employee, agent, or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs of the bank, that violates any provision of this part (other than § 215.9) is subject to civil penalties as specified in section 29 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 504).
[Reg. O, 71 FR 71475, Dec. 11, 2006]
§ 215.12
Application to savings associations.
The requirements of this part apply to savings associations, as defined in 12 CFR 238.2(l) (including any subsidiary of a savings association), in the same manner and to the same extent as if the savings association were a member bank; provided that a savings association's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus will be determined under regulatory capital rules applicable to that savings association.
[Reg. O, 76 FR 56530, Sept. 13, 2011]
Pt. 215, App.

# Appendix to Part 215—Section 5200 of the Revised Statutes Total Loans and Extensions of Credit
(a)(1) The total loans and extensions of credit by a national banking association to a person outstanding at one time and not fully secured, as determined in a manner consistent with paragraph (2) of this subsection, by collateral having a market value at least equal to the amount of the loan or extension of credit shall not exceed 15 per centum of the unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus of the association.
(2) The total loans and extensions of credit by a national banking association to a person outstanding at one time and fully secured by readily marketable collateral having a market value, as determined by reliable and continuously available price quotations, at least equal to the amount of the funds outstanding shall not exceed 10 per centum of the unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus of the association. This limitation shall be separate from and in addition to the limitations contained in paragraph (1) of this subsection.

# Definitions
(b) For the purposes of this section—
(1) The term
loans and extensions of credit
shall include all direct or indirect advances of funds to a person made on the basis of any obligation of that person to repay the funds or repayable from specific property pledged by or on behalf of the person, and to the extent specified by the Comptroller of the Currency, such term shall also include any liability of a national banking association to advance funds to or on behalf of a person pursuant to a contractual commitment; and
(2) The term
person
shall include an individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, association, trust, estate, business trust, corporation, sovereign government, or agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof, or any similar entity or organization.

# Exceptions
(c) The limitations contained in subsection (a) of this section shall be subject to the following exceptions:
(1) Loans or extensions of credit arising from the discount of commercial or business paper evidencing an obligation to the person negotiating it with recourse shall not be subject to any limitation based on capital and surplus.
(2) The purchase of bankers' acceptances of the kind described in section 372 of this title and issued by other banks shall not be subject to any limitation based on capital and surplus.
(3) Loans and extensions of credit secured by bills of lading, warehouse receipts, or similar documents transferring or securing title to readily marketable staples shall be subject to a limitation of 35 per centum of capital and surplus in addition to the general limitations if the market value of the staples securing each additional loan or extension of credit at all times equals or exceeds 115 per centum of the outstanding amount of such loan or extension of credit. The staples shall be fully covered by insurance whenever it is customary to insure such staples.
(4) Loans or extensions of credit secured by bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, or Treasury bills of the United States or by other such obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States shall not be subject to any limitation based on capital and surplus.
(5) Loans or extensions of credit to or secured by unconditional takeout commitments or guarantees of any department, agency, bureau, board, commission, or establishment of the United States or any corporation wholly owned directly or indirectly by the United States shall not be subject to any limitation based on capital and surplus.
(6) Loans or extensions of credit secured by a segregated deposit account in the lending bank shall not be subject to any limitation based on capital and surplus.
(7) Loans or extensions of credit to any financial institution or to any receiver, conservator, superintendent of banks, or other agent in charge of the business and property of such financial institution, when such loans or extensions of credit are approved by the Comptroller of the Currency, shall not be subject to any limitation based on capital and surplus.
(8)(A) Loans and extensions of credit arising from the discount of negotiable or nonnegotiable installment consumer paper which carries a full recourse endorsement or unconditional guarantee by the person transferring the paper shall be subject under this section to a maximum limitation equal to 25 per centum of such capital and surplus, notwithstanding the collateral requirements set forth in subsection (a)(2) of this section.
(B) If the bank's files or the knowledge of its officers of the financial condition of each maker of such consumer paper is reasonably adequate, and an officer of the bank designated for that purpose by the board of directors of the bank certifies in writing that the bank is relying primarily upon the responsibility of each maker for payment of such loans or extensions of credit and not upon any full or partial recourse endorsement or guarantee by the transferor, the limitations of this section as to the loans or extensions of credit of each such maker shall be the sole applicable loan limitations.
(9)(A) Loans and extensions of credit secured by shipping documents or instruments transferring or securing title covering livestock or giving a lien on livestock when the
market value of the livestock securing the obligation is not at any time less than 115 per centum of the face amount of the note covered, shall be subject under this section notwithstanding the collateral requirements set forth in subsection (a)(2) of this section, to a maximum limitation equal to 25 per centum of such capital and surplus.
(B) Loans and extensions of credit which arise from the discount by dealers in dairy cattle of paper given in payment for dairy cattle, which paper carries a full recourse endorsement or unconditional guarantee of the seller, and which are secured by the cattle being sold, shall be subject under this section, notwithstanding the collateral requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, to a limitation of 25 per centum of such capital and surplus.
(10) Loans or extensions of credit to the Student Loan Marketing Association shall not be subject to any limitation based on capital and surplus.

# Authority of Comptroller of the Currency
(d)(1) The Comptroller of the Currency may prescribe rules and regulations to administer and carry out the purposes of this section, including rules or regulations to define or further define terms used in this section and to establish limits or requirements other than those specified in this section for particular classes or categories of loans or extensions of credit.
(2) The Comptroller of the Currency also shall have authority to determine when a loan putatively made to a person shall for purposes of this section be attributed to another person.
[48 FR 42806, Sept. 20, 1983]
PART 216 [RESERVED]
Pt. 217

# PART 217—CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES, SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANIES, AND STATE MEMBER BANKS (REGULATION Q)

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
217.1
Purpose, applicability, reservations of authority, and timing.
217.2
Definitions.
217.3
Operational requirements for certain exposures.
217.4-217.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Capital Ratio Requirements and Buffers
217.10
Minimum capital requirements.
217.11
Capital conservation buffer, countercyclical capital buffer amount, and GSIB surcharge.
217.12
Community bank leverage ratio framework.
217.13-217.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Definition of Capital
217.20
Capital components and eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments.
217.21
Minority interest.
217.22
Regulatory capital adjustments and deductions.
217.23-217.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Risk-weighted Assets—Standardized Approach
217.30
Applicability.

# Risk-Weighted Assets for General Credit Risk
217.31
Mechanics for calculating risk-weighted assets for general credit risk.
217.32
General risk weights.
217.33
Off-balance sheet exposures.
217.34
Derivative contracts.
217.35
Cleared transactions.
217.36
Guarantees and credit derivatives: Substitution treatment.
217.37
Collateralized transactions.

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Unsettled Transactions
217.38
Unsettled transactions.
217.39-217.40
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Securitization Exposures
217.41
Operational requirements for securitization exposures.
217.42
Risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures.
217.43
Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) and the gross-up approach.
217.44
Securitization exposures to which the SSFA and gross-up approach do not apply.
217.45
Recognition of credit risk mitigants for securitization exposures.
217.46-217.50
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Equity Exposures
217.51
Introduction and exposure measurement.
217.52
Simple risk-weight approach (SRWA).
217.53
Equity exposures to investment funds.
217.54-217.60
[Reserved]

# Disclosures
217.61
Purpose and scope.
217.62
Disclosure requirements.
217.63
Disclosures by Board-regulated institutions described in § 217.61.
217.64-217.99
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Risk-Weighted Assets—Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced Measurement Approaches
217.100
Purpose, applicability, and principle of conservatism.
217.101
Definitions.
217.102-217.120
[Reserved]

# Qualification
217.121
Qualification process.
217.122
Qualification requirements.
217.123
Ongoing qualification.
217.124
Merger and acquisition transitional arrangements.
217.125-217.130
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets For General Credit Risk
217.131
Mechanics for calculating total wholesale and retail risk-weighted assets.
217.132
Counterparty credit risk of repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, and OTC derivative contracts.
217.133
Cleared transactions.
217.134
Guarantees and credit derivatives: PD substitution and LGD adjustment approaches.
217.135
Guarantees and credit derivatives: Double default treatment.
217.136
Unsettled transactions.
217.137-217.140
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Securitization Exposures
217.141
Operational criteria for recognizing the transfer of risk.
217.142
Risk-based capital requirement for securitization exposures.
217.143
Supervisory formula approach (SFA).
217.144
Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA).
217.145
Recognition of credit risk mitigants for securitization exposures.
217.146-217.150
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets For Equity Exposures
217.151
Introduction and exposure measurement.
217.152
Simple risk weight approach (SRWA).
217.153
Internal models approach (IMA).
217.154
Equity exposures to investment funds.
217.155
Equity derivative contracts.
217.156-217.160
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets For Operational Risk
217.161
Qualification requirements for incorporation of operational risk mitigants.
217.162
Mechanics of risk-weighted asset calculation.
217.163-217.170
[Reserved]

# Disclosures
217.171
Purpose and scope.
217.172
Disclosure requirements.
217.173
Disclosures by certain advanced approaches Board-regulated institutions and Category III Board-regulated institutions.
217.174-217.200
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Risk-weighted Assets—Market Risk
217.201
Purpose, applicability, and reservation of authority.
217.202
Definitions.
217.203
Requirements for application of this subpart F.
217.204
Measure for market risk.
217.205
VaR-based measure.
217.206
Stressed VaR-based measure.
217.207
Specific risk.
217.208
Incremental risk.
217.209
Comprehensive risk.
217.210
Standardized measurement method for specific risk.
217.211
Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA).
217.212
Market risk disclosures.
217.213-217.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Transition Provisions
217.300
Transitions.
217.301
Current expected credit losses (CECL) transition.
217.302
Exposures Related the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility.
217.303
Temporary exclusions from total leverage exposure.
217.304
Temporary changes to the community bank leverage ratio framework.
217.305
Exposures related to the Paycheck Protection Program Lending Facility.
217.306
Building Block Approach (BBA) capital conservation buffer transition.

# Subpart H—Risk-based Capital Surcharge for Global Systemically Important Bank Holding Companies
217.400
Purpose and applicability.
217.401
Definitions.
217.402
Identification as a global systemically important BHC.
217.403
GSIB surcharge.
217.404
Method 1 score.
217.405
Method 2 score.
217.406
Short-term wholesale funding score.

# Subpart I—Application of Capital Rules
217.501
The Board's Regulatory Capital Framework for Depository Institution Holding Companies Organized as Non-Stock Companies.
217.502
Application of the Board's Regulatory Capital Framework to Employee Stock Ownership Plans that are Depository Institution Holding Companies and Certain Trusts that are Savings and Loan Holding Companies.

# Subpart J—Risk-Based Capital Requirements for Board-Regulated Institutions Significantly Engaged in Insurance Activities
217.601
Purpose, applicability, and reservations of authority.
217.602
Definitions.
217.603
BBA ratio and minimum requirements.
217.604
Capital conservation buffer.
217.605
Determination of building blocks.
217.606
Scaling parameters.
217.607
Capital requirements under the Building Block Approach.
217.608
Available capital resources under the Building Block Approach.
Appendix A to Part 217—The Federal Reserve Board's Framework for Implementing the Countercyclical Capital Buffer

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 248(a), 321-338a, 481-486, 1462a, 1467a, 1818, 1828, 1831n, 1831o, 1831p-1, 1831w, 1835, 1844(b), 1851, 3904, 3906-3909, 4808, 5365, 5368, 5371, 5371 note, and sec. 4012, Pub. L. 116-136, 134 Stat. 281.

# Source:
Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, 62285, Oct. 11, 2013, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 217.1
Purpose, applicability, reservations of authority, and timing.
(a)
Purpose.
This part establishes minimum capital requirements and overall capital adequacy standards for entities described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. This part includes methodologies for calculating minimum capital requirements, public disclosure requirements related to the capital requirements, and transition provisions for the application of this part.
(b)
Limitation of authority.
Nothing in this part shall be read to limit the authority of the Board to take action under other provisions of law, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, deficient capital levels, or violations of law or regulation, under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, section 8 of the Bank Holding Company Act, or section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act.
(c)
Applicability
—(1)(i)
Applicability in general.
This part applies on a consolidated basis to every Board-regulated institution that is:
(A) A state member bank;
(B) A bank holding company domiciled in the United States that is not subject to 12 CFR part 225, appendix C, provided that the Board may by order apply any or all of this part to any bank holding company, based on the institution's size, level of complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or financial condition; or
(C) A covered savings and loan holding company domiciled in the United States, other than a savings and loan holding company that meets the requirements of 12 CFR part 225, appendix C, as if the savings and loan holding company were a bank holding company and the savings association were a bank. For purposes of compliance with the capital adequacy requirements and calculations in this part, savings and loan holding companies that do not file form FR Y-9C or form FR Q-1 should follow the instructions to the FR Y-9C.
(ii)
Mid-tier holding companies of insurance depository institution holding companies.
In the case of a bank holding company, or a covered savings and loan holding company, that does not calculate minimum risk-based capital requirements under subpart B of this part by operation of § 217.10(f)(1), this part applies to a depository institution holding company that is a subsidiary of such bank holding company or covered savings and loan holding company, provided that:
(A) The subsidiary depository institution holding company is an insurance mid-tier holding company; and
(B) The subsidiary depository institution holding company's assets and liabilities are not consolidated with those of a depository institution holding company that controls the subsidiary for purposes of determining the parent depository institution holding company's capital requirements and capital ratios under subparts B through F of this part.
(2)
Minimum capital requirements and overall capital adequacy standards.
Each Board-regulated institution must calculate its minimum capital requirements and meet the overall capital adequacy standards in subpart B of this part.
(3)
Regulatory capital.
Each Board-regulated institution must calculate its regulatory capital in accordance with subpart C of this part.
(4)
Risk-weighted assets.
(i) Each Board-regulated institution must use the methodologies in subpart D of this part (and subpart F of this part for a market risk Board-regulated institution) to calculate standardized total risk-weighted assets.
(ii) Each advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must use the methodologies in subpart E (and subpart F of this part for a market risk Board-regulated institution) to calculate advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets.
(5)
Disclosures.
(i) Except for an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution that is making public disclosures pursuant to the requirements in subpart E of this part, each Board-regulated institution with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more must make the public disclosures described in subpart D of this part.
(ii) Each market risk Board-regulated institution must make the public disclosures described in subpart F of this part.
(iii) Each advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must make the public disclosures described in subpart E of this part.
(d)
Reservation of authority
—(1)
Additional capital in the aggregate.
The Board may require a Board-regulated institution to hold an amount of regulatory capital greater than otherwise required under this part if the Board determines that the Board-regulated institution's capital requirements under this part are not commensurate with the Board-regulated institution's credit, market, operational, or other risks.
(2)
Regulatory capital elements.
(i) If the Board determines that a particular common equity tier 1, additional tier 1, or tier 2 capital element has characteristics or terms that diminish its ability to absorb losses, or otherwise present safety and soundness concerns, the Board may require the Board-regulated institution to exclude all or a portion of such element from common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital, as appropriate.
(ii) Notwithstanding the criteria for regulatory capital instruments set forth in subpart C of this part, the Board may find that a capital element may be included in a Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital on a permanent or temporary basis consistent with the loss absorption capacity of the element and in accordance with § 217.20(e).
(3)
Risk-weighted asset amounts.
If the Board determines that the risk-weighted asset amount calculated under this part by the Board-regulated institution for one or more exposures is not commensurate with the risks associated with those exposures, the Board may require the Board-regulated institution to assign a different risk-weighted asset amount to the exposure(s) or to deduct the amount of the exposure(s) from its regulatory capital.
(4)
Total leverage.
If the Board determines that the total leverage exposure, or the amount reflected in the Board-regulated institution's reported average total consolidated assets, for an on- or off-balance sheet exposure calculated by a Board-regulated institution under § 217.10 is inappropriate for the exposure(s) or the circumstances of the Board-regulated institution, the Board may require the Board-regulated institution to adjust this exposure amount in the numerator and the denominator for purposes of the leverage ratio calculations.
(5)
Consolidation of certain exposures.
The Board may determine that the risk-based capital treatment for an exposure or the treatment provided to an entity that is not consolidated on the Board-regulated institution's balance sheet is not commensurate with the risk of the exposure and the relationship of the Board-regulated institution to the entity. Upon making this determination, the Board may require the Board-regulated institution to treat the exposure or entity as if it were consolidated on the balance sheet of the
Board-regulated institution for purposes of determining the Board-regulated institution's risk-based capital requirements and calculating the Board-regulated institution's risk-based capital ratios accordingly. The Board will look to the substance of, and risk associated with, the transaction, as well as other relevant factors the Board deems appropriate in determining whether to require such treatment.
(6)
Other reservation of authority.
With respect to any deduction or limitation required under this part, the Board may require a different deduction or limitation, provided that such alternative deduction or limitation is commensurate with the Board-regulated institution's risk and consistent with safety and soundness.
(e)
Notice and response procedures.
In making a determination under this section, the Board will apply notice and response procedures in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures in 12 CFR 263.202.
(f)
Timing.
(1) Subject to the transition provisions in subpart G of this part, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution that is not a savings and loan holding company must:
(i) Except as described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, beginning on January 1, 2014, calculate advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets in accordance with subpart E and, if applicable, subpart F of this part and, beginning on January 1, 2015, calculate standardized total risk-weighted assets in accordance with subpart D and, if applicable, subpart F of this part;
(ii) From January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014:
(A) Calculate risk-weighted assets in accordance with the general risk-based capital rules under 12 CFR parts 208 or 225, appendix A, and, if applicable, appendix E (state member banks or bank holding companies, respectively)
1
and substitute such risk-weighted assets for standardized total risk-weighted assets for purposes of § 217.10;
1
For the purpose of calculating its general risk-based capital ratios from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution shall adjust, as appropriate, its risk-weighted asset measure (as that amount is calculated under 12 CFR parts 208 and 225, and, if applicable, appendix E (state member banks or bank holding companies, respectively) in the general risk-based capital rules) by excluding those assets that are deducted from its regulatory capital under § 217.22.
(B) If applicable, calculate general market risk equivalent assets in accordance with 12 CFR parts 208 or 225, appendix E, section 4(a)(3) (state member banks or bank holding companies, respectively) and substitute such general market risk equivalent assets for standardized market risk-weighted assets for purposes of § 217.20(d)(3); and
(C) Substitute the corresponding provision or provisions of 12 CFR parts 208 or 225, appendix A, and, if applicable, appendix E (state member banks or bank holding companies, respectively) for any reference to subpart D of this part in: § 217.121(c); § 217.124(a) and (b); § 217.144(b); § 217.154(c) and (d); § 217.202(b) (definition of covered position in paragraph (b)(3)(iv)); and § 217.211(b);
2
2
In addition, for purposes of § 217.201(c)(3), from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014, for any circumstance in which the Board may require a Board-regulated institution to calculate risk-based capital requirements for specific positions or portfolios under subpart D of this part, the Board will instead require the Board-regulated institution to make such calculations according to 12 CFR parts 208 and 225, appendix A and, if applicable, appendix E (state member banks or bank holding companies, respectively).
(iii) Beginning on January 1, 2014, calculate and maintain minimum capital ratios in accordance with subparts A, B, and C of this part, provided, however, that such Board-regulated institution must:
(A) From January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014, maintain a minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4 percent, a minimum tier 1 capital ratio of 5.5 percent, a minimum total capital ratio of 8 percent, and a minimum leverage ratio of 4 percent; and
(B) From January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2017, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution:
(
1
) Is not required to maintain a supplementary leverage ratio; and
(
2
) Must calculate a supplementary leverage ratio in accordance with
§ 217.10(c), and must report the calculated supplementary leverage ratio on any applicable regulatory reports.
(2) Subject to the transition provisions in subpart G of this part, a Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution or a savings and loan holding company that is an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must:
(i) Beginning on January 1, 2015, calculate standardized total risk-weighted assets in accordance with subpart D, and if applicable, subpart F of this part; and
(ii) Beginning on January 1, 2015, calculate and maintain minimum capital ratios in accordance with subparts A, B and C of this part, provided, however, that from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2017, a savings and loan holding company that is an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution:
(A) Is not required to maintain a supplementary leverage ratio; and
(B) Must calculate a supplementary leverage ratio in accordance with § 217.10(c), and must report the calculated supplementary leverage ratio on any applicable regulatory reports.
(3) Beginning on January 1, 2016, and subject to the transition provisions in subpart G of this part, a Board-regulated institution is subject to limitations on distributions and discretionary bonus payments with respect to its capital conservation buffer, any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount, and any applicable GSIB surcharge, in accordance with subpart B of this part.
(4) Beginning Jan. 1, 2018, a global systemically important BHC (as defined in § 217.2) is subject to limitations on distributions and discretionary bonus payments in accordance with the lower of the maximum payout amount as determined under § 217.11(a)(2)(iii) and the maximum leverage payout amount as determined under § 217.11(a)(2)(vi).
(5) A depository institution holding company, a U.S. intermediate holding company, or a state member bank that changes from one category of Board-regulated institution to another of such categories must comply with the requirements of its category in this part, including applicable transition provisions of the requirements in this part, no later than on the first day of the second quarter following the change in the company's category.
(g)
Depository institution holding companies and treatment of subsidiary state-regulated insurers, regulated foreign subsidiaries, and regulated foreign affiliates
—(1)
In general.
In complying with the capital adequacy requirements of this part (except for the requirements and calculations of subpart J of this part), including any determination of applicability under § 217.100 or § 217.201, an insurance bank holding company, insurance savings and loan holding company, or insurance mid-tier holding company may elect not to consolidate the assets and liabilities of its subsidiary state-regulated insurers, regulated foreign subsidiaries, and regulated foreign affiliates. Such an institution that makes this election must either:
(i) Deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements the aggregate amount of its outstanding equity investment, including retained earnings, in such subsidiaries and affiliates; or
(ii) Include in the risk-weighted assets of the Board-regulated institution the aggregate amount of its outstanding equity investment, including retained earnings, in such subsidiaries and affiliates and assign to these assets a 400 percent risk weight.
(2)
Method of election.
(i) An insurance bank holding company, insurance savings and loan holding company, or insurance mid-tier holding company may make the election described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section by indicating that it has made this election on the applicable regulatory report, filed by the insurance bank holding company, insurance savings and loan holding company, or insurance mid-tier holding company for the first reporting period in which it is an insurance bank holding company, insurance savings and loan holding company, or insurance mid-tier holding company. The electing Board-regulated institution
must indicate on the applicable regulatory report whether it elects to deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section or whether it elects to include an amount in its risk-weighted assets in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii) An insurance bank holding company, insurance savings and loan holding company, or insurance mid-tier holding company that has not made an effective election pursuant to paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, or that seeks to change its election (or its choice of treatment under paragraph (g)(1) of this section) due to a change in control, business combination, or other legitimate business purpose, may do so only with the prior approval of the Board, effective as of the first reporting period after the period in which the Board approves the election, or such other date specified in the approval.
[Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, 62285, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 24540, May 1, 2014; 79 FR 57744, Sept. 26, 2014; 80 FR 5670, Feb. 3, 2015; 80 FR 20157, Apr. 15, 2015; 80 FR 49103, Aug. 14, 2015; 83 FR 44198, Aug. 30, 2018; 84 FR 59269, Nov. 1, 2019; 88 FR 82967, Nov. 27, 2023]
§ 217.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Additional tier 1 capital
is defined in § 217.20(c).
Adjusted allowances for credit losses (AACL)
means, with respect to a Board-regulated institution that has adopted CECL, valuation allowances that have been established through a charge against earnings or retained earnings for expected credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost and a lessor's net investment in leases that have been established to reduce the amortized cost basis of the assets to amounts expected to be collected as determined in accordance with GAAP. For purposes of this part, adjusted allowances for credit losses include allowances for expected credit losses on off-balance sheet credit exposures not accounted for as insurance as determined in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted allowances for credit losses exclude “allocated transfer risk reserves” and allowances created that reflect credit losses on purchased credit deteriorated assets and available-for-sale debt securities.
Advanced approaches Board-regulated institution
means a Board-regulated institution that is described in § 217.100(b)(1).
Advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets
means:
(1) The sum of:
(i) Credit-risk-weighted assets;
(ii) Credit valuation adjustment (CVA) risk-weighted assets;
(iii) Risk-weighted assets for operational risk; and
(iv) For a market risk Board-regulated institution only, advanced market risk-weighted assets; minus
(2) Excess eligible credit reserves not included in the Board-regulated institution's tier 2 capital.
Advanced market risk-weighted assets
means the advanced measure for market risk calculated under § 217.204 multiplied by 12.5.
Affiliate
with respect to a company, means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the company.
Allocated transfer risk reserves
means reserves that have been established in accordance with section 905(a) of the International Lending Supervision Act, against certain assets whose value U.S. supervisory authorities have found to be significantly impaired by protracted transfer risk problems.
Allowances for loan and lease losses (ALLL)
means valuation allowances that have been established through a charge against earnings to cover estimated credit losses on loans, lease financing receivables or other extensions of credit as determined in accordance with GAAP. ALLL excludes “allocated transfer risk reserves.” For purposes of this part, ALLL includes allowances that have been established through a charge against earnings to cover estimated credit losses associated with off-balance sheet credit exposures as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) program
means a program established primarily for the purpose of issuing commercial paper that is investment grade and backed by underlying exposures held in a bankruptcy-remote special purpose entity (SPE).
Asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) program sponsor
means a Board-regulated institution that:
(1) Establishes an ABCP program;
(2) Approves the sellers permitted to participate in an ABCP program;
(3) Approves the exposures to be purchased by an ABCP program; or
(4) Administers the ABCP program by monitoring the underlying exposures, underwriting or otherwise arranging for the placement of debt or other obligations issued by the program, compiling monthly reports, or ensuring compliance with the program documents and with the program's credit and investment policy.
Bank holding company
means a bank holding company as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act.
Bank Holding Company Act
means the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
).
Bankruptcy remote
means, with respect to an entity or asset, that the entity or asset would be excluded from an insolvent entity's estate in receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding.
Basis derivative contract
means a non-foreign-exchange derivative contract (
i.e.,
the contract is denominated in a single currency) in which the cash flows of the derivative contract depend on the difference between two risk factors that are attributable solely to one of the following derivative asset classes: Interest rate, credit, equity, or commodity.
Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Board-regulated institution
means a state member bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company.
Call Report
means Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income.
Carrying value
means, with respect to an asset, the value of the asset on the balance sheet of a Board-regulated institution as determined in accordance with GAAP. For all assets other than available-for-sale debt securities or purchased credit deteriorated assets, the carrying value is not reduced by any associated credit loss allowance that is determined in accordance with GAAP.
Category II Board-regulated institution
means:
(1) A depository institution holding company that is identified as a Category II banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10, as applicable;
(2) A U.S. intermediate holding company that is identified as a Category II banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5;
(3) A state member bank that is a subsidiary of a company identified in paragraph (1) of this definition; or
(4) A state member bank that:
(i) Is not a subsidiary of a depository institution holding company; and
(ii)(A) Has total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the state member bank's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, equal to $700 billion or more. If the state member bank has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets is calculated based on its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or average of the most recent quarters, as applicable; or
(B) Has:
(
1
) Total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the state member bank's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, of $100 billion or more but less than $700 billion. If the state member bank has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent quarters, total consolidated assets is based on its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or average of the most recent quarters, as applicable; and
(
2
) Cross-jurisdictional activity, calculated based on the average of its cross-jurisdictional activity for the four most recent calendar quarters, of $75 billion or more. Cross-jurisdictional activity is the sum of cross-jurisdictional claims and cross-jurisdictional liabilities, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form.
(iii) After meeting the criteria in paragraph (4)(i) of this section, a state
member bank continues to be a Category II Board-regulated institution until the state member bank:
(A) Has:
(
1
) Less than $700 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; and
(
2
) Less than $75 billion in cross-jurisdictional activity for each of the four most recent calendar quarters. Cross-jurisdictional activity is the sum of cross-jurisdictional claims and cross-jurisdictional liabilities, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form; or
(B) Has less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters.
Category III Board-regulated institution
means:
(1) A depository institution holding company that is identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10, as applicable;
(2) A U.S. intermediate holding company that is identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5;
(3) A state member bank that is a subsidiary of a company identified in paragraph (1) of this definition;
(4) A depository institution that:
(i) Is not a subsidiary of a depository institution holding company;
(ii)(A) Has total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the state member bank's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, equal to $250 billion or more. If the state member bank has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets is calculated based on its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or average of the most recent quarters, as applicable; or
(B) Has:
(
1
) Total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the state member bank's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, of $100 billion or more but less than $250 billion. If the state member bank has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets is calculated based its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or average of the most recent quarters, as applicable; and
(
2
) At least one of the following in paragraphs (4)(i)(B)(
2
)(
i
) through (
iii
) of this definition, each calculated as the average of the four most recent calendar quarters:
(
i
) Total nonbank assets, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-9LP or equivalent reporting form, equal to $75 billion or more;
(
ii
) Off-balance sheet exposure equal to $75 billion or more. Off-balance sheet exposure is a state member bank's total exposure, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, minus the total consolidated assets of the state member bank, as reported on the Call Report; or
(
iii
) Weighted short-term wholesale funding, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, equal to $75 billion or more; or
(iii) [Reserved]
(iv) After meeting the criteria in paragraph (4)(ii) of this definition, a state member bank continues to be a Category III Board-regulated institution until the state member bank:
(A) Has:
(
1
) Less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(
2
) Less than $75 billion in total nonbank assets, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-9LP or equivalent reporting form, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(
3
) Less than $75 billion in weighted short-term wholesale funding, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; and
(
4
) Less than $75 billion in off-balance sheet exposure for each of the four most recent calendar quarters. Off-balance sheet exposure is a state member
bank's total exposure, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, minus the total consolidated assets of the state member bank, as reported on the Call Report; or
(B) Has less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; or
(C) Is a Category II Board-regulated institution.
Central counterparty (CCP)
means a counterparty (for example, a clearing house) that facilitates trades between counterparties in one or more financial markets by either guaranteeing trades or novating contracts.
CFTC
means the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Clean-up call
means a contractual provision that permits an originating Board-regulated institution or servicer to call securitization exposures before their stated maturity or call date.
Cleared transaction
means an exposure associated with an outstanding derivative contract or repo-style transaction that a Board-regulated institution or clearing member has entered into with a central counterparty (that is, a transaction that a central counterparty has accepted).
(1) The following transactions are cleared transactions:
(i) A transaction between a CCP and a Board-regulated institution that is a clearing member of the CCP where the Board-regulated institution enters into the transaction with the CCP for the Board-regulated institution's own account;
(ii) A transaction between a CCP and a Board-regulated institution that is a clearing member of the CCP where the Board-regulated institution is acting as a financial intermediary on behalf of a clearing member client and the transaction offsets another transaction that satisfies the requirements set forth in § 217.3(a);
(iii) A transaction between a clearing member client Board-regulated institution and a clearing member where the clearing member acts as a financial intermediary on behalf of the clearing member client and enters into an offsetting transaction with a CCP, provided that the requirements set forth in § 217.3(a) are met; or
(iv) A transaction between a clearing member client Board-regulated institution and a CCP where a clearing member guarantees the performance of the clearing member client Board-regulated institution to the CCP and the transaction meets the requirements of § 217.3(a)(2) and (3).
(2) The exposure of a Board-regulated institution that is a clearing member to its clearing member client is not a cleared transaction where the Board-regulated institution is either acting as a financial intermediary and enters into an offsetting transaction with a CCP or where the Board-regulated institution provides a guarantee to the CCP on the performance of the client.
3
3
For the standardized approach treatment of these exposures, see § 217.34(e) (OTC derivative contracts) or § 217.37(c) (repo-style transactions). For the advanced approaches treatment of these exposures, see §§ 217.132(c)(8) and (d) (OTC derivative contracts) or §§ 217.132(b) and § 217.132(d) (repo-style transactions) and for calculation of the margin period of risk, see §§ 217.132(d)(5)(iii)(C) (OTC derivative contracts) and § 217.132(d)(5)(iii)(A) (repo-style transactions).
Clearing member
means a member of, or direct participant in, a CCP that is entitled to enter into transactions with the CCP.
Clearing member client
means a party to a cleared transaction associated with a CCP in which a clearing member acts either as a financial intermediary with respect to the party or guarantees the performance of the party to the CCP.
Client-facing derivative transaction
means a derivative contract that is not a cleared transaction where the Board-regulated institution is either acting as a financial intermediary and enters into an offsetting transaction with a qualifying central counterparty (QCCP) or where the Board-regulated institution provides a guarantee on the performance of a client on a transaction between the client and a QCCP.
Collateral agreement
means a legal contract that specifies the time when, and circumstances under which, a counterparty is required to pledge collateral to a Board-regulated institution
for a single financial contract or for all financial contracts in a netting set and confers upon the Board-regulated institution a perfected, first-priority security interest (notwithstanding the prior security interest of any custodial agent), or the legal equivalent thereof, in the collateral posted by the counterparty under the agreement. This security interest must provide the Board-regulated institution with a right to close-out the financial positions and liquidate the collateral upon an event of default of, or failure to perform by, the counterparty under the collateral agreement. A contract would not satisfy this requirement if the Board-regulated institution's exercise of rights under the agreement may be stayed or avoided:
(1) Under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions, other than:
(i) In receivership, conservatorship, or resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, or under any similar insolvency law applicable to GSEs, or laws of foreign jurisdictions that are substantially similar
4
to the U.S. laws referenced in this paragraph (1)(i) in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of the defaulting counterparty;
4
The Board expects to evaluate jointly with the OCC and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation whether foreign special resolution regimes meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(ii) Where the agreement is subject by its terms to, or incorporates, any of the laws referenced in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition; or
(2) Other than to the extent necessary for the counterparty to comply with the requirements of subpart I of the Board's Regulation YY (part 252 of this chapter), part 47 of this title, or part 382 of this title, as applicable.
Commercial end-user
means an entity that:
(1)(i) Is using derivative contracts to hedge or mitigate commercial risk; and
(ii)(A) Is not an entity described in section 2(h)(7)(C)(i)(I) through (VIII) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(C)(i)(I) through (VIII)); or
(B) Is not a “financial entity” for purposes of section 2(h)(7) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(h)) by virtue of section 2(h)(7)(C)(iii) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(C)(iii)); or
(2)(i) Is using derivative contracts to hedge or mitigate commercial risk; and
(ii) Is not an entity described in section 3C(g)(3)(A)(i) through (viii) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)(3)(A)(i) through (viii)); or
(3) Qualifies for the exemption in section 2(h)(7)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(A)) by virtue of section 2(h)(7)(D) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(D)); or
(4) Qualifies for an exemption in section 3C(g)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)(1)) by virtue of section 3C(g)(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)(4)).
Commitment
means any legally binding arrangement that obligates a Board-regulated institution to extend credit or to purchase assets.
Commodity derivative contract
means a commodity-linked swap, purchased commodity-linked option, forward commodity-linked contract, or any other instrument linked to commodities that gives rise to similar counterparty credit risks.
Commodity Exchange Act
means the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
)
Common equity tier 1 capital
is defined in § 217.20(b).
Common equity tier 1 minority interest
means the common equity tier 1 capital of a depository institution or foreign bank that is:
(1) A consolidated subsidiary of a Board-regulated institution; and
(2) Not owned by the Board-regulated institution.
Company
means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, depository institution, business trust, special purpose entity, association, or similar organization.
Control.
A person or company
controls
a company if it:
(1) Owns, controls, or holds with power to vote 25 percent or more of a class of voting securities of the company; or
(2) Consolidates the company for financial reporting purposes.
Corporate exposure
means an exposure to a company that is not:
(1) An exposure to a sovereign, the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, a multi-lateral development bank (MDB), a depository institution, a foreign bank, a credit union, or a public sector entity (PSE);
(2) An exposure to a GSE;
(3) A residential mortgage exposure;
(4) A pre-sold construction loan;
(5) A statutory multifamily mortgage;
(6) A high volatility commercial real estate (HVCRE) exposure;
(7) A cleared transaction;
(8) A default fund contribution;
(9) A securitization exposure;
(10) An equity exposure; or
(11) An unsettled transaction.
(12) A policy loan;
(13) A separate account; or
(14) A Paycheck Protection Program covered loan as defined in section 7(a)(36) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36)).
Country risk classification (CRC)
with respect to a sovereign, means the most recent consensus CRC published by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) as of December 31st of the prior calendar year that provides a view of the likelihood that the sovereign will service its external debt.
Covered debt instrument
means an unsecured debt instrument that is:
(1) Issued by a global systemically important BHC and that is an eligible debt security, as defined in 12 CFR 252.61, or that is
pari passu
or subordinated to any eligible debt security issued by the global systemically important BHC; or
(2) Issued by a Covered IHC, as defined in 12 CFR 252.161, and that is an eligible Covered IHC debt security, as defined in 12 CFR 252.161, or that is
pari passu
or subordinated to any eligible Covered IHC debt security issued by the Covered IHC; or
(3) Issued by a global systemically important banking organization, as defined in 12 CFR 252.2 other than a global systemically important BHC; or issued by a subsidiary of a global systemically important banking organization that is not a global systemically important BHC, other than a Covered IHC, as defined in 12 CFR 252.161; and where,
(i) The instrument is eligible for use to comply with an applicable law or regulation requiring the issuance of a minimum amount of instruments to absorb losses or recapitalize the issuer or any of its subsidiaries in connection with a resolution, receivership, insolvency, or similar proceeding of the issuer or any of its subsidiaries; or
(ii) The instrument is
pari passu
or subordinated to any instrument described in paragraph (3)(i) of this definition; for purposes of this paragraph (3)(ii) of this definition, if the issuer may be subject to a special resolution regime, in its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization, that addresses the failure or potential failure of a financial company and any instrument described in paragraph (3)(i) of this definition is eligible under that special resolution regime to be written down or converted into equity or any other capital instrument, then an instrument is
pari passu
or subordinated to any instrument described in paragraph (3)(i) of this definition if that instrument is eligible under that special resolution regime to be written down or converted into equity or any other capital instrument ahead of or proportionally with any instrument described in paragraph (3)(i) of this definition; and
(4) Provided that, for purposes of this definition,
covered debt instrument
does not include a debt instrument that qualifies as tier 2 capital pursuant to 12 CFR 217.20(d) or that is otherwise treated as regulatory capital by the primary supervisor of the issuer.
Covered savings and loan holding company
means a top-tier savings and loan holding company other than an institution that—
(1) Meets the requirements of section 10(c)(9)(C) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(c)(9)(C)); and
(2) As of June 30 of the previous calendar year, derived 50 percent or more of its total consolidated assets or 50 percent of its total revenues on an enterprise-wide basis (as calculated under GAAP) from activities that are not financial in nature under section 4(k) of
the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)).
Credit derivative
means a financial contract executed under standard industry credit derivative documentation that allows one party (the protection purchaser) to transfer the credit risk of one or more exposures (reference exposure(s)) to another party (the protection provider) for a certain period of time.
Credit-enhancing interest-only strip (CEIO)
means an on-balance sheet asset that, in form or in substance:
(1) Represents a contractual right to receive some or all of the interest and no more than a minimal amount of principal due on the underlying exposures of a securitization; and
(2) Exposes the holder of the CEIO to credit risk directly or indirectly associated with the underlying exposures that exceeds a pro rata share of the holder's claim on the underlying exposures, whether through subordination provisions or other credit-enhancement techniques.
Credit-enhancing representations and warranties
means representations and warranties that are made or assumed in connection with a transfer of underlying exposures (including loan servicing assets) and that obligate a Board-regulated institution to protect another party from losses arising from the credit risk of the underlying exposures. Credit-enhancing representations and warranties include provisions to protect a party from losses resulting from the default or nonperformance of the counterparties of the underlying exposures or from an insufficiency in the value of the collateral backing the underlying exposures. Credit-enhancing representations and warranties do not include:
(1) Early default clauses and similar warranties that permit the return of, or premium refund clauses covering, 1-4 family residential first mortgage loans that qualify for a 50 percent risk weight for a period not to exceed 120 days from the date of transfer. These warranties may cover only those loans that were originated within 1 year of the date of transfer;
(2) Premium refund clauses that cover assets guaranteed, in whole or in part, by the U.S. Government, a U.S. Government agency or a GSE, provided the premium refund clauses are for a period not to exceed 120 days from the date of transfer; or
(3) Warranties that permit the return of underlying exposures in instances of misrepresentation, fraud, or incomplete documentation.
Credit risk mitigant
means collateral, a credit derivative, or a guarantee.
Credit-risk-weighted assets
means 1.06 multiplied by the sum of:
(1) Total wholesale and retail risk-weighted assets as calculated under § 217.131;
(2) Risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures as calculated under § 217.142; and
(3) Risk-weighted assets for equity exposures as calculated under § 217.151.
Credit union
means an insured credit union as defined under the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752
et seq.
).
Current Expected Credit Losses (CECL)
means the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP.
Current exposure
means, with respect to a netting set, the larger of zero or the fair value of a transaction or portfolio of transactions within the netting set that would be lost upon default of the counterparty, assuming no recovery on the value of the transactions.
Current exposure methodology
means the method of calculating the exposure amount for over-the-counter derivative contracts in § 217.34(b).
Custodial banking organization
means:
(1) A Board-regulated institution that is:
(i) A top-tier depository institution holding company domiciled in the United States that has assets under custody that are at least 30 times the amount of the depository institution holding company's total assets; or
(ii) A state member bank that is a subsidiary of a depository institution holding company described in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition.
(2) For purposes of this definition, total assets are equal to the average of the banking organization's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters. Assets under custody are equal to the average of the Board-regulated institution's assets under custody for the four most recent calendar quarters.
Custodian
means a financial institution that has legal custody of collateral provided to a CCP.
Default fund contribution
means the funds contributed or commitments made by a clearing member to a CCP's mutualized loss sharing arrangement.
Depository institution
means a depository institution as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
Depository institution holding company
means a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company.
Derivative contract
means a financial contract whose value is derived from the values of one or more underlying assets, reference rates, or indices of asset values or reference rates. Derivative contracts include interest rate derivative contracts, exchange rate derivative contracts, equity derivative contracts, commodity derivative contracts, credit derivative contracts, and any other instrument that poses similar counterparty credit risks. Derivative contracts also include unsettled securities, commodities, and foreign exchange transactions with a contractual settlement or delivery lag that is longer than the lesser of the market standard for the particular instrument or five business days.
Discretionary bonus payment
means a payment made to an executive officer of a Board-regulated institution, where:
(1) The Board-regulated institution retains discretion as to whether to make, and the amount of, the payment until the payment is awarded to the executive officer;
(2) The amount paid is determined by the Board-regulated institution without prior promise to, or agreement with, the executive officer; and
(3) The executive officer has no contractual right, whether express or implied, to the bonus payment.
Distribution
means:
(1) A reduction of tier 1 capital through the repurchase of a tier 1 capital instrument or by other means, except when a Board-regulated institution, within the same quarter when the repurchase is announced, fully replaces a tier 1 capital instrument it has repurchased by issuing another capital instrument that meets the eligibility criteria for:
(i) A common equity tier 1 capital instrument if the instrument being repurchased was part of the Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital, or
(ii) A common equity tier 1 or additional tier 1 capital instrument if the instrument being repurchased was part of the Board-regulated institution's tier 1 capital;
(2) A reduction of tier 2 capital through the repurchase, or redemption prior to maturity, of a tier 2 capital instrument or by other means, except when a Board-regulated institution, within the same quarter when the repurchase or redemption is announced, fully replaces a tier 2 capital instrument it has repurchased by issuing another capital instrument that meets the eligibility criteria for a tier 1 or tier 2 capital instrument;
(3) A dividend declaration or payment on any tier 1 capital instrument;
(4) A dividend declaration or interest payment on any tier 2 capital instrument if the Board-regulated institution has full discretion to permanently or temporarily suspend such payments without triggering an event of default; or
(5) Any similar transaction that the Board determines to be in substance a distribution of capital.
Dodd-Frank Act
means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376).
Early amortization provision
means a provision in the documentation governing a securitization that, when triggered, causes investors in the securitization exposures to be repaid before the original stated maturity of the securitization exposures, unless the provision:
(1) Is triggered solely by events not directly related to the performance of the underlying exposures or the originating Board-regulated institution (such as material changes in tax laws or regulations); or
(2) Leaves investors fully exposed to future draws by borrowers on the underlying exposures even after the provision is triggered.
Effective notional amount
means for an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative, the lesser of the contractual
notional amount of the credit risk mitigant and the exposure amount (or EAD for purposes of subpart E of this part) of the hedged exposure, multiplied by the percentage coverage of the credit risk mitigant.
Eligible ABCP liquidity facility
means a liquidity facility supporting ABCP, in form or in substance, that is subject to an asset quality test at the time of draw that precludes funding against assets that are 90 days or more past due or in default. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a liquidity facility is an eligible ABCP liquidity facility if the assets or exposures funded under the liquidity facility that do not meet the eligibility requirements are guaranteed by a sovereign that qualifies for a 20 percent risk weight or lower.
Eligible clean-up call
means a clean-up call that:
(1) Is exercisable solely at the discretion of the originating Board-regulated institution or servicer;
(2) Is not structured to avoid allocating losses to securitization exposures held by investors or otherwise structured to provide credit enhancement to the securitization; and
(3)(i) For a traditional securitization, is only exercisable when 10 percent or less of the principal amount of the underlying exposures or securitization exposures (determined as of the inception of the securitization) is outstanding; or
(ii) For a synthetic securitization, is only exercisable when 10 percent or less of the principal amount of the reference portfolio of underlying exposures (determined as of the inception of the securitization) is outstanding.
Eligible credit derivative
means a credit derivative in the form of a credit default swap, n
th
-to-default swap, total return swap, or any other form of credit derivative approved by the Board, provided that:
(1) The contract meets the requirements of an eligible guarantee and has been confirmed by the protection purchaser and the protection provider;
(2) Any assignment of the contract has been confirmed by all relevant parties;
(3) If the credit derivative is a credit default swap or n
th
-to-default swap, the contract includes the following credit events:
(i) Failure to pay any amount due under the terms of the reference exposure, subject to any applicable minimal payment threshold that is consistent with standard market practice and with a grace period that is closely in line with the grace period of the reference exposure; and
(ii) Receivership, insolvency, liquidation, conservatorship or inability of the reference exposure issuer to pay its debts, or its failure or admission in writing of its inability generally to pay its debts as they become due, and similar events;
(4) The terms and conditions dictating the manner in which the contract is to be settled are incorporated into the contract;
(5) If the contract allows for cash settlement, the contract incorporates a robust valuation process to estimate loss reliably and specifies a reasonable period for obtaining post-credit event valuations of the reference exposure;
(6) If the contract requires the protection purchaser to transfer an exposure to the protection provider at settlement, the terms of at least one of the exposures that is permitted to be transferred under the contract provide that any required consent to transfer may not be unreasonably withheld;
(7) If the credit derivative is a credit default swap or n
th
-to-default swap, the contract clearly identifies the parties responsible for determining whether a credit event has occurred, specifies that this determination is not the sole responsibility of the protection provider, and gives the protection purchaser the right to notify the protection provider of the occurrence of a credit event; and
(8) If the credit derivative is a total return swap and the Board-regulated institution records net payments received on the swap as net income, the Board-regulated institution records offsetting deterioration in the value of the hedged exposure (either through reductions in fair value or by an addition to reserves).
Eligible credit reserves
means:
(1) For a Board-regulated institution that has not adopted CECL, all general allowances that have been established through a charge against earnings to
cover estimated credit losses associated with on- or off-balance sheet wholesale and retail exposures, including the ALLL associated with such exposures, but excluding allocated transfer risk reserves established pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3904 and other specific reserves created against recognized losses; and
(2) For a Board-regulated institution that has adopted CECL, all general allowances that have been established through a charge against earnings or retained earnings to cover expected credit losses associated with on- or off-balance sheet wholesale and retail exposures, including AACL associated with such exposures. Eligible credit reserves exclude allocated transfer risk reserves established pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3904, allowances that reflect credit losses on purchased credit deteriorated assets and available-for-sale debt securities, and other specific reserves created against recognized losses.
Eligible guarantee
means a guarantee that:
(1) Is written;
(2) Is either:
(i) Unconditional, or
(ii) A contingent obligation of the U.S. government or its agencies, the enforceability of which is dependent upon some affirmative action on the part of the beneficiary of the guarantee or a third party (for example, meeting servicing requirements);
(3) Covers all or a pro rata portion of all contractual payments of the obligated party on the reference exposure;
(4) Gives the beneficiary a direct claim against the protection provider;
(5) Is not unilaterally cancelable by the protection provider for reasons other than the breach of the contract by the beneficiary;
(6) Except for a guarantee by a sovereign, is legally enforceable against the protection provider in a jurisdiction where the protection provider has sufficient assets against which a judgment may be attached and enforced;
(7) Requires the protection provider to make payment to the beneficiary on the occurrence of a default (as defined in the guarantee) of the obligated party on the reference exposure in a timely manner without the beneficiary first having to take legal actions to pursue the obligor for payment;
(8) Does not increase the beneficiary's cost of credit protection on the guarantee in response to deterioration in the credit quality of the reference exposure;
(9) Is not provided by an affiliate of the Board-regulated institution, unless the affiliate is an insured depository institution, foreign bank, securities broker or dealer, or insurance company that:
(i) Does not control the Board-regulated institution; and
(ii) Is subject to consolidated supervision and regulation comparable to that imposed on depository institutions, U.S. securities broker-dealers, or U.S. insurance companies (as the case may be); and
(10) For purposes of §§ 217.141 through 217.145 and subpart D of this part, is provided by an eligible guarantor.
Eligible guarantor
means:
(1) A sovereign, the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, a Federal Home Loan Bank, Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (Farmer Mac), the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, a multilateral development bank (MDB), a depository institution, a bank holding company, a savings and loan holding company, a credit union, a foreign bank, or a qualifying central counterparty; or
(2) An entity (other than a special purpose entity):
(i) That at the time the guarantee is issued or anytime thereafter, has issued and outstanding an unsecured debt security without credit enhancement that is investment grade;
(ii) Whose creditworthiness is not positively correlated with the credit risk of the exposures for which it has provided guarantees; and
(iii) That is not an insurance company engaged predominately in the business of providing credit protection (such as a monoline bond insurer or re-insurer).
Eligible margin loan
means:
(1) An extension of credit where:
(i) The extension of credit is collateralized exclusively by liquid and
readily marketable debt or equity securities, or gold;
(ii) The collateral is marked-to-fair value daily, and the transaction is subject to daily margin maintenance requirements; and
(iii) The extension of credit is conducted under an agreement that provides the Board-regulated institution the right to accelerate and terminate the extension of credit and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default, including upon an event of receivership, insolvency, liquidation, conservatorship, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty, provided that, in any such case:
(A) Any exercise of rights under the agreement will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions, other than:
(
1
) In receivership, conservatorship, or resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, or under any similar insolvency law applicable to GSEs,
5
or laws of foreign jurisdictions that are substantially similar
6
to the U.S. laws referenced in this paragraph (1)(iii)(A)(
1
) in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of the defaulting counterparty; or
5
This requirement is met where all transactions under the agreement are (i) executed under U.S. law and (ii) constitute “securities contracts” under section 555 of the Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. 555), qualified financial contracts under section 11(e)(8) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, or netting contracts between or among financial institutions under sections 401-407 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act or the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation EE (12 CFR part 231).
6
The Board expects to evaluate jointly with the OCC and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation whether foreign special resolution regimes meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(
2
) Where the agreement is subject by its terms to, or incorporates, any of the laws referenced in paragraph (1)(iii)(A)(
1
) of this definition; and
(B) The agreement may limit the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default of the counterparty to the extent necessary for the counterparty to comply with the requirements of subpart I of the Board's Regulation YY (part 252 of this chapter), part 47 of this title, or part 382 of this title, as applicable.
(2) In order to recognize an exposure as an eligible margin loan for purposes of this subpart, a Board-regulated institution must comply with the requirements of § 217.3(b) with respect to that exposure.
Eligible servicer cash advance facility
means a servicer cash advance facility in which:
(1) The servicer is entitled to full reimbursement of advances, except that a servicer may be obligated to make non-reimbursable advances for a particular underlying exposure if any such advance is contractually limited to an insignificant amount of the outstanding principal balance of that exposure;
(2) The servicer's right to reimbursement is senior in right of payment to all other claims on the cash flows from the underlying exposures of the securitization; and
(3) The servicer has no legal obligation to, and does not make advances to the securitization if the servicer concludes the advances are unlikely to be repaid.
Employee stock ownership plan
has the same meaning as in 29 CFR 2550.407d-6.
Equity derivative contract
means an equity-linked swap, purchased equity-linked option, forward equity-linked contract, or any other instrument linked to equities that gives rise to similar counterparty credit risks.
Equity exposure
means:
(1) A security or instrument (whether voting or non-voting) that represents a direct or an indirect ownership interest in, and is a residual claim on, the assets and income of a company, unless:
(i) The issuing company is consolidated with the Board-regulated institution under GAAP;
(ii) The Board-regulated institution is required to deduct the ownership interest from tier 1 or tier 2 capital under this part;
(iii) The ownership interest incorporates a payment or other similar obligation on the part of the issuing company (such as an obligation to make periodic payments); or
(iv) The ownership interest is a securitization exposure;
(2) A security or instrument that is mandatorily convertible into a security or instrument described in paragraph (1) of this definition;
(3) An option or warrant that is exercisable for a security or instrument described in paragraph (1) of this definition; or
(4) Any other security or instrument (other than a securitization exposure) to the extent the return on the security or instrument is based on the performance of a security or instrument described in paragraph (1) of this definition.
ERISA
means the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
).
Exchange rate derivative contract
means a cross-currency interest rate swap, forward foreign-exchange contract, currency option purchased, or any other instrument linked to exchange rates that gives rise to similar counterparty credit risks.
Excluded covered debt instrument
means an investment in a covered debt instrument held by a global systemically important BHC or a Board-regulated institution that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC that:
(1) Is held in connection with market making-related activities permitted under 12 CFR 248.4, provided that a direct exposure or an indirect exposure to a covered debt instrument is held for 30 business days or less; and
(2) Has been designated as an excluded covered debt instrument by the global systemically important BHC or the subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC pursuant to 12 CFR 217.22(c)(5)(iv)(A).
Executive officer
means a person who holds the title or, without regard to title, salary, or compensation, performs the function of one or more of the following positions: President, chief executive officer, executive chairman, chief operating officer, chief financial officer, chief investment officer, chief legal officer, chief lending officer, chief risk officer, or head of a major business line, and other staff that the board of directors of the Board-regulated institution deems to have equivalent responsibility.
Expected credit loss (ECL)
means:
(1) For a wholesale exposure to a non-defaulted obligor or segment of non-defaulted retail exposures that is carried at fair value with gains and losses flowing through earnings or that is classified as held-for-sale and is carried at the lower of cost or fair value with losses flowing through earnings, zero.
(2) For all other wholesale exposures to non-defaulted obligors or segments of non-defaulted retail exposures, the product of the probability of default (PD) times the loss given default (LGD) times the exposure at default (EAD) for the exposure or segment.
(3) For a wholesale exposure to a defaulted obligor or segment of defaulted retail exposures, the Board-regulated institution's impairment estimate for allowance purposes for the exposure or segment.
(4) Total ECL is the sum of expected credit losses for all wholesale and retail exposures other than exposures for which the Board-regulated institution has applied the double default treatment in § 217.135.
Exposure amount
means:
(1) For the on-balance sheet component of an exposure (other than an available-for-sale or held-to-maturity security, if the Board-regulated institution has made an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in § 217.22(b)(2)); an OTC derivative contract; a repo-style transaction or an eligible margin loan for which the Board-regulated institution determines the exposure amount under § 217.37; a cleared transaction; a default fund contribution; or a securitization exposure), the Board-regulated institution's carrying value of the exposure.
(2) For a security (that is not a securitization exposure, equity exposure, or preferred stock classified as an equity security under GAAP) classified as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity if the Board-regulated institution has made an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in § 217.22(b)(2)), the Board-regulated institution's carrying value (including net accrued but unpaid interest and fees) for the exposure less any net unrealized gains on the exposure and plus any net unrealized losses on the exposure.
(3) For available-for-sale preferred stock classified as an equity security under GAAP if the Board-regulated institution has made an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in § 217.22(b)(2)), the Board-regulated institution's carrying value of the exposure less any net unrealized gains on the exposure that are reflected in such carrying value but excluded from the Board-regulated institution's regulatory capital components.
(4) For the off-balance sheet component of an exposure (other than an OTC derivative contract; a repo-style transaction or an eligible margin loan for which the Board-regulated institution calculates the exposure amount under § 217.37; a cleared transaction; a default fund contribution; or a securitization exposure), the notional amount of the off-balance sheet component multiplied by the appropriate credit conversion factor (CCF) in § 217.33.
(5) For an exposure that is an OTC derivative contract, the exposure amount determined under § 217.34.
(6) For an exposure that is a cleared transaction, the exposure amount determined under § 217.35.
(7) For an exposure that is an eligible margin loan or repo-style transaction for which the bank calculates the exposure amount as provided in § 217.37, the exposure amount determined under § 217.37.
(8) For an exposure that is a securitization exposure, the exposure amount determined under § 217.42.
Federal Deposit Insurance Act
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (12 U.S.C. 4401).
Fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping account
means, for purposes of § 217.10(c)(2)(x), an account administered by a custodial banking organization for which the custodial banking organization provides fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping services, as authorized by applicable Federal or state law.
Financial collateral
means collateral:
(1) In the form of:
(i) Cash on deposit with the Board-regulated institution (including cash held for the Board-regulated institution by a third-party custodian or trustee);
(ii) Gold bullion;
(iii) Long-term debt securities that are not resecuritization exposures and that are investment grade;
(iv) Short-term debt instruments that are not resecuritization exposures and that are investment grade;
(v) Equity securities that are publicly traded;
(vi) Convertible bonds that are publicly traded; or
(vii) Money market fund shares and other mutual fund shares if a price for the shares is publicly quoted daily; and
(2) In which the Board-regulated institution has a perfected, first-priority security interest or, outside of the United States, the legal equivalent thereof, (with the exception of cash on deposit; and notwithstanding the prior security interest of any custodial agent or any priority security interest granted to a CCP in connection with collateral posted to that CCP).
Financial institution
means:
(1) A bank holding company; savings and loan holding company; nonbank financial institution supervised by the Board under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act; depository institution; foreign bank; credit union; industrial loan company, industrial bank, or other similar institution described in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act; national association, state member bank, or state non-member bank that is not a depository institution; insurance company; securities holding company as defined in section 618 of the Dodd-Frank Act; broker or dealer registered with the SEC under section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act; futures commission merchant as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act; swap dealer as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act; or security-based swap dealer as defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act;
(2) Any designated financial market utility, as defined in section 803 of the Dodd-Frank Act;
(3) Any entity not domiciled in the United States (or a political subdivision thereof) that is supervised and
regulated in a manner similar to entities described in paragraphs (1) or (2) of this definition; or
(4) Any other company:
(i) Of which the Board-regulated institution owns:
(A) An investment in GAAP equity instruments of the company with an adjusted carrying value or exposure amount equal to or greater than $10 million; or
(B) More than 10 percent of the company's issued and outstanding common shares (or similar equity interest), and
(ii) Which is predominantly engaged in the following activities:
(A) Lending money, securities or other financial instruments, including servicing loans;
(B) Insuring, guaranteeing, indemnifying against loss, harm, damage, illness, disability, or death, or issuing annuities;
(C) Underwriting, dealing in, making a market in, or investing as principal in securities or other financial instruments; or
(D) Asset management activities (not including investment or financial advisory activities).
(5) For the purposes of this definition, a company is “predominantly engaged” in an activity or activities if:
(i) 85 percent or more of the total consolidated annual gross revenues (as determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards) of the company is either of the two most recent calendar years were derived, directly or indirectly, by the company on a consolidated basis from the activities; or
(ii) 85 percent or more of the company's consolidated total assets (as determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards) as of the end of either of the two most recent calendar years were related to the activities.
(6) Any other company that the Board may determine is a financial institution based on activities similar in scope, nature, or operation to those of the entities included in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition.
(7) For purposes of this part, “financial institution” does not include the following entities:
(i) GSEs;
(ii) Small business investment companies, as defined in section 102 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662);
(iii) Entities designated as Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) under 12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
and 12 CFR part 1805;
(iv) Entities registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1) or foreign equivalents thereof;
(v) Entities to the extent that the Board-regulated institution's investment in such entities would qualify as a community development investment under section 24 (Eleventh) of the National Bank Act; and
(vi) An employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of ERISA, a “governmental plan” (as defined in 29 U.S.C. 1002(32)) that complies with the tax deferral qualification requirements provided in the Internal Revenue Code, or any similar employee benefit plan established under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction.
First-lien residential mortgage exposure
means a residential mortgage exposure secured by a first lien.
Foreign bank
means a foreign bank as defined in § 211.2 of the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.2) (other than a depository institution).
Forward agreement
means a legally binding contractual obligation to purchase assets with certain drawdown at a specified future date, not including commitments to make residential mortgage loans or forward foreign exchange contracts.
FR Y-9LP
means the Parent Company Only Financial Statements for Large Holding Companies.
FR Y-15
means the Systemic Risk Report.
GAAP
means generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States.
Gain-on-sale
means an increase in the equity capital of a Board-regulated institution (as reported on [Schedule RC of the Call Report or Schedule HC of the FR Y-9C]) resulting from a traditional securitization (other than an increase in equity capital resulting from the Board-regulated institution's receipt of cash in connection with the securitization or reporting of a mortgage servicing asset on [Schedule RC of
the Call Report or Schedule HC of the FRY-9C]).
General obligation
means a bond or similar obligation that is backed by the full faith and credit of a public sector entity (PSE).
Global systemically important BHC
means a bank holding company that is identified as a global systemically important BHC pursuant to § 217.402.
Government-sponsored enterprise
(GSE) means an entity established or chartered by the U.S. government to serve public purposes specified by the U.S. Congress but whose debt obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.
GSIB surcharge
means the capital surcharge applicable to a global systemically important BHC calculated pursuant to § 217.403.
Guarantee
means a financial guarantee, letter of credit, insurance, or other similar financial instrument (other than a credit derivative) that allows one party (beneficiary) to transfer the credit risk of one or more specific exposures (reference exposure) to another party (protection provider).
High volatility commercial real estate (HVCRE) exposure
means:
(1) A credit facility secured by land or improved real property that, prior to being reclassified by the Board-regulated institution as a non-HVCRE exposure pursuant to paragraph (6) of this definition—
(i) Primarily finances, has financed, or refinances the acquisition, development, or construction of real property;
(ii) Has the purpose of providing financing to acquire, develop, or improve such real property into income-producing real property; and
(iii) Is dependent upon future income or sales proceeds from, or refinancing of, such real property for the repayment of such credit facility.
(2) An HVCRE exposure does not include a credit facility financing—
(i) The acquisition, development, or construction of properties that are—
(A) One- to four-family residential properties. Credit facilities that do not finance the construction of one- to four-family residential structures, but instead solely finance improvements such as the laying of sewers, water pipes, and similar improvements to land, do not qualify for the one- to four-family residential properties exclusion;
(B) Real property that would qualify as an investment in community development; or
(C) Agricultural land;
(ii) The acquisition or refinance of existing income-producing real property secured by a mortgage on such property, if the cash flow being generated by the real property is sufficient to support the debt service and expenses of the real property, in accordance with the Board-regulated institution's applicable loan underwriting criteria for permanent financings;
(iii) Improvements to existing income-producing improved real property secured by a mortgage on such property, if the cash flow being generated by the real property is sufficient to support the debt service and expenses of the real property, in accordance with the Board-regulated institution's applicable loan underwriting criteria for permanent financings; or
(iv) Commercial real property projects in which—
(A) The loan-to-value ratio is less than or equal to the applicable maximum supervisory loan-to-value ratio as determined by the Board;
(B) The borrower has contributed capital of at least 15 percent of the real property's appraised, `as completed' value to the project in the form of—
(
1
) Cash;
(
2
) Unencumbered readily marketable assets;
(
3
) Paid development expenses out-of-pocket; or
(
4
) Contributed real property or improvements; and
(C) The borrower contributed the minimum amount of capital described under paragraph (2)(iv)(B) of this definition before the Board-regulated institution advances funds (other than the advance of a nominal sum made in order to secure the Board-regulated institution's lien against the real property) under the credit facility, and such minimum amount of capital contributed by the borrower is contractually required to remain in the project until the HVCRE exposure has
been reclassified by the Board-regulated institution as a non-HVCRE exposure under paragraph (6) of this definition;
(3) An HVCRE exposure does not include any loan made prior to January 1, 2015;
(4) An HVCRE exposure does not include a credit facility reclassified as a non-HVCRE exposure under paragraph (6) of this definition.
(5) Value of contributed real property: For the purposes of this definition of HVCRE exposure, the value of any real property contributed by a borrower as a capital contribution is the appraised value of the property as determined under standards prescribed pursuant to section 1110 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3339), in connection with the extension of the credit facility or loan to such borrower.
(6) Reclassification as a non-HVCRE exposure: For purposes of this definition of HVCRE exposure and with respect to a credit facility and a Board-regulated institution, a Board-regulated institution may reclassify an HVCRE exposure as a non-HVCRE exposure upon—
(i) The substantial completion of the development or construction of the real property being financed by the credit facility; and
(ii) Cash flow being generated by the real property being sufficient to support the debt service and expenses of the real property, in accordance with the Board-regulated institution's applicable loan underwriting criteria for permanent financings.
(7) For purposes of this definition, a Board-regulated institution is not required to reclassify a credit facility that was originated on or after January 1, 2015 and prior to April 1, 2020.
Home country
means the country where an entity is incorporated, chartered, or similarly established.
Independent collateral
means financial collateral, other than variation margin, that is subject to a collateral agreement, or in which a Board-regulated institution has a perfected, first-priority security interest or, outside of the United States, the legal equivalent thereof (with the exception of cash on deposit; notwithstanding the prior security interest of any custodial agent or any prior security interest granted to a CCP in connection with collateral posted to that CCP), and the amount of which does not change directly in response to the value of the derivative contract or contracts that the financial collateral secures.
Indirect exposure
means an exposure that arises from the Board-regulated institution's investment in an investment fund which holds an investment in the Board-regulated institution's own capital instrument or an investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution. For an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, indirect exposure also includes an investment in an investment fund that holds a covered debt instrument.
Insurance bank holding company
means:
(1)(i) A bank holding company that is an insurance underwriting company; or
(ii) A bank holding company that, as of June 30 of the previous calendar year, held 25 percent or more of its total consolidated assets in subsidiaries that are insurance underwriting companies (other than assets associated with insurance underwriting for credit risk).
(2) For purposes of this definition, the company must calculate its total consolidated assets in accordance with GAAP, or if the company does not calculate its total consolidated assets under GAAP for any regulatory purpose (including compliance with applicable securities laws), the company may estimate its total consolidated assets, subject to review and adjustment by the Board.
Insurance company
means an insurance company as defined in section 201 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5381).
Insurance mid-tier holding company
means a bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company, domiciled in the United States that:
(1) Is a subsidiary of:
(i) An insurance bank holding company to which subpart J of this part applies; or
(ii) An insurance savings and loan holding company to which subpart J of this part applies; and
(2) Is not an insurance underwriting company that is subject to state law capital requirements.
Insurance savings and loan holding company
means:
(1)(i) A top-tier savings and loan holding company that is an insurance underwriting company; or
(ii) A top-tier savings and loan holding company that, as of June 30 of the previous calendar year, held 25 percent or more of its total consolidated assets in subsidiaries that are insurance underwriting companies (other than assets associated with insurance underwriting for credit risk).
(2) For purposes of this definition, the company must calculate its total consolidated assets in accordance with GAAP, or if the company does not calculate its total consolidated assets under GAAP for any regulatory purpose (including compliance with applicable securities laws), the company may estimate its total consolidated assets, subject to review and adjustment by the Board.
Insurance underwriting company
means an insurance company as defined in section 201 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5381) that engages in insurance underwriting activities.
Insured depository institution
means an insured depository institution as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
Interest rate derivative contract
means a single-currency interest rate swap, basis swap, forward rate agreement, purchased interest rate option, when-issued securities, or any other instrument linked to interest rates that gives rise to similar counterparty credit risks.
International Lending Supervision Act
means the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (12 U.S.C. 3901
et seq.
).
Investing bank
means, with respect to a securitization, a Board-regulated institution that assumes the credit risk of a securitization exposure (other than an originating Board-regulated institution of the securitization). In the typical synthetic securitization, the investing Board-regulated institution sells credit protection on a pool of underlying exposures to the originating Board-regulated institution.
Investment fund
means a company:
(1) Where all or substantially all of the assets of the company are financial assets; and
(2) That has no material liabilities.
Investment grade
means that the entity to which the Board-regulated institution is exposed through a loan or security, or the reference entity with respect to a credit derivative, has adequate capacity to meet financial commitments for the projected life of the asset or exposure. Such an entity or reference entity has adequate capacity to meet financial commitments if the risk of its default is low and the full and timely repayment of principal and interest is expected.
Investment in a covered debt instrument
means a Board-regulated institution's net long position calculated in accordance with § 217.22(h) in a covered debt instrument, including direct, indirect, and synthetic exposures to the debt instrument, excluding any underwriting positions held by the Board-regulated institution for five or fewer business days.
Investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution
means a net long position calculated in accordance with § 217.22(h) in an instrument that is recognized as capital for regulatory purposes by the primary supervisor of an unconsolidated regulated financial institution or is an instrument that is part of the GAAP equity of an unconsolidated unregulated financial institution, including direct, indirect, and synthetic exposures to capital instruments, excluding underwriting positions held by the Board-regulated institution for five or fewer business days.
Investment in the Board-regulated institution's own capital instrument
means a net long position calculated in accordance with § 217.22(h) in the Board-regulated institution's own common stock instrument, own additional tier 1 capital instrument or own tier 2 capital instrument, including direct, indirect, or synthetic exposures to such capital instruments. An investment in the Board-regulated institution's own capital instrument includes any contractual obligation to purchase such capital instrument.
Junior-lien residential mortgage exposure
means a residential mortgage exposure that is not a first-lien residential mortgage exposure.
Main index
means the Standard
Poor's 500 Index, the FTSE All-World Index, and any other index for which the Board-regulated institution can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board that the equities represented in the index have comparable liquidity, depth of market, and size of bid-ask spreads as equities in the Standard
Poor's 500 Index and FTSE All-World Index.
Market risk Board-regulated institution
means a Board-regulated institution that is described in § 217.201(b).
Minimum transfer amount
means the smallest amount of variation margin that may be transferred between counterparties to a netting set pursuant to the variation margin agreement.
Money market fund
means an investment fund that is subject to 17 CFR 270.2a-7 or any foreign equivalent thereof.
Mortgage servicing assets (MSAs)
means the contractual rights owned by a Board-regulated institution to service for a fee mortgage loans that are owned by others.
Multilateral development bank (MDB)
means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank, and any other multilateral lending institution or regional development bank in which the U.S. government is a shareholder or contributing member or which the Board determines poses comparable credit risk.
National Bank Act
means the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 24).
Net independent collateral amount
means the fair value amount of the independent collateral, as adjusted by the standard supervisory haircuts under § 217.132(b)(2)(ii), as applicable, that a counterparty to a netting set has posted to a Board-regulated institution less the fair value amount of the independent collateral, as adjusted by the standard supervisory haircuts under § 217.132(b)(2)(ii), as applicable, posted by the Board-regulated institution to the counterparty, excluding such amounts held in a bankruptcy remote manner or posted to a QCCP and held in conformance with the operational requirements in § 217.3.
Netting set
means a group of transactions with a single counterparty that are subject to a qualifying master netting agreement. For derivative contracts, netting set also includes a single derivative contract between a Board-regulated institution and a single counterparty. For purposes of the internal model methodology under § 217.132(d), netting set also includes a group of transactions with a single counterparty that are subject to a qualifying cross-product master netting agreement and does not include a transaction:
(1) That is not subject to such a master netting agreement; or
(2) Where the Board-regulated institution has identified specific wrong-way risk.
Non-guaranteed separate account
means a separate account where the insurance company:
(1) Does not contractually guarantee either a minimum return or account value to the contract holder; and
(2) Is not required to hold reserves (in the general account) pursuant to its contractual obligations to a policyholder.
Non-significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution
means an investment by an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution where the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution owns 10 percent or less of the issued and outstanding common stock of the unconsolidated financial institution.
N
th
-to-default credit derivative
means a credit derivative that provides credit protection only for the n
th
-defaulting reference exposure in a group of reference exposures.
Operating entity
means a company established to conduct business with clients with the intention of earning a profit in its own right.
Original maturity
with respect to an off-balance sheet commitment means the length of time between the date a commitment is issued and:
(1) For a commitment that is not subject to extension or renewal, the stated expiration date of the commitment; or
(2) For a commitment that is subject to extension or renewal, the earliest date on which the Board-regulated institution can, at its option, unconditionally cancel the commitment.
Originating Board-regulated institution,
with respect to a securitization, means a Board-regulated institution that:
(1) Directly or indirectly originated or securitized the underlying exposures included in the securitization; or
(2) Serves as an ABCP program sponsor to the securitization.
Over-the-counter (OTC) derivative contract
means a derivative contract that is not a cleared transaction. An OTC derivative includes a transaction:
(1) Between a Board-regulated institution that is a clearing member and a counterparty where the Board-regulated institution is acting as a financial intermediary and enters into a cleared transaction with a CCP that offsets the transaction with the counterparty; or
(2) In which a Board-regulated institution that is a clearing member provides a CCP a guarantee on the performance of the counterparty to the transaction.
Performance standby letter of credit (or performance bond)
means an irrevocable obligation of a Board-regulated institution to pay a third-party beneficiary when a customer (account party) fails to perform on any contractual nonfinancial or commercial obligation. To the extent permitted by law or regulation, performance standby letters of credit include arrangements backing, among other things, subcontractors' and suppliers' performance, labor and materials contracts, and construction bids.
Policy loan
means a loan by an insurance company to a policy holder pursuant to the provisions of an insurance contract that is secured by the cash surrender value or collateral assignment of the related policy or contract. A policy loan includes:
(1) A cash loan, including a loan resulting from early payment benefits or accelerated payment benefits, on an insurance contract when the terms of contract specify that the payment is a policy loan secured by the policy; and
(2) An automatic premium loan, which is a loan that is made in accordance with policy provisions which provide that delinquent premium payments are automatically paid from the cash value at the end of the established grace period for premium payments.
Pre-sold construction loan
means any one-to-four family residential construction loan to a builder that meets the requirements of section 618(a)(1) or (2) of the Resolution Trust Corporation Refinancing, Restructuring, and Improvement Act of 1991 (12 U.S.C. 1831n note) and the following criteria:
(1) The loan is made in accordance with prudent underwriting standards, meaning that the Board-regulated institution has obtained sufficient documentation that the buyer of the home has a legally binding written sales contract and has a firm written commitment for permanent financing of the home upon completion;
(2) The purchaser is an individual(s) that intends to occupy the residence and is not a partnership, joint venture, trust, corporation, or any other entity (including an entity acting as a sole proprietorship) that is purchasing one or more of the residences for speculative purposes;
(3) The purchaser has entered into a legally binding written sales contract for the residence;
(4) The purchaser has not terminated the contract; however, if the purchaser terminates the sales contract, the Board must immediately apply a 100 percent risk weight to the loan and report the revised risk weight in the next quarterly Call Report, for a state member bank, or the FR Y-9C, for a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, as applicable,
(5) The purchaser has made a substantial earnest money deposit of no less than 3 percent of the sales price, which is subject to forfeiture if the
purchaser terminates the sales contract; provided that, the earnest money deposit shall not be subject to forfeiture by reason of breach or termination of the sales contract on the part of the builder;
(6) The earnest money deposit must be held in escrow by the Board-regulated institution or an independent party in a fiduciary capacity, and the escrow agreement must provide that in an event of default arising from the cancellation of the sales contract by the purchaser of the residence, the escrow funds shall be used to defray any cost incurred by the Board-regulated institution;
(7) The builder must incur at least the first 10 percent of the direct costs of construction of the residence (that is, actual costs of the land, labor, and material) before any drawdown is made under the loan;
(8) The loan may not exceed 80 percent of the sales price of the presold residence; and
(9) The loan is not more than 90 days past due, or on nonaccrual.
Protection amount (P)
means, with respect to an exposure hedged by an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative, the effective notional amount of the guarantee or credit derivative, reduced to reflect any currency mismatch, maturity mismatch, or lack of restructuring coverage (as provided in §§ 217.36 or 217.134, as appropriate).
Publicly-traded
means traded on:
(1) Any exchange registered with the SEC as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act; or
(2) Any non-U.S.-based securities exchange that:
(i) Is registered with, or approved by, a national securities regulatory authority; and
(ii) Provides a liquid, two-way market for the instrument in question.
Public sector entity (PSE)
means a state, local authority, or other governmental subdivision below the sovereign level.
Qualifying central bank
means:
(1) A Federal Reserve Bank;
(2) The European Central Bank; and
(3) The central bank of any member country of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, if:
(i) Sovereign exposures to the member country would receive a zero percent risk-weight under § 217.32; and
(ii) The sovereign debt of the member country is not in default or has not been in default during the previous 5 years.
Qualifying central counterparty (QCCP)
means a central counterparty that:
(1)(i) Is a designated financial market utility (FMU) under Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Act;
(ii) If not located in the United States, is regulated and supervised in a manner equivalent to a designated FMU; or
(iii) Meets the following standards:
(A) The central counterparty requires all parties to contracts cleared by the counterparty to be fully collateralized on a daily basis;
(B) The Board-regulated institution demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Board that the central counterparty:
(
1
) Is in sound financial condition;
(
2
) Is subject to supervision by the Board, the CFTC, or the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), or, if the central counterparty is not located in the United States, is subject to effective oversight by a national supervisory authority in its home country; and
(
3
) Meets or exceeds the risk-management standards for central counterparties set forth in regulations established by the Board, the CFTC, or the SEC under Title VII or Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Act; or if the central counterparty is not located in the United States, meets or exceeds similar risk-management standards established under the law of its home country that are consistent with international standards for central counterparty risk management as established by the relevant standard setting body of the Bank of International Settlements; and
(2)(i) Provides the Board-regulated institution with the central counterparty's hypothetical capital requirement or the information necessary to calculate such hypothetical capital requirement, and other information the Board-regulated institution is required
to obtain under §§ 217.35(d)(3) and 217.133(d)(3);
(ii) Makes available to the Board and the CCP's regulator the information described in paragraph (2)(i) of this definition; and
(iii) Has not otherwise been determined by the Board to not be a QCCP due to its financial condition, risk profile, failure to meet supervisory risk management standards, or other weaknesses or supervisory concerns that are inconsistent with the risk weight assigned to qualifying central counterparties under §§ 217.35 and 217.133.
(3) Exception. A QCCP that fails to meet the requirements of a QCCP in the future may still be treated as a QCCP under the conditions specified in § 217.3(f).
Qualifying master netting agreement
means a written, legally enforceable agreement provided that:
(1) The agreement creates a single legal obligation for all individual transactions covered by the agreement upon an event of default following any stay permitted by paragraph (2) of this definition, including upon an event of receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty;
(2) The agreement provides the Board-regulated institution the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default, including upon an event of receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty, provided that, in any such case:
(i) Any exercise of rights under the agreement will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions, other than:
(A) In receivership, conservatorship, or resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, or under any similar insolvency law applicable to GSEs, or laws of foreign jurisdictions that are substantially similar
7
to the U.S. laws referenced in this paragraph (2)(i)(A) in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of the defaulting counterparty; or
7
The Board expects to evaluate jointly with the OCC and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation whether foreign special resolution regimes meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(B) Where the agreement is subject by its terms to, or incorporates, any of the laws referenced in paragraph (2)(i)(A) of this definition; and
(ii) The agreement may limit the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default of the counterparty to the extent necessary for the counterparty to comply with the requirements of subpart I of the Board's Regulation YY (part 252 of this chapter), part 47 of this title, or part 382 of this title, as applicable;
Regulated financial institution
means a financial institution subject to consolidated supervision and regulation comparable to that imposed on the following U.S. financial institutions: Depository institutions, depository institution holding companies, nonbank financial companies supervised by the Board, designated financial market utilities, securities broker-dealers, credit unions, or insurance companies.
Regulated foreign subsidiary and regulated foreign affiliate
means a person described in section 171(a)(6) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5371(a)(6)) and any subsidiary of such a person other than a state-regulated insurer.
Repo-style transaction
means a repurchase or reverse repurchase transaction, or a securities borrowing or securities lending transaction, including a transaction in which the Board-regulated institution acts as agent for a customer and indemnifies the customer against loss, provided that:
(1) The transaction is based solely on liquid and readily marketable securities, cash, or gold;
(2) The transaction is marked-to-fair value daily and subject to daily margin maintenance requirements;
(3)(i) The transaction is a “securities contract” or “repurchase agreement” under section 555 or 559, respectively, of the Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. 555 or 559), a qualified financial contract under section 11(e)(8) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, or a netting contract between or among financial institutions under sections 401-407 of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act or the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation EE (12 CFR part 231); or
(ii) If the transaction does not meet the criteria set forth in paragraph (3)(i) of this definition, then either:
(A) The transaction is executed under an agreement that provides the Board-regulated institution the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out the transaction on a net basis and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default, including upon an event of receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty, provided that, in any such case:
(
1
) Any exercise of rights under the agreement will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions, other than:
(
i
) In receivership, conservatorship, or resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, or under any similar insolvency law applicable to GSEs, or laws of foreign jurisdictions that are substantially similar
8
to the U.S. laws referenced in this paragraph (3)(ii)(A)(
1
)(
i
) in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of the defaulting counterparty;
8
The Board expects to evaluate jointly with the OCC and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation whether foreign special resolution regimes meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(
ii
) Where the agreement is subject by its terms to, or incorporates, any of the laws referenced in paragraph (3)(ii)(A)(
1
)(
i
) of this definition; and
(
2
) The agreement may limit the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default of the counterparty to the extent necessary for the counterparty to comply with the requirements of subpart I of the Board's Regulation YY (part 252 of this chapter), part 47 of this title, or part 382 of this title, as applicable; or
(B) The transaction is:
(
1
) Either overnight or unconditionally cancelable at any time by the Board-regulated institution; and
(
2
) Executed under an agreement that provides the Board-regulated institution the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out the transaction on a net basis and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of counterparty default; and
(4) In order to recognize an exposure as a repo-style transaction for purposes of this subpart, a Board-regulated institution must comply with the requirements of § 217.3(e) of this part with respect to that exposure.
Resecuritization
means a securitization which has more than one underlying exposure and in which one or more of the underlying exposures is a securitization exposure.
Resecuritization exposure
means:
(1) An on- or off-balance sheet exposure to a resecuritization;
(2) An exposure that directly or indirectly references a resecuritization exposure.
(3) An exposure to an asset-backed commercial paper program is not a resecuritization exposure if either:
(i) The program-wide credit enhancement does not meet the definition of a resecuritization exposure; or
(ii) The entity sponsoring the program fully supports the commercial paper through the provision of liquidity so that the commercial paper holders effectively are exposed to the default risk of the sponsor instead of the underlying exposures.
Residential mortgage exposure
means an exposure (other than a securitization exposure, equity exposure, statutory multifamily mortgage, or presold construction loan):
(1)(i) That is primarily secured by a first or subsequent lien on one-to-four family residential property; or
(ii) With an original and outstanding amount of $1 million or less that is primarily secured by a first or subsequent lien on residential property that is not one-to-four family; and
(2) For purposes of calculating capital requirements under subpart E of this part, managed as part of a segment of exposures with homogeneous risk characteristics and not on an individual-exposure basis.
Revenue obligation
means a bond or similar obligation that is an obligation of a PSE, but which the PSE is committed to repay with revenues from the
specific project financed rather than general tax funds.
Savings and loan holding company
means a savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a).
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Securities Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78).
Securitization exposure
means:
(1) An on-balance sheet or off-balance sheet credit exposure (including credit-enhancing representations and warranties) that arises from a traditional securitization or synthetic securitization (including a resecuritization), or
(2) An exposure that directly or indirectly references a securitization exposure described in paragraph (1) of this definition.
Securitization special purpose entity (securitization SPE)
means a corporation, trust, or other entity organized for the specific purpose of holding underlying exposures of a securitization, the activities of which are limited to those appropriate to accomplish this purpose, and the structure of which is intended to isolate the underlying exposures held by the entity from the credit risk of the seller of the underlying exposures to the entity.
Separate account
means a legally segregated pool of assets owned and held by an insurance company and maintained separately from the insurance company's general account assets for the benefit of an individual contract holder. To be a separate account:
(1) The account must be legally recognized as a separate account under applicable law;
(2) The assets in the account must be insulated from general liabilities of the insurance company under applicable law in the event of the insurance company's insolvency;
(3) The insurance company must invest the funds within the account as directed by the contract holder in designated investment alternatives or in accordance with specific investment objectives or policies; and
(4) All investment gains and losses, net of contract fees and assessments, must be passed through to the contract holder, provided that the contract may specify conditions under which there may be a minimum guarantee but must not include contract terms that limit the maximum investment return available to the policyholder.
Servicer cash advance facility
means a facility under which the servicer of the underlying exposures of a securitization may advance cash to ensure an uninterrupted flow of payments to investors in the securitization, including advances made to cover foreclosure costs or other expenses to facilitate the timely collection of the underlying exposures.
Significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution
means an investment by an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution where the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution owns more than 10 percent of the issued and outstanding common stock of the unconsolidated financial institution.
Small Business Act
means the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
Small Business Investment Act
means the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 682).
Sovereign
means a central government (including the U.S. government) or an agency, department, ministry, or central bank of a central government.
Sovereign default
means noncompliance by a sovereign with its external debt service obligations or the inability or unwillingness of a sovereign government to service an existing loan according to its original terms, as evidenced by failure to pay principal and interest timely and fully, arrearages, or restructuring.
Sovereign exposure
means:
(1) A direct exposure to a sovereign; or
(2) An exposure directly and unconditionally backed by the full faith and credit of a sovereign.
Specific wrong-way risk
means wrong-way risk that arises when either:
(1) The counterparty and issuer of the collateral supporting the transaction; or
(2) The counterparty and the reference asset of the transaction, are affiliates or are the same entity.
Speculative grade
means the reference entity has adequate capacity to meet financial commitments in the near term, but is vulnerable to adverse economic conditions, such that should economic conditions deteriorate, the reference entity would present an elevated default risk.
Standardized market risk-weighted assets
means the standardized measure for market risk calculated under § 217.204 multiplied by 12.5.
Standardized total risk-weighted assets
means:
(1) The sum of:
(i) Total risk-weighted assets for general credit risk as calculated under § 217.31;
(ii) Total risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions and default fund contributions as calculated under § 217.35;
(iii) Total risk-weighted assets for unsettled transactions as calculated under § 217.38;
(iv) Total risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures as calculated under § 217.42;
(v) Total risk-weighted assets for equity exposures as calculated under §§ 217.52 and 217.53; and
(vi) For a market risk Board-regulated institution only, standardized market risk-weighted assets; minus
(2) Any amount of the Board-regulated institution's allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable, that is not included in tier 2 capital and any amount of “allocated transfer risk reserves.”
State bank
means any bank incorporated by special law of any State, or organized under the general laws of any State, or of the United States, including a Morris Plan bank, or other incorporated banking institution engaged in a similar business.
State member bank or member bank
means a state bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System.
State-regulated insurer
means a person regulated by a state insurance regulator as defined in section 1002(22) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5481(22)), and any subsidiary of such a person, other than a regulated foreign subsidiary and regulated foreign affiliate.
Statutory multifamily mortgage
means a loan secured by a multifamily residential property that meets the requirements under section 618(b)(1) of the Resolution Trust Corporation Refinancing, Restructuring, and Improvement Act of 1991, and that meets the following criteria:
9
9
The types of loans that qualify as loans secured by multifamily residential properties are listed in the instructions for preparation of the Call Report, for a state member bank, or FR Y-9C, for a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, as applicable.
(1) The loan is made in accordance with prudent underwriting standards;
(2) The principal amount of the loan at origination does not exceed 80 percent of the value of the property (or 75 percent of the value of the property if the loan is based on an interest rate that changes over the term of the loan) where the value of the property is the lower of the acquisition cost of the property or the appraised (or, if appropriate, evaluated) value of the property;
(3) All principal and interest payments on the loan must have been made on a timely basis in accordance with the terms of the loan for at least one year prior to applying a 50 percent risk weight to the loan, or in the case where an existing owner is refinancing a loan on the property, all principal and interest payments on the loan being refinanced must have been made on a timely basis in accordance with the terms of the loan for at least one year prior to applying a 50 percent risk weight to the loan;
(4) Amortization of principal and interest on the loan must occur over a period of not more than 30 years and the minimum original maturity for repayment of principal must not be less than 7 years;
(5) Annual net operating income (before making any payment on the loan) generated by the property securing the loan during its most recent fiscal year must not be less than 120 percent of the loan's current annual debt service (or 115 percent of current annual debt service if the loan is based on an interest rate that changes over the term of the
loan) or, in the case of a cooperative or other not-for-profit housing project, the property must generate sufficient cash flow to provide comparable protection to the Board-regulated institution; and
(6) The loan is not more than 90 days past due, or on nonaccrual.
Sub-speculative grade
means the reference entity depends on favorable economic conditions to meet its financial commitments, such that should such economic conditions deteriorate the reference entity likely would default on its financial commitments.
Subsidiary
means, with respect to a company, a company controlled by that company.
Synthetic exposure
means an exposure whose value is linked to the value of an investment in the Board-regulated institution's own capital instrument or to the value of an investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution. For an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, synthetic exposure includes an exposure whose value is linked to the value of an investment in a covered debt instrument.
Synthetic securitization
means a transaction in which:
(1) All or a portion of the credit risk of one or more underlying exposures is retained or transferred to one or more third parties through the use of one or more credit derivatives or guarantees (other than a guarantee that transfers only the credit risk of an individual retail exposure);
(2) The credit risk associated with the underlying exposures has been separated into at least two tranches reflecting different levels of seniority;
(3) Performance of the securitization exposures depends upon the performance of the underlying exposures; and
(4) All or substantially all of the underlying exposures are financial exposures (such as loans, commitments, credit derivatives, guarantees, receivables, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, other debt securities, or equity securities).
Tier 1 capital
means the sum of common equity tier 1 capital and additional tier 1 capital.
Tier 1 minority interest
means the tier 1 capital of a consolidated subsidiary of a Board-regulated institution that is not owned by the Board-regulated institution.
Tier 2 capital
is defined in § 217.20(d).
Total capital
means the sum of tier 1 capital and tier 2 capital.
Total capital minority interest
means the total capital of a consolidated subsidiary of a Board-regulated institution that is not owned by the Board-regulated institution.
Total leverage exposure
is defined in § 217.10(c)(2).
Traditional securitization
means a transaction in which:
(1) All or a portion of the credit risk of one or more underlying exposures is transferred to one or more third parties other than through the use of credit derivatives or guarantees;
(2) The credit risk associated with the underlying exposures has been separated into at least two tranches reflecting different levels of seniority;
(3) Performance of the securitization exposures depends upon the performance of the underlying exposures;
(4) All or substantially all of the underlying exposures are financial exposures (such as loans, commitments, credit derivatives, guarantees, receivables, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, other debt securities, or equity securities);
(5) The underlying exposures are not owned by an operating company;
(6) The underlying exposures are not owned by a small business investment company defined in section 302 of the Small Business Investment Act;
(7) The underlying exposures are not owned by a firm an investment in which qualifies as a community development investment under section 24(Eleventh) of the National Bank Act;
(8) The Board may determine that a transaction in which the underlying exposures are owned by an investment firm that exercises substantially unfettered control over the size and composition of its assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet exposures is not a traditional securitization based on the transaction's leverage, risk profile, or economic substance;
(9) The Board may deem a transaction that meets the definition of a traditional securitization, notwithstanding paragraph (5), (6), or (7) of this
definition, to be a traditional securitization based on the transaction's leverage, risk profile, or economic substance; and
(10) The transaction is not:
(i) An investment fund;
(ii) A collective investment fund (as defined in 12 CFR 208.34);
(iii) An employee benefit plan (as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of ERISA), a “governmental plan” (as defined in 29 U.S.C. 1002(32)) that complies with the tax deferral qualification requirements provided in the Internal Revenue Code, or any similar employee benefit plan established under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction;
(iv) A synthetic exposure to the capital of a financial institution to the extent deducted from capital under § 217.22; or
(v) Registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1) or foreign equivalents thereof.
Tranche
means all securitization exposures associated with a securitization that have the same seniority level.
Two-way market
means a market where there are independent bona fide offers to buy and sell so that a price reasonably related to the last sales price or current bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations can be determined within one day and settled at that price within a relatively short time frame conforming to trade custom.
Unconditionally cancelable
means with respect to a commitment, that a Board-regulated institution may, at any time, with or without cause, refuse to extend credit under the commitment (to the extent permitted under applicable law).
Underlying exposures
means one or more exposures that have been securitized in a securitization transaction.
Unregulated financial institution
means, for purposes of § 217.131, a financial institution that is not a regulated financial institution, including any financial institution that would meet the definition of “financial institution” under this section but for the ownership interest thresholds set forth in paragraph (4)(i) of that definition.
U.S. Government agency
means an instrumentality of the U.S. Government whose obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government.
U.S. intermediate holding company
means the company that is required to be established or designated pursuant to 12 CFR 252.153.
Value-at-Risk (VaR)
means the estimate of the maximum amount that the value of one or more exposures could decline due to market price or rate movements during a fixed holding period within a stated confidence interval.
Variation margin
means financial collateral that is subject to a collateral agreement provided by one party to its counterparty to meet the performance of the first party's obligations under one or more transactions between the parties as a result of a change in value of such obligations since the last time such financial collateral was provided.
Variation margin agreement
means an agreement to collect or post variation margin.
Variation margin amount
means the fair value amount of the variation margin, as adjusted by the standard supervisory haircuts under § 217.132(b)(2)(ii), as applicable, that a counterparty to a netting set has posted to a Board-regulated institution less the fair value amount of the variation margin, as adjusted by the standard supervisory haircuts under § 217.132(b)(2)(ii), as applicable, posted by the Board-regulated institution to the counterparty.
Variation margin threshold
means the amount of credit exposure of a Board-regulated institution to its counterparty that, if exceeded, would require the counterparty to post variation margin to the Board-regulated institution pursuant to the variation margin agreement.
Volatility derivative contract
means a derivative contract in which the payoff of the derivative contract explicitly depends on a measure of the volatility of an underlying risk factor to the derivative contract.
Wrong-way risk
means the risk that arises when an exposure to a particular counterparty is positively correlated with the probability of default of such counterparty itself.
[Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, 62285, Oct. 11, 2013]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 217.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 217.3
Operational requirements for counterparty credit risk.
For purposes of calculating risk-weighted assets under subparts D and E of this part:
(a)
Cleared transaction.
In order to recognize certain exposures as cleared transactions pursuant to paragraphs (1)(ii), (iii) or (iv) of the definition of “cleared transaction” in § 217.2, the exposures must meet the applicable requirements set forth in this paragraph (a).
(1) The offsetting transaction must be identified by the CCP as a transaction for the clearing member client.
(2) The collateral supporting the transaction must be held in a manner that prevents the Board-regulated institution from facing any loss due to an event of default, including from a liquidation, receivership, insolvency, or similar proceeding of either the clearing member or the clearing member's other clients. Omnibus accounts established under 17 CFR parts 190 and 300 satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (a).
(3) The Board-regulated institution must conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintain sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that in the event of a legal challenge (including one resulting from a default or receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding) the relevant court and administrative authorities would find the arrangements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section to be legal, valid, binding and enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdictions.
(4) The offsetting transaction with a clearing member must be transferable under the transaction documents and applicable laws in the relevant jurisdiction(s) to another clearing member should the clearing member default, become insolvent, or enter receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceedings.
(b)
Eligible margin loan.
In order to recognize an exposure as an eligible margin loan as defined in § 217.2, a Board-regulated institution must conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintain sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that the agreement underlying the exposure:
(1) Meets the requirements of paragraph (1)(iii) of the definition of eligible margin loan in § 217.2, and
(2) Is legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions.
(c)
Qualifying cross-product master netting agreement.
In order to recognize an agreement as a qualifying cross-product master netting agreement as defined in § 217.101, a Board-regulated institution must obtain a written legal opinion verifying the validity and enforceability of the agreement under applicable law of the relevant jurisdictions if the counterparty fails to perform upon an event of default, including upon receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding.
(d)
Qualifying master netting agreement.
In order to recognize an agreement as a qualifying master netting agreement as defined in § 217.2, a Board-regulated institution must:
(1) Conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintain sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that:
(i) The agreement meets the requirements of paragraph (2) of the definition of qualifying master netting agreement in § 217.2; and
(ii) In the event of a legal challenge (including one resulting from default or from receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding) the relevant court and administrative authorities would find the agreement to be legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdictions; and
(2) Establish and maintain written procedures to monitor possible changes in relevant law and to ensure that the
agreement continues to satisfy the requirements of the definition of qualifying master netting agreement in § 217.2.
(e)
Repo-style transaction.
In order to recognize an exposure as a repo-style transaction as defined in § 217.2, a Board-regulated institution must conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintain sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that the agreement underlying the exposure:
(1) Meets the requirements of paragraph (3) of the definition of repo-style transaction in § 217.2, and
(2) Is legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions.
(f)
Failure of a QCCP to satisfy the rule's requirements.
If a Board-regulated institution determines that a CCP ceases to be a QCCP due to the failure of the CCP to satisfy one or more of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (2)(i) through (2)(iii) of the definition of a QCCP in § 217.2, the Board-regulated institution may continue to treat the CCP as a QCCP for up to three months following the determination. If the CCP fails to remedy the relevant deficiency within three months after the initial determination, or the CCP fails to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraphs (2)(i) through (2)(iii) of the definition of a QCCP continuously for a three-month period after remedying the relevant deficiency, a Board-regulated institution may not treat the CCP as a QCCP for the purposes of this part until after the Board-regulated institution has determined that the CCP has satisfied the requirements in paragraphs (2)(i) through (2)(iii) of the definition of a QCCP for three continuous months.
§§ 217.4-217.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Capital Ratio Requirements and Buffers
§ 217.10
Minimum capital requirements.
(a)
Minimum capital requirements.
(1) A Board-regulated institution must maintain the following minimum capital ratios:
(i) A common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5 percent.
(ii) A tier 1 capital ratio of 6 percent.
(iii) A total capital ratio of 8 percent.
(iv) A leverage ratio of 4 percent.
(v) For advanced approaches Board-regulated institutions or, for Category III Board-regulated institutions, a supplementary leverage ratio of 3 percent.
(2) A qualifying community banking organization (as defined in § 217.12), that is subject to the community bank leverage ratio framework (as defined § 217.12), is considered to have met the minimum capital requirements in this paragraph (a) of this section.
(b)
Standardized capital ratio calculations.
Other than as provided in paragraph (c) of this section:
(1)
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio.
A Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital ratio is the ratio of the Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital to standardized total risk-weighted assets;
(2)
Tier 1 capital ratio.
A Board-regulated institution's tier 1 capital ratio is the ratio of the Board-regulated institution's tier 1 capital to standardized total risk-weighted assets;
(3)
Total capital ratio.
A Board-regulated institution's total capital ratio is the ratio of the Board-regulated institution's total capital to standardized total risk-weighted assets; and
(4)
Leverage ratio.
A Board-regulated institution's leverage ratio is the ratio of the Board-regulated institution's tier 1 capital to the Board-regulated institution's average total consolidated assets as reported on the Board-regulated institution's Call Report, for a state member bank, or the Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies (FR Y-9C), for a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, as applicable minus amounts deducted from tier 1 capital under § 217.22(a), (c) and (d).
(c)
Supplementary leverage ratio.
(1) A Category III Board-regulated institution or advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must determine its supplementary leverage ratio in accordance with this paragraph, beginning with the calendar quarter immediately following the quarter in which the Board-regulated institution is identified as a Category III Board-regulated
institution. An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution's or a Category III Board-regulated institution's supplementary leverage ratio is the ratio of its tier 1 capital to total leverage exposure, the latter of which is calculated as the sum of:
(i) The mean of the on-balance sheet assets calculated as of each day of the reporting quarter; and
(ii) The mean of the off-balance sheet exposures calculated as of the last day of each of the most recent three months, minus the applicable deductions under § 217.22(a), (c), and (d).
(2) For purposes of this part,
total leverage exposure
means the sum of the items described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section, as adjusted pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this section for a clearing member Board-regulated institution and paragraph (c)(2)(x) of this section for a custodial banking organization:
(i) The balance sheet carrying value of all of the Board-regulated institution's on-balance sheet assets,
plus
the value of securities sold under a repurchase transaction or a securities lending transaction that qualifies for sales treatment under GAAP,
less
amounts deducted from tier 1 capital under § 217.22(a), (c), and (d), and
less
the value of securities received in security-for-security repo-style transactions, where the Board-regulated institution acts as a securities lender and includes the securities received in its on-balance sheet assets but has not sold or re-hypothecated the securities received, and, for a Board-regulated institution that uses the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk under § 217.132(c) for its standardized risk-weighted assets,
less
the fair value of any derivative contracts;
(ii)(A) For a Board-regulated institution that uses the current exposure methodology under § 217.34(b) for its standardized risk-weighted assets, the potential future credit exposure (PFE) for each derivative contract or each single-product netting set of derivative contracts (including a cleared transaction except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this section and, at the discretion of the Board-regulated institution, excluding a forward agreement treated as a derivative contract that is part of a repurchase or reverse repurchase or a securities borrowing or lending transaction that qualifies for sales treatment under GAAP), to which the Board-regulated institution is a counterparty as determined under § 217.34, but without regard to § 217.34(c), provided that:
(
1
) A Board-regulated institution may choose to exclude the PFE of all credit derivatives or other similar instruments through which it provides credit protection when calculating the PFE under § 217.34, but without regard to § 217.34(c), provided that it does not adjust the net-to-gross ratio (NGR); and
(
2
) A Board-regulated institution that chooses to exclude the PFE of credit derivatives or other similar instruments through which it provides credit protection pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section must do so consistently over time for the calculation of the PFE for all such instruments; or
(B)(
1
) For a Board-regulated institution that uses the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk under section § 217.132(c) for its standardized risk-weighted assets, the PFE for each netting set to which the Board-regulated institution is a counterparty (including cleared transactions except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this section and, at the discretion of the Board-regulated institution, excluding a forward agreement treated as a derivative contract that is part of a repurchase or reverse repurchase or a securities borrowing or lending transaction that qualifies for sales treatment under GAAP), as determined under § 217.132(c)(7), in which the term C in § 217.132(c)(7)(i) equals zero, and, for any counterparty that is not a commercial end-user, multiplied by 1.4. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
), a Board-regulated institution may set the value of the term C in § 217.132(c)(7)(i) equal to the amount of collateral posted by a clearing member client of the Board-regulated institution in connection with the client-facing derivative transactions within the netting set; and
(
2
) A Board-regulated institution may choose to exclude the PFE of all
credit derivatives or other similar instruments through which it provides credit protection when calculating the PFE under § 217.132(c), provided that it does so consistently over time for the calculation of the PFE for all such instruments;
(iii)(A)(
1
) For a Board-regulated institution that uses the current exposure methodology under § 217.34(b) for its standardized risk-weighted assets, the amount of cash collateral that is received from a counterparty to a derivative contract and that has offset the mark-to-fair value of the derivative asset, or cash collateral that is posted to a counterparty to a derivative contract and that has reduced the Board-regulated institution's on-balance sheet assets, unless such cash collateral is all or part of variation margin that satisfies the conditions in paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(C) through (G) of this section; and
(
2
) The variation margin is used to reduce the current credit exposure of the derivative contract, calculated as described in § 217.34(b), and not the PFE; and
(
3
) For the purpose of the calculation of the NGR described in § 217.34(b)(2)(ii)(B), variation margin described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A)(
2
) of this section may not reduce the net current credit exposure or the gross current credit exposure; or
(B)(
1
) For a Board-regulated institution that uses the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk under § 217.132(c) for its standardized risk-weighted assets, the replacement cost of each derivative contract or single product netting set of derivative contracts to which the Board-regulated institution is a counterparty, calculated according to the following formula, and, for any counterparty that is not a commercial end-user, multiplied by 1.4:
Replacement Cost
= max{
V
−
CVM
r
+
CVM
p
;0}
Where:
V
equals the fair value for each derivative contract or each single-product netting set of derivative contracts (including a cleared transaction except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this section and, at the discretion of the Board-regulated institution, excluding a forward agreement treated as a derivative contract that is part of a repurchase or reverse repurchase or a securities borrowing or lending transaction that qualifies for sales treatment under GAAP);
CVM
r
equals the amount of cash collateral received from a counterparty to a derivative contract and that satisfies the conditions in paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(C) through (G) of this section, or, in the case of a client-facing derivative transaction, the amount of collateral received from the clearing member client; and
CVM
p
equals the amount of cash collateral that is posted to a counterparty to a derivative contract and that has not offset the fair value of the derivative contract and that satisfies the conditions in paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(C) through (G) of this section, or, in the case of a client-facing derivative transaction, the amount of collateral posted to the clearing member client;
(
2
) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B)(
1
) of this section, where multiple netting sets are subject to a single variation margin agreement, a Board-regulated institution must apply the formula for replacement cost provided in § 217.132(c)(10)(i), in which the term C
MA
may only include cash collateral that satisfies the conditions in paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(C) through (G) of this section; and
(
3
) For purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B)(
1
), a Board-regulated institution must treat a derivative contract that references an index as if it were multiple derivative contracts each referencing one component of the index if the Board-regulated institution elected to treat the derivative contract as multiple derivative contracts under § 217.132(c)(5)(vi);
(C) For derivative contracts that are not cleared through a QCCP, the cash collateral received by the recipient counterparty is not segregated (by law, regulation, or an agreement with the counterparty);
(D) Variation margin is calculated and transferred on a daily basis based on the mark-to-fair value of the derivative contract;
(E) The variation margin transferred under the derivative contract or the governing rules of the CCP or QCCP for a cleared transaction is the full amount that is necessary to fully extinguish the net current credit exposure to the counterparty of the derivative contracts, subject to the threshold and minimum transfer amounts applicable to the counterparty under the
terms of the derivative contract or the governing rules for a cleared transaction;
(F) The variation margin is in the form of cash in the same currency as the currency of settlement set forth in the derivative contract, provided that for the purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(F), currency of settlement means any currency for settlement specified in the governing qualifying master netting agreement and the credit support annex to the qualifying master netting agreement, or in the governing rules for a cleared transaction; and
(G) The derivative contract and the variation margin are governed by a qualifying master netting agreement between the legal entities that are the counterparties to the derivative contract or by the governing rules for a cleared transaction, and the qualifying master netting agreement or the governing rules for a cleared transaction must explicitly stipulate that the counterparties agree to settle any payment obligations on a net basis, taking into account any variation margin received or provided under the contract if a credit event involving either counterparty occurs;
(iv) The effective notional principal amount (that is, the apparent or stated notional principal amount multiplied by any multiplier in the derivative contract) of a credit derivative, or other similar instrument, through which the Board-regulated institution provides credit protection, provided that:
(A) The Board-regulated institution may reduce the effective notional principal amount of the credit derivative by the amount of any reduction in the mark-to-fair value of the credit derivative if the reduction is recognized in common equity tier 1 capital;
(B) The Board-regulated institution may reduce the effective notional principal amount of the credit derivative by the effective notional principal amount of a purchased credit derivative or other similar instrument, provided that the remaining maturity of the purchased credit derivative is equal to or greater than the remaining maturity of the credit derivative through which the Board-regulated institution provides credit protection and that:
(
1
) With respect to a credit derivative that references a single exposure, the reference exposure of the purchased credit derivative is to the same legal entity and ranks
pari passu
with, or is junior to, the reference exposure of the credit derivative through which the Board-regulated institution provides credit protection; or
(
2
) With respect to a credit derivative that references multiple exposures, the reference exposures of the purchased credit derivative are to the same legal entities and rank
pari passu
with the reference exposures of the credit derivative through which the Board-regulated institution provides credit protection, and the level of seniority of the purchased credit derivative ranks
pari passu
to the level of seniority of the credit derivative through which the Board-regulated institution provides credit protection;
(
3
) Where a Board-regulated institution has reduced the effective notional amount of a credit derivative through which the Board-regulated institution provides credit protection in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, the Board-regulated institution must also reduce the effective notional principal amount of a purchased credit derivative used to offset the credit derivative through which the Board-regulated institution provides credit protection, by the amount of any increase in the mark-to-fair value of the purchased credit derivative that is recognized in common equity tier 1 capital; and
(
4
) Where the Board-regulated institution purchases credit protection through a total return swap and records the net payments received on a credit derivative through which the Board-regulated institution provides credit protection in net income, but does not record offsetting deterioration in the mark-to-fair value of the credit derivative through which the Board-regulated institution provides credit protection in net income (either through reductions in fair value or by additions to reserves), the Board-regulated institution may not use the purchased credit protection to offset the effective notional principal amount of
the related credit derivative through which the Board-regulated institution provides credit protection;
(v) Where a Board-regulated institution acting as a principal has more than one repo-style transaction with the same counterparty and has offset the gross value of receivables due from a counterparty under reverse repurchase transactions by the gross value of payables under repurchase transactions due to the same counterparty, the gross value of receivables associated with the repo-style transactions
less
any on-balance sheet receivables amount associated with these repo-style transactions included under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, unless the following criteria are met:
(A) The offsetting transactions have the same explicit final settlement date under their governing agreements;
(B) The right to offset the amount owed to the counterparty with the amount owed by the counterparty is legally enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding; and
(C) Under the governing agreements, the counterparties intend to settle net, settle simultaneously, or settle according to a process that is the functional equivalent of net settlement, (that is, the cash flows of the transactions are equivalent, in effect, to a single net amount on the settlement date), where both transactions are settled through the same settlement system, the settlement arrangements are supported by cash or intraday credit facilities intended to ensure that settlement of both transactions will occur by the end of the business day, and the settlement of the underlying securities does not interfere with the net cash settlement;
(vi) The counterparty credit risk of a repo-style transaction, including where the Board-regulated institution acts as an agent for a repo-style transaction and indemnifies the customer with respect to the performance of the customer's counterparty in an amount limited to the difference between the fair value of the security or cash its customer has lent and the fair value of the collateral the borrower has provided, calculated as follows:
(A) If the transaction is not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement, the counterparty credit risk (E*) for transactions with a counterparty must be calculated on a transaction by transaction basis, such that each transaction
i
is treated as its own netting set, in accordance with the following formula, where E
i
is the fair value of the instruments, gold, or cash that the Board-regulated institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or provided as collateral to the counterparty, and C
i
is the fair value of the instruments, gold, or cash that the Board-regulated institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or received as collateral from the counterparty:
E
i
* = max {0, [E
i
− C
i
]}; and
(B) If the transaction is subject to a qualifying master netting agreement, the counterparty credit risk (E*) must be calculated as the greater of zero and the total fair value of the instruments, gold, or cash that the Board-regulated institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase or provided as collateral to a counterparty for all transactions included in the qualifying master netting agreement (ΣE
i
),
less
the total fair value of the instruments, gold, or cash that the Board-regulated institution borrowed, purchased subject to resale or received as collateral from the counterparty for those transactions (ΣC
i
), in accordance with the following formula:
E* = max {0, [ΣE
i
− ΣC
i
]}
(vii) If a Board-regulated institution acting as an agent for a repo-style transaction provides a guarantee to a customer of the security or cash its customer has lent or borrowed with respect to the performance of the customer's counterparty and the guarantee is not limited to the difference between the fair value of the security or cash its customer has lent and the fair value of the collateral the borrower has provided, the amount of the guarantee that is greater than the difference between the fair value of the security or cash its customer has lent and the value of the collateral the borrower has provided;
(viii) The credit equivalent amount of all off-balance sheet exposures of the
Board-regulated institution, excluding repo-style transactions, repurchase or reverse repurchase or securities borrowing or lending transactions that qualify for sales treatment under GAAP, and derivative transactions, determined using the applicable credit conversion factor under § 217.33(b), provided, however, that the minimum credit conversion factor that may be assigned to an off-balance sheet exposure under this paragraph is 10 percent; and
(ix) For a Board-regulated institution that is a clearing member:
(A) A clearing member Board-regulated institution that guarantees the performance of a clearing member client with respect to a cleared transaction must treat its exposure to the clearing member client as a derivative contract for purposes of determining its total leverage exposure;
(B) A clearing member Board-regulated institution that guarantees the performance of a CCP with respect to a transaction cleared on behalf of a clearing member client must treat its exposure to the CCP as a derivative contract for purposes of determining its total leverage exposure;
(C) A clearing member Board-regulated institution that does not guarantee the performance of a CCP with respect to a transaction cleared on behalf of a clearing member client may exclude its exposure to the CCP for purposes of determining its total leverage exposure;
(D) A Board-regulated institution that is a clearing member may exclude from its total leverage exposure the effective notional principal amount of credit protection sold through a credit derivative contract, or other similar instrument, that it clears on behalf of a clearing member client through a CCP as calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section; and
(E) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(2)(ix)(A) through (C) of this section, a Board-regulated institution may exclude from its total leverage exposure a clearing member's exposure to a clearing member client for a derivative contract, if the clearing member client and the clearing member are affiliates and consolidated for financial reporting purposes on the Board-regulated institution's balance sheet.
(x) A custodial banking organization shall exclude from its total leverage exposure the lesser of:
(A) The amount of funds that the custodial banking organization has on deposit at a qualifying central bank; and
(B) The amount of funds in deposit accounts at the custodial banking organization that are linked to fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping accounts at the custodial banking organization. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(x), a deposit account is linked to a fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping account if the deposit account is provided to a client that maintains a fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping account with the custodial banking organization, and the deposit account is used to facilitate the administration of the fiduciary or custodial and safekeeping account.
(d)
Advanced approaches capital ratio calculations.
An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution that has completed the parallel run process and received notification from the Board pursuant to § 217.121(d) must determine its regulatory capital ratios as described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio.
The Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital ratio is the lower of:
(i) The ratio of the Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital to standardized total risk-weighted assets; and
(ii) The ratio of the Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital to advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets.
(2)
Tier 1 capital ratio.
The Board-regulated institution's tier 1 capital ratio is the lower of:
(i) The ratio of the Board-regulated institution's tier 1 capital to standardized total risk-weighted assets; and
(ii) The ratio of the Board-regulated institution's tier 1 capital to advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets.
(3)
Total capital ratio.
The Board-regulated institution's total capital ratio is the lower of:
(i) The ratio of the Board-regulated institution's total capital to standardized total risk-weighted assets; and
(ii) The ratio of the Board-regulated institution's advanced-approaches-adjusted total capital to advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets. A Board-regulated institution's advanced-approaches-adjusted total capital is the Board-regulated institution's total capital after being adjusted as follows:
(A) An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must deduct from its total capital any allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable, included in its tier 2 capital in accordance with § 217.20(d)(3); and
(B) An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must add to its total capital any eligible credit reserves that exceed the Board-regulated institution's total expected credit losses to the extent that the excess reserve amount does not exceed 0.6 percent of the Board-regulated institution's credit risk-weighted assets.
(e)
Capital adequacy.
(1) Notwithstanding the minimum requirements in this part, a Board-regulated institution must maintain capital commensurate with the level and nature of all risks to which the Board-regulated institution is exposed. The supervisory evaluation of the Board-regulated institution's capital adequacy is based on an individual assessment of numerous factors, including the character and condition of the institution's assets and its existing and prospective liabilities and other corporate responsibilities.
(2) A Board-regulated institution must have a process for assessing its overall capital adequacy in relation to its risk profile and a comprehensive strategy for maintaining an appropriate level of capital.
(f)
Insurance depository institution holding companies.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section:
(1) An insurance bank holding company that is a state-regulated insurer, or an insurance savings and loan holding company that is a state-regulated insurer, is not required to meet the minimum capital ratio requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section if the company is subject to subpart J of this part; and
(2) A Board-regulated institution that is an insurance bank holding company, insurance savings and loan holding company, or insurance mid-tier holding company is not required to meet the minimum capital ratio requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(iv) and (v) of this section.
[Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, 62285, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 62286, Oct. 11, 2013; 79 FR 57744, Sept. 26, 2014; 80 FR 41419, July 15, 2015; 84 FR 4242, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 35259, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 59271, Nov. 1, 2019; 84 FR 61797, Nov. 13, 2019; 85 FR 4416, Jan. 24, 2020; 85 FR 4578, Jan. 27, 2020; 85 FR 57961, Sept. 17, 2020; 86 FR 732, Jan. 6, 2021; 88 FR 82969, Nov. 27, 2023]
§ 217.11
Capital conservation buffer, countercyclical capital buffer amount, and GSIB surcharge.
(a)
Capital conservation buffer
—(1)
Composition of the capital conservation buffer.
The capital conservation buffer is composed solely of common equity tier 1 capital.
(2)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(i)
Eligible retained income.
The eligible retained income of a Board-regulated institution is the greater of:
(A) The Board-regulated institution's net income, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-9C or Call Report, as applicable, for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter, net of any distributions and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income; and
(B) The average of the Board-regulated institution's net income, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-9C or Call Report, as applicable, for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter.
(ii)
Maximum payout amount.
A Board-regulated institution's maximum payout amount for the current calendar quarter is equal to the Board-regulated institution's eligible retained income, multiplied by its maximum payout ratio.
(iii)
Maximum payout ratio.
The maximum payout ratio is the percentage of eligible retained income that a Board-
regulated institution can pay out in the form of distributions and discretionary bonus payments during the current calendar quarter. For a Board-regulated institution that is not subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170, the maximum payout ratio is determined by the Board-regulated institution's capital conservation buffer, calculated as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter, as set forth in Table 1 to paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section. For a Board-regulated institution that is subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170, the maximum payout ratio is determined under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(iv)
Private sector credit exposure.
Private sector credit exposure means an exposure to a company or an individual that is not an exposure to a sovereign, the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, the International Monetary Fund, a MDB, a PSE, or a GSE.
(v)
Leverage buffer requirement.
A bank holding company's leverage buffer requirement is 2.0 percent.
(vi)
Stress capital buffer requirement.
(A) The stress capital buffer requirement for a Board-regulated institution subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 is the stress capital buffer requirement determined under 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(vi)(B) of this section.
(B) If a Board-regulated institution subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 has not yet received a stress capital buffer requirement, its stress capital buffer requirement for purposes of this part is 2.5 percent.
(3)
Calculation of capital conservation buffer.
(i) A Board-regulated institution that is not subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 has a capital conservation buffer equal to the lowest of the following ratios, calculated as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter:
(A) The Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital ratio minus the Board-regulated institution's minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio requirement under § 217.10;
(B) The Board-regulated institution's tier 1 capital ratio minus the Board-regulated institution's minimum tier 1 capital ratio requirement under § 217.10; and
(C) The Board-regulated institution's total capital ratio minus the Board-regulated institution's minimum total capital ratio requirement under § 217.10; or
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) through (C) of this section, if a Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1, tier 1 or total capital ratio is less than or equal to the Board-regulated institution's minimum common equity tier 1, tier 1 or total capital ratio requirement under § 217.10, respectively, the Board-regulated institution's capital conservation buffer is zero.
(4)
Limits on distributions and discretionary bonus payments.
(i) A Board-regulated institution that is not subject 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 shall not make distributions or discretionary bonus payments or create an obligation to make such distributions or payments during the current calendar quarter that, in the aggregate, exceed its maximum payout amount.
(ii) A Board-regulated institution that is not subject 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 and that has a capital conservation buffer that is greater than 2.5 percent plus 100 percent of its applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section is not subject to a maximum payout amount under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section, a Board-regulated institution that is not subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 may not make distributions or discretionary bonus payments during the current calendar quarter if the Board-regulated institution's:
(A) Eligible retained income is negative; and
(B) Capital conservation buffer was less than 2.5 percent as of the end of the previous calendar quarter.
(iv) Prior approval—notwithstanding the limitations in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, the Board may permit a Board-regulated institution that is not subject to 12 CFR 225.8
or 238.170 to make a distribution or discretionary bonus payment upon a request of the Board-regulated institution, if the Board determines that the distribution or discretionary bonus payment would not be contrary to the purposes of this section, or to the safety and soundness of the Board-regulated institution. In making such a determination, the Board will consider the nature and extent of the request and the particular circumstances giving rise to the request.
Table 1 to § 217.11(
a
)(4)(
iv
)—Calculation of Maximum Payout Amount
Capital conservation buffer
Maximum
payout ratio
Greater than 2.5 percent plus 100 percent of the Board-regulated institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount
No payout ratio limitation applies.
Less than or equal to 2.5 percent plus 100 percent of the Board-regulated institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount,
and
greater than 1.875 percent plus 75 percent of the Board-regulated institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount
60 percent.
Less than or equal to 1.875 percent plus 75 percent of the Board-regulated institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount,
and
greater than 1.25 percent plus 50 percent of the Board-regulated institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount
40 percent.
Less than or equal to 1.25 percent plus 50 percent of the Board-regulated institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount
and
greater than 0.625 percent plus 25 percent of the Board-regulated institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount
20 percent.
Less than or equal to 0.625 percent plus 25 percent of the Board-regulated institution's applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount
0 percent.
(v)
Other limitations on distributions.
Additional limitations on distributions may apply under 12 CFR 225.4 and 263.202 to a Board-regulated institution that is not subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170.
(b)
Countercyclical capital buffer amount
—(1)
General.
An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution or a Category III Board-regulated institution must calculate a countercyclical capital buffer amount in accordance with this paragraph (b) for purposes of determining its maximum payout ratio under Table 1 to § 217.11(a)(4)(iv) and, if applicable, Table 2 to § 217.11(c)(4)(iii).
(i)
Extension of capital conservation buffer.
The countercyclical capital buffer amount is an extension of the capital conservation buffer as described in paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, as applicable.
(ii)
Amount.
An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution or a Category III Board-regulated institution has a countercyclical capital buffer amount determined by calculating the weighted average of the countercyclical capital buffer amounts established for the national jurisdictions where the Board-regulated institution's private sector credit exposures are located, as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.
(iii)
Weighting.
The weight assigned to a jurisdiction's countercyclical capital buffer amount is calculated by dividing the total risk-weighted assets for the Board-regulated institution's private sector credit exposures located in the jurisdiction by the total risk-weighted assets for all of the Board-regulated institution's private sector credit exposures. The methodology a Board-regulated institution uses for determining risk-weighted assets for purposes of this paragraph (b) must be the methodology that determines its risk-based capital ratios under § 217.10. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the risk-weighted asset amount for a private sector credit exposure that is a covered position under subpart F of this part is its specific risk add-on as determined under § 217.210 multiplied by 12.5.
(iv)
Location.
(A) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(B) and (C) of this section, the location of a private sector credit exposure is the national jurisdiction where the borrower is located (that is, where it is incorporated, chartered, or similarly established or, if the borrower is an individual, where the borrower resides).
(B) If, in accordance with subpart D or E of this part, the Board-regulated institution has assigned to a private
sector credit exposure a risk weight associated with a protection provider on a guarantee or credit derivative, the location of the exposure is the national jurisdiction where the protection provider is located.
(C) The location of a securitization exposure is the location of the underlying exposures, or, if the underlying exposures are located in more than one national jurisdiction, the national jurisdiction where the underlying exposures with the largest aggregate unpaid principal balance are located. For purposes of this paragraph (b), the location of an underlying exposure shall be the location of the borrower, determined consistent with paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(A) of this section.
(2)
Countercyclical capital buffer amount for credit exposures in the United States
—(i)
Initial countercyclical capital buffer amount with respect to credit exposures in the United States.
The initial countercyclical capital buffer amount in the United States is zero.
(ii)
Adjustment of the countercyclical capital buffer amount.
The Board will adjust the countercyclical capital buffer amount for credit exposures in the United States in accordance with applicable law.
1
1
The Board expects that any adjustment will be based on a determination made jointly by the Board, OCC, and FDIC.
(iii)
Range of countercyclical capital buffer amount.
The Board will adjust the countercyclical capital buffer amount for credit exposures in the United States between zero percent and 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets.
(iv)
Adjustment determination.
The Board will base its decision to adjust the countercyclical capital buffer amount under this section on a range of macroeconomic, financial, and supervisory information indicating an increase in systemic risk including, but not limited to, the ratio of credit to gross domestic product, a variety of asset prices, other factors indicative of relative credit and liquidity expansion or contraction, funding spreads, credit condition surveys, indices based on credit default swap spreads, options implied volatility, and measures of systemic risk.
(v)
Effective date of adjusted countercyclical capital buffer amount
—(A)
Increase adjustment.
A determination by the Board under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section to increase the countercyclical capital buffer amount will be effective 12 months from the date of announcement, unless the Board establishes an earlier effective date and includes a statement articulating the reasons for the earlier effective date.
(B)
Decrease adjustment.
A determination by the Board to decrease the established countercyclical capital buffer amount under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section will be effective on the day following announcement of the final determination or the earliest date permissible under applicable law or regulation, whichever is later.
(vi)
Twelve month sunset.
The countercyclical capital buffer amount will return to zero percent 12 months after the effective date that the adjusted countercyclical capital buffer amount is announced, unless the Board announces a decision to maintain the adjusted countercyclical capital buffer amount or adjust it again before the expiration of the 12-month period.
(3)
Countercyclical capital buffer amount for foreign jurisdictions.
The Board will adjust the countercyclical capital buffer amount for private sector credit exposures to reflect decisions made by foreign jurisdictions consistent with due process requirements described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Calculation of buffers for Board-regulated institutions subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170
—(1)
Limits on distributions and discretionary bonus payments.
(i) A Board-regulated institution that is subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 shall not make distributions or discretionary bonus payments or create an obligation to make such distributions or payments during the current calendar quarter that, in the aggregate, exceed its maximum payout amount.
(ii)
Maximum payout ratio.
The maximum payout ratio of a Board-regulated institution that is subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 is the lowest of the payout ratios determined by its standardized approach capital conservation buffer; if applicable, advanced approaches capital conservation buffer;
and, if applicable, leverage buffer; as set forth in table 2 to § 217.11(c)(4)(iii).
(iii)
Capital conservation buffer requirements.
A Board-regulated institution that is subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 has:
(A) A standardized approach capital conservation buffer requirement equal to its stress capital buffer requirement plus its applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section plus its applicable GSIB surcharge in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section; and
(B) If the Board-regulated institution calculates risk-weighted assets under subpart E of this part, an advanced approaches capital conservation buffer requirement equal to 2.5 percent plus the Board-regulated institution's countercyclical capital buffer amount in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section plus its applicable GSIB surcharge in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(iv)
No maximum payout amount limitation.
A Board-regulated institution that is subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 is not subject to a maximum payout amount under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section if it has:
(A) A standardized approach capital conservation buffer, calculated under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, that is greater than its standardized approach capital conservation buffer requirement calculated under paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A) of this section;
(B) If applicable, an advanced approaches capital conservation buffer, calculated under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, that is greater than the Board-regulated institution's advanced approaches capital conservation buffer requirement calculated under paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section; and
(C) If applicable, a leverage buffer, calculated under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, that is greater than its leverage buffer requirement as calculated under paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section.
(v)
Negative eligible retained income.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(vi) of this section, a Board-regulated institution that is subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 may not make distributions or discretionary bonus payments during the current calendar quarter if, as of the end of the previous calendar quarter, the Board-regulated institution's:
(A) Eligible retained income is negative; and
(B)(
1
) Standardized approach capital conservation buffer was less than its stress capital buffer requirement; or
(
2
) If applicable, advanced approaches capital conservation buffer was less than 2.5 percent; or
(
3
) If applicable, leverage buffer was less than its leverage buffer requirement.
(vi)
Prior approval.
Notwithstanding the limitations in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section, the Board may permit a Board-regulated institution that is subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 to make a distribution or discretionary bonus payment upon a request of the Board-regulated institution, if the Board determines that the distribution or discretionary bonus payment would not be contrary to the purposes of this section, or to the safety and soundness of the Board-regulated institution. In making such a determination, the Board will consider the nature and extent of the request and the particular circumstances giving rise to the request.
(vii)
Other limitations on distributions.
Additional limitations on distributions may apply under 12 CFR 225.4, 225.8, 238.170, 252.63, 252.165, and 263.202 to a Board-regulated institution that is subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170.
(2)
Standardized approach capital conservation buffer.
(i) The standardized approach capital conservation buffer for Board-regulated institutions subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 is composed solely of common equity tier 1 capital.
(ii) A Board-regulated institution that is subject to 12 CFR 225.8 or 238.170 has a standardized approach capital conservation buffer that is equal to the lowest of the following ratios, calculated as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter:
(A) The ratio calculated by the Board-regulated institution under § 217.10(b)(1) or (c)(1)(i), as applicable, minus the Board-regulated institution's minimum common equity tier 1
capital ratio requirement under § 217.10(a);
(B) The ratio calculated by the Board-regulated institution under § 217.10(b)(2) or (c)(2)(i), as applicable, minus the Board-regulated institution's minimum tier 1 capital ratio requirement under § 217.10(a); and
(C) The ratio calculated by the Board-regulated institution under § 217.10(b)(3) or (c)(3)(i), as applicable, minus the Board-regulated institution's minimum total capital ratio requirement under § 217.10(a).
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, if any of the ratios calculated by the Board-regulated institution under § 217.10(b)(1), (2), or (3), or if applicable § 217.10(c)(1)(i), (c)(2)(i), or (c)(3)(i) is less than or equal to the Board-regulated institution's minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio, tier 1 capital ratio, or total capital ratio requirement under § 217.10(a), respectively, the Board-regulated institution's capital conservation buffer is zero.
(3)
Advanced approaches capital conservation buffer.
(i) The advanced approaches capital conservation buffer is composed solely of common equity tier 1 capital.
(ii) A Board-regulated institution that calculates risk-weighted assets under subpart E has an advanced approaches capital conservation buffer that is equal to the lowest of the following ratios, calculated as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter:
(A) The ratio calculated by the Board-regulated institution under § 217.10(c)(1)(ii) minus the Board-regulated institution's minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio requirement under § 217.10(a);
(B) The ratio calculated by the Board-regulated institution under § 217.10(c)(2)(ii) minus the Board-regulated institution's minimum tier 1 capital ratio requirement under § 217.10(a); and
(C) The ratio calculated by the Board-regulated institution under § 217.10(c)(3)(ii) minus the Board-regulated institution's minimum total capital ratio requirement under § 217.10(a).
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, if any of the ratios calculated by the Board-regulated institution under § 217.10(c)(1)(ii), (c)(2)(ii), or (c)(3)(ii) is less than or equal to the Board-regulated institution's minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio, tier 1 capital ratio, or total capital ratio requirement under § 217.10(a), respectively, the Board-regulated institution's advanced approaches capital conservation buffer is zero.
(4)
Leverage buffer.
(i) The leverage buffer is composed solely of tier 1 capital.
(ii) A global systemically important BHC has a leverage buffer that is equal to the global systemically important BHC's supplementary leverage ratio minus 3 percent, calculated as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, if the global systemically important BHC's supplementary leverage ratio is less than or equal to 3 percent, the global systemically important BHC's leverage buffer is zero.
Table 2 to § 217.11(
c
)(4)(
iii
)—Calculation of Maximum Payout Ratio
Capital buffer
1
Payout ratio
Greater than the Board-regulated institution's buffer requirement
2
No payout ratio limitation applies.
Less than or equal to 100 percent of the Board-regulated institution's buffer requirement,
and
greater than 75 percent of the Board-regulated institution's buffer requirement
60 percent.
Less than or equal to 75 percent of the Board-regulated institution's buffer requirement,
and
greater than 50 percent of the bank holding company's buffer requirement
40 percent.
Less than or equal to 50 percent of the Board-regulated institution's buffer requirement,
and
greater than 25 percent of the Board-regulated institution's buffer requirement
20 percent.
Less than or equal to 25 percent of the Board-regulated institution's buffer requirement
0 percent.
1
A Board-regulated institution's “capital buffer” means each of, as applicable, its standardized approach capital conservation buffer, advanced approaches capital conservation buffer, and leverage buffer.
2
A Board-regulated institution's “buffer requirement” means each of, as applicable, its standardized approach capital conservation buffer requirement, advanced approaches capital conservation buffer requirement, and leverage buffer requirement.
(d)
GSIB surcharge.
A global systemically important BHC must use its GSIB surcharge calculated in accordance with subpart H of this part for purposes of determining its maximum payout ratio under Table 2 to § 217.11(c)(4)(iii).
(e)
Insurance depository institution holding companies.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section:
(1) A Board-regulated institution that is an insurance bank holding company that is subject to subpart J of this part calculates its capital conservation buffer in accordance with § 217.604;
(2) A Board-regulated institution that is an insurance savings and loan holding company that is subject to subpart J of this part calculates its capital conservation buffer in accordance with § 217.604; and
(3) A Board-regulated institution that is an insurance mid-tier holding company is not subject to the provisions of this section.
[Reg. Q, 85 FR 15596, Mar. 18, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 3762, Jan. 15, 2021; 86 FR 7938, Feb. 3, 2021; 86 FR 9261, Feb. 12, 2021; 88 FR 82969, Nov. 27, 2023]
§ 217.12
Community bank leverage ratio framework.
(a)
Community bank leverage ratio framework.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, a qualifying community banking organization that has made an election to use the community bank leverage ratio framework under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be considered to have met the minimum capital requirements under § 217.10, the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category under § 208.43(b)(1) of this chapter, and any other capital or leverage requirements to which the qualifying community banking organization is subject, if it has a leverage ratio greater than 9 percent.
(2) For purposes of this section, a qualifying community banking organization means a Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution and that satisfies all of the following criteria:
(i) Has a leverage ratio of greater than 9 percent;
(ii) Has total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion, calculated in accordance with the reporting instructions to the Call Report or to Form FR Y-9C, as applicable, as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter;
(iii) Has off-balance sheet exposures of 25 percent or less of its total consolidated assets as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter, calculated as the sum of the notional amounts of the exposures listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (I) of this section, divided by total consolidated assets, each as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter:
(A) The unused portion of commitments (except for unconditionally cancellable commitments);
(B) Self-liquidating, trade-related contingent items that arise from the movement of goods;
(C) Transaction-related contingent items, including performance bonds, bid bonds, warranties, and performance standby letters of credit;
(D) Sold credit protection through guarantees and credit derivatives;
(E) Credit-enhancing representations and warranties;
(F) Securities lent and borrowed, calculated in accordance with the reporting instructions to the Call Report or to Form FR Y-9C, as applicable;
(G) Financial standby letters of credit;
(H) Forward agreements that are not derivative contracts; and
(I) Off-balance sheet securitization exposures; and
(iv) Has total trading assets and trading liabilities, calculated in accordance with the reporting instructions to the Call Report or to Form FR Y-9C, as applicable, of 5 percent or less of the Board-regulated institution's total consolidated assets, each as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter.
(3)(i) A qualifying community banking organization may elect to use the community bank leverage ratio framework if it makes an opt-in election under this paragraph (a)(3).
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(3), a qualifying community banking organization makes an election to use the community bank leverage ratio framework by completing the applicable reporting requirements of its Call
Report or of its Form FR Y-9C, as applicable.
(iii)(A) A qualifying community banking organization that has elected to use the community bank leverage ratio framework may opt out of the community bank leverage ratio framework by completing the applicable risk-based and leverage ratio reporting requirements necessary to demonstrate compliance with § 217.10(a)(1) in its Call Report or its Form FR Y-9C, as applicable, or by otherwise providing the information to the Board.
(B) A qualifying community banking organization that opts out of the community bank leverage ratio framework pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) of this section must comply with § 217.10(a)(1) immediately.
(4)
Temporary relief for 2020 and 2021.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, from December 2, 2020, through December 31, 2021, for purposes of determining whether a Board-regulated institution satisfies the criterion in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the total consolidated assets of a Board-regulated institution for purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section shall be determined based on the lesser of:
(A) The total consolidated assets reported by the institution in the Call Report, FR Y-9C, or FR Y-9SP, as applicable, as of December 31, 2019; and
(B) The total consolidated assets calculated in accordance with the reporting instructions to the Call Report or to Form FR Y-9C, as applicable, as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter.
(ii) The relief provided under this paragraph (a)(4)(i) does not apply to a Board-regulated institution if the Board determines that permitting the Board-regulated institution to determine its assets in accordance with that paragraph would not be commensurate with the risk profile of the Board-regulated institution. When making this determination, the Board will consider all relevant factors, including the extent of asset growth of the Board-regulated institution since December 31, 2019; the causes of such growth, including whether growth occurred as a result of mergers or acquisitions; whether such growth is likely to be temporary or permanent; whether the Board-regulated institution has become involved in any additional activities since December 31, 2019; the asset size of any parent companies; and the type of assets held by the Board-regulated institution. In making a determination pursuant to this paragraph (a)(4)(ii), the Board will apply notice and response procedures in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures in 12 CFR 263.202.
(b)
Calculation of the leverage ratio.
A qualifying community banking organization's leverage ratio is calculated in accordance with § 217.10(b)(4), except that a qualifying community banking organization is not required to:
(1) Make adjustments and deductions from tier 2 capital for purposes of § 217.22(c); or
(2) Calculate and deduct from tier 1 capital an amount resulting from insufficient tier 2 capital under § 217.22(f).
(c)
Treatment when ceasing to meet the qualifying community banking organization requirements.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(5) and (6) of this section, if an Board-regulated institution ceases to meet the definition of a qualifying community banking organization, the Board-regulated institution has two reporting periods under its Call Report or Form FR Y-9C, as applicable (grace period) either to satisfy the requirements to be a qualifying community banking organization or to comply with § 217.10(a)(1) and report the required capital measures under § 217.10(a)(1) on its Call Report or its Form FR Y-9C, as applicable.
(2) The grace period begins as of the end of the calendar quarter in which the Board-regulated institution ceases to satisfy the criteria to be a qualifying community banking organization provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The grace period ends on the last day of the second consecutive calendar quarter following the beginning of the grace period.
(3) During the grace period, the Board-regulated institution continues to be treated as a qualifying community banking organization for the purpose of this part and must continue calculating and reporting its leverage ratio under this section unless the
Board-regulated institution has opted out of using the community bank leverage ratio framework under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(4) During the grace period, the qualifying community banking organization continues to be considered to have met the minimum capital requirements under § 217.10(a)(1), the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category under § 208.43(b)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this chapter, and any other capital or leverage requirements to which the qualifying community banking organization is subject, and must continue calculating and reporting its leverage ratio under this section.
(5) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, a Board-regulated institution that no longer meets the definition of a qualifying community banking organization as a result of a merger or acquisition has no grace period and immediately ceases to be a qualifying community banking organization. Such a Board-regulated institution must comply with the minimum capital requirements under § 217.10(a)(1) and must report the required capital measures under § 217.10(a)(1) for the quarter in which it ceases to be a qualifying community banking organization.
(6) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, a Board-regulated institution that has a leverage ratio of 8 percent or less does not have a grace period and must comply with the minimum capital requirements under § 217.10(a)(1) and must report the required capital measures under § 217.10(a)(1) for the quarter in which it reports a leverage ratio of 8 percent or less.
[Reg. Q, 84 FR 61797, Nov. 13, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 77361, Dec. 2, 2020]
§§ 217.13-217.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Definition of Capital
§ 217.20
Capital components and eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments.
(a)
Regulatory capital components.
A Board-regulated institution's regulatory capital components are:
(1) Common equity tier 1 capital;
(2) Additional tier 1 capital; and
(3) Tier 2 capital.
(b)
Common equity tier 1 capital.
Common equity tier 1 capital is the sum of the common equity tier 1 capital elements in this paragraph (b), minus regulatory adjustments and deductions in § 217.22. The common equity tier 1 capital elements are:
(1) Any common stock instruments (plus any related surplus) issued by the Board-regulated institution, net of treasury stock, and any capital instruments issued by mutual banking organizations, that meet all the following criteria:
(i) The instrument is paid-in, issued directly by the Board-regulated institution, and represents the most subordinated claim in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the Board-regulated institution;
(ii) The holder of the instrument is entitled to a claim on the residual assets of the Board-regulated institution that is proportional with the holder's share of the Board-regulated institution's issued capital after all senior claims have been satisfied in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding;
(iii) The instrument has no maturity date, can only be redeemed via discretionary repurchases with the prior approval of the Board to the extent otherwise required by law or regulation, and does not contain any term or feature that creates an incentive to redeem;
(iv) The Board-regulated institution did not create at issuance of the instrument through any action or communication an expectation that it will buy back, cancel, or redeem the instrument, and the instrument does not include any term or feature that might give rise to such an expectation;
(v) Any cash dividend payments on the instrument are paid out of the Board-regulated institution's net income, retained earnings, or surplus related to common stock, and are not subject to a limit imposed by the contractual terms governing the instrument. State member banks are subject to other legal restrictions on reductions in capital resulting from cash dividends, including out of the capital
surplus account, under 12 U.S.C. 324 and 12 CFR 208.5.
(vi) The Board-regulated institution has full discretion at all times to refrain from paying any dividends and making any other distributions on the instrument without triggering an event of default, a requirement to make a payment-in-kind, or an imposition of any other restrictions on the Board-regulated institution;
(vii) Dividend payments and any other distributions on the instrument may be paid only after all legal and contractual obligations of the Board-regulated institution have been satisfied, including payments due on more senior claims;
(viii) The holders of the instrument bear losses as they occur equally, proportionately, and simultaneously with the holders of all other common stock instruments before any losses are borne by holders of claims on the Board-regulated institution with greater priority in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding;
(ix) The paid-in amount is classified as equity under GAAP;
(x) The Board-regulated institution, or an entity that the Board-regulated institution controls, did not purchase or directly or indirectly fund the purchase of the instrument;
(xi) The instrument is not secured, not covered by a guarantee of the Board-regulated institution or of an affiliate of the Board-regulated institution, and is not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument;
(xii) The instrument has been issued in accordance with applicable laws and regulations; and
(xiii) The instrument is reported on the Board-regulated institution's regulatory financial statements separately from other capital instruments.
(2) Retained earnings.
(3) Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) as reported under GAAP.
11
11
See
§ 217.22 for specific adjustments related to AOCI.
(4) Any common equity tier 1 minority interest, subject to the limitations in § 217.21.
(5) Notwithstanding the criteria for common stock instruments referenced above, a Board-regulated institution's common stock issued and held in trust for the benefit of its employees as part of an employee stock ownership plan does not violate any of the criteria in paragraph (b)(1)(iii), paragraph (b)(1)(iv) or paragraph (b)(1)(xi) of this section, provided that any repurchase of the stock is required solely by virtue of ERISA for an instrument of a Board-regulated institution that is not publicly-traded. In addition, an instrument issued by a Board-regulated institution to its employee stock ownership plan does not violate the criterion in paragraph (b)(1)(x) of this section.
(c)
Additional tier 1 capital.
Additional tier 1 capital is the sum of additional tier 1 capital elements and any related surplus, minus the regulatory adjustments and deductions in § 217.22. Additional tier 1 capital elements are:
(1) Instruments (plus any related surplus) that meet the following criteria:
(i) The instrument is issued and paid-in;
(ii) The instrument is subordinated to depositors, general creditors, and subordinated debt holders of the Board-regulated institution in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding;
(iii) The instrument is not secured, not covered by a guarantee of the Board-regulated institution or of an affiliate of the Board-regulated institution, and not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument;
(iv) The instrument has no maturity date and does not contain a dividend step-up or any other term or feature that creates an incentive to redeem; and
(v) If callable by its terms, the instrument may be called by the Board-regulated institution only after a minimum of five years following issuance, except that the terms of the instrument may allow it to be called earlier than five years upon the occurrence of a regulatory event that precludes the
instrument from being included in additional tier 1 capital, a tax event, or if the issuing entity is required to register as an investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
). In addition:
(A) The Board-regulated institution must receive prior approval from the Board to exercise a call option on the instrument.
(B) The Board-regulated institution does not create at issuance of the instrument, through any action or communication, an expectation that the call option will be exercised.
(C) Prior to exercising the call option, or immediately thereafter, the Board-regulated institution must either: Replace the instrument to be called with an equal amount of instruments that meet the criteria under paragraph (b) of this section or this paragraph (c);
12
or demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board that following redemption, the Board-regulated institution will continue to hold capital commensurate with its risk.
12
Replacement can be concurrent with redemption of existing additional tier 1 capital instruments.
(vi) Redemption or repurchase of the instrument requires prior approval from the Board.
(vii) The Board-regulated institution has full discretion at all times to cancel dividends or other distributions on the instrument without triggering an event of default, a requirement to make a payment-in-kind, or an imposition of other restrictions on the Board-regulated institution except in relation to any distributions to holders of common stock or instruments that are pari passu with the instrument.
(viii) Any distributions on the instrument are paid out of the Board-regulated institution's net income, retained earnings, or surplus related to other additional tier 1 capital instruments. State member banks are subject to other legal restrictions on reductions in capital resulting from cash dividends, including out of the capital surplus account, under 12 U.S.C. 324 and 12 CFR 208.5.
(ix) The instrument does not have a credit-sensitive feature, such as a dividend rate that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the Board-regulated institution's credit quality, but may have a dividend rate that is adjusted periodically independent of the Board-regulated institution's credit quality, in relation to general market interest rates or similar adjustments.
(x) The paid-in amount is classified as equity under GAAP.
(xi) The Board-regulated institution, or an entity that the Board-regulated institution controls, did not purchase or directly or indirectly fund the purchase of the instrument.
(xii) The instrument does not have any features that would limit or discourage additional issuance of capital by the Board-regulated institution, such as provisions that require the Board-regulated institution to compensate holders of the instrument if a new instrument is issued at a lower price during a specified time frame.
(xiii) If the instrument is not issued directly by the Board-regulated institution or by a subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution that is an operating entity, the only asset of the issuing entity is its investment in the capital of the Board-regulated institution, and proceeds must be immediately available without limitation to the Board-regulated institution or to the Board-regulated institution's top-tier holding company in a form which meets or exceeds all of the other criteria for additional tier 1 capital instruments.
13
13
De minimis
assets related to the operation of the issuing entity can be disregarded for purposes of this criterion.
(xiv) For an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, the governing agreement, offering circular, or prospectus of an instrument issued after the date upon which the Board-regulated institution becomes subject to this part as set forth in § 217.1(f) must disclose that the holders of the instrument may be fully subordinated to interests held by the U.S. government in the event that the Board-regulated institution enters into a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding.
(2) Tier 1 minority interest, subject to the limitations in § 217.21, that is not
included in the Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital.
(3)(i) Any and all instruments that qualified as tier 1 capital under the Board's general risk-based capital rules under 12 CFR part 208, appendix A or 12 CFR part 225, appendix A, as then in effect, that were issued under the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010
14
or prior to October 4, 2010, under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.
15
14
Public Law 111-240; 124 Stat. 2504 (2010).
15
Public Law 110-343, 122 Stat. 3765 (2008).
(ii) Any preferred stock instrument issued under the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Emergency Capital Investment Program pursuant to section 104A of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, added by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021.
16
16
Public Law 116-260.
(4) Notwithstanding the criteria for additional tier 1 capital instruments referenced above:
(i) An instrument issued by a Board-regulated institution and held in trust for the benefit of its employees as part of an employee stock ownership plan does not violate any of the criteria in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, provided that any repurchase is required solely by virtue of ERISA for an instrument of a Board-regulated institution that is not publicly-traded. In addition, an instrument issued by a Board-regulated institution to its employee stock ownership plan does not violate the criteria in paragraph (c)(1)(v) or paragraph (c)(1)(xi) of this section; and
(ii) An instrument with terms that provide that the instrument may be called earlier than five years upon the occurrence of a rating agency event does not violate the criterion in paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section provided that the instrument was issued and included in a Board-regulated institution's tier 1 capital prior to January 1, 2014, and that such instrument satisfies all other criteria under this § 217.20(c).
(d)
Tier 2 Capital.
Tier 2 capital is the sum of tier 2 capital elements and any related surplus, minus regulatory adjustments and deductions in § 217.22. Tier 2 capital elements are:
(1) Instruments (plus related surplus) that meet the following criteria:
(i) The instrument is issued and paid-in;
(ii) The instrument is subordinated to depositors and general creditors of the Board-regulated institution;
(iii) The instrument is not secured, not covered by a guarantee of the Board-regulated institution or of an affiliate of the Board-regulated institution, and not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument in relation to more senior claims;
(iv) The instrument has a minimum original maturity of at least five years. At the beginning of each of the last five years of the life of the instrument, the amount that is eligible to be included in tier 2 capital is reduced by 20 percent of the original amount of the instrument (net of redemptions) and is excluded from regulatory capital when the remaining maturity is less than one year. In addition, the instrument must not have any terms or features that require, or create significant incentives for, the Board-regulated institution to redeem the instrument prior to maturity;
16
and
16
An instrument that by its terms automatically converts into a tier 1 capital instrument prior to five years after issuance complies with the five-year maturity requirement of this criterion.
(v) The instrument, by its terms, may be called by the Board-regulated institution only after a minimum of five years following issuance, except that the terms of the instrument may allow it to be called sooner upon the occurrence of an event that would preclude the instrument from being included in tier 2 capital, a tax event, or if the issuing entity is required to register as an investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
). In addition:
(A) The Board-regulated institution must receive the prior approval of the Board to exercise a call option on the instrument.
(B) The Board-regulated institution does not create at issuance, through action or communication, an expectation the call option will be exercised.
(C) Prior to exercising the call option, or immediately thereafter, the Board-regulated institution must either: Replace any amount called with an equivalent amount of an instrument that meets the criteria for regulatory capital under this section;
17
or demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board that following redemption, the Board-regulated institution would continue to hold an amount of capital that is commensurate with its risk.
17
A Board-regulated institution may replace tier 2 capital instruments concurrent with the redemption of existing tier 2 capital instruments.
(vi) The holder of the instrument must have no contractual right to accelerate payment of principal or interest on the instrument, except in the event of a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the state member bank or depository institution holding company, as applicable, or of a major subsidiary depository institution of the depository institution holding company.
(vii) The instrument has no credit-sensitive feature, such as a dividend or interest rate that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the Board-regulated institution's credit standing, but may have a dividend rate that is adjusted periodically independent of the Board-regulated institution's credit standing, in relation to general market interest rates or similar adjustments.
(viii) The Board-regulated institution, or an entity that the Board-regulated institution controls, has not purchased and has not directly or indirectly funded the purchase of the instrument.
(ix) If the instrument is not issued directly by the Board-regulated institution or by a subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution that is an operating entity, the only asset of the issuing entity is its investment in the capital of the Board-regulated institution, and proceeds must be immediately available without limitation to the Board-regulated institution or the Board-regulated institution's top-tier holding company in a form that meets or exceeds all the other criteria for tier 2 capital instruments under this section.
18
18
A Board-regulated institution may disregard
de minimis
assets related to the operation of the issuing entity for purposes of this criterion.
(x) Redemption of the instrument prior to maturity or repurchase requires the prior approval of the Board.
(xi) For an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, the governing agreement, offering circular, or prospectus of an instrument issued after the date on which the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution becomes subject to this part under § 217.1(f) must disclose that the holders of the instrument may be fully subordinated to interests held by the U.S. government in the event that the Board-regulated institution enters into a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding.
(2) Total capital minority interest, subject to the limitations set forth in § 217.21, that is not included in the Board-regulated institution's tier 1 capital.
(3) ALLL or AACL, as applicable, up to 1.25 percent of the Board-regulated institution's standardized total risk-weighted assets not including any amount of the ALLL or AACL, as applicable (and excluding in the case of a market risk Board-regulated institution, its standardized market risk-weighted assets).
(4)(i) Any instrument that qualified as tier 2 capital under the Board's general risk-based capital rules under 12 CFR part 208, appendix A, 12 CFR part 225, appendix A as then in effect, that were issued under the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010,
19
or prior to October 4, 2010, under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.
20
19
Public Law 111-240; 124 Stat. 2504 (2010).
20
Public Law 110-343, 122 Stat. 3765 (2008).
(ii) Any debt instrument issued under the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Emergency Capital Investment Program pursuant to section 104A of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, added by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021.
21
21
Public Law 116-260.
(5) For a Board-regulated institution that makes an AOCI opt-out election
(as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of § 217.22), 45 percent of pretax net unrealized gains on available-for-sale preferred stock classified as an equity security under GAAP and available-for-sale equity exposures.
(6) Notwithstanding the criteria for tier 2 capital instruments referenced above, an instrument with terms that provide that the instrument may be called earlier than five years upon the occurrence of a rating agency event does not violate the criterion in paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section provided that the instrument was issued and included in a Board-regulated institution's tier 1 or tier 2 capital prior to January 1, 2014, and that such instrument satisfies all other criteria under this paragraph (d).
(e)
Board approval of a capital element.
(1) A Board-regulated institution must receive Board prior approval to include a capital element (as listed in this section) in its common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital unless the element:
(i) Was included in a Board-regulated institution's tier 1 capital or tier 2 capital prior to May 19, 2010 in accordance with the Board's risk-based capital rules that were effective as of that date and the underlying instrument may continue to be included under the criteria set forth in this section; or
(ii) Is equivalent, in terms of capital quality and ability to absorb losses with respect to all material terms, to a regulatory capital element the Board determined may be included in regulatory capital pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) When considering whether a Board-regulated institution may include a regulatory capital element in its common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital, the Federal Reserve Board will consult with the FDIC and OCC.
(3) After determining that a regulatory capital element may be included in a Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital, the Board will make its decision publicly available, including a brief description of the material terms of the regulatory capital element and the rationale for the determination.
(f) A Board-regulated institution may not repurchase or redeem any common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1, or tier 2 capital instrument without the prior approval of the Board to the extent such prior approval is required by paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section, as applicable.
[Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, 62285, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 62286, Oct. 11, 2013; 78 FR 76973, Dec. 20, 2013; 79 FR 78295, Dec. 30, 2014; 84 FR 4242, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 35260, July 22, 2019; 86 FR 15080, Mar. 22, 2021]
§ 217.21
Minority interest.
(a)(1)
Applicability.
For purposes of § 217.20, a Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution is subject to the minority interest limitations in this paragraph (a) if a consolidated subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution has issued regulatory capital that is not owned by the Board-regulated institution.
(2)
Common equity tier 1 minority interest includable in the common equity tier 1 capital of the Board-regulated institution.
The amount of common equity tier 1 minority interest that a Board-regulated institution may include in common equity tier 1 capital must be no greater than 10 percent of the sum of all common equity tier 1 capital elements of the Board-regulated institution (not including the common equity tier 1 minority interest itself), less any common equity tier 1 capital regulatory adjustments and deductions in accordance with § 217.22 (a) and (b).
(3)
Tier 1 minority interest includable in the tier 1 capital of the Board-regulated institution.
The amount of tier 1 minority interest that a Board-regulated institution may include in tier 1 capital must be no greater than 10 percent of the sum of all tier 1 capital elements of the Board-regulated institution (not including the tier 1 minority interest itself), less any tier 1 capital regulatory adjustments and deductions in accordance with § 217.22(a) and (b).
(4)
Total capital minority interest includable in the total capital of the Board-regulated institution.
The amount of total capital minority interest that a Board-regulated institution may include in total capital must be no greater than 10 percent of the sum of all
total capital elements of the Board-regulated institution (not including the total capital minority interest itself), less any total capital regulatory adjustments and deductions in accordance with § 217.22(a) and (b).
(b)(1)
Applicability.
For purposes of § 217.20, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution is subject to the minority interest limitations in this paragraph (b) if:
(i) A consolidated subsidiary of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution has issued regulatory capital that is not owned by the Board-regulated institution; and
(ii) For each relevant regulatory capital ratio of the consolidated subsidiary, the ratio exceeds the sum of the subsidiary's minimum regulatory capital requirements plus its capital conservation buffer.
(2)
Difference in capital adequacy standards at the subsidiary level.
For purposes of the minority interest calculations in this section, if the consolidated subsidiary issuing the capital is not subject to capital adequacy standards similar to those of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must assume that the capital adequacy standards of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution apply to the subsidiary.
(3)
Common equity tier 1 minority interest includable in the common equity tier 1 capital of the Board-regulated institution.
For each consolidated subsidiary of an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, the amount of common equity tier 1 minority interest the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may include in common equity tier 1 capital is equal to:
(i) The common equity tier 1 minority interest of the subsidiary; minus
(ii) The percentage of the subsidiary's common equity tier 1 capital that is not owned by the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, multiplied by the difference between the common equity tier 1 capital of the subsidiary and the lower of:
(A) The amount of common equity tier 1 capital the subsidiary must hold, or would be required to hold pursuant this paragraph (b), to avoid restrictions on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 217.11 or equivalent standards established by the subsidiary's home country supervisor; or
(B)(
1
) The standardized total risk-weighted assets of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution that relate to the subsidiary multiplied by
(
2
) The common equity tier 1 capital ratio the subsidiary must maintain to avoid restrictions on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 217.11 or equivalent standards established by the subsidiary's home country supervisor.
(4)
Tier 1 minority interest includable in the tier 1 capital of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution.
For each consolidated subsidiary of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, the amount of tier 1 minority interest the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may include in tier 1 capital is equal to:
(i) The tier 1 minority interest of the subsidiary; minus
(ii) The percentage of the subsidiary's tier 1 capital that is not owned by the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution multiplied by the difference between the tier 1 capital of the subsidiary and the lower of:
(A) The amount of tier 1 capital the subsidiary must hold, or would be required to hold pursuant to this paragraph (b), to avoid restrictions on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 217.11 or equivalent standards established by the subsidiary's home country supervisor, or
(B)(
1
) The standardized total risk-weighted assets of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution that relate to the subsidiary multiplied by
(
2
) The tier 1 capital ratio the subsidiary must maintain to avoid restrictions on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 217.11 or equivalent standards established by the subsidiary's home country supervisor.
(5)
Total capital minority interest includable in the total capital of the Board-regulated institution.
For each consolidated subsidiary of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, the amount of total capital minority interest the advanced approaches
Board-regulated institution may include in total capital is equal to:
(i) The total capital minority interest of the subsidiary; minus
(ii) The percentage of the subsidiary's total capital that is not owned by the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution multiplied by the difference between the total capital of the subsidiary and the lower of:
(A) The amount of total capital the subsidiary must hold, or would be required to hold pursuant to this paragraph (b), to avoid restrictions on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 217.11 or equivalent standards established by the subsidiary's home country supervisor, or
(B)(
1
) The standardized total risk-weighted assets of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution that relate to the subsidiary multiplied by
(
2
) The total capital ratio the subsidiary must maintain to avoid restrictions on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 217.11 or equivalent standards established by the subsidiary's home country supervisor.
[Reg. Q, 84 FR 35260, July 22, 2019]
§ 217.22
Regulatory capital adjustments and deductions.
(a)
Regulatory capital deductions from common equity tier 1 capital.
A Board-regulated institution must deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements the items set forth in this paragraph (a):
(1) Goodwill, net of associated deferred tax liabilities (DTLs) in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, including goodwill that is embedded in the valuation of a significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution in the form of common stock (and that is reflected in the consolidated financial statements of the Board-regulated institution), in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) Intangible assets, other than MSAs, net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;
(3) Deferred tax assets (DTAs) that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;
(4) Any gain-on-sale in connection with a securitization exposure;
(5)(i) Any defined benefit pension fund net asset, net of any associated DTL in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, held by a depository institution holding company. With the prior approval of the Board, this deduction is not required for any defined benefit pension fund net asset to the extent the depository institution holding company has unrestricted and unfettered access to the assets in that fund.
(ii) For an insured depository institution, no deduction is required.
(iii) A Board-regulated institution must risk weight any portion of the defined benefit pension fund asset that is not deducted under paragraphs (a)(5)(i) or (a)(5)(ii) of this section as if the Board-regulated institution directly holds a proportional ownership share of each exposure in the defined benefit pension fund.
(6) For an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution that has completed the parallel run process and that has received notification from the Board pursuant to § 217.121(d), the amount of expected credit loss that exceeds its eligible credit reserves; and
(7)
Financial subsidiaries.
(i) A state member bank must deduct the aggregate amount of its outstanding equity investment, including retained earnings, in its financial subsidiaries (as defined in 12 CFR 208.77) and may not consolidate the assets and liabilities of a financial subsidiary with those of the state member bank.
(ii) No other deduction is required under § 217.22(c) for investments in the capital instruments of financial subsidiaries.
(b)
Regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital.
(1) A Board-regulated institution must adjust the sum of common equity tier 1 capital elements pursuant to the requirements set forth in this paragraph (b). Such adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital must be made net of the associated deferred tax effects.
(i) A Board-regulated institution that makes an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section), must make the adjustments required under § 217.22(b)(2)(i).
(ii) A Board-regulated institution that is an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, and a Board-regulated institution that has not made an AOCI opt-out election (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section), must deduct any accumulated net gains and add any accumulated net losses on cash flow hedges included in AOCI that relate to the hedging of items that are not recognized at fair value on the balance sheet.
(iii) A Board-regulated institution must deduct any net gain and add any net loss related to changes in the fair value of liabilities that are due to changes in the Board-regulated institution's own credit risk. An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must deduct the difference between its credit spread premium and the risk-free rate for derivatives that are liabilities as part of this adjustment.
(2)
AOCI opt-out election.
(i) A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may make a one-time election to opt out of the requirement to include all components of AOCI (with the exception of accumulated net gains and losses on cash flow hedges related to items that are not fair-valued on the balance sheet) in common equity tier 1 capital (AOCI opt-out election). A Board-regulated institution that makes an AOCI opt-out election in accordance with this paragraph (b)(2) must adjust common equity tier 1 capital as follows:
(A) Subtract any net unrealized gains and add any net unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities;
(B) Subtract any net unrealized losses on available-for-sale preferred stock classified as an equity security under GAAP and available-for-sale equity exposures;
(C) Subtract any accumulated net gains and add any accumulated net losses on cash flow hedges;
(D) Subtract any amounts recorded in AOCI attributed to defined benefit postretirement plans resulting from the initial and subsequent application of the relevant GAAP standards that pertain to such plans (excluding, at the Board-regulated institution's option, the portion relating to pension assets deducted under paragraph (a)(5) of this section); and
(E) Subtract any net unrealized gains and add any net unrealized losses on held-to-maturity securities that are included in AOCI.
(ii) A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must make its AOCI opt-out election in the Call Report, for a state member bank, FR Y-9C, for bank holding companies or savings and loan holding companies:
(A) If the Board-regulated institution is a Category III Board-regulated institution or Category IV Board-regulated institution, during the first reporting period after the Board-regulated institution meets the definition of a Category III Board-regulated institution or Category IV Board-regulated institution in § 217.2; or
(B) If the A Board-regulated institution is not a Category III Board-regulated institution and not a Category IV Board-regulated institution, during the first reporting period after the Board-regulated institution is required to comply with subpart A of this part as set forth in § 217.1(f).
(iii) Each depository institution subsidiary of a Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must elect the same option as the Board-regulated institution pursuant to paragraph (b)(2).
(iv) With prior notice to the Board, a Board-regulated institution resulting from a merger, acquisition, or purchase transaction may make a new AOCI opt-out election in the Call Report (for a state member bank), or FR Y-9C or FR Y-9SP, as applicable (for bank holding companies or savings and loan holding companies) filed by the resulting Board-regulated institution for the first reporting period after it is required to comply with subpart A of this part as set forth in § 217.1(f) if:
(A) Other than as set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(C) of this section, the
merger, acquisition, or purchase transaction involved the acquisition or purchase of all or substantially all of either the assets or voting stock of another banking organization that is subject to regulatory capital requirements issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency;
22
22
These rules include the regulatory capital requirements set forth at 12 CFR part 3 (OCC); 12 CFR part 225 (Board); 12 CFR part 325, and 12 CFR part 390 (FDIC).
(B) Prior to the merger, acquisition, or purchase transaction, only one of the banking organizations involved in the transaction made an AOCI opt-out election under this section; and
(C) A Board-regulated institution may, with the prior approval of the Board, change its AOCI opt-out election under this paragraph (b) in the case of a merger, acquisition, or purchase transaction that meets the requirements set forth at paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, but does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A). In making such a determination, the Board may consider the terms of the merger, acquisition, or purchase transaction, as well as the extent of any changes to the risk profile, complexity, and scope of operations of the Board-regulated institution resulting from the merger, acquisition, or purchase transaction.
(3)
Regulatory capital requirement for insurance underwriting risks.
A bank holding company or savings and loan holding company must deduct an amount equal to the regulatory capital requirement for insurance underwriting risks established by the regulator of any insurance underwriting activities of the company. The bank holding company or savings and loan holding company must take the deduction 50 percent from tier 1 capital and 50 percent from tier 2 capital. If the amount deductible from tier 2 capital exceeds the Board-regulated institution's tier 2 capital, the Board-regulated institution must deduct the excess from tier 1 capital.
(c)
Deductions from regulatory capital related to investments in capital instruments or covered debt instruments
23
—(1)
Investment in the Board-regulated institution's own capital or covered debt instruments.
A Board-regulated institution must deduct an investment in the Board-regulated institution's own capital instruments, and an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution also must deduct an investment in the Board-regulated institution's own covered debt instruments, as follows:
23
The Board-regulated institution must calculate amounts deducted under paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section after it calculates the amount of ALLL or AACL, as applicable, includable in tier 2 capital under § 217.20(d)(3).
(i) A Board-regulated institution must deduct an investment in the Board-regulated institution's own common stock instruments from its common equity tier 1 capital elements to the extent such instruments are not excluded from regulatory capital under § 217.20(b)(1);
(ii) A Board-regulated institution must deduct an investment in the Board-regulated institution's own additional tier 1 capital instruments from its additional tier 1 capital elements;
(iii) A Board-regulated institution must deduct an investment in the Board-regulated institution's own tier 2 capital instruments from its tier 2 capital elements; and
(iv) An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must deduct an investment in the institution's own covered debt instruments from its tier 2 capital elements, as applicable. If the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution does not have a sufficient amount of tier 2 capital to effect this deduction, the institution must deduct the shortfall amount from the next higher (that is, more subordinated) component of regulatory capital.
(2)
Corresponding deduction approach.
For purposes of subpart C of this part, the corresponding deduction approach is the methodology used for the deductions from regulatory capital related to reciprocal cross holdings (as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section), investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions for a Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution (as described in
paragraph (c)(4) of this section), non-significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions for an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution (as described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section), and non-common stock significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions for an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution (as described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section). Under the corresponding deduction approach, a Board-regulated institution must make deductions from the component of capital for which the underlying instrument would qualify if it were issued by the Board-regulated institution itself, as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. If the Board-regulated institution does not have a sufficient amount of a specific component of capital to effect the required deduction, the shortfall must be deducted according to paragraph (f) of this section.
(i) If an investment is in the form of an instrument issued by a financial institution that is not a regulated financial institution, the Board-regulated institution must treat the instrument as:
(A) A common equity tier 1 capital instrument if it is common stock or represents the most subordinated claim in a liquidation of the financial institution; and
(B) An additional tier 1 capital instrument if it is subordinated to all creditors of the financial institution and is senior in liquidation only to common shareholders.
(ii) If an investment is in the form of an instrument issued by a regulated financial institution and the instrument does not meet the criteria for common equity tier 1, additional tier 1 or tier 2 capital instruments under § 217.20, the Board-regulated institution must treat the instrument as:
(A) A common equity tier 1 capital instrument if it is common stock included in GAAP equity or represents the most subordinated claim in liquidation of the financial institution;
(B) An additional tier 1 capital instrument if it is included in GAAP equity, subordinated to all creditors of the financial institution, and senior in a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding only to common shareholders;
(C) A tier 2 capital instrument if it is not included in GAAP equity but considered regulatory capital by the primary supervisor of the financial institution; and
(D) For an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, a tier 2 capital instrument if it is a covered debt instrument.
(iii) If an investment is in the form of a non-qualifying capital instrument (as defined in § 217.300(c)), the Board-regulated institution must treat the instrument as:
(A) An additional tier 1 capital instrument if such instrument was included in the issuer's tier 1 capital prior to May 19, 2010; or
(B) A tier 2 capital instrument if such instrument was included in the issuer's tier 2 capital (but not includable in tier 1 capital) prior to May 19, 2010.
(3)
Reciprocal cross holdings in the capital of financial institutions.
(i) A Board-regulated institution must deduct an investment in the capital of other financial institutions that it holds reciprocally, where such reciprocal cross holdings result from a formal or informal arrangement to swap, exchange, or otherwise intend to hold each other's capital instruments, by applying the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(ii) An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must deduct an investment in any covered debt instrument that the institution holds reciprocally with another financial institution, where such reciprocal cross holdings result from a formal or informal arrangement to swap, exchange, or otherwise intend to hold each other's capital or covered debt instruments, by applying the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(4)
Investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions.
A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must deduct its investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions (as defined in § 217.2) that exceed 25 percent of the sum of
the Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements minus all deductions from and adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital elements required under paragraphs (a) through (c)(3) of this section by applying the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
24
The deductions described in this section are net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. In addition, with the prior written approval of the Board, a Board-regulated institution that underwrites a failed underwriting, for the period of time stipulated by the Board, is not required to deduct an investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution pursuant to this paragraph (c) to the extent the investment is related to the failed underwriting.
25
24
With the prior written approval of the Board, for the period of time stipulated by the Board, a Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution is not required to deduct an investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution pursuant to this paragraph if the financial institution is in distress and if such investment is made for the purpose of providing financial support to the financial institution, as determined by the Board.
25
Any investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions that do not exceed the 25 percent threshold for investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions under this section must be assigned the appropriate risk weight under subparts D or F of this part, as applicable.
(5)
Non-significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions.
(i) An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must deduct its non-significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions (as defined in § 217.2) that, in the aggregate and together with any investment in a covered debt instrument (as defined in § 217.2) issued by a financial institution in which the Board-regulated institution does not have a significant investment in the capital of the unconsolidated financial institution (as defined in § 217.2), exceeds 10 percent of the sum of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements minus all deductions from and adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital elements required under paragraphs (a) through (c)(3) of this section (the 10 percent threshold for non-significant investments) by applying the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
26
The deductions described in this paragraph are net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. In addition, with the prior written approval of the Board, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution that underwrites a failed underwriting, for the period of time stipulated by the Board, is not required to deduct from capital a non-significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution or an investment in a covered debt instrument pursuant to this paragraph (c)(5) to the extent the investment is related to the failed underwriting.
27
For any calculation under this paragraph (c)(5)(i), an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may exclude the amount of an investment in a covered debt instrument under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) or (iv) of this section, as applicable.
26
With the prior written approval of the Board, for the period of time stipulated by the Board, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution is not required to deduct a non-significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution or an investment in a covered debt instrument pursuant to this paragraph if the financial institution is in distress and if such investment is made for the purpose of providing financial support to the financial institution, as determined by the Board.
27
Any non-significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution or any investment in a covered debt instrument that is not required to be deducted under this paragraph (c)(5) or otherwise under this section must be assigned the appropriate risk weight under subparts D, E, or F of this part, as applicable.
(ii) For an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, the amount to be deducted under this paragraph (c)(5) from a specific capital component is equal to:
(A) The advanced approaches Board-regulated institution's aggregate non-significant investments in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution and, if applicable, any investments in a covered debt instrument subject to deduction under this paragraph (c)(5),
exceeding the 10 percent threshold for non-significant investments, multiplied by
(B) The ratio of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution's aggregate non-significant investments in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution (in the form of such capital component) to the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution's total non-significant investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, with an investment in a covered debt instrument being treated as tier 2 capital for this purpose.
(iii) For purposes of applying the deduction under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution that is not a global systemically important BHC or a subsidiary of a global systemically important banking organization, as defined in 12 CFR 252.2, may exclude from the deduction the amount of the Board-regulated institution's gross long position, in accordance with § 217.22(h)(2), in investments in covered debt instruments issued by financial institutions in which the Board-regulated institution does not have a significant investment in the capital of the unconsolidated financial institutions up to an amount equal to 5 percent of the sum of the Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements minus all deductions from and adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital elements required under paragraphs (a) through (c)(3) of this section, net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(iv) Prior to applying the deduction under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section:
(A) A global systemically important BHC or a Board-regulated institution that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC may designate any investment in a covered debt instrument as an excluded covered debt instrument, as defined in § 217.2.
(B) A global systemically important BHC or a Board-regulated institution that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC must deduct, according to the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, its gross long position, calculated in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section, in a covered debt instrument that was originally designated as an excluded covered debt instrument, in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, but no longer qualifies as an excluded covered debt instrument.
(C) A global systemically important BHC or a Board-regulated institution that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC must deduct according to the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section the amount of its gross long position, calculated in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section, in a direct or indirect investment in a covered debt instrument that was originally designated as an excluded covered debt instrument, in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, and has been held for more than thirty business days.
(D) A global systemically important BHC or a Board-regulated institution that is a subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC must deduct according to the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section its gross long position, calculated in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section, of its aggregate position in excluded covered debt instruments that exceeds 5 percent of the sum of the Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements minus all deductions from and adjustments to common equity tier 1 capital elements required under paragraphs (a) through (c)(3) of this section, net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(6)
Significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions that are not in the form of common stock.
If an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution has a significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must deduct from capital any such investment issued by the unconsolidated financial institution that is held by the Board-regulated institution other than an investment in the form of common stock, as well as any investment in a covered debt instrument issued by the unconsolidated financial
institution, by applying the corresponding deduction approach in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
28
The deductions described in this section are net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. In addition, with the prior written approval of the Board, for the period of time stipulated by the Board, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution that underwrites a failed underwriting is not required to deduct the significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution or an investment in a covered debt instrument pursuant to this paragraph (c)(6) if such investment is related to such failed underwriting.
28
With prior written approval of the Board, for the period of time stipulated by the Board, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution is not required to deduct a significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, including an investment in a covered debt instrument, under this paragraph (c)(6) or otherwise under this section if such investment is made for the purpose of providing financial support to the financial institution as determined by the Board.
(d)
MSAs and certain DTAs subject to common equity tier 1 capital deduction thresholds.
(1) A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must make deductions from regulatory capital as described in this paragraph (d)(1).
(i) The Board-regulated institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the amount of each of the items set forth in this paragraph (d)(1) that, individually, exceeds 25 percent of the sum of the Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements, less adjustments to and deductions from common equity tier 1 capital required under paragraphs (a) through (c)(3) of this section (the 25 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold).
29
29
The amount of the items in paragraph (d)(1) of this section that is not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital must be included in the risk-weighted assets of the Board-regulated institution and assigned a 250 percent risk weight.
(ii) The Board-regulated institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the amount of DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Board-regulated institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. A Board-regulated institution is not required to deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements DTAs (net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with § 217.22(e)) arising from timing differences that the Board-regulated institution could realize through net operating loss carrybacks. The Board-regulated institution must risk weight these assets at 100 percent. For a state member bank that is a member of a consolidated group for tax purposes, the amount of DTAs that could be realized through net operating loss carrybacks may not exceed the amount that the state member bank could reasonably expect to have refunded by its parent holding company.
(iii) The Board-regulated institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the amount of MSAs net of associated DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(iv) For purposes of calculating the amount of DTAs subject to deduction pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a Board-regulated institution may exclude DTAs and DTLs relating to adjustments made to common equity tier 1 capital under paragraph (b) of this section. A Board-regulated institution that elects to exclude DTAs relating to adjustments under paragraph (b) of this section also must exclude DTLs and must do so consistently in all future calculations. A Board-regulated institution may change its exclusion preference only after obtaining the prior approval of the Board.
(2) An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must make deductions from regulatory capital as described in this paragraph (d)(2).
(i) An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the amount of each of the items set forth in this paragraph (d)(2) that, individually, exceeds 10 percent of the sum
of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements, less adjustments to and deductions from common equity tier 1 capital required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section (the 10 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold).
(A) DTAs arising from temporary differences that the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution is not required to deduct from the sum of its common equity tier 1 capital elements DTAs (net of any related valuation allowances and net of DTLs, in accordance with § 217.22(e)) arising from timing differences that the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution could realize through net operating loss carrybacks. The advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must risk weight these assets at 100 percent. For a state member bank that is a member of a consolidated group for tax purposes, the amount of DTAs that could be realized through net operating loss carrybacks may not exceed the amount that the state member bank could reasonably expect to have refunded by its parent holding company.
(B) MSAs net of associated DTLs, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(C) Significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in the form of common stock, net of associated DTLs in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
30
Significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in the form of common stock subject to the 10 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold may be reduced by any goodwill embedded in the valuation of such investments deducted by the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section. In addition, with the prior written approval of the Board, for the period of time stipulated by the Board, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution that underwrites a failed underwriting is not required to deduct a significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution in the form of common stock pursuant to this paragraph (d)(2) if such investment is related to such failed underwriting.
30
With the prior written approval of the Board, for the period of time stipulated by the Board, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution is not required to deduct a significant investment in the capital instrument of an unconsolidated financial institution in distress in the form of common stock pursuant to this section if such investment is made for the purpose of providing financial support to the financial institution as determined by the Board.
(ii) An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital elements the items listed in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section that are not deducted as a result of the application of the 10 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold, and that, in aggregate, exceed 17.65 percent of the sum of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital elements, minus adjustments to and deductions from common equity tier 1 capital required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, minus the items listed in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section (the 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction threshold). Any goodwill that has been deducted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section can be excluded from the significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in the form of common stock.
31
31
The amount of the items in paragraph (d)(2) of this section that is not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital pursuant to this section must be included in the risk-weighted assets of the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution and assigned a 250 percent risk weight.
(iii) For purposes of calculating the amount of DTAs subject to the 10 and 15 percent common equity tier 1 capital deduction thresholds, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may exclude DTAs and DTLs relating to adjustments made to common equity tier 1 capital under paragraph (b) of this section. An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution
that elects to exclude DTAs relating to adjustments under paragraph (b) of this section also must exclude DTLs and must do so consistently in all future calculations. An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may change its exclusion preference only after obtaining the prior approval of the Board.
(e)
Netting of DTLs against assets subject to deduction.
(1) Except as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, netting of DTLs against assets that are subject to deduction under this section is permitted, but not required, if the following conditions are met:
(i) The DTL is associated with the asset; and
(ii) The DTL would be extinguished if the associated asset becomes impaired or is derecognized under GAAP.
(2) A DTL may only be netted against a single asset.
(3) For purposes of calculating the amount of DTAs subject to the threshold deduction in paragraph (d) of this section, the amount of DTAs that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, net of any related valuation allowances, and of DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Board-regulated institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances, may be offset by DTLs (that have not been netted against assets subject to deduction pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section) subject to the conditions set forth in this paragraph (e).
(i) Only the DTAs and DTLs that relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority and that are eligible for offsetting by that authority may be offset for purposes of this deduction.
(ii) The amount of DTLs that the Board-regulated institution nets against DTAs that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, net of any related valuation allowances, and against DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Board-regulated institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks, net of any related valuation allowances, must be allocated in proportion to the amount of DTAs that arise from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (net of any related valuation allowances, but before any offsetting of DTLs) and of DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Board-regulated institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks (net of any related valuation allowances, but before any offsetting of DTLs), respectively.
(4) A Board-regulated institution may offset DTLs embedded in the carrying value of a leveraged lease portfolio acquired in a business combination that are not recognized under GAAP against DTAs that are subject to paragraph (d) of this section in accordance with this paragraph (e).
(5) A Board-regulated institution must net DTLs against assets subject to deduction under this section in a consistent manner from reporting period to reporting period. A Board-regulated institution may change its preference regarding the manner in which it nets DTLs against specific assets subject to deduction under this section only after obtaining the prior approval of the Board.
(f)
Insufficient amounts of a specific regulatory capital component to effect deductions.
Under the corresponding deduction approach, if a Board-regulated institution does not have a sufficient amount of a specific component of capital to effect the full amount of any deduction from capital required under paragraph (d) of this section, the Board-regulated institution must deduct the shortfall amount from the next higher (that is, more subordinated) component of regulatory capital. Any investment by an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution in a covered debt instrument must be treated as an investment in the tier 2 capital for purposes of this paragraph (f). Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a qualifying community banking organization (as defined in § 217.12) that has elected to use the community bank leverage ratio framework pursuant to § 217.12 is not required to deduct any shortfall of tier 2 capital from its additional tier 1 capital or common equity tier 1 capital.
(g)
Treatment of assets that are deducted.
A Board-regulated institution must exclude from standardized total risk-weighted assets and, as applicable,
advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets any item that is required to be deducted from regulatory capital.
(h)
Net long position
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of calculating the amount of a Board-regulated institution's investment in the Board regulated institution's own capital instrument, investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, and investment in a covered debt instrument under this section, the institution's net long position is the gross long position in the underlying instrument determined in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section, as adjusted to recognize any short position by the Board-regulated institution in the same instrument subject to paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(2)
Gross long position.
A gross long position is determined as follows:
(i) For an equity exposure that is held directly by the Board-regulated institution, the adjusted carrying value of the exposure as that term is defined in § 217.51(b);
(ii) For an exposure that is held directly and that is not an equity exposure or a securitization exposure, the exposure amount as that term is defined in § 217.2;
(iii) For each indirect exposure, the Board-regulated institution's carrying value of its investment in an investment fund or, alternatively:
(A) A Board-regulated institution may, with the prior approval of the Board, use a conservative estimate of the amount of its indirect investment in the Board-regulated institution's own capital instruments, its indirect investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, or its indirect investment in a covered debt instrument held through a position in an index, as applicable; or
(B) A Board-regulated institution may calculate the gross long position for an indirect exposure to the Board-regulated institution's own capital instruments, the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, or a covered debt instrument by multiplying the Board-regulated institution's carrying value of its investment in the investment fund by either:
(
1
) The highest stated investment limit (in percent) for an investment in the Board-regulated institution's own capital instruments, an investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, or an investment in a covered debt instrument, as applicable, as stated in the prospectus, partnership agreement, or similar contract defining permissible investments of the investment fund; or
(
2
) The investment fund's actual holdings (in percent) of the investment in the Board-regulated institution's own capital instruments, investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, or investment in a covered debt instrument, as applicable; and
(iv) For a synthetic exposure, the amount of the Board-regulated institution's loss on the exposure if the reference capital or covered debt instrument were to have a value of zero.
(3)
Adjustments to reflect a short position.
In order to adjust the gross long position to recognize a short position in the same instrument under paragraph (h)(1) of this section, the following criteria must be met:
(i) The maturity of the short position must match the maturity of the long position, or the short position must have a residual maturity of at least one year (maturity requirement); or
(ii) For a position that is a trading asset or trading liability (whether on- or off-balance sheet) as reported on the Board-regulated institution's Call Report, for a state member bank, or FR Y-9C, for a bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or intermediate holding company, as applicable, if the Board-regulated institution has a contractual right or obligation to sell the long position at a specific point in time and the counterparty to the contract has an obligation to purchase the long position if the Board-regulated institution exercises its right to sell, this point in time may be treated as the maturity of the long position such that the maturity of the long position and short position are deemed to match for purposes of the maturity requirement, even if the maturity of the short position is less than one year; and
(iii) For an investment in a Board-regulated institution's own capital instrument under paragraph (c)(1) of this
section, an investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution under paragraphs (c)(4) through (6) and (d) of this section (as applicable), and an investment in a covered debt instrument under paragraphs (c)(1), (5), and (6) of this section:
(A) The Board-regulated institution may only net a short position against a long position in an investment in the Board-regulated institution's own capital instrument or own covered debt instrument under paragraph (c)(1) of this section if the short position involves no counterparty credit risk;
(B) A gross long position in an investment in the Board-regulated institution's own capital instrument, an investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution, or an investment in a covered debt instrument due to a position in an index may be netted against a short position in the same index;
(C) Long and short positions in the same index without maturity dates are considered to have matching maturities; and
(D) A short position in an index that is hedging a long cash or synthetic position in an investment in the Board-regulated institution's own capital instrument, an investment in the capital instrument of an unconsolidated financial institution, or an investment in a covered debt instrument can be decomposed to provide recognition of the hedge. More specifically, the portion of the index that is composed of the same underlying instrument that is being hedged may be used to offset the long position if both the long position being hedged and the short position in the index are reported as a trading asset or trading liability (whether on- or off-balance sheet) on the Board-regulated institution's Call Report, for a state member bank, or FR Y-9C, for a bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or intermediate holding company, as applicable, and the hedge is deemed effective by the Board-regulated institution's internal control processes, which have not been found to be inadequate by the Board.
[Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, 62285, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 62287, Oct. 11, 2013; 79 FR 78295, Dec. 30, 2014; 80 FR 41419, July 15, 2015; 84 FR 4242, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 35261, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 59271, Nov. 1, 2019; 84 FR 61798, Nov. 13, 2019; 86 FR 735, Jan. 6, 2021]

# Editorial Note:
At 84 FR 35261, July 22, 2019, § 217.22 was amended in part by revising (a)(1)(i); however, the amendment could not be incorporated due to inaccurate amendatory instruction.
§§ 217.23-217.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Risk-Weighted Assets—Standardized Approach
§ 217.30
Applicability.
(a) This subpart sets forth methodologies for determining risk-weighted assets for purposes of the generally applicable risk-based capital requirements for all Board-regulated institutions.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a market risk Board-regulated institution must exclude from its calculation of risk-weighted assets under this subpart the risk-weighted asset amounts of all covered positions, as defined in subpart F of this part (except foreign exchange positions that are not trading positions, OTC derivative positions, cleared transactions, and unsettled transactions).

# Risk-Weighted Assets For General Credit Risk
§ 217.31
Mechanics for calculating risk-weighted assets for general credit risk.
(a)
General risk-weighting requirements.
A Board-regulated institution must apply risk weights to its exposures as follows:
(1) A Board-regulated institution must determine the exposure amount of each on-balance sheet exposure, each OTC derivative contract, and each off-balance sheet commitment, trade and transaction-related contingency, guarantee, repo-style transaction, financial standby letter of credit, forward agreement, or other similar transaction that is not:
(i) An unsettled transaction subject to § 217.38;
(ii) A cleared transaction subject to § 217.35;
(iii) A default fund contribution subject to § 217.35;
(iv) A securitization exposure subject to §§ 217.41 through 217.45; or
(v) An equity exposure (other than an equity OTC derivative contract) subject to §§ 217.51 through 217.53.
(2) The Board-regulated institution must multiply each exposure amount by the risk weight appropriate to the exposure based on the exposure type or counterparty, eligible guarantor, or financial collateral to determine the risk-weighted asset amount for each exposure.
(b) Total risk-weighted assets for general credit risk equals the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts calculated under this section.
§ 217.32
General risk weights.
(a)
Sovereign exposures
—(1)
Exposures to the U.S. government.
(i) Notwithstanding any other requirement in this subpart, a Board-regulated institution must assign a zero percent risk weight to:
(A) An exposure to the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency; and
(B) The portion of an exposure that is directly and unconditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency. This includes a deposit or other exposure, or the portion of a deposit or other exposure, that is insured or otherwise unconditionally guaranteed by the FDIC or National Credit Union Administration.
(ii) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to the portion of an exposure that is conditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency. This includes an exposure, or the portion of an exposure, that is conditionally guaranteed by the FDIC or National Credit Union Administration.
(iii) A Board-regulated institution must assign a zero percent risk weight to a Paycheck Protection Program covered loan as defined in section 7(a)(36) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36)).
(2)
Other sovereign exposures.
In accordance with Table 1 to § 217.32, a Board-regulated institution must assign a risk weight to a sovereign exposure based on the CRC applicable to the sovereign or the sovereign's OECD membership status if there is no CRC applicable to the sovereign.
Table 1 to § 217.32—Risk Weights for Sovereign Exposures
Risk weight
(in percent)
CRC:
0-1
0
2
20
3
50
4-6
100
7
150
OECD Member with No CRC
0
Non-OECD Member with No CRC
100
Sovereign Default
150
(3)
Certain sovereign exposures.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a Board-regulated institution may assign to a sovereign exposure a risk weight that is lower than the applicable risk weight in Table 1 to § 217.32 if:
(i) The exposure is denominated in the sovereign's currency;
(ii) The Board-regulated institution has at least an equivalent amount of liabilities in that currency; and
(iii) The risk weight is not lower than the risk weight that the home country supervisor allows Board-regulated institutions under its jurisdiction to assign to the same exposures to the sovereign.
(4)
Exposures to a non-OECD member sovereign with no CRC.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3), (a)(5) and (a)(6) of this section, a Board-regulated institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a sovereign if the sovereign does not have a CRC.
(5)
Exposures to an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, a Board-regulated institution must assign a 0 percent risk weight to an exposure to a sovereign that is a member of the OECD if the sovereign does not have a CRC.
(6)
Sovereign default.
A Board-regulated institution must assign a 150 percent risk weight to a sovereign exposure immediately upon determining
that an event of sovereign default has occurred, or if an event of sovereign default has occurred during the previous five years.
(b)
Certain supranational entities and multilateral development banks (MDBs).
A Board-regulated institution must assign a zero percent risk weight to an exposure to the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, or an MDB.
(c)
Exposures to GSEs.
(1) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a GSE other than an equity exposure or preferred stock.
(2) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to preferred stock issued by a GSE.
(d)
Exposures to depository institutions, foreign banks, and credit unions
—(1)
Exposures to U.S. depository institutions and credit unions.
A Board-regulated institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a depository institution or credit union that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, except as otherwise provided under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(2)
Exposures to foreign banks.
(i) Except as otherwise provided under paragraphs (d)(2)(iii), (d)(2)(v), and (d)(3) of this section, a Board-regulated institution must assign a risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank, in accordance with Table 2 to § 217.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the foreign bank's home country or the OECD membership status of the foreign bank's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the foreign bank's home country.
Table 2 to § 217.32—Risk Weights for Exposures to Foreign Banks
Risk weight
(in percent)
CRC:
0-1
20
2
50
3
100
4-7
150
OECD Member with No CRC
20
Non-OECD Member with No CRC
100
Sovereign Default
150
(ii) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank whose home country is a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC.
(iii) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 20 percent risk-weight to an exposure that is a self-liquidating, trade-related contingent item that arises from the movement of goods and that has a maturity of three months or less to a foreign bank whose home country has a CRC of 0, 1, 2, or 3, or is an OECD member with no CRC.
(iv) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank whose home country is not a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC, with the exception of self-liquidating, trade-related contingent items that arise from the movement of goods, and that have a maturity of three months or less, which may be assigned a 20 percent risk weight.
(v) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 150 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank immediately upon determining that an event of sovereign default has occurred in the bank's home country, or if an event of sovereign default has occurred in the foreign bank's home country during the previous five years.
(3) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a financial institution if the exposure may be included in that financial institution's capital unless the exposure is:
(i) An equity exposure;
(ii) A significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution in the form of common stock pursuant to § 217.22(d)(2)(i)(c);
(iii) Deducted from regulatory capital under § 217.22; or
(iv) Subject to a 150 percent risk weight under paragraph (d)(2)(iv) or Table 2 of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(e)
Exposures to public sector entities (PSEs)
—(1)
Exposures to U.S. PSEs.
(i) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof.
(ii) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof.
(2)
Exposures to foreign PSEs.
(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of this section, a Board-regulated institution must assign a risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE, in accordance with Table 3 to § 217.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the PSE's home country or the OECD membership status of the PSE's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the PSE's home country.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of this section, a Board-regulated institution must assign a risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE, in accordance with Table 4 to § 217.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the PSE's home country; or the OECD membership status of the PSE's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the PSE's home country.
(3) A Board-regulated institution may assign a lower risk weight than would otherwise apply under Tables 3 or 4 to § 217.32 to an exposure to a foreign PSE if:
(i) The PSE's home country supervisor allows banks under its jurisdiction to assign a lower risk weight to such exposures; and
(ii) The risk weight is not lower than the risk weight that corresponds to the PSE's home country in accordance with Table 1 to § 217.32.
Table 3 to § 217.32—Risk Weights for Non-U.S. PSE General Obligations
Risk weight
(in percent)
CRC:
0-1
20
2
50
3
100
4-7
150
OECD Member with No CRC
20
Non-OECD Member with No CRC
100
Sovereign Default
150
Table 4 to § 217.32—Risk Weights for Non-U.S. PSE Revenue Obligations
Risk weight
(in percent)
CRC:
0-1
50
2-3
100
4-7
150
OECD Member with No CRC
50
Non-OECD Member with No CRC
100
Sovereign Default
150
(4)
Exposures to PSEs from an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.
(i) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE whose home country is an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.
(ii) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE whose home country is an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.
(5)
Exposures to PSEs whose home country is not an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.
A Board-regulated institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a PSE whose home country is not a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC.
(6) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 150 percent risk weight to a PSE exposure immediately upon determining that an event of sovereign default has occurred in a PSE's home country or if an event of sovereign default has occurred in the PSE's home country during the previous five years.
(f)
Corporate exposures.
(1) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to all its corporate exposures, except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section.
(2) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 2 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the Board-regulated institution posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 217.35(b)(3)(i)(A) and a 4 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the Board-regulated institution posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 217.35(b)(3)(i)(B).
(3) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 2 percent risk weight to
an exposure to a QCCP arising from the Board-regulated institution posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 217.35(c)(3)(i).
(g)
Residential mortgage exposures.
(1) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a first-lien residential mortgage exposure that:
(i) Is secured by a property that is either owner-occupied or rented;
(ii) Is made in accordance with prudent underwriting standards, including relating to the loan amount as a percent of the appraised value of the property; A Board-regulated institution must base all estimates of a property's value on an appraisal or evaluation of the property that satisfies subpart E of 12 CFR part 208.
(iii) Is not 90 days or more past due or carried in nonaccrual status; and
(iv) Is not restructured or modified.
(2) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to a first-lien residential mortgage exposure that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and to junior-lien residential mortgage exposures.
(3) For the purpose of this paragraph (g), if a Board-regulated institution holds the first-lien and junior-lien(s) residential mortgage exposures, and no other party holds an intervening lien, the Board-regulated institution must combine the exposures and treat them as a single first-lien residential mortgage exposure.
(4) A loan modified or restructured solely pursuant to the U.S. Treasury's Home Affordable Mortgage Program is not modified or restructured for purposes of this section.
(h)
Pre-sold construction loans.
A Board-regulated institution must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a pre-sold construction loan unless the purchase contract is cancelled, in which case a Board-regulated institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight.
(i)
Statutory multifamily mortgages.
A Board-regulated institution must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a statutory multifamily mortgage.
(j)
High-volatility commercial real estate (HVCRE) exposures.
A Board-regulated institution must assign a 150 percent risk weight to an HVCRE exposure.
(k)
Past due exposures.
Except for an exposure to a sovereign entity or a residential mortgage exposure or a policy loan, if an exposure is 90 days or more past due or on nonaccrual:
(1) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 150 percent risk weight to the portion of the exposure that is not guaranteed or that is unsecured;
(2) A Board-regulated institution may assign a risk weight to the guaranteed portion of a past due exposure based on the risk weight that applies under § 217.36 if the guarantee or credit derivative meets the requirements of that section; and
(3) A Board-regulated institution may assign a risk weight to the collateralized portion of a past due exposure based on the risk weight that applies under § 217.37 if the collateral meets the requirements of that section.
(l)
Other assets.
(1)(i) A bank holding company or savings and loan holding company must assign a zero percent risk weight to cash owned and held in all offices of subsidiary depository institutions or in transit, and to gold bullion held in a subsidiary depository institution's own vaults, or held in another depository institution's vaults on an allocated basis, to the extent the gold bullion assets are offset by gold bullion liabilities.
(ii) A state member bank must assign a zero percent risk weight to cash owned and held in all offices of the state member bank or in transit; to gold bullion held in the state member bank's own vaults or held in another depository institution's vaults on an allocated basis, to the extent the gold bullion assets are offset by gold bullion liabilities; and to exposures that arise from the settlement of cash transactions (such as equities, fixed income, spot foreign exchange and spot commodities) with a central counterparty where there is no assumption of ongoing counterparty credit risk by the central counterparty after settlement of the trade and associated default fund contributions.
(2) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 20 percent risk weight to cash items in the process of collection.
(3) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Board-regulated institution could realize through net operating loss carrybacks.
(4) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 250 percent risk weight to the portion of each of the following items to the extent it is not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital pursuant to § 217.22(d):
(i) MSAs; and
(ii) DTAs arising from temporary differences that the Board-regulated institution could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks.
(5) A Board-regulated institution must assign a 100 percent risk weight to all assets not specifically assigned a different risk weight under this subpart and that are not deducted from tier 1 or tier 2 capital pursuant to § 217.22.
(6) Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, a state member bank may assign an asset that is not included in one of the categories provided in this section to the risk weight category applicable under the capital rules applicable to bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies under this part, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
(i) The Board-regulated institution is not authorized to hold the asset under applicable law other than debt previously contracted or similar authority; and
(ii) The risks associated with the asset are substantially similar to the risks of assets that are otherwise assigned to a risk weight category of less than 100 percent under this subpart.
(m)
Insurance assets
—(1)
Assets held in a separate account.
(i) A bank holding company or savings and loan holding company must risk-weight the individual assets held in a separate account that does not qualify as a non-guaranteed separate account as if the individual assets were held directly by the bank holding company or savings and loan holding company.
(ii) A bank holding company or savings and loan holding company must assign a zero percent risk weight to an asset that is held in a non-guaranteed separate account.
(2)
Policy loans.
A bank holding company or savings and loan holding company must assign a 20 percent risk weight to a policy loan.
[Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, 62285, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 62287, Oct. 11, 2013; 84 FR 35264, July 22, 2019; 85 FR 4417, Jan. 24, 2020; 85 FR 20393, Apr. 13, 2020; 85 FR 57961, Sept. 17, 2020]
§ 217.33
Off-balance sheet exposures.
(a)
General.
(1) A Board-regulated institution must calculate the exposure amount of an off-balance sheet exposure using the credit conversion factors (CCFs) in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Where a Board-regulated institution commits to provide a commitment, the Board-regulated institution may apply the lower of the two applicable CCFs.
(3) Where a Board-regulated institution provides a commitment structured as a syndication or participation, the Board-regulated institution is only required to calculate the exposure amount for its pro rata share of the commitment.
(4) Where a Board-regulated institution provides a commitment, enters into a repurchase agreement, or provides a credit-enhancing representation and warranty, and such commitment, repurchase agreement, or credit-enhancing representation and warranty is not a securitization exposure, the exposure amount shall be no greater than the maximum contractual amount of the commitment, repurchase agreement, or credit-enhancing representation and warranty, as applicable.
(b)
Credit conversion factors
—(1)
Zero percent CCF.
A Board-regulated institution must apply a zero percent CCF to the unused portion of a commitment that is unconditionally cancelable by the Board-regulated institution.
(2)
20 percent CCF.
A Board-regulated institution must apply a 20 percent CCF to the amount of:
(i) Commitments with an original maturity of one year or less that are not unconditionally cancelable by the Board-regulated institution; and
(ii) Self-liquidating, trade-related contingent items that arise from the
movement of goods, with an original maturity of one year or less.
(3)
50 percent CCF.
A Board-regulated institution must apply a 50 percent CCF to the amount of:
(i) Commitments with an original maturity of more than one year that are not unconditionally cancelable by the Board-regulated institution; and
(ii) Transaction-related contingent items, including performance bonds, bid bonds, warranties, and performance standby letters of credit.
(4)
100 percent CCF.
A Board-regulated institution must apply a 100 percent CCF to the amount of the following off-balance-sheet items and other similar transactions:
(i) Guarantees;
(ii) Repurchase agreements (the off-balance sheet component of which equals the sum of the current fair values of all positions the Board-regulated institution has sold subject to repurchase);
(iii) Credit-enhancing representations and warranties that are not securitization exposures;
(iv) Off-balance sheet securities lending transactions (the off-balance sheet component of which equals the sum of the current fair values of all positions the Board-regulated institution has lent under the transaction);
(v) Off-balance sheet securities borrowing transactions (the off-balance sheet component of which equals the sum of the current fair values of all non-cash positions the Board-regulated institution has posted as collateral under the transaction);
(vi) Financial standby letters of credit; and
(vii) Forward agreements.
§ 217.34
Derivative contracts.
(a)
Exposure amount for derivative contracts
—(1)
Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution.
(i) A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must use the current exposure methodology (CEM) described in paragraph (b) of this section to calculate the exposure amount for all its OTC derivative contracts, unless the Board-regulated institution makes the election provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii) A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may elect to calculate the exposure amount for all its OTC derivative contracts under the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR) in § 217.132(c) by notifying the Board, rather than calculating the exposure amount for all its derivative contracts using CEM. A Board-regulated institution that elects under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii) to calculate the exposure amount for its OTC derivative contracts under SA-CCR must apply the treatment of cleared transactions under § 217.133 to its derivative contracts that are cleared transactions and to all default fund contributions associated with such derivative contracts, rather than applying § 217.35. A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must use the same methodology to calculate the exposure amount for all its derivative contracts and, if a Board-regulated institution has elected to use SA-CCR under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii), the Board-regulated institution may change its election only with prior approval of the Board.
(2)
Advanced approaches Board-regulated institution.
An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must calculate the exposure amount for all its derivative contracts using SA-CCR in § 217.132(c) for purposes of standardized total risk-weighted assets. An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must apply the treatment of cleared transactions under § 217.133 to its derivative contracts that are cleared transactions and to all default fund contributions associated with such derivative contracts for purposes of standardized total risk-weighted assets.
(b)
Current exposure methodology exposure amount
—(1)
Single OTC derivative contract.
Except as modified by paragraph (c) of this section, the exposure amount for a single OTC derivative contract that is not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement is
equal to the sum of the Board-regulated institution's current credit exposure and potential future credit exposure (PFE) on the OTC derivative contract.
(i)
Current credit exposure.
The current credit exposure for a single OTC derivative contract is the greater of the fair value of the OTC derivative contract or zero.
(ii)
PFE.
(A) The PFE for a single OTC derivative contract, including an OTC derivative contract with a negative fair value, is calculated by multiplying the notional principal amount of the OTC derivative contract by the appropriate conversion factor in Table 1 to this section.
(B) For purposes of calculating either the PFE under this paragraph (b)(1)(ii) or the gross PFE under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section for exchange rate contracts and other similar contracts in which the notional principal amount is equivalent to the cash flows, notional principal amount is the net receipts to each party falling due on each value date in each currency.
(C) For an OTC derivative contract that does not fall within one of the specified categories in Table 1 to this section, the PFE must be calculated using the appropriate “other” conversion factor.
(D) A Board-regulated institution must use an OTC derivative contract's effective notional principal amount (that is, the apparent or stated notional principal amount multiplied by any multiplier in the OTC derivative contract) rather than the apparent or stated notional principal amount in calculating PFE.
(E) The PFE of the protection provider of a credit derivative is capped at the net present value of the amount of unpaid premiums.
Table 1 to § 217.34—Conversion Factor Matrix for Derivative Contracts
1
Remaining maturity
2
Interest rate
Foreign exchange rate and gold
Credit (investment grade reference asset)
3
Credit (non-investment-grade reference asset)
Equity
Precious metals (except gold)
Other
One year or less
0.00
0.01
0.05
0.10
0.06
0.07
0.10
Greater than one year and less than or equal to five years
0.005
0.05
0.05
0.10
0.08
0.07
0.12
Greater than five years
0.015
0.075
0.05
0.10
0.10
0.08
0.15
1
For a derivative contract with multiple exchanges of principal, the conversion factor is multiplied by the number of remaining payments in the derivative contract.
2
For an OTC derivative contract that is structured such that on specified dates any outstanding exposure is settled and the terms are reset so that the fair value of the contract is zero, the remaining maturity equals the time until the next reset date. For an interest rate derivative contract with a remaining maturity of greater than one year that meets these criteria, the minimum conversion factor is 0.005.
3
A Board-regulated institution must use the column labeled “Credit (investment-grade reference asset)” for a credit derivative whose reference asset is an outstanding unsecured long-term debt security without credit enhancement that is investment grade. A Board-regulated institution must use the column labeled “Credit (non-investment-grade reference asset)” for all other credit derivatives.
(2)
Multiple OTC derivative contracts subject to a qualifying master netting agreement.
Except as modified by paragraph (c) of this section, the exposure amount for multiple OTC derivative contracts subject to a qualifying master netting agreement is equal to the sum of the net current credit exposure and the adjusted sum of the PFE amounts for all OTC derivative contracts subject to the qualifying master netting agreement.
(i)
Net current credit exposure.
The net current credit exposure is the greater of the net sum of all positive and negative fair values of the individual OTC derivative contracts subject to the qualifying master netting agreement or zero.
(ii)
Adjusted sum of the PFE amounts.
The adjusted sum of the PFE amounts, Anet, is calculated as Anet = (0.4 × Agross) + (0.6 × NGR × Agross), where:
(A) Agross = the gross PFE (that is, the sum of the PFE amounts as determined under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section for each individual derivative contract subject to the qualifying master netting agreement); and
(B) Net-to-gross Ratio (NGR) = the ratio of the net current credit exposure to the gross current credit exposure. In calculating the NGR, the gross current credit exposure equals the sum of the
positive current credit exposures (as determined under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) of all individual derivative contracts subject to the qualifying master netting agreement.
(c)
Recognition of credit risk mitigation of collateralized OTC derivative contracts.
(1) A Board-regulated institution using CEM under paragraph (b) of this section may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral that secures an OTC derivative contract or multiple OTC derivative contracts subject to a qualifying master netting agreement (netting set) by using the simple approach in § 217.37(b).
(2) As an alternative to the simple approach, a Board-regulated institution using CEM under paragraph (b) of this section may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral that secures such a contract or netting set if the financial collateral is marked-to-fair value on a daily basis and subject to a daily margin maintenance requirement by applying a risk weight to the uncollateralized portion of the exposure, after adjusting the exposure amount calculated under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section using the collateral haircut approach in § 217.37(c). The Board-regulated institution must substitute the exposure amount calculated under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section for ΣE in the equation in § 217.37(c)(2).
(d)
Counterparty credit risk for credit derivatives
—(1)
Protection purchasers.
A Board-regulated institution that purchases a credit derivative that is recognized under § 217.36 as a credit risk mitigant for an exposure that is not a covered position under subpart F of this part is not required to compute a separate counterparty credit risk capital requirement under this subpart provided that the Board-regulated institution does so consistently for all such credit derivatives. The Board-regulated institution must either include all or exclude all such credit derivatives that are subject to a qualifying master netting agreement from any measure used to determine counterparty credit risk exposure to all relevant counterparties for risk-based capital purposes.
(2)
Protection providers.
(i) A Board-regulated institution that is the protection provider under a credit derivative must treat the credit derivative as an exposure to the underlying reference asset. The Board-regulated institution is not required to compute a counterparty credit risk capital requirement for the credit derivative under this subpart, provided that this treatment is applied consistently for all such credit derivatives. The Board-regulated institution must either include all or exclude all such credit derivatives that are subject to a qualifying master netting agreement from any measure used to determine counterparty credit risk exposure.
(ii) The provisions of this paragraph (d)(2) apply to all relevant counterparties for risk-based capital purposes unless the Board-regulated institution is treating the credit derivative as a covered position under subpart F of this part, in which case the Board-regulated institution must compute a supplemental counterparty credit risk capital requirement under this section.
(e)
Counterparty credit risk for equity derivatives.
(1) A Board-regulated institution must treat an equity derivative contract as an equity exposure and compute a risk-weighted asset amount for the equity derivative contract under §§ 217.51 through 217.53 (unless the Board-regulated institution is treating the contract as a covered position under subpart F of this part).
(2) In addition, the Board-regulated institution must also calculate a risk-based capital requirement for the counterparty credit risk of an equity derivative contract under this section if the Board-regulated institution is treating the contract as a covered position under subpart F of this part.
(3) If the Board-regulated institution risk weights the contract under the Simple Risk-Weight Approach (SRWA) in § 217.52, the Board-regulated institution may choose not to hold risk-based capital against the counterparty credit risk of the equity derivative contract, as long as it does so for all such contracts. Where the equity derivative contracts are subject to a qualified master netting agreement, a Board-regulated institution using the SRWA must either include all or exclude all of the contracts from any measure used
to determine counterparty credit risk exposure.
(f)
Clearing member Board-regulated institution's exposure amount.
The exposure amount of a clearing member Board-regulated institution using CEM under paragraph (b) of this section for a client-facing derivative transaction or netting set of client-facing derivative transactions equals the exposure amount calculated according to paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section multiplied by the scaling factor the square root of
1/2
(which equals 0.707107). If the Board-regulated institution determines that a longer period is appropriate, the Board-regulated institution must use a larger scaling factor to adjust for a longer holding period as follows:
ER24JA20.024
Where
H
= the holding period greater than or equal to five days.
Additionally, the Board may require the Board-regulated institution to set a longer holding period if the Board determines that a longer period is appropriate due to the nature, structure, or characteristics of the transaction or is commensurate with the risks associated with the transaction.
[Reg. Q, 85 FR 4417, Jan. 24, 2020]
§ 217.35
Cleared transactions.
(a)
General requirements
—(1)
Clearing member clients.
A Board-regulated institution that is a clearing member client must use the methodologies described in paragraph (b) of this section to calculate risk-weighted assets for a cleared transaction.
(2)
Clearing members.
A Board-regulated institution that is a clearing member must use the methodologies described in paragraph (c) of this section to calculate its risk-weighted assets for a cleared transaction and paragraph (d) of this section to calculate its risk-weighted assets for its default fund contribution to a CCP.
(3)
Alternate requirements.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution or a Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution and that has elected to use SA-CCR under § 217.34(a)(1) must apply § 217.133 to its derivative contracts that are cleared transactions rather than this section.
(b)
Clearing member client Board-regulated institutions
—(1)
Risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions.
(i) To determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a cleared transaction, a Board-regulated institution that is a clearing member client must multiply the trade exposure amount for the cleared transaction, calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, by the risk weight appropriate for the cleared transaction, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(ii) A clearing member client Board-regulated institution's total risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions is the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts for all its cleared transactions.
(2)
Trade exposure amount.
(i) For a cleared transaction that is either a derivative contract or a netting set of derivative contracts, the trade exposure amount equals:
(A) The exposure amount for the derivative contract or netting set of derivative contracts, calculated using the methodology used to calculate exposure amount for OTC derivative contracts under § 217.34; plus
(B) The fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member client Board-regulated institution and held by the CCP, clearing member, or custodian in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote.
(ii) For a cleared transaction that is a repo-style transaction or netting set of repo-style transactions, the trade exposure amount equals:
(A) The exposure amount for the repo-style transaction calculated using the methodologies under § 217.37(c); plus
(B) The fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member client Board-regulated institution and held by the CCP, clearing member, or custodian in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote.
(3)
Cleared transaction risk weights.
(i) For a cleared transaction with a QCCP, a clearing member client Board-regulated institution must apply a risk weight of:
(A) 2 percent if the collateral posted by the Board-regulated institution to the QCCP or clearing member is subject to an arrangement that prevents any losses to the clearing member client Board-regulated institution due to the joint default or a concurrent insolvency, liquidation, or receivership proceeding of the clearing member and any other clearing member clients of the clearing member; and the clearing member client Board-regulated institution has conducted sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintains sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that in the event of a legal challenge (including one resulting from an event of default or from liquidation, insolvency, or receivership proceedings) the relevant court and administrative authorities would find the arrangements to be legal, valid, binding and enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdictions; or
(B) 4 percent if the requirements of § 217.35(b)(3)(A) are not met.
(ii) For a cleared transaction with a CCP that is not a QCCP, a clearing member client Board-regulated institution must apply the risk weight appropriate for the CCP according to this subpart D.
(4)
Collateral.
(i) Notwithstanding any other requirements in this section, collateral posted by a clearing member client Board-regulated institution that is held by a custodian (in its capacity as custodian) in a manner that is bankruptcy remote from the CCP, clearing member, and other clearing member clients of the clearing member, is not subject to a capital requirement under this section.
(ii) A clearing member client Board-regulated institution must calculate a risk-weighted asset amount for any collateral provided to a CCP, clearing member, or custodian in connection with a cleared transaction in accordance with the requirements under this subpart D.
(c)
Clearing member Board-regulated institutions
—(1)
Risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions.
(i) To determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a cleared transaction, a clearing member Board-regulated institution must multiply the trade exposure amount for the cleared transaction, calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, by the risk weight appropriate for the cleared transaction, determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(ii) A clearing member Board-regulated institution's total risk-weighted assets for cleared transactions is the sum of the risk-weighted asset amounts for all of its cleared transactions.
(2)
Trade exposure amount.
A clearing member Board-regulated institution must calculate its trade exposure amount for a cleared transaction as follows:
(i) For a cleared transaction that is either a derivative contract or a netting set of derivative contracts, the trade exposure amount equals:
(A) The exposure amount for the derivative contract, calculated using the methodology to calculate exposure amount for OTC derivative contracts under § 217.34; plus
(B) The fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member Board-regulated institution and held by the CCP in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote.
(ii) For a cleared transaction that is a repo-style transaction or netting set of repo-style transactions, trade exposure amount equals:
(A) The exposure amount for repo-style transactions calculated using methodologies under § 217.37(c); plus
(B) The fair value of the collateral posted by the clearing member Board-regulated institution and held by the CCP in a manner that is not bankruptcy remote.
(3)
Cleared transaction risk weight.
(i) A clearing member Board-regulated institution must apply a risk weight of 2 percent to the trade exposure amount for a cleared transaction with a QCCP.
(ii) For a cleared transaction with a CCP that is not a QCCP, a clearing member Board-regulated institution must apply the risk weight appropriate for the CCP according to this subpart D.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, a clearing member Board-regulated institution may apply a risk weight of zero percent to the trade exposure amount for a cleared transaction with a CCP where the clearing member Board-regulated institution is acting as a financial intermediary on behalf of a clearing member client, the transaction offsets another transaction that satisfies the requirements set forth in § 217.3(a), and the clearing member Board-regulated institution is not obligated to reimburse the clearing member client in the event of the CCP default.
(4)
Collateral.
(i) Notwithstanding any other requirement in this section, collateral posted by a clearing member Board-regulated institution that is held by a custodian in a manner that is bankruptcy remote from the CCP is not subject to a capital requirement under this section.
(ii) A clearing member Board-regulated institution must calculate a risk-weighted asset amount for any collateral provided to a CCP, clearing member, or a custodian in connection with a cleared transaction in accordance with requirements under this subpart D.
(d)
Default fund contributions
—(1)
General requirement.
A clearing member Board-regulated institution must determine the risk-weighted asset amount for a default fund contribution to a CCP at least quarterly, or more frequently if, in the opinion of the Board-regulated institution or the Board, there is a material change in the financial condition of the CCP.
(2)
Risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to non-qualifying CCPs.
A clearing member Board-regulated institution's risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to CCPs that are not QCCPs equals the sum of such default fund contributions multiplied by 1,250 percent, or an amount determined by the Board, based on factors such as size, structure and membership characteristics of the CCP and riskiness of its transactions, in cases where such default fund contributions may be unlimited.
(3)
Risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to QCCP
s. A clearing member Board-regulated institution's risk-weighted asset amount for default fund contributions to QCCPs equals the sum of its capital requirement, K
CM
for each QCCP, as calculated under the methodology set forth in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section (Method 1), multiplied by 1,250 percent or in paragraphs (d)(3)(iv) of this section (Method 2).
(i)
Method 1.
The hypothetical capital requirement of a QCCP (K
CCP
) equals:
ER11OC13.058
Where:
(A) EBRM
i
= the exposure amount for each transaction cleared through the QCCP by clearing member i, calculated in accordance with § 217.34 for OTC derivative contracts and § 217.37(c)(2) for repo-style transactions, provided that:
(
1
) For purposes of this section, in calculating the exposure amount the Board-regulated institution may replace the formula provided in § 217.34(a)(2)(ii) with the following: Anet = (0.15 × Agross) + (0.85 × NGR × Agross); and
(
2
) For option derivative contracts that are cleared transactions, the PFE described in § 217.34(a)(1)(ii) must be adjusted by multiplying the notional principal amount of the derivative contract by the appropriate conversion factor in Table 1 to § 217.34 and the absolute value of the option's delta, that
is, the ratio of the change in the value of the derivative contract to the corresponding change in the price of the underlying asset.
(
3
) For repo-style transactions, when applying § 217.37(c)(2), the Board-regulated institution must use the methodology in § 217.37(c)(3);
(B) VM
i
= any collateral posted by clearing member i to the QCCP that it is entitled to receive from the QCCP, but has not yet received, and any collateral that the QCCP has actually received from clearing member i;
(C) IM
i
= the collateral posted as initial margin by clearing member i to the QCCP;
(D) DF
i
= the funded portion of clearing member i's default fund contribution that will be applied to reduce the QCCP's loss upon a default by clearing member i;
(E) RW = 20 percent, except when the Board has determined that a higher risk weight is more appropriate based on the specific characteristics of the QCCP and its clearing members; and
(F) Where a QCCP has provided its K
CCP
, a Board-regulated institution must rely on such disclosed figure instead of calculating K
CCP
under this paragraph (d), unless the Board-regulated institution determines that a more conservative figure is appropriate based on the nature, structure, or characteristics of the QCCP.
(ii) For a Board-regulated institution that is a clearing member of a QCCP with a default fund supported by funded commitments, K
CM
equals:
ER11OC13.016
Subscripts 1 and 2 denote the clearing members with the two largest A
Net
values. For purposes of this paragraph (d), for derivatives A
Net
is defined in § 217.34(a)(2)(ii) and for repo-style transactions, A
Net
means the exposure amount as defined in § 217.37(c)(2) using the methodology in § 217.37(c)(3);
(B) N = the number of clearing members in the QCCP;
(C) DF
CCP
= the QCCP's own funds and other financial resources that would be used to cover its losses before clearing members' default fund contributions are used to cover losses;
(D) DF
CM
= funded default fund contributions from all clearing members and any other clearing member contributed financial resources that are available to absorb mutualized QCCP losses;
(E) DF = DF
CCP
+ DF
CM
(that is, the total funded default fund contribution);
ER11OC13.017
Where:
(
1
) DF
i
= the Board-regulated institution's unfunded commitment to the default fund;
(
2
) DF
CM
= the total of all clearing members' unfunded commitment to the default fund; and
(
3
)
K*
CM
as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section.
(B) For a Board-regulated institution that is a clearing member of a QCCP with a default fund supported by unfunded commitments and is unable to calculate K
CM
using the methodology described in paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section, K
CM
equals:
ER11OC13.018
Where:
(
1
) IM
i
= the Board-regulated institution's initial margin posted to the QCCP;
(
2
) IM
CM
= the total of initial margin posted to the QCCP; and
(
3
)
K*
CM
as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section.
(iv)
Method 2.
A clearing member Board-regulated institution's risk-weighted asset amount for its default fund contribution to a QCCP, RWA
DF
, equals:
RWA
DF
= Min {12.5 * DF; 0.18 * TE}
Where:
(A) TE = the Board-regulated institution's trade exposure amount to the QCCP, calculated according to section 35(c)(2);
(B) DF = the funded portion of the Board-regulated institution's default fund contribution to the QCCP.
(4)
Total risk-weighted assets for default fund contributions.
Total risk-weighted assets for default fund contributions is the sum of a clearing member Board-regulated institution's risk-weighted assets for all of its default fund contributions to all CCPs of which the Board-regulated institution is a clearing member.
[Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 35266, July 22, 2019; 85 FR 4419, Jan. 24, 2020]
§ 217.36
Guarantees and credit derivatives: substitution treatment.
(a)
Scope
—(1)
General.
A Board-regulated institution may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative by substituting the risk weight associated with the protection provider for the risk weight assigned to an exposure, as provided under this section.
(2) This section applies to exposures for which:
(i) Credit risk is fully covered by an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative; or
(ii) Credit risk is covered on a pro rata basis (that is, on a basis in which the Board-regulated institution and the protection provider share losses proportionately) by an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative.
(3) Exposures on which there is a tranching of credit risk (reflecting at least two different levels of seniority) generally are securitization exposures subject to §§ 217.41 through 217.45.
(4) If multiple eligible guarantees or eligible credit derivatives cover a single exposure described in this section, a Board-regulated institution may treat the hedged exposure as multiple separate exposures each covered by a single eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative and may calculate a separate risk-weighted asset amount for each separate exposure as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(5) If a single eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative covers multiple hedged exposures described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a Board-regulated institution must treat each hedged exposure as covered by a separate eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative and must calculate a separate risk-weighted asset amount for each exposure as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Rules of recognition.
(1) A Board-regulated institution may only recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of eligible guarantees and eligible credit derivatives.
(2) A Board-regulated institution may only recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of an eligible credit derivative to hedge an exposure that is different from the credit derivative's reference exposure used for determining the derivative's cash settlement value, deliverable obligation, or occurrence of a credit event if:
(i) The reference exposure ranks
pari passu
with, or is subordinated to, the hedged exposure; and
(ii) The reference exposure and the hedged exposure are to the same legal entity, and legally enforceable cross-
default or cross-acceleration clauses are in place to ensure payments under the credit derivative are triggered when the obligated party of the hedged exposure fails to pay under the terms of the hedged exposure.
(c)
Substitution approach
—(1)
Full coverage.
If an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative meets the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the protection amount (P) of the guarantee or credit derivative is greater than or equal to the exposure amount of the hedged exposure, a Board-regulated institution may recognize the guarantee or credit derivative in determining the risk-weighted asset amount for the hedged exposure by substituting the risk weight applicable to the guarantor or credit derivative protection provider under this subpart D for the risk weight assigned to the exposure.
(2)
Partial coverage.
If an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative meets the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the protection amount (P) of the guarantee or credit derivative is less than the exposure amount of the hedged exposure, the Board-regulated institution must treat the hedged exposure as two separate exposures (protected and unprotected) in order to recognize the credit risk mitigation benefit of the guarantee or credit derivative.
(i) The Board-regulated institution may calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the protected exposure under this subpart D, where the applicable risk weight is the risk weight applicable to the guarantor or credit derivative protection provider.
(ii) The Board-regulated institution must calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the unprotected exposure under this subpart D, where the applicable risk weight is that of the unprotected portion of the hedged exposure.
(iii) The treatment provided in this section is applicable when the credit risk of an exposure is covered on a partial pro rata basis and may be applicable when an adjustment is made to the effective notional amount of the guarantee or credit derivative under paragraphs (d), (e), or (f) of this section.
(d)
Maturity mismatch adjustment.
(1) A Board-regulated institution that recognizes an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative in determining the risk-weighted asset amount for a hedged exposure must adjust the effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant to reflect any maturity mismatch between the hedged exposure and the credit risk mitigant.
(2) A maturity mismatch occurs when the residual maturity of a credit risk mitigant is less than that of the hedged exposure(s).
(3) The residual maturity of a hedged exposure is the longest possible remaining time before the obligated party of the hedged exposure is scheduled to fulfil its obligation on the hedged exposure. If a credit risk mitigant has embedded options that may reduce its term, the Board-regulated institution (protection purchaser) must use the shortest possible residual maturity for the credit risk mitigant. If a call is at the discretion of the protection provider, the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant is at the first call date. If the call is at the discretion of the Board-regulated institution (protection purchaser), but the terms of the arrangement at origination of the credit risk mitigant contain a positive incentive for the Board-regulated institution to call the transaction before contractual maturity, the remaining time to the first call date is the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant.
(4) A credit risk mitigant with a maturity mismatch may be recognized only if its original maturity is greater than or equal to one year and its residual maturity is greater than three months.
(5) When a maturity mismatch exists, the Board-regulated institution must apply the following adjustment to reduce the effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant: Pm = E × (t−0.25)/(T−0.25), where:
(i) Pm = effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for maturity mismatch;
(ii) E = effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant;
(iii) t = the lesser of T or the residual maturity of the credit risk mitigant, expressed in years; and
(iv) T = the lesser of five or the residual maturity of the hedged exposure, expressed in years.
(e)
Adjustment for credit derivatives without restructuring as a credit event.
If a Board-regulated institution recognizes an eligible credit derivative that does not include as a credit event a restructuring of the hedged exposure involving forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest, or fees that results in a credit loss event (that is, a charge-off, specific provision, or other similar debit to the profit and loss account), the Board-regulated institution must apply the following adjustment to reduce the effective notional amount of the credit derivative: Pr = Pm × 0.60, where:
(1) Pr = effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for lack of restructuring event (and maturity mismatch, if applicable); and
(2) Pm = effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant (adjusted for maturity mismatch, if applicable).
(f)
Currency mismatch adjustment.
(1) If a Board-regulated institution recognizes an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative that is denominated in a currency different from that in which the hedged exposure is denominated, the Board-regulated institution must apply the following formula to the effective notional amount of the guarantee or credit derivative: Pc = Pr × (1−H
FX
), where:
(i) Pc = effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant, adjusted for currency mismatch (and maturity mismatch and lack of restructuring event, if applicable);
(ii) Pr = effective notional amount of the credit risk mitigant (adjusted for maturity mismatch and lack of restructuring event, if applicable); and
(iii) H
FX
= haircut appropriate for the currency mismatch between the credit risk mitigant and the hedged exposure.
(2) A Board-regulated institution must set H
FX
equal to eight percent unless it qualifies for the use of and uses its own internal estimates of foreign exchange volatility based on a ten-business-day holding period. A Board-regulated institution qualifies for the use of its own internal estimates of foreign exchange volatility if it qualifies for the use of its own-estimates haircuts in § 217.37(c)(4).
(3) A Board-regulated institution must adjust H
FX
calculated in paragraph (f)(2) of this section upward if the Board-regulated institution revalues the guarantee or credit derivative less frequently than once every 10 business days using the following square root of time formula:
ER11OC13.021
[Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 35266, July 22, 2019]
§ 217.37
Collateralized transactions.
(a)
General.
(1) To recognize the risk-mitigating effects of financial collateral, a Board-regulated institution may use:
(i) The simple approach in paragraph (b) of this section for any exposure; or
(ii) The collateral haircut approach in paragraph (c) of this section for repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, collateralized derivative contracts, and single-product netting sets of such transactions.
(2) A Board-regulated institution may use any approach described in this section that is valid for a particular type of exposure or transaction; however, it must use the same approach for similar exposures or transactions.
(b)
The simple approach
—(1)
General requirements.
(i) A Board-regulated institution may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral that secures any exposure.
(ii) To qualify for the simple approach, the financial collateral must meet the following requirements:
(A) The collateral must be subject to a collateral agreement for at least the life of the exposure;
(B) The collateral must be revalued at least every six months; and
(C) The collateral (other than gold) and the exposure must be denominated in the same currency.
(2)
Risk weight substitution.
(i) A Board-regulated institution may apply a risk weight to the portion of an exposure that is secured by the fair value of financial collateral (that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section) based on the risk weight assigned to the collateral under this subpart D. For repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, and securities lending and borrowing transactions, the collateral is the instruments, gold, and cash the Board-regulated institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty under the transaction. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the risk weight assigned to the collateralized portion of the exposure may not be less than 20 percent.
(ii) A Board-regulated institution must apply a risk weight to the unsecured portion of the exposure based on the risk weight applicable to the exposure under this subpart.
(3)
Exceptions to the 20 percent risk-weight floor and other requirements.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section:
(i) A Board-regulated institution may assign a zero percent risk weight to an exposure to an OTC derivative contract that is marked-to-market on a daily basis and subject to a daily margin maintenance requirement, to the extent the contract is collateralized by cash on deposit.
(ii) A Board-regulated institution may assign a 10 percent risk weight to an exposure to an OTC derivative contract that is marked-to-market daily and subject to a daily margin maintenance requirement, to the extent that the contract is collateralized by an exposure to a sovereign that qualifies for a zero percent risk weight under § 217.32.
(iii) A Board-regulated institution may assign a zero percent risk weight to the collateralized portion of an exposure where:
(A) The financial collateral is cash on deposit; or
(B) The financial collateral is an exposure to a sovereign that qualifies for a zero percent risk weight under § 217.32, and the Board-regulated institution has discounted the fair value of the collateral by 20 percent.
(c)
Collateral haircut approach
—(1)
General.
A Board-regulated institution may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of financial collateral that secures an eligible margin loan, repo-style transaction, collateralized derivative contract, or single-product netting set of such transactions, and of any collateral that secures a repo-style transaction that is included in the Board-regulated institution's VaR-based measure under subpart F of this part by using the collateral haircut approach in this section. A Board-regulated institution may use the standard supervisory haircuts in paragraph (c)(3) of this section or, with prior written approval of the Board, its own estimates of haircuts according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(2)
Exposure amount equation.
A Board-regulated institution must determine the exposure amount for an eligible margin loan, repo-style transaction, collateralized derivative contract, or a single-product netting set of such transactions by setting the exposure amount equal to max {0, [(ΣE − ΣC) + Σ(Es × Hs) + Σ(Efx × Hfx)]}, where:
(i)(A) For eligible margin loans and repo-style transactions and netting sets thereof, ΣE equals the value of the exposure (the sum of the current fair values of all instruments, gold, and cash the Board-regulated institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty under the transaction (or netting set)); and
(B) For collateralized derivative contracts and netting sets thereof, ΣE equals the exposure amount of the OTC derivative contract (or netting set) calculated under § 217.34(b)(1) or (2).
(ii) ΣC equals the value of the collateral (the sum of the current fair values of all instruments, gold and cash the
Board-regulated institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty under the transaction (or netting set));
(iii) Es equals the absolute value of the net position in a given instrument or in gold (where the net position in the instrument or gold equals the sum of the current fair values of the instrument or gold the Board-regulated institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty minus the sum of the current fair values of that same instrument or gold the Board-regulated institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty);
(iv) Hs equals the market price volatility haircut appropriate to the instrument or gold referenced in Es;
(v) Efx equals the absolute value of the net position of instruments and cash in a currency that is different from the settlement currency (where the net position in a given currency equals the sum of the current fair values of any instruments or cash in the currency the Board-regulated institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral to the counterparty minus the sum of the current fair values of any instruments or cash in the currency the Board-regulated institution has borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral from the counterparty); and
(vi) Hfx equals the haircut appropriate to the mismatch between the currency referenced in Efx and the settlement currency.
(3)
Standard supervisory haircuts.
(i) A Board-regulated institution must use the haircuts for market price volatility (Hs) provided in Table 1 to § 217.37, as adjusted in certain circumstances in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3)(iii) and (iv) of this section.
Table 1 to § 217.37—Standard Supervisory Market Price Volatility Haircuts
1
Residual maturity
Haircut (in percent) assigned based on:
Sovereign issuers risk
weight under § 217.32
(in percent)
2
Zero
20 or 50
100
Non-sovereign issuers risk
weight under § 217.32
(in percent)
20
50
100
Investment grade securitization
exposures
(in percent)
Less than or equal to 1 year
0.5
1.0
15.0
1.0
2.0
4.0
4.0
Greater than 1 year and less than or equal to 5 years
2.0
3.0
15.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
12.0
Greater than 5 years
4.0
6.0
15.0
8.0
12.0
16.0
24.0
Main index equities (including convertible bonds) and gold
15.0
Other publicly traded equities (including convertible bonds)
25.0
Mutual funds
Highest haircut applicable to any security in which the fund can invest.
Cash collateral held
Zero.
Other exposure types
25.0
1
The market price volatility haircuts in Table 1 to § 217.37 are based on a 10 business-day holding period.
2
Includes a foreign PSE that receives a zero percent risk weight.
(ii) For currency mismatches, a Board-regulated institution must use a haircut for foreign exchange rate volatility (Hfx) of 8.0 percent, as adjusted in certain circumstances under paragraphs (c)(3)(iii) and (iv) of this section.
(iii) For repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions, a Board-regulated institution may multiply the standard supervisory haircuts provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section by the square root of
1/2
(which equals 0.707107). For client-facing derivative transactions, if a larger scaling factor is applied under § 217.34(f), the same factor must be used to adjust the supervisory haircuts.
(iv) If the number of trades in a netting set exceeds 5,000 at any time during a quarter, a Board-regulated institution must adjust the supervisory
haircuts provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section upward on the basis of a holding period of twenty business days for the following quarter except in the calculation of the exposure amount for purposes of § 217.35. If a netting set contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral or an OTC derivative that cannot be easily replaced, a Board-regulated institution must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward on the basis of a holding period of twenty business days. If over the two previous quarters more than two margin disputes on a netting set have occurred that lasted more than the holding period, then the Board-regulated institution must adjust the supervisory haircuts upward for that netting set on the basis of a holding period that is at least two times the minimum holding period for that netting set. A Board-regulated institution must adjust the standard supervisory haircuts upward using the following formula:
ER11OC13.022
(A) T
M
equals a holding period of longer than 10 business days for eligible margin loans and derivative contracts other than client-facing derivative transactions or longer than 5 business days for repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions;
(B) H
S
equals the standard supervisory haircut; and
(C) T
S
equals 10 business days for eligible margin loans and derivative contracts other than client-facing derivative transactions or 5 business days for repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions.
(v) If the instrument a Board-regulated institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, or posted as collateral does not meet the definition of financial collateral, the Board-regulated institution must use a 25.0 percent haircut for market price volatility (H
s
).
(4)
Own internal estimates for haircuts.
With the prior written approval of the Board, a Board-regulated institution may calculate haircuts (Hs and Hfx) using its own internal estimates of the volatilities of market prices and foreign exchange rates:
(i) To receive Board approval to use its own internal estimates, a Board-regulated institution must satisfy the following minimum standards:
(A) A Board-regulated institution must use a 99th percentile one-tailed confidence interval.
(B) The minimum holding period for a repo-style transaction and client-facing derivative transaction is five business days and for an eligible margin loan and a derivative contract other than a client-facing derivative transaction is ten business days except for transactions or netting sets for which paragraph (c)(4)(i)(C) of this section applies. When a Board-regulated institution calculates an own-estimates haircut on a T
N
-day holding period, which is different from the minimum holding period for the transaction type, the applicable haircut (H
M
) is calculated using the following square root of time formula:
ER11OC13.023
(
1
) T
M
equals 5 for repo-style transactions and client-facing derivative transactions and 10 for eligible margin loans and derivative contracts other than client-facing derivative transactions;
(
2
) T
N
equals the holding period used by the Board-regulated institution to derive H
N
; and
(
3
) H
N
equals the haircut based on the holding period T
N.
(C) If the number of trades in a netting set exceeds 5,000 at any time during a quarter, a Board-regulated institution must calculate the haircut using a minimum holding period of twenty business days for the following quarter except in the calculation of the exposure amount for purposes of § 217.35. If a netting set contains one or more trades involving illiquid collateral or an OTC derivative that cannot be easily replaced, a Board-regulated institution must calculate the haircut using a minimum holding period of twenty business days. If over the two
previous quarters more than two margin disputes on a netting set have occurred that lasted more than the holding period, then the Board-regulated institution must calculate the haircut for transactions in that netting set on the basis of a holding period that is at least two times the minimum holding period for that netting set.
(D) A Board-regulated institution is required to calculate its own internal estimates with inputs calibrated to historical data from a continuous 12-month period that reflects a period of significant financial stress appropriate to the security or category of securities.
(E) A Board-regulated institution must have policies and procedures that describe how it determines the period of significant financial stress used to calculate the Board-regulated institution's own internal estimates for haircuts under this section and must be able to provide empirical support for the period used. The Board-regulated institution must obtain the prior approval of the Board for, and notify the Board if the Board-regulated institution makes any material changes to, these policies and procedures.
(F) Nothing in this section prevents the Board from requiring a Board-regulated institution to use a different period of significant financial stress in the calculation of own internal estimates for haircuts.
(G) A Board-regulated institution must update its data sets and calculate haircuts no less frequently than quarterly and must also reassess data sets and haircuts whenever market prices change materially.
(ii) With respect to debt securities that are investment grade, a Board-regulated institution may calculate haircuts for categories of securities. For a category of securities, the Board-regulated institution must calculate the haircut on the basis of internal volatility estimates for securities in that category that are representative of the securities in that category that the Board-regulated institution has lent, sold subject to repurchase, posted as collateral, borrowed, purchased subject to resale, or taken as collateral. In determining relevant categories, the Board-regulated institution must at a minimum take into account:
(A) The type of issuer of the security;
(B) The credit quality of the security;
(C) The maturity of the security; and
(D) The interest rate sensitivity of the security.
(iii) With respect to debt securities that are not investment grade and equity securities, a Board-regulated institution must calculate a separate haircut for each individual security.
(iv) Where an exposure or collateral (whether in the form of cash or securities) is denominated in a currency that differs from the settlement currency, the Board-regulated institution must calculate a separate currency mismatch haircut for its net position in each mismatched currency based on estimated volatilities of foreign exchange rates between the mismatched currency and the settlement currency.
(v) A Board-regulated institution's own estimates of market price and foreign exchange rate volatilities may not take into account the correlations among securities and foreign exchange rates on either the exposure or collateral side of a transaction (or netting set) or the correlations among securities and foreign exchange rates between the exposure and collateral sides of the transaction (or netting set).
[Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 35266, July 22, 2019; 85 FR 4419, Jan. 24, 2020; 85 FR 57961, Sept. 17, 2020]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Unsettled Transactions
§ 217.38
Unsettled transactions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Delivery-versus-payment (DvP) transaction means a securities or commodities transaction in which the buyer is obligated to make payment only if the seller has made delivery of the securities or commodities and the seller is obligated to deliver the securities or commodities only if the buyer has made payment.
(2) Payment-versus-payment (PvP) transaction means a foreign exchange transaction in which each counterparty is obligated to make a final transfer of one or more currencies only if the other counterparty has
made a final transfer of one or more currencies.
(3) A transaction has a normal settlement period if the contractual settlement period for the transaction is equal to or less than the market standard for the instrument underlying the transaction and equal to or less than five business days.
(4) Positive current exposure of a Board-regulated institution for a transaction is the difference between the transaction value at the agreed settlement price and the current market price of the transaction, if the difference results in a credit exposure of the Board-regulated institution to the counterparty.
(b)
Scope.
This section applies to all transactions involving securities, foreign exchange instruments, and commodities that have a risk of delayed settlement or delivery. This section does not apply to:
(1) Cleared transactions that are marked-to-market daily and subject to daily receipt and payment of variation margin;
(2) Repo-style transactions, including unsettled repo-style transactions;
(3) One-way cash payments on OTC derivative contracts; or
(4) Transactions with a contractual settlement period that is longer than the normal settlement period (which are treated as OTC derivative contracts as provided in § 217.34).
(c)
System-wide failures.
In the case of a system-wide failure of a settlement, clearing system or central counterparty, the Board may waive risk-based capital requirements for unsettled and failed transactions until the situation is rectified.
(d)
Delivery-versus-payment (DvP) and payment-versus-payment (PvP) transactions.
A Board-regulated institution must hold risk-based capital against any DvP or PvP transaction with a normal settlement period if the Board-regulated institution's counterparty has not made delivery or payment within five business days after the settlement date. The Board-regulated institution must determine its risk-weighted asset amount for such a transaction by multiplying the positive current exposure of the transaction for the Board-regulated institution by the appropriate risk weight in Table 1 to § 217.38.
Table 1 to § 217.38—Risk Weights for Unsettled DvP and PvP Transactions
Number of business
days after
contractual
settlement date
Risk weight to
be applied to
positive current exposure
(in percent)
From 5 to 15
100.0
From 16 to 30
625.0
From 31 to 45
937.5
46 or more
1,250.0
(e)
Non-DvP/non-PvP (non-delivery-versus-payment/non-payment-versus-payment) transactions.
(1) A Board-regulated institution must hold risk-based capital against any non-DvP/non-PvP transaction with a normal settlement period if the Board-regulated institution has delivered cash, securities, commodities, or currencies to its counterparty but has not received its corresponding deliverables by the end of the same business day. The Board-regulated institution must continue to hold risk-based capital against the transaction until the Board-regulated institution has received its corresponding deliverables.
(2) From the business day after the Board-regulated institution has made its delivery until five business days after the counterparty delivery is due, the Board-regulated institution must calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the transaction by treating the current fair value of the deliverables owed to the Board-regulated institution as an exposure to the counterparty and using the applicable counterparty risk weight under this subpart D.
(3) If the Board-regulated institution has not received its deliverables by the fifth business day after counterparty delivery was due, the Board-regulated institution must assign a 1,250 percent risk weight to the current fair value of the deliverables owed to the Board-regulated institution.
(f)
Total risk-weighted assets for unsettled transactions.
Total risk-weighted assets for unsettled transactions is the sum of the risk-weighted asset
amounts of all DvP, PvP, and non-DvP/non-PvP transactions.
[Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 35266, July 22, 2019]
§§ 217.39-217.40
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Securitization Exposures
§ 217.41
Operational requirements for securitization exposures.
(a)
Operational criteria for traditional securitizations.
A Board-regulated institution that transfers exposures it has originated or purchased to a securitization SPE or other third party in connection with a traditional securitization may exclude the exposures from the calculation of its risk-weighted assets only if each condition in this section is satisfied. A Board-regulated institution that meets these conditions must hold risk-based capital against any credit risk it retains in connection with the securitization. A Board-regulated institution that fails to meet these conditions must hold risk-based capital against the transferred exposures as if they had not been securitized and must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from the transaction. The conditions are:
(1) The exposures are not reported on the Board-regulated institution's consolidated balance sheet under GAAP;
(2) The Board-regulated institution has transferred to one or more third parties credit risk associated with the underlying exposures;
(3) Any clean-up calls relating to the securitization are eligible clean-up calls; and
(4) The securitization does not:
(i) Include one or more underlying exposures in which the borrower is permitted to vary the drawn amount within an agreed limit under a line of credit; and
(ii) Contain an early amortization provision.
(b)
Operational criteria for synthetic securitizations.
For synthetic securitizations, a Board-regulated institution may recognize for risk-based capital purposes the use of a credit risk mitigant to hedge underlying exposures only if each condition in this paragraph (b) is satisfied. A Board-regulated institution that meets these conditions must hold risk-based capital against any credit risk of the exposures it retains in connection with the synthetic securitization. A Board-regulated institution that fails to meet these conditions or chooses not to recognize the credit risk mitigant for purposes of this section must instead hold risk-based capital against the underlying exposures as if they had not been synthetically securitized. The conditions are:
(1) The credit risk mitigant is:
(i) Financial collateral;
(ii) A guarantee that meets all criteria as set forth in the definition of “eligible guarantee” in § 217.2, except for the criteria in paragraph (3) of that definition; or
(iii) A credit derivative that meets all criteria as set forth in the definition of “eligible credit derivative” in § 217.2, except for the criteria in paragraph (3) of the definition of “eligible guarantee” in § 217.2.
(2) The Board-regulated institution transfers credit risk associated with the underlying exposures to one or more third parties, and the terms and conditions in the credit risk mitigants employed do not include provisions that:
(i) Allow for the termination of the credit protection due to deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(ii) Require the Board-regulated institution to alter or replace the underlying exposures to improve the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(iii) Increase the Board-regulated institution's cost of credit protection in response to deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(iv) Increase the yield payable to parties other than the Board-regulated institution in response to a deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures; or
(v) Provide for increases in a retained first loss position or credit enhancement provided by the Board-regulated institution after the inception of the securitization;
(3) The Board-regulated institution obtains a well-reasoned opinion from
legal counsel that confirms the enforceability of the credit risk mitigant in all relevant jurisdictions; and
(4) Any clean-up calls relating to the securitization are eligible clean-up calls.
(c)
Due diligence requirements for securitization exposures.
(1) Except for exposures that are deducted from common equity tier 1 capital and exposures subject to § 217.42(h), if a Board-regulated institution is unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board a comprehensive understanding of the features of a securitization exposure that would materially affect the performance of the exposure, the Board-regulated institution must assign the securitization exposure a risk weight of 1,250 percent. The Board-regulated institution's analysis must be commensurate with the complexity of the securitization exposure and the materiality of the exposure in relation to its capital.
(2) A Board-regulated institution must demonstrate its comprehensive understanding of a securitization exposure under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for each securitization exposure by:
(i) Conducting an analysis of the risk characteristics of a securitization exposure prior to acquiring the exposure, and documenting such analysis within three business days after acquiring the exposure, considering:
(A) Structural features of the securitization that would materially impact the performance of the exposure, for example, the contractual cash flow waterfall, waterfall-related triggers, credit enhancements, liquidity enhancements, fair value triggers, the performance of organizations that service the exposure, and deal-specific definitions of default;
(B) Relevant information regarding the performance of the underlying credit exposure(s), for example, the percentage of loans 30, 60, and 90 days past due; default rates; prepayment rates; loans in foreclosure; property types; occupancy; average credit score or other measures of creditworthiness; average LTV ratio; and industry and geographic diversification data on the underlying exposure(s);
(C) Relevant market data of the securitization, for example, bid-ask spread, most recent sales price and historic price volatility, trading volume, implied market rating, and size, depth and concentration level of the market for the securitization; and
(D) For resecuritization exposures, performance information on the underlying securitization exposures, for example, the issuer name and credit quality, and the characteristics and performance of the exposures underlying the securitization exposures; and
(ii) On an on-going basis (no less frequently than quarterly), evaluating, reviewing, and updating as appropriate the analysis required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for each securitization exposure.
§ 217.42
Risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures.
(a)
Securitization risk weight approaches.
Except as provided elsewhere in this section or in § 217.41:
(1) A Board-regulated institution must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from a securitization and apply a 1,250 percent risk weight to the portion of a CEIO that does not constitute after-tax gain-on-sale.
(2) If a securitization exposure does not require deduction under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a Board-regulated institution may assign a risk weight to the securitization exposure using the simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) in accordance with §§ 217.43(a) through 217.43(d) and subject to the limitation under paragraph (e) of this section. Alternatively, a Board-regulated institution that is not subject to subpart F of this part may assign a risk weight to the securitization exposure using the gross-up approach in accordance with § 217.43(e), provided, however, that such Board-regulated institution must apply either the SSFA or the gross-up approach consistently across all of its securitization exposures, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of this section.
(3) If a securitization exposure does not require deduction under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the Board-regulated institution cannot, or chooses not to apply the SSFA or the gross-up
approach to the exposure, the Board-regulated institution must assign a risk weight to the exposure as described in § 217.44.
(4) If a securitization exposure is a derivative contract (other than protection provided by a Board-regulated institution in the form of a credit derivative) that has a first priority claim on the cash flows from the underlying exposures (notwithstanding amounts due under interest rate or currency derivative contracts, fees due, or other similar payments), a Board-regulated institution may choose to set the risk-weighted asset amount of the exposure equal to the amount of the exposure as determined in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Total risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures.
A Board-regulated institution's total risk-weighted assets for securitization exposures equals the sum of the risk-weighted asset amount for securitization exposures that the Board-regulated institution risk weights under §§ 217.41(c), 217.42(a)(1), and 217.43, 217.44, or 217.45, and paragraphs (e) through (j) of this section, as applicable.
(c)
Exposure amount of a securitization exposure
—(1)
On-balance sheet securitization exposures.
The exposure amount of an on-balance sheet securitization exposure (excluding an available-for-sale or held-to-maturity security where the Board-regulated institution has made an AOCI opt-out election under § 217.22(b)(2), a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, OTC derivative contract, or cleared transaction) is equal to the carrying value of the exposure.
(2)
On-balance sheet securitization exposures held by a Board-regulated institution that has made an AOCI opt-out election.
The exposure amount of an on-balance sheet securitization exposure that is an available-for-sale or held-to-maturity security held by a Board-regulated institution that has made an AOCI opt-out election under § 217.22(b)(2) is the Board-regulated institution's carrying value (including net accrued but unpaid interest and fees), less any net unrealized gains on the exposure and plus any net unrealized losses on the exposure.
(3)
Off-balance sheet securitization exposures.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (j) of this section, the exposure amount of an off-balance sheet securitization exposure that is not a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, cleared transaction (other than a credit derivative), or an OTC derivative contract (other than a credit derivative) is the notional amount of the exposure. For an off-balance sheet securitization exposure to an ABCP program, such as an eligible ABCP liquidity facility, the notional amount may be reduced to the maximum potential amount that the Board-regulated institution could be required to fund given the ABCP program's current underlying assets (calculated without regard to the current credit quality of those assets).
(ii) A Board-regulated institution must determine the exposure amount of an eligible ABCP liquidity facility for which the SSFA does not apply by multiplying the notional amount of the exposure by a CCF of 50 percent.
(iii) A Board-regulated institution must determine the exposure amount of an eligible ABCP liquidity facility for which the SSFA applies by multiplying the notional amount of the exposure by a CCF of 100 percent.
(4)
Repo-style transactions, eligible margin loans, and derivative contracts.
The exposure amount of a securitization exposure that is a repo-style transaction, eligible margin loan, or derivative contract (other than a credit derivative) is the exposure amount of the transaction as calculated under § 217.34 or § 217.37, as applicable.
(d)
Overlapping exposures.
If a Board-regulated institution has multiple securitization exposures that provide duplicative coverage to the underlying exposures of a securitization (such as when a Board-regulated institution provides a program-wide credit enhancement and multiple pool-specific liquidity facilities to an ABCP program), the Board-regulated institution is not required to hold duplicative risk-based capital against the overlapping position. Instead, the Board-regulated institution may apply to the overlapping position the applicable risk-based capital treatment that results in the highest risk-based capital requirement.
(e)
Implicit support.
If a Board-regulated institution provides support to a securitization in excess of the Board-regulated institution's contractual obligation to provide credit support to the securitization (implicit support):
(1) The Board-regulated institution must include in risk-weighted assets all of the underlying exposures associated with the securitization as if the exposures had not been securitized and must deduct from common equity tier 1 capital any after-tax gain-on-sale resulting from the securitization; and
(2) The Board-regulated institution must disclose publicly:
(i) That it has provided implicit support to the securitization; and
(ii) The risk-based capital impact to the Board-regulated institution of providing such implicit support.
(f)
Undrawn portion of a servicer cash advance facility.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, a Board-regulated institution that is a servicer under an eligible servicer cash advance facility is not required to hold risk-based capital against potential future cash advance payments that it may be required to provide under the contract governing the facility.
(2) For a Board-regulated institution that acts as a servicer, the exposure amount for a servicer cash advance facility that is not an eligible servicer cash advance facility is equal to the amount of all potential future cash advance payments that the Board-regulated institution may be contractually required to provide during the subsequent 12 month period under the contract governing the facility.
(g)
Interest-only mortgage-backed securities.
Regardless of any other provisions in this subpart, the risk weight for a non-credit-enhancing interest-only mortgage-backed security may not be less than 100 percent.
(h)
Small-business loans and leases on personal property transferred with retained contractual exposure.
(1) Regardless of any other provision of this subpart, a Board-regulated institution that has transferred small-business loans and leases on personal property (small-business obligations) with recourse must include in risk-weighted assets only its contractual exposure to the small-business obligations if all the following conditions are met:
(i) The transaction must be treated as a sale under GAAP.
(ii) The Board-regulated institution establishes and maintains, pursuant to GAAP, a non-capital reserve sufficient to meet the Board-regulated institution's reasonably estimated liability under the contractual obligation.
(iii) The small-business obligations are to businesses that meet the criteria for a small-business concern established by the Small Business Administration under section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632 et seq.).
(iv)(A) In the case of a state member bank, the bank is well capitalized, as defined in 12 CFR 208.43. For purposes of determining whether a state member bank is well capitalized for purposes of this paragraph (h), the state member bank's capital ratios must be calculated without regard to the capital treatment for transfers of small-business obligations under this paragraph (h).
(B) In the case of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, the bank holding company or savings and loan holding company is well capitalized, as defined in 12 CFR 225.2. For purposes of determining whether a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company is well capitalized for purposes of this paragraph (h), the bank holding company or savings and loan holding company's capital ratios must be calculated without regard to the capital treatment for transfers of small-business obligations with recourse specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section.
(2) The total outstanding amount of contractual exposure retained by a Board-regulated institution on transfers of small-business obligations receiving the capital treatment specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section cannot exceed 15 percent of the Board-regulated institution's total capital.
(3) If a Board-regulated institution ceases to be well capitalized under 12 CFR 208.43 or exceeds the 15 percent capital limitation provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, the capital treatment under paragraph (h)(1) of this section will continue to apply to
any transfers of small-business obligations with retained contractual exposure that occurred during the time that the Board-regulated institution was well capitalized and did not exceed the capital limit.
(4) The risk-based capital ratios of the Board-regulated institution must be calculated without regard to the capital treatment for transfers of small-business obligations specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section for purposes of:
(i) Determining whether a Board-regulated institution is adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized under the Board's prompt corrective action regulations; and
(ii) Reclassifying a well-capitalized Board-regulated institution to adequately capitalized and requiring an adequately capitalized Board-regulated institution to comply with certain mandatory or discretionary supervisory actions as if the Board-regulated institution were in the next lower prompt-corrective-action category.
(i)
N
th
-to-default credit derivatives
—(1)
Protection provider.
A Board-regulated institution may assign a risk weight using the SSFA in § 217.43 to an n
th
-to-default credit derivative in accordance with this paragraph (i). A Board-regulated institution must determine its exposure in the n
th
-to-default credit derivative as the largest notional amount of all the underlying exposures.
(2) For purposes of determining the risk weight for an n
th
-to-default credit derivative using the SSFA, the Board-regulated institution must calculate the attachment point and detachment point of its exposure as follows:
(i) The attachment point (parameter A) is the ratio of the sum of the notional amounts of all underlying exposures that are subordinated to the Board-regulated institution's exposure to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. The ratio is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. In the case of a first-to-default credit derivative, there are no underlying exposures that are subordinated to the Board-regulated institution's exposure. In the case of a second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivative, the smallest (n-1) notional amounts of the underlying exposure(s) are subordinated to the Board-regulated institution's exposure.
(ii) The detachment point (parameter D) equals the sum of parameter A plus the ratio of the notional amount of the Board-regulated institution's exposure in the n
th
-to-default credit derivative to the total notional amount of all underlying exposures. The ratio is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(3) A Board-regulated institution that does not use the SSFA to determine a risk weight for its n
th
-to-default credit derivative must assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the exposure.
(4)
Protection purchaser
—(i)
First-to-default credit derivatives.
A Board-regulated institution that obtains credit protection on a group of underlying exposures through a first-to-default credit derivative that meets the rules of recognition of § 217.36(b) must determine its risk-based capital requirement for the underlying exposures as if the Board-regulated institution synthetically securitized the underlying exposure with the smallest risk-weighted asset amount and had obtained no credit risk mitigant on the other underlying exposures. A Board-regulated institution must calculate a risk-based capital requirement for counterparty credit risk according to § 217.34 for a first-to-default credit derivative that does not meet the rules of recognition of § 217.36(b).
(ii)
Second-or-subsequent-to-default credit derivatives.
(A) A Board-regulated institution that obtains credit protection on a group of underlying exposures through a n
th
-to-default credit derivative that meets the rules of recognition of § 217.36(b) (other than a first-to-default credit derivative) may recognize the credit risk mitigation benefits of the derivative only if:
(
1
) The Board-regulated institution also has obtained credit protection on the same underlying exposures in the form of first-through-(n-1)-to-default credit derivatives; or
(
2
) If n-1 of the underlying exposures have already defaulted.
(B) If a Board-regulated institution satisfies the requirements of paragraph
(i)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, the Board-regulated institution must determine its risk-based capital requirement for the underlying exposures as if the Board-regulated institution had only synthetically securitized the underlying exposure with the n
th
smallest risk-weighted asset amount and had obtained no credit risk mitigant on the other underlying exposures.
(C) A Board-regulated institution must calculate a risk-based capital requirement for counterparty credit risk according to § 217.34 for a n
th
-to-default credit derivative that does not meet the rules of recognition of § 217.36(b).
(j)
Guarantees and credit derivatives other than n
th
-to-default credit derivatives
—(1)
Protection provider.
For a guarantee or credit derivative (other than an n
th
-to-default credit derivative) provided by a Board-regulated institution that covers the full amount or a pro rata share of a securitization exposure's principal and interest, the Board-regulated institution must risk weight the guarantee or credit derivative as if it holds the portion of the reference exposure covered by the guarantee or credit derivative.
(2)
Protection purchaser.
(i) A Board-regulated institution that purchases a guarantee or OTC credit derivative (other than an n
th
-to-default credit derivative) that is recognized under § 217.45 as a credit risk mitigant (including via collateral recognized under § 217.37) is not required to compute a separate counterparty credit risk capital requirement under § 217.31, in accordance with 34(c).
(ii) If a Board-regulated institution cannot, or chooses not to, recognize a purchased credit derivative as a credit risk mitigant under § 217.45, the Board-regulated institution must determine the exposure amount of the credit derivative under § 217.34.
(A) If the Board-regulated institution purchases credit protection from a counterparty that is not a securitization SPE, the Board-regulated institution must determine the risk weight for the exposure according to this subpart D.
(B) If the Board-regulated institution purchases the credit protection from a counterparty that is a securitization SPE, the Board-regulated institution must determine the risk weight for the exposure according to section § 217.42, including § 217.42(a)(4) for a credit derivative that has a first priority claim on the cash flows from the underlying exposures of the securitization SPE (notwithstanding amounts due under interest rate or currency derivative contracts, fees due, or other similar payments).
[Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, 62285, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 62288, Oct. 11, 2013; 84 FR 35266, July 22, 2019]
§ 217.43
Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) and the gross-up approach.
(a)
General requirements for the SSFA.
To use the SSFA to determine the risk weight for a securitization exposure, a Board-regulated institution must have data that enables it to assign accurately the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section. Data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be the most currently available data; if the contracts governing the underlying exposures of the securitization require payments on a monthly or quarterly basis, the data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be no more than 91 calendar days old. A Board-regulated institution that does not have the appropriate data to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the exposure.
(b)
SSFA parameters.
To calculate the risk weight for a securitization exposure using the SSFA, a Board-regulated institution must have accurate information on the following five inputs to the SSFA calculation:
(1) K
G
is the weighted-average (with unpaid principal used as the weight for each exposure) total capital requirement of the underlying exposures calculated using this subpart. K
G
is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one (that is, an average risk weight of 100 percent represents a value of K
G
equal to 0.08).
(2) Parameter W is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. Parameter W is the ratio of the sum of the dollar amounts of any underlying exposures of the securitization that
meet any of the criteria as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section to the balance, measured in dollars, of underlying exposures:
(i) Ninety days or more past due;
(ii) Subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding;
(iii) In the process of foreclosure;
(iv) Held as real estate owned;
(v) Has contractually deferred payments for 90 days or more, other than principal or interest payments deferred on:
(A) Federally-guaranteed student loans, in accordance with the terms of those guarantee programs; or
(B) Consumer loans, including non-federally-guaranteed student loans, provided that such payments are deferred pursuant to provisions included in the contract at the time funds are disbursed that provide for period(s) of deferral that are not initiated based on changes in the creditworthiness of the borrower; or
(vi) Is in default.
(3) Parameter A is the attachment point for the exposure, which represents the threshold at which credit losses will first be allocated to the exposure. Except as provided in § 217.42(i) for n
th
-to-default credit derivatives, parameter A equals the ratio of the current dollar amount of underlying exposures that are subordinated to the exposure of the Board-regulated institution to the current dollar amount of underlying exposures. Any reserve account funded by the accumulated cash flows from the underlying exposures that is subordinated to the Board-regulated institution's securitization exposure may be included in the calculation of parameter A to the extent that cash is present in the account. Parameter A is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(4) Parameter D is the detachment point for the exposure, which represents the threshold at which credit losses of principal allocated to the exposure would result in a total loss of principal. Except as provided in section 42(i) for n
th
-to-default credit derivatives, parameter D equals parameter A plus the ratio of the current dollar amount of the securitization exposures that are
pari passu
with the exposure (that is, have equal seniority with respect to credit risk) to the current dollar amount of the underlying exposures. Parameter D is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one.
(5) A supervisory calibration parameter, p, is equal to 0.5 for securitization exposures that are not resecuritization exposures and equal to 1.5 for resecuritization exposures.
(c)
Mechanics of the SSFA.
K
G
and W are used to calculate K
A
, the augmented value of K
G
, which reflects the observed credit quality of the underlying exposures. K
A
is defined in paragraph (d) of this section. The values of parameters A and D, relative to K
A
determine the risk weight assigned to a securitization exposure as described in paragraph (d) of this section. The risk weight assigned to a securitization exposure, or portion of a securitization exposure, as appropriate, is the larger of the risk weight determined in accordance with this paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of this section and a risk weight of 20 percent.
(1) When the detachment point, parameter D, for a securitization exposure is less than or equal to K
A
, the exposure must be assigned a risk weight of 1,250 percent.
(2) When the attachment point, parameter A, for a securitization exposure is greater than or equal to K
A
, the Board-regulated institution must calculate the risk weight in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) When A is less than K
A
and D is greater than K
A
, the risk weight is a weighted-average of 1,250 percent and 1,250 percent times K
SSFA
calculated in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. For the purpose of this weighted-average calculation:
er11oc13.024
(e)
Gross-up approach
—(1)
Applicability.
A Board-regulated institution that is not subject to subpart F of this part may apply the gross-up approach set forth in this section instead of the SSFA to determine the risk weight of its securitization exposures, provided that it applies the gross-up approach to all of its securitization exposures, except as otherwise provided for certain securitization exposures in §§ 217.44 and 217.45.
(2) To use the gross-up approach, a Board-regulated institution must calculate the following four inputs:
(i) Pro rata share, which is the par value of the Board-regulated institution's securitization exposure as a percent of the par value of the tranche in
which the securitization exposure resides;
(ii) Enhanced amount, which is the par value of tranches that are more senior to the tranche in which the Board-regulated institution's securitization resides;
(iii) Exposure amount of the Board-regulated institution's securitization exposure calculated under § 217.42(c); and
(iv) Risk weight, which is the weighted-average risk weight of underlying exposures of the securitization as calculated under this subpart.
(3)
Credit equivalent amount.
The credit equivalent amount of a securitization exposure under this section equals the sum of:
(i) The exposure amount of the Board-regulated institution's securitization exposure; and
(ii) The pro rata share multiplied by the enhanced amount, each calculated in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(4)
Risk-weighted assets.
To calculate risk-weighted assets for a securitization exposure under the gross-up approach, a Board-regulated institution must apply the risk weight required under paragraph (e)(2) of this section to the credit equivalent amount calculated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(f)
Limitations.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a Board-regulated institution must assign a risk weight of not less than 20 percent to a securitization exposure.
§ 217.44
Securitization exposures to which the SSFA and gross-up approach do not apply.
(a)
General requirement.
A Board-regulated institution must assign a 1,250 percent risk weight to all securitization exposures to which the Board-regulated institution does not apply the SSFA or the gross-up approach under § 217.43, except as set forth in this section.
(b)
Eligible ABCP liquidity facilities.
A Board-regulated institution may determine the risk-weighted asset amount of an eligible ABCP liquidity facility by multiplying the exposure amount by the highest risk weight applicable to any of the individual underlying exposures covered by the facility.
(c)
A securitization exposure in a second loss position or better to an ABCP program
—(1)
Risk weighting.
A Board-regulated institution may determine the risk-weighted asset amount of a securitization exposure that is in a second loss position or better to an ABCP program that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section by multiplying the exposure amount by the higher of the following risk weights:
(i) 100 percent; and
(ii) The highest risk weight applicable to any of the individual underlying exposures of the ABCP program.
(2)
Requirements.
(i) The exposure is not an eligible ABCP liquidity facility;
(ii) The exposure must be economically in a second loss position or better, and the first loss position must provide significant credit protection to the second loss position;
(iii) The exposure qualifies as investment grade; and
(iv) The Board-regulated institution holding the exposure must not retain or provide protection to the first loss position.
§ 217.45
Recognition of credit risk mitigants for securitization exposures.
(a)
General.
(1) An originating Board-regulated institution that has obtained a credit risk mitigant to hedge its exposure to a synthetic or traditional securitization that satisfies the operational criteria provided in § 217.41 may recognize the credit risk mitigant under §§ 217.36 or 217.37, but only as provided in this section.
(2) An investing Board-regulated institution that has obtained a credit risk mitigant to hedge a securitization exposure may recognize the credit risk mitigant under §§ 217.36 or 217.37, but only as provided in this section.
(b)
Mismatches.
A Board-regulated institution must make any applicable adjustment to the protection amount of an eligible guarantee or credit derivative as required in § 217.36(d), (e), and (f) for any hedged securitization exposure. In the context of a synthetic
securitization, when an eligible guarantee or eligible credit derivative covers multiple hedged exposures that have different residual maturities, the Board-regulated institution must use the longest residual maturity of any of the hedged exposures as the residual maturity of all hedged exposures.
§§ 217.46-217.50
[Reserved]

# Risk-Weighted Assets for Equity Exposures
§ 217.51
Introduction and exposure measurement.
(a)
General.
(1) To calculate its risk-weighted asset amounts for equity exposures that are not equity exposures to an investment fund, a Board-regulated institution must use the Simple Risk-Weight Approach (SRWA) provided in 217.52. A Board-regulated institution must use the look-through approaches provided in § 217.53 to calculate its risk-weighted asset amounts for equity exposures to investment funds.
(2) A Board-regulated institution must treat an investment in a separate account (as defined in § 217.2) as if it were an equity exposure to an investment fund as provided in § 217.53.
(3)
Stable value protection.
(i) Stable value protection means a contract where the provider of the contract is obligated to pay:
(A) The policy owner of a separate account an amount equal to the shortfall between the fair value and cost basis of the separate account when the policy owner of the separate account surrenders the policy; or
(B) The beneficiary of the contract an amount equal to the shortfall between the fair value and book value of a specified portfolio of assets.
(ii) A Board-regulated institution that purchases stable value protection on its investment in a separate account must treat the portion of the carrying value of its investment in the separate account attributable to the stable value protection as an exposure to the provider of the protection and the remaining portion of the carrying value of its separate account as an equity exposure to an investment fund.
(iii) A Board-regulated institution that provides stable value protection must treat the exposure as an equity derivative with an adjusted carrying value determined as the sum of paragraphs (b)(1) and (3) of this section.
(b)
Adjusted carrying value.
For purposes of §§ 217.51 through 217.53, the adjusted carrying value of an equity exposure is:
(1) For the on-balance sheet component of an equity exposure (other than an equity exposure that is classified as available-for-sale where the Board-regulated institution has made an AOCI opt-out election under § 217.22(b)(2)), the Board-regulated institution's carrying value of the exposure;
(2) For the on-balance sheet component of an equity exposure that is classified as available-for-sale where the Board-regulated institution has made an AOCI opt-out election under § 217.22(b)(2), the Board-regulated institution's carrying value of the exposure less any net unrealized gains on the exposure that are reflected in such carrying value but excluded from the Board-regulated institution's regulatory capital components;
(3) For the off-balance sheet component of an equity exposure that is not an equity commitment, the effective notional principal amount of the exposure, the size of which is equivalent to a hypothetical on-balance sheet position in the underlying equity instrument that would evidence the same change in fair value (measured in dollars) given a small change in the price of the underlying equity instrument, minus the adjusted carrying value of the on-balance sheet component of the exposure as calculated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(4) For a commitment to acquire an equity exposure (an equity commitment), the effective notional principal amount of the exposure is multiplied by the following conversion factors (CFs):
(i) Conditional equity commitments with an original maturity of one year or less receive a CF of 20 percent.
(ii) Conditional equity commitments with an original maturity of over one year receive a CF of 50 percent.
(iii) Unconditional equity commitments receive a CF of 100 percent.
§ 217.52
Simple risk-weight approach (SRWA).
(a)
General.
