With chronic disease shown as such in service (or within the presumptive period under § 3.307) so as to permit a finding of service connection, subsequent manifestations of the same chronic disease at any later date, however remote, are service connected, unless clearly attributable to intercurrent causes. This rule does not mean that any manifestation of joint pain, any abnormality of heart action or heart sounds, any urinary findings of casts, or any cough, in service will permit service connection of arthritis, disease of the heart, nephritis, or pulmonary disease, first shown as a clearcut clinical entity, at some later date. For the showing of chronic disease in service there is required a combination of manifestations sufficient to identify the disease entity, and sufficient observation to establish chronicity at the time, as distinguished from merely isolated findings or a diagnosis including the word “Chronic.” When the disease identity is established (leprosy, tuberculosis, multiple sclerosis, etc.), there is no requirement of evidentiary showing of continuity. Continuity of symptomatology is required only where the condition noted during service (or in the presumptive period) is not, in fact, shown to be chronic or where the diagnosis of chronicity may be legitimately questioned. When the fact of chronicity in service is not adequately supported, then a showing of continuity after discharge is required to support the claim.
(c)
Preservice disabilities noted in service.
There are medical principles so universally recognized as to constitute fact (clear and unmistakable proof), and when in accordance with these principles existence of a disability prior to service is established, no additional or confirmatory evidence is necessary. Consequently with notation or discovery during service of such residual conditions (scars; fibrosis of the lungs; atrophies following disease of the central or peripheral nervous system; healed fractures; absent, displaced or resected parts of organs; supernumerary parts; congenital malformations or hemorrhoidal tags or tabs, etc.) with no evidence of the pertinent antecedent active disease or injury during service the conclusion must be that they preexisted service. Similarly, manifestation of lesions or symptoms of chronic disease from date of enlistment, or so close thereto that the disease could not have originated in so short a period will establish preservice existence thereof. Conditions of an infectious nature are to be considered with regard to the circumstances of the infection and if manifested in less than the respective incubation periods after reporting for duty, they will be held to have preexisted service. In the field of mental disorders, personality disorders which are characterized by developmental defects or pathological trends in the personality structure manifested by a lifelong pattern of action or behavior, chronic psychoneurosis of long duration or other psychiatric symptomatology shown to have existed prior to service with the same manifestations during service, which were the basis of the service diagnosis, will be accepted as showing preservice origin. Congenital or developmental defects, refractive error of the eye, personality disorders and mental deficiency as such are not diseases or injuries within the meaning of applicable legislation.
(d)
Postservice initial diagnosis of disease.
Service connection may be granted for any disease diagnosed after discharge, when all the evidence, including that pertinent to service, establishes that the disease was incurred in
service. Presumptive periods are not intended to limit service connection to diseases so diagnosed when the evidence warrants direct service connection. The presumptive provisions of the statute and Department of Veterans Affairs regulations implementing them are intended as liberalizations applicable when the evidence would not warrant service connection without their aid.
[26 FR 1579, Feb. 24, 1961]
§ 3.304
Direct service connection; wartime and peacetime.
(a)
General.
The basic considerations relating to service connection are stated in § 3.303. The criteria in this section apply only to disabilities which may have resulted from service in a period of war or service rendered on or after January 1, 1947.
(b)
Presumption of soundness.
The veteran will be considered to have been in sound condition when examined, accepted and enrolled for service, except as to defects, infirmities, or disorders noted at entrance into service, or where clear and unmistakable (obvious or manifest) evidence demonstrates that an injury or disease existed prior thereto and was not aggravated by such service. Only such conditions as are recorded in examination reports are to be considered as noted.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1111)
(1) History of preservice existence of conditions recorded at the time of examination does not constitute a notation of such conditions but will be considered together with all other material evidence in determinations as to inception. Determinations should not be based on medical judgment alone as distinguished from accepted medical principles, or on history alone without regard to clinical factors pertinent to the basic character, origin and development of such injury or disease. They should be based on thorough analysis of the evidentiary showing and careful correlation of all material facts, with due regard to accepted medical principles pertaining to the history, manifestations, clinical course, and character of the particular injury or disease or residuals thereof.
(2) History conforming to accepted medical principles should be given due consideration, in conjunction with basic clinical data, and be accorded probative value consistent with accepted medical and evidentiary principles in relation to value consistent with accepted medical evidence relating to incurrence, symptoms and course of the injury or disease, including official and other records made prior to, during or subsequent to service, together with all other lay and medical evidence concerning the inception, development and manifestations of the particular condition will be taken into full account.
(3) Signed statements of veterans relating to the origin, or incurrence of any disease or injury made in service if against his or her own interest is of no force and effect if other data do not establish the fact. Other evidence will be considered as though such statement were not of record.
(Authority: 10 U.S.C. 1219)
(c)
Development.
The development of evidence in connection with claims for service connection will be accomplished when deemed necessary but it should not be undertaken when evidence present is sufficient for this determination. In initially rating disability of record at the time of discharge, the records of the service department, including the reports of examination at enlistment and the clinical records during service, will ordinarily suffice. Rating of combat injuries or other conditions which obviously had their inception in service may be accomplished pending receipt of copy of the examination at enlistment and all other service records.
(d)
Combat.
Satisfactory lay or other evidence that an injury or disease was incurred or aggravated in combat will be accepted as sufficient proof of service connection if the evidence is consistent with the circumstances, conditions or hardships of such service even though there is no official record of such incurrence or aggravation.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1154(b))
(e)
Prisoners of war.
Where disability compensation is claimed by a former prisoner of war, omission of history or findings from clinical records made
upon repatriation is not determinative of service connection, particularly if evidence of comrades in support of the incurrence of the disability during confinement is available. Special attention will be given to any disability first reported after discharge, especially if poorly defined and not obviously of intercurrent origin. The circumstances attendant upon the individual veteran's confinement and the duration thereof will be associated with pertinent medical principles in determining whether disability manifested subsequent to service is etiologically related to the prisoner of war experience.
(f)
Posttraumatic stress disorder.
Service connection for posttraumatic stress disorder requires medical evidence diagnosing the condition in accordance with § 4.125(a) of this chapter; a link, established by medical evidence, between current symptoms and an in-service stressor; and credible supporting evidence that the claimed in-service stressor occurred. The following provisions apply to claims for service connection of posttraumatic stress disorder diagnosed during service or based on the specified type of claimed stressor:
(1) If the evidence establishes a diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder during service and the claimed stressor is related to that service, in the absence of clear and convincing evidence to the contrary, and provided that the claimed stressor is consistent with the circumstances, conditions, or hardships of the veteran's service, the veteran's lay testimony alone may establish the occurrence of the claimed in-service stressor.
(2) If the evidence establishes that the veteran engaged in combat with the enemy and the claimed stressor is related to that combat, in the absence of clear and convincing evidence to the contrary, and provided that the claimed stressor is consistent with the circumstances, conditions, or hardships of the veteran's service, the veteran's lay testimony alone may establish the occurrence of the claimed in-service stressor.
(3) If a stressor claimed by a veteran is related to the veteran's fear of hostile military or terrorist activity and a VA psychiatrist or psychologist, or a psychiatrist or psychologist with whom VA has contracted, confirms that the claimed stressor is adequate to support a diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder and that the veteran's symptoms are related to the claimed stressor, in the absence of clear and convincing evidence to the contrary, and provided the claimed stressor is consistent with the places, types, and circumstances of the veteran's service, the veteran's lay testimony alone may establish the occurrence of the claimed in-service stressor. For purposes of this paragraph, “fear of hostile military or terrorist activity” means that a veteran experienced, witnessed, or was confronted with an event or circumstance that involved actual or threatened death or serious injury, or a threat to the physical integrity of the veteran or others, such as from an actual or potential improvised explosive device; vehicle-imbedded explosive device; incoming artillery, rocket, or mortar fire; grenade; small arms fire, including suspected sniper fire; or attack upon friendly military aircraft, and the veteran's response to the event or circumstance involved a psychological or psycho-physiological state of fear, helplessness, or horror.
(4) If the evidence establishes that the veteran was a prisoner-of-war under the provisions of § 3.1(y) of this part and the claimed stressor is related to that prisoner-of-war experience, in the absence of clear and convincing evidence to the contrary, and provided that the claimed stressor is consistent with the circumstances, conditions, or hardships of the veteran's service, the veteran's lay testimony alone may establish the occurrence of the claimed in-service stressor.
(5) If a posttraumatic stress disorder claim is based on in-service personal assault, evidence from sources other than the veteran's service records may corroborate the veteran's account of the stressor incident. Examples of such evidence include, but are not limited to: records from law enforcement authorities, rape crisis centers, mental health counseling centers, hospitals, or physicians; pregnancy tests or tests for sexually transmitted diseases; and statements from family members, roommates, fellow service members, or
clergy. Evidence of behavior changes following the claimed assault is one type of relevant evidence that may be found in these sources. Examples of behavior changes that may constitute credible evidence of the stressor include, but are not limited to: a request for a transfer to another military duty assignment; deterioration in work performance; substance abuse; episodes of depression, panic attacks, or anxiety without an identifiable cause; or unexplained economic or social behavior changes. VA will not deny a posttraumatic stress disorder claim that is based on in-service personal assault without first advising the claimant that evidence from sources other than the veteran's service records or evidence of behavior changes may constitute credible supporting evidence of the stressor and allowing him or her the opportunity to furnish this type of evidence or advise VA of potential sources of such evidence. VA may submit any evidence that it receives to an appropriate medical or mental health professional for an opinion as to whether it indicates that a personal assault occurred.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 1154)
[26 FR 1580, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 31 FR 4680, Mar. 19, 1966; 39 FR 34530, Sept. 26, 1974; 58 FR 29110, May 19, 1993; 64 FR 32808, June 18, 1999; 67 FR 10332, Mar. 7, 2002; 70 FR 23029, May 4, 2005; 73 FR 64210, Oct. 29, 2008; 75 FR 39852, July 13, 2010]
§ 3.305
Direct service connection; peacetime service before January 1, 1947.
(a)
General.
The basic considerations relating to service connection are stated in § 3.303. The criteria in this section apply only to disabilities which may have resulted from service other than in a period of war before January 1, 1947.
(b)
Presumption of soundness.
A peacetime veteran who has had active, continuous service of 6 months or more will be considered to have been in sound condition when examined, accepted and enrolled for service, except as to defects, infirmities or disorders noted at the time thereof, or where evidence or medical judgment, as distinguished from medical fact and principles, establishes that an injury or disease preexisted service. Any evidence acceptable as competent to indicate the time of existence or inception of the condition may be considered. Determinations based on medical judgment will take cognizance of the time of inception or manifestation of disease or injury following entrance into service, as shown by proper service authorities in service records, entries or reports. Such records will be accorded reasonable weight in consideration of other evidence and sound medical reasoning. Opinions may be solicited from Department of Veterans Affairs medical authorities when considered necessary.
(c)
Campaigns and expeditions.
In considering claims of veterans who engaged in combat during campaigns or expeditions satisfactory lay or other evidence of incurrence or aggravation in such combat of an injury or disease, if consistent with the circumstances, conditions or hardships of such service will be accepted as sufficient proof of service connection, even when there is no official record of incurrence or aggravation. Service connection for such injury or disease may be rebutted by clear and convincing evidence to the contrary.
[26 FR 1580, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 28 FR 3088, Mar. 29, 1963; 39 FR 34530, Sept. 26, 1974]
§ 3.306
Aggravation of preservice disability.
(a)
General.
A preexisting injury or disease will be considered to have been aggravated by active military, naval, air, or space service, where there is an increase in disability during such service, unless there is a specific finding that the increase in disability is due to the natural progress of the disease.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1153)
(b)
Wartime service; peacetime service after December 31, 1946.
Clear and unmistakable evidence (obvious or manifest) is required to rebut the presumption of aggravation where the preservice disability underwent an increase in severity during service. This includes medical facts and principles which may be considered to determine
whether the increase is due to the natural progress of the condition. Aggravation may not be conceded where the disability underwent no increase in severity during service on the basis of all the evidence of record pertaining to the manifestations of the disability prior to, during and subsequent to service.
(1) The usual effects of medical and surgical treatment in service, having the effect of ameliorating disease or other conditions incurred before enlistment, including postoperative scars, absent or poorly functioning parts or organs, will not be considered service connected unless the disease or injury is otherwise aggravated by service.
(2) Due regard will be given the places, types, and circumstances of service and particular consideration will be accorded combat duty and other hardships of service. The development of symptomatic manifestations of a preexisting disease or injury during or proximately following action with the enemy or following a status as a prisoner of war will establish aggravation of a disability.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1154)
(c)
Peacetime service prior to December 7, 1941.
The specific finding requirement that an increase in disability is due to the natural progress of the condition will be met when the available evidence of a nature generally acceptable as competent shows that the increase in severity of a disease or injury or acceleration in progress was that normally to be expected by reason of the inherent character of the condition, aside from any extraneous or contributing cause or influence peculiar to military service. Consideration will be given to the circumstances, conditions, and hardships of service.
[26 FR 1580, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 57 FR 59296, Dec. 15, 1992; 87 FR 26125, May 3, 2022]
§ 3.307
Presumptive service connection for chronic, tropical, or prisoner-of-war related disease, disease associated with exposure to certain herbicide agents, or disease associated with exposure to contaminants in the water supply at Camp Lejeune; wartime and service on or after January 1, 1947.
(a)
General.
A chronic, tropical, or prisoner of war related disease, a disease associated with exposure to certain herbicide agents, or a disease associated with exposure to contaminants in the water supply at Camp Lejeune listed in § 3.309 will be considered to have been incurred in or aggravated by service under the circumstances outlined in this section even though there is no evidence of such disease during the period of service. No condition other than one listed in § 3.309(a) will be considered chronic.
(1)
Service.
The veteran must have served 90 days or more during a war period or after December 31, 1946. The requirement of 90 days' service means active, continuous service within or extending into or beyond a war period, or which began before and extended beyond December 31, 1946, or began after that date. Any period of service is sufficient for the purpose of establishing the presumptive service connection of a specified disease under the conditions listed in § 3.309(c) and (e). Any period of service is sufficient for the purpose of establishing the presumptive service connection of a specified disease under the conditions listed in § 3.309(f), as long as the period of service also satisfies the requirements to establish a presumption of exposure to contaminants in the water supply at Camp Lejeune under paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this section.
(2)
Separation from service.
For the purpose of paragraph (a)(3) and (4) of this section the date of separation from wartime service will be the date of discharge or release during a war period, or if service continued after the war, the end of the war period. In claims based on service on or after January 1, 1947, the date of separation will be the date of discharge or release from the period of service on which the claim is based.
(3)
Chronic disease.
The disease must have become manifest to a degree of 10
percent or more within 1 year (for Hansen's disease (leprosy) and tuberculosis, within 3 years; multiple sclerosis, within 7 years) from the date of separation from service as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(4)
Tropical disease.
The disease must have become manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more within 1 year from date of separation from service as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or at a time when standard accepted treatises indicate that the incubation period commenced during such service. The resultant disorders or diseases originating because of therapy administered in connection with a tropical disease or as a preventative may also be service connected.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1112)
(5)
Diseases specific as to former prisoners of war.
The diseases listed in § 3.309(c) shall have become manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more at any time after discharge or release from active service.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1112)
(6)
Diseases associated with exposure to certain herbicide agents.
(i) For the purposes of this section, the term “herbicide agent” means a chemical in an herbicide used in support of the United States and allied military operations in the Republic of Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 1975, specifically: 2,4-D; 2,4,5-T and its contaminant TCDD; cacodylic acid; and picloram.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1116(a)(4))
(ii) The diseases listed at § 3.309(e) shall have become manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more at any time after service, except that chloracne or other acneform disease consistent with chloracne, porphyria cutanea tarda, and early-onset peripheral neuropathy shall have become manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more within a year after the last date on which the veteran was exposed to an herbicide agent during active military, naval, or air service.
(iii) A veteran who, during active military, naval, or air service, served in the Republic of Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 1975, shall be presumed to have been exposed during such service to an herbicide agent, unless there is affirmative evidence to establish that the veteran was not exposed to any such agent during that service. The last date on which such a veteran shall be presumed to have been exposed to an herbicide agent shall be the last date on which he or she served in the Republic of Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 1975. “Service in the Republic of Vietnam” includes service in the waters offshore and service in other locations if the conditions of service involved duty or visitation in the Republic of Vietnam.
(iv) A veteran who, during active military, naval, or air service, served between April 1, 1968, and August 31, 1971, in a unit that, as determined by the Department of Defense, operated in or near the Korean DMZ in an area in which herbicides are known to have been applied during that period, shall be presumed to have been exposed during such service to an herbicide agent, unless there is affirmative evidence to establish that the veteran was not exposed to any such agent during that service.
See also
38 CFR 3.814(c)(2).
(v) An individual who performed service in the Air Force or Air Force Reserve under circumstances in which the individual concerned regularly and repeatedly operated, maintained, or served onboard C-123 aircraft known to have been used to spray an herbicide agent during the Vietnam era shall be presumed to have been exposed during such service to an herbicide agent. For purposes of this paragraph, “regularly and repeatedly operated, maintained, or served onboard C-123 aircraft” means that the individual was assigned to an Air Force or Air Force Reserve squadron when the squadron was permanently assigned one of the affected aircraft and the individual had an Air Force Specialty Code indicating duties as a flight, ground maintenance, or medical crew member on such aircraft. Such exposure constitutes an injury under 38 U.S.C. 101(24)(B) and (C). If an individual described in this paragraph develops a disease listed in 38 CFR 3.309(e) as specified in paragraph
(a)(6)(ii) of this section, it will be presumed that the individual concerned became disabled during that service for purposes of establishing that the individual served in the active military, naval, or air service.
(7)
Diseases associated with exposure to contaminants in the water supply at Camp Lejeune.
(i) For the purposes of this section,
contaminants in the water supply
means the volatile organic compounds trichloroethylene (TCE), perchloroethylene (PCE), benzene and vinyl chloride, that were in the on-base water-supply systems located at United States Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, during the period beginning on August 1, 1953, and ending on December 31, 1987.
(ii) The diseases listed in § 3.309(f) shall have become manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more at any time after service.
(iii) A veteran, or former reservist or member of the National Guard, who had no less than 30 days (consecutive or nonconsecutive) of service at Camp Lejeune during the period beginning on August 1, 1953, and ending on December 31, 1987, shall be presumed to have been exposed during such service to the contaminants in the water supply, unless there is affirmative evidence to establish that the individual was not exposed to contaminants in the water supply during that service. The last date on which such a veteran, or former reservist or member of the National Guard, shall be presumed to have been exposed to contaminants in the water supply shall be the last date on which he or she served at Camp Lejeune during the period beginning on August 1, 1953, and ending on December 31, 1987. For purposes of this section,
service at Camp Lejeune
means any service within the borders of the entirety of the United States Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune and Marine Corps Air Station New River, North Carolina, during the period beginning on August 1, 1953, and ending on December 31, 1987, as established by military orders or other official service department records.
(iv) Exposure described in paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this section is an injury under 38 U.S.C. 101(24)(B) and (C). If an individual described in paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this section develops a disease listed in § 3.309(f), VA will presume that the individual concerned became disabled during that service for purposes of establishing that the individual served in the active military, naval, or air service.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 1116(a)(3), and 1821)
(b)
Evidentiary basis.
The factual basis may be established by medical evidence, competent lay evidence or both. Medical evidence should set forth the physical findings and symptomatology elicited by examination within the applicable period. Lay evidence should describe the material and relevant facts as to the veteran's disability observed within such period, not merely conclusions based upon opinion. The chronicity and continuity factors outlined in § 3.303(b) will be considered. The diseases listed in § 3.309(a) will be accepted as chronic, even though diagnosed as acute because of insidious inception and chronic development, except: (1) Where they result from intercurrent causes, for example, cerebral hemorrhage due to injury, or active nephritis or acute endocarditis due to intercurrent infection (with or without identification of the pathogenic micro-organism); or (2) where a disease is the result of drug ingestion or a complication of some other condition not related to service. Thus, leukemia will be accepted as a chronic disease whether diagnosed as acute or chronic. Unless the clinical picture is clear otherwise, consideration will be given as to whether an acute condition is an exacerbation of a chronic disease.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1112)
(c)
Prohibition of certain presumptions.
No presumptions may be invoked on the basis of advancement of the disease when first definitely diagnosed for the purpose of showing its existence to a degree of 10 percent within the applicable period. This will not be interpreted as requiring that the disease be diagnosed in the presumptive period, but only that there be then shown by acceptable medical or lay evidence characteristic manifestations of the disease to the required degree, followed without unreasonable time lapse by definite
diagnosis. Symptomatology shown in the prescribed period may have no particular significance when first observed, but in the light of subsequent developments it may gain considerable significance. Cases in which a chronic condition is shown to exist within a short time following the applicable presumptive period, but without evidence of manifestations within the period, should be developed to determine whether there was symptomatology which in retrospect may be identified and evaluated as manifestation of the chronic disease to the required 10-percent degree.
(d)
Rebuttal of service incurrence or aggravation.
(1) Evidence which may be considered in rebuttal of service incurrence of a disease listed in § 3.309 will be any evidence of a nature usually accepted as competent to indicate the time of existence or inception of disease, and medical judgment will be exercised in making determinations relative to the effect of intercurrent injury or disease. The expression “affirmative evidence to the contrary” will not be taken to require a conclusive showing, but such showing as would, in sound medical reasoning and in the consideration of all evidence of record, support a conclusion that the disease was not incurred in service. As to tropical diseases the fact that the veteran had no service in a locality having a high incidence of the disease may be considered as evidence to rebut the presumption, as may residence during the period in question in a region where the particular disease is endemic. The known incubation periods of tropical diseases should be used as a factor in rebuttal of presumptive service connection as showing inception before or after service.
(2) The presumption of aggravation provided in this section may be rebutted by affirmative evidence that the preexisting condition was not aggravated by service, which may include affirmative evidence that any increase in disability was due to an intercurrent disease or injury suffered after separation from service or evidence sufficient, under § 3.306 of this part, to show that the increase in disability was due to the natural progress of the preexisting condition.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101(24), 501(a), 1116(a)(3), and 1821)
[26 FR 1581, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 35 FR 18281, Dec. 1, 1970; 39 FR 34530, Sept. 26, 1974; 43 FR 45347, Oct. 2, 1978; 47 FR 11655, Mar. 18, 1982; 58 FR 29109, May 19, 1993; 59 FR 5106, Feb. 3, 1994; 59 FR 29724, June 9, 1994; 61 FR 57588, Nov. 7, 1996; 62 FR 35422, July 1, 1997; 67 FR 67793, Nov. 7, 2002; 68 FR 34541, June 10, 2003; 76 FR 4248, Jan. 25, 2011; 78 FR 54766, Sept. 6, 2013; 80 FR 35248, June 19, 2015; 82 FR 4184, Jan. 13, 2017]
§ 3.308
Presumptive service connection; peacetime service before January 1, 1947.
(a)
Chronic disease.
There is no provision for presumptive service connection for chronic disease as distinguished from tropical diseases referred to in paragraph (b) of this section based on peacetime service before January 1, 1947.
(b)
Tropical disease.
In claims based on peacetime service before January 1, 1947, a veteran of 6 months or more service who contracts a tropical disease listed in § 3.309(b) or a resultant disorder or disease originating because of therapy administered in connection with a tropical disease or as a preventative, will be considered to have incurred such disability in service when it is shown to exist to the degree of 10 percent or more within 1 year after separation from active service, or at a time when standard and accepted treatises indicate that the incubation period commenced during active service unless shown by clear and unmistakable evidence not to have been of service origin. The requirement of 6 months or more service means active, continuous service, during one or more enlistment periods.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1133)
[39 FR 34530, Sept. 26, 1974]
§ 3.309
Disease subject to presumptive service connection.
(a)
Chronic diseases.
The following diseases shall be granted service connection although not otherwise established as incurred in or aggravated by service if manifested to a compensable degree within the applicable time limits under § 3.307 following service in a
period of war or following peacetime service on or after January 1, 1947, provided the rebuttable presumption provisions of § 3.307 are also satisfied.
Anemia, primary.
Arteriosclerosis.
Arthritis.
Atrophy, progressive muscular.
Brain hemorrhage.
Brain thrombosis.
Bronchiectasis.
Calculi of the kidney, bladder, or gallbladder.
Cardiovascular-renal disease, including hypertension. (This term applies to combination involvement of the type of arteriosclerosis, nephritis, and organic heart disease, and since hypertension is an early symptom long preceding the development of those diseases in their more obvious forms, a disabling hypertension within the 1-year period will be given the same benefit of service connection as any of the chronic diseases listed.)
Cirrhosis of the liver.
Coccidioidomycosis.
Diabetes mellitus.
Encephalitis lethargica residuals.
Endocarditis. (This term covers all forms of valvular heart disease.)
Endocrinopathies.
Epilepsies.
Hansen's disease.
Hodgkin's disease.
Leukemia.
Lupus erythematosus, systemic.
Myasthenia gravis.
Myelitis.
Myocarditis.
Nephritis.
Other organic diseases of the nervous system.
Osteitis deformans (Paget's disease).
Osteomalacia.
Palsy, bulbar.
Paralysis agitans.
Psychoses.
Purpura idiopathic, hemorrhagic.
Raynaud's disease.
Sarcoidosis.
Scleroderma.
Sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral.
Sclerosis, multiple.
Syringomyelia.
Thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger's disease).
Tuberculosis, active.
Tumors, malignant, or of the brain or spinal cord or peripheral nerves.
Ulcers, peptic (gastric or duodenal) (A proper diagnosis of gastric or duodenal ulcer (peptic ulcer) is to be considered established if it represents a medically sound interpretation of sufficient clinical findings warranting such diagnosis and provides an adequate basis for a differential diagnosis from other conditions with like symptomatology; in short, where the preponderance of evidence indicates gastric or duodenal ulcer (peptic ulcer). Whenever possible, of course, laboratory findings should be used in corroboration of the clinical data.
(b)
Tropical diseases.
The following diseases shall be granted service connection as a result of tropical service, although not otherwise established as incurred in service if manifested to a compensable degree within the applicable time limits under § 3.307 or § 3.308 following service in a period of war or following peacetime service, provided the rebuttable presumption provisions of § 3.307 are also satisfied.
Amebiasis.
Blackwater fever.
Cholera.
Dracontiasis.
Dysentery.
Filariasis.
Leishmaniasis, including kala-azar.
Loiasis.
Malaria.
Onchocerciasis.
Oroya fever.
Pinta.
Plague.
Schistosomiasis.
Yaws.
Yellow fever.
Resultant disorders or diseases originating because of therapy administered in connection with such diseases or as a preventative thereof.
(c)
Diseases specific as to former prisoners of war.
(1) If a veteran is a former prisoner of war, the following diseases shall be service connected if manifest to a degree of disability of 10 percent or more at any time after discharge or release from active military, naval, air, or space service even though there is no record of such disease during service, provided the rebuttable presumption provisions of § 3.307 are also satisfied.
Psychosis.
Any of the anxiety states.
Dysthymic disorder (or depressive neurosis).
Organic residuals of frostbite, if it is determined that the veteran was interned in climatic conditions consistent with the occurrence of frostbite.
Post-traumatic osteoarthritis.
Atherosclerotic heart disease or hypertensive vascular disease (including hypertensive heart disease) and their complications (including myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, arrhythmia).
Stroke and its complications.
On or after October 10, 2008, Osteoporosis, if the Secretary determines that the veteran has posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
(2) If the veteran:
(i) Is a former prisoner of war and;
(ii) Was interned or detained for not less than 30 days, the following diseases shall be service connected if manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more at any time after discharge or release from active military, naval, air or space service even though there is no record of such disease during service, provided the rebuttable presumption provisions of § 3.307 are also satisfied.
Avitaminosis.
Beriberi (including beriberi heart disease).
Chronic dysentery.
Helminthiasis.
Malnutrition (including optic atrophy associated with malnutrition).
Pellagra.
Any other nutritional deficiency.
Irritable bowel syndrome.
Peptic ulcer disease.
Peripheral neuropathy except where directly related to infectious causes.
Cirrhosis of the liver.
On or after September 28, 2009, Osteoporosis.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1112(b))
(d)
Diseases specific to radiation-exposed veterans.
(1) The diseases listed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall be service-connected if they become manifest in a radiation-exposed veteran as defined in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, provided the rebuttable presumption provisions of § 3.307 of this part are also satisfied.
(2) The diseases referred to in paragraph (d)(1) of this section are the following:
(i) Leukemia (other than chronic lymphocytic leukemia).
(ii) Cancer of the thyroid.
(iii) Cancer of the breast.
(iv) Cancer of the pharynx.
(v) Cancer of the esophagus.
(vi) Cancer of the stomach.
(vii) Cancer of the small intestine.
(viii) Cancer of the pancreas.
(ix) Multiple myeloma.
(x) Lymphomas (except Hodgkin's disease).
(xi) Cancer of the bile ducts.
(xii) Cancer of the gall bladder.
(xiii) Primary liver cancer (except if cirrhosis or hepatitis B is indicated).
(xiv) Cancer of the salivary gland.
(xv) Cancer of the urinary tract.
(xvi) Bronchiolo-alveolar carcinoma.
(xvii) Cancer of the bone.
(xviii) Cancer of the brain.
(xix) Cancer of the colon.
(xx) Cancer of the lung.
(xxi) Cancer of the ovary.

# Note:
For the purposes of this section, the term “urinary tract” means the kidneys, renal pelves, ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1112(c)(2))
(3) For purposes of this section:
(i) The term
radiation-exposed veteran
means either a veteran who while serving on active duty, or an individual who while a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces during a period of active duty for training or inactive duty training, participated in a radiation-risk activity.
(ii) The term
radiation-risk activity
means:
(A) Onsite participation in a test involving the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear device.
(B) The occupation of Hiroshima or Nagasaki, Japan, by United States forces during the period beginning on August 6, 1945, and ending on July 1, 1946.
(C) Internment as a prisoner of war in Japan (or service on active duty in Japan immediately following such internment) during World War II which resulted in an opportunity for exposure to ionizing radiation comparable to that of the United States occupation forces in Hiroshima or Nagasaki, Japan, during the period beginning on August 6, 1945, and ending on July 1, 1946.
(D)(
1
) Service in which the service member was, as part of his or her official military duties, present during a total of at least 250 days before February 1, 1992, on the grounds of a gaseous diffusion plant located in Paducah, Kentucky, Portsmouth, Ohio, or the area identified as K25 at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, if, during such service the veteran:
(
i
) Was monitored for each of the 250 days of such service through the use of dosimetry badges for exposure at the plant of the external parts of veteran's body to radiation; or
(
ii
) Served for each of the 250 days of such service in a position that had exposures comparable to a job that is or was monitored through the use of dosimetry badges; or
(
2
) Service before January 1, 1974, on Amchitka Island, Alaska, if, during such service, the veteran was exposed to ionizing radiation in the performance of duty related to the Long Shot, Milrow, or Cannikin underground nuclear tests.
(
3
) For purposes of paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(D)(1) of this section, the term “day” refers to all or any portion of a calendar day.
(E) Service in a capacity which, if performed as an employee of the Department of Energy, would qualify the individual for inclusion as a member of the Special Exposure Cohort under section 3621(14) of the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 7384l(14)).
(F) Cleanup of Enewetak Atoll during the period beginning on January 1,1977, and ending on December 31, 1980.
(G) Onsite participation in the response effort following the collision of a United States Air Force B-52 bomber and refueling plane that caused the release of four thermonuclear weapons in the vicinity of Palomares, Spain, during the period beginning January 17, 1966, and ending March 31, 1967.
(H) Onsite participation in the response effort following the on-board fire and crash of a United States Air Force B-52 bomber that caused the release of four thermonuclear weapons in the vicinity of Thule Air Force Base, Greenland, during the period beginning January 21, 1968, and ending September 25, 1968.
(iii) The term
atmospheric detonation
includes underwater nuclear detonations.
(iv) The term
onsite participation
means:
(A) During the official operational period of an atmospheric nuclear test, presence at the test site, or performance of official military duties in connection with ships, aircraft or other equipment used in direct support of the nuclear test.
(B) During the six month period following the official operational period of an atmospheric nuclear test, presence at the test site or other test staging area to perform official military duties in connection with completion of projects related to the nuclear test including decontamination of equipment used during the nuclear test.
(C) Service as a member of the garrison or maintenance forces on Eniwetok during the periods June 21, 1951, through July 1, 1952, August 7, 1956, through August 7, 1957, or November 1, 1958, through April 30, 1959.
(D) Assignment to official military duties at Naval Shipyards involving the decontamination of ships that participated in Operation Crossroads.
(v) For tests conducted by the United States, the term
operational period
means:
(A) For Operation
TRINITY
the period July 16, 1945 through August 6, 1945.
(B) For Operation
CROSSROADS
the period July 1, 1946 through August 31, 1946.
(C) For Operation
SANDSTONE
the period April 15, 1948 through May 20, 1948.
(D) For Operation
RANGER
the period January 27, 1951 through February 6, 1951.
(E) For Operation
GREENHOUSE
the period April 8, 1951 through June 20, 1951.
(F) For Operation
BUSTER-JANGLE
the period October 22, 1951 through December 20, 1951.
(G) For Operation
TUMBLER-SNAPPER
the period April 1, 1952 through June 20, 1952.
(H) For Operation
IVY
the period November 1, 1952 through December 31, 1952.
(I) For Operation
UPSHOT-KNOTHOLE
the period March 17, 1953 through June 20, 1953.
(J) For Operation
CASTLE
the period March 1, 1954 through May 31, 1954.
(K) For Operation
TEAPOT
the period February 18, 1955 through June 10, 1955.
(L) For Operation
WIGWAM
the period May 14, 1955 through May 15, 1955.
(M) For Operation
REDWING
the period May 5, 1956 through August 6, 1956.
(N) For Operation
PLUMBBOB
the period May 28, 1957 through October 22, 1957.
(O) For Operation
HARDTACK I
the period April 28, 1958 through October 31, 1958.
(P) For Operation
ARGUS
the period August 27, 1958 through September 10, 1958.
(Q) For Operation
HARDTACK II
the period September 19, 1958 through October 31, 1958.
(R) For Operation
DOMINIC I
the period April 25, 1962 through December 31, 1962.
(S) For Operation
DOMINIC II/PLOWSHARE
the period July 6, 1962 through August 15, 1962.
(vi) The term “occupation of Hiroshima or Nagasaki, Japan, by United States forces” means official military duties within 10 miles of the city limits of either Hiroshima or Nagasaki, Japan, which were required to perform or support military occupation functions such as occupation of territory, control of the population, stabilization of the government, demilitarization of the Japanese military, rehabilitation of the infrastructure or deactivation and conversion of war plants or materials.
(vii) Former prisoners of war who had an opportunity for exposure to ionizing radiation comparable to that of veterans who participated in the occupation of Hiroshima or Nagasaki, Japan, by United States forces shall include those who, at any time during the period August 6, 1945, through July 1, 1946:
(A) Were interned within 75 miles of the city limits of Hiroshima or within 150 miles of the city limits of Nagasaki, or
(B) Can affirmatively show they worked within the areas set forth in paragraph (d)(3)(vii)(A) of this section although not interned within those areas, or
(C) Served immediately following internment in a capacity which satisfies the definition in paragraph (d)(3)(vi) of this section, or
(D) Were repatriated through the port of Nagasaki.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1110, 1112, 1131)
(e)
Disease associated with exposure to certain herbicide agents.
If a veteran was exposed to an herbicide agent during active military, naval, or air service, the following diseases shall be service-connected if the requirements of § 3.307(a)(6) are met even though there is no record of such disease during service, provided further that the rebuttable presumption provisions of § 3.307(d) are also satisfied.
AL amyloidosis
Chloracne or other acneform disease consistent with chloracne
Type 2 diabetes (also known as Type II diabetes mellitus or adult-onset diabetes)
Hodgkin's disease
Ischemic heart disease (including, but not limited to, acute, subacute, and old myocardial infarction; atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease including coronary artery disease (including coronary spasm) and coronary bypass surgery; and stable, unstable and Prinzmetal's angina)
All chronic B-cell leukemias (including, but not limited to, hairy-cell leukemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia)
Multiple myeloma
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
Parkinson's disease
Early-onset peripheral neuropathy
Porphyria cutanea tarda
Prostate cancer
Respiratory cancers (cancer of the lung, bronchus, larynx, or trachea)
Soft-tissue sarcoma (other than osteosarcoma, chondrosarcoma, Kaposi's sarcoma, or mesothelioma)

# Note 1:
The term “soft-tissue sarcoma” includes the following:
Adult fibrosarcoma
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans
Malignant fibrous histiocytoma
Liposarcoma
Leiomyosarcoma
Epithelioid leiomyosarcoma (malignant leiomyoblastoma)
Rhabdomyosarcoma
Ectomesenchymoma
Angiosarcoma (hemangiosarcoma and lymphangiosarcoma)
Proliferating (systemic) angioendotheliomatosis
Malignant glomus tumor
Malignant hemangiopericytoma
Synovial sarcoma (malignant synovioma)
Malignant giant cell tumor of tendon sheath
Malignant schwannoma, including malignant schwannoma with rhabdomyoblastic
differentiation (malignant Triton tumor), glandular and epithelioid malignant schwannomas
Malignant mesenchymoma
Malignant granular cell tumor
Alveolar soft part sarcoma
Epithelioid sarcoma
Clear cell sarcoma of tendons and aponeuroses
Extraskeletal Ewing's sarcoma
Congenital and infantile fibrosarcoma
Malignant ganglioneuroma

# Note 2:
For purposes of this section, the term ischemic heart disease does not include hypertension or peripheral manifestations of arteriosclerosis such as peripheral vascular disease or stroke, or any other condition that does not qualify within the generally accepted medical definition of Ischemic heart disease.
(f)
Disease associated with exposure to contaminants in the water supply at Camp Lejeune.
If a veteran, or former reservist or member of the National Guard, was exposed to contaminants in the water supply at Camp Lejeune during military service and the exposure meets the requirements of § 3.307(a)(7), the following diseases shall be service-connected even though there is no record of such disease during service, subject to the rebuttable presumption provisions of § 3.307(d).
(1) Kidney cancer.
(2) Liver cancer.
(3) Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
(4) Adult leukemia.
(5) Multiple myeloma.
(6) Parkinson's disease.
(7) Aplastic anemia and other myelodysplastic syndromes.
(8) Bladder cancer.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a) and 1112(b))
[41 FR 55873, Dec. 23, 1976]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 3.309, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 3.310
Disabilities that are proximately due to, or aggravated by, service-connected disease or injury.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in § 3.300(c), disability which is proximately due to or the result of a service-connected disease or injury shall be service connected. When service connection is thus established for a secondary condition, the secondary condition shall be considered a part of the original condition.
(b)
Aggravation of nonservice-connected disabilities.
Any increase in severity of a nonservice-connected disease or injury that is proximately due to or the result of a service-connected disease or injury, and not due to the natural progress of the nonservice-connected disease, will be service connected. However, VA will not concede that a nonservice-connected disease or injury was aggravated by a service-connected disease or injury unless the baseline level of severity of the nonservice-connected disease or injury is established by medical evidence created before the onset of aggravation or by the earliest medical evidence created at any time between the onset of aggravation and the receipt of medical evidence establishing the current level of severity of the nonservice-connected disease or injury. The rating activity will determine the baseline and current levels of severity under the Schedule for Rating Disabilities (38 CFR part 4) and determine the extent of aggravation by deducting the baseline level of severity, as well as any increase in severity due to the natural progress of the disease, from the current level.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1110 and 1131)
(c)
Cardiovascular disease.
Ischemic heart disease or other cardiovascular disease developing in a veteran who has a service-connected amputation of one lower extremity at or above the knee or service-connected amputations of both lower extremities at or above the ankles, shall be held to be the proximate result of the service-connected amputation or amputations.
(d)
Traumatic brain injury.
(1) In a veteran who has a service-connected traumatic brain injury, the following shall be held to be the proximate result of the service-connected traumatic brain injury (TBI), in the absence of clear evidence to the contrary:
(i) Parkinsonism, including Parkinson's disease, following moderate or severe TBI;
(ii) Unprovoked seizures following moderate or severe TBI;
(iii) Dementias of the following types: presenile dementia of the Alzheimer type, frontotemporal dementia,
and dementia with Lewy bodies, if manifest within 15 years following moderate or severe TBI;
(iv) Depression if manifest within 3 years of moderate or severe TBI, or within 12 months of mild TBI; or
(v) Diseases of hormone deficiency that result from hypothalamo-pituitary changes if manifest within 12 months of moderate or severe TBI.
(2) Neither the severity levels nor the time limits in paragraph (d)(1) of this section preclude a finding of service connection for conditions shown by evidence to be proximately due to service-connected TBI. If a claim does not meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) with respect to the time of manifestation or the severity of the TBI, or both, VA will develop and decide the claim under generally applicable principles of service connection without regard to paragraph (d)(1).
(3)(i) For purposes of this section VA will use the following table for determining the severity of a TBI:
Mild
Moderate
Severe
Normal structural imaging
Normal or abnormal structural imaging
Normal or abnormal structural imaging.
LOC = 0-30 min
LOC
30 min and
24 hours
LOC
24 hrs.
AOC = a moment up to 24 hrs
AOC
24 hours. Severity based on other criteria.
PTA = 0-1 day
PTA
1 and
7 days
PTA
7 days.
GCS = 13-15
GCS = 9-12
GCS = 3-8.

# Note:
The factors considered are:
Structural imaging of the brain.
LOC—Loss of consciousness.
AOC—Alteration of consciousness/mental state.
PTA—Post-traumatic amnesia.
GCS—Glasgow Coma Scale. (For purposes of injury stratification, the Glasgow Coma Scale is measured at or after 24 hours.)
(ii) The determination of the severity level under this paragraph is based on the TBI symptoms at the time of injury or shortly thereafter, rather than the current level of functioning. VA will not require that the TBI meet all the criteria listed under a certain severity level in order to classify the TBI at that severity level. If a TBI meets the criteria in more than one category of severity, then VA will rank the TBI at the highest level in which a criterion is met, except where the qualifying criterion is the same at both levels.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1110 and 1131)
[44 FR 50340, Aug. 28, 1979, as amended at 66 FR 18198, Apr. 6, 2001; 71 FR 52747, Sept. 7, 2006; 78 FR 76208, Dec. 17, 2013]
§ 3.311
Claims based on exposure to ionizing radiation.
(a)
Determinations of exposure and dose
—(1)
Dose assessment.
In all claims in which it is established that a radiogenic disease first became manifest after service and was not manifest to a compensable degree within any applicable presumptive period as specified in § 3.307 or § 3.309, and it is contended the disease is a result of exposure to ionizing radiation in service, an assessment will be made as to the size and nature of the radiation dose or doses. When dose estimates provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section are reported as a range of doses to which a veteran may have been exposed, exposure at the highest level of the dose range reported will be presumed.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(2)
Request for dose information.
Where necessary pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, dose information will be requested as follows:
(i)
Atmospheric nuclear weapons test participation claims.
In claims based upon participation in atmospheric nuclear testing, dose data will in all cases be requested from the appropriate office of the Department of Defense.
(ii)
Hiroshima and Nagasaki occupation claims.
In all claims based on participation in the American occupation of Hiroshima or Nagasaki, Japan, prior to July 1, 1946, dose data will be requested from the Department of Defense.
(iii)
Other exposure claims.
In all other claims involving radiation exposure, a request will be made for any available
records concerning the veteran's exposure to radiation. These records normally include but may not be limited to the veteran's Record of Occupational Exposure to Ionizing Radiation (DD Form 1141), if maintained, service medical records, and other records which may contain information pertaining to the veteran's radiation dose in service. All such records will be forwarded to the Under Secretary for Health, who will be responsible for preparation of a dose estimate, to the extent feasible, based on available methodologies.
(3)
Referral to independent expert.
When necessary to reconcile a material difference between an estimate of dose, from a credible source, submitted by or on behalf of a claimant, and dose data derived from official military records, the estimates and supporting documentation shall be referred to an independent expert, selected by the Director of the National Institutes of Health, who shall prepare a separate radiation dose estimate for consideration in adjudication of the claim. For purposes of this paragraph:
(i) The difference between the claimant's estimate and dose data derived from official military records shall ordinarily be considered material if one estimate is at least double the other estimate.
(ii) A dose estimate shall be considered from a “credible source” if prepared by a person or persons certified by an appropriate professional body in the field of health physics, nuclear medicine or radiology and if based on analysis of the facts and circumstances of the particular claim.
(4)
Exposure.
In cases described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) If military records do not establish presence at or absence from a site at which exposure to radiation is claimed to have occurred, the veteran's presence at the site will be conceded.
(ii) Neither the veteran nor the veteran's survivors may be required to produce evidence substantiating exposure if the information in the veteran's service records or other records maintained by the Department of Defense is consistent with the claim that the veteran was present where and when the claimed exposure occurred.
(b)
Initial review of claims.
(1) When it is determined:
(i) A veteran was exposed to ionizing radiation as a result of participation in the atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons, the occupation of Hiroshima or Nagasaki, Japan, from September 1945 until July 1946, or other activities as claimed;
(ii) The veteran subsequently developed a radiogenic disease; and
(iii) Such disease first became manifest within the period specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section; before its adjudication the claim will be referred to the Under Secretary for Benefits for further consideration in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. If any of the foregoing 3 requirements has not been met, it shall not be determined that a disease has resulted from exposure to ionizing radiation under such circumstances.
(2) For purposes of this section the term “radiogenic disease” means a disease that may be induced by ionizing radiation and shall include the following:
(i) All forms of leukemia except chronic lymphatic (lymphocytic) leukemia;
(ii) Thyroid cancer;
(iii) Breast cancer;
(iv) Lung cancer;
(v) Bone cancer;
(vi) Liver cancer;
(vii) Skin cancer;
(viii) Esophageal cancer;
(ix) Stomach cancer;
(x) Colon cancer;
(xi) Pancreatic cancer;
(xii) Kidney cancer;
(xiii) Urinary bladder cancer;
(xiv) Salivary gland cancer;
(xv) Multiple myeloma;
(xvi) Posterior subcapsular cataracts;
(xvii) Non-malignant thyroid nodular disease;
(xviii) Ovarian cancer;
(xix) Parathyroid adenoma;
(xx) Tumors of the brain and central nervous system;
(xxi) Cancer of the rectum;
(xxii) Lymphomas other than Hodgkin's disease;
(xxiii) Prostate cancer; and
(xxiv) Any other cancer.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(3) Public Law 98-542 requires VA to determine whether sound medical and scientific evidence supports establishing a rule identifying polycythemia vera as a radiogenic disease. VA has determined that sound medical and scientific evidence does not support including polycythemia vera on the list of known radiogenic diseases in this regulation. Even so, VA will consider a claim based on the assertion that polycythemia vera is a radiogenic disease under the provisions of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(Authority: Pub. L. 98-542, section 5(b)(2)(A)(i), (iii)).
(4) If a claim is based on a disease other than one of those listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, VA shall nevertheless consider the claim under the provisions of this section provided that the claimant has cited or submitted competent scientific or medical evidence that the claimed condition is a radiogenic disease.
(5) For the purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section:
(i) Bone cancer must become manifest within 30 years after exposure;
(ii) Leukemia may become manifest at any time after exposure;
(iii) Posterior subcapsular cataracts must become manifest 6 months or more after exposure; and
(iv) Other diseases specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section must become manifest 5 years or more after exposure.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501; Pub. L. 98-542)
(c)
Review by Under Secretary for Benefits.
(1) When a claim is forwarded for review pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Under Secretary for Benefits shall consider the claim with reference to the factors specified in paragraph (e) of this section and may request an advisory medical opinion from the Under Secretary for Health.
(i) If after such consideration the Under Secretary for Benefits is convinced sound scientific and medical evidence supports the conclusion it is at least as likely as not the veteran's disease resulted from exposure to radiation in service, the Under Secretary for Benefits shall so inform the regional office of jurisdiction in writing. The Under Secretary for Benefits shall set forth the rationale for this conclusion, including an evaluation of the claim under the applicable factors specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(ii) If the Under Secretary for Benefits determines there is no reasonable possibility that the veteran's disease resulted from radiation exposure in service, the Under Secretary for Benefits shall so inform the regional office of jurisidiction in writing, setting forth the rationale for this conclusion.
(2) If the Under Secretary for Benefits, after considering any opinion of the Under Secretary for Health, is unable to conclude whether it is at least as likely as not, or that there is no reasonable possibility, the veteran's disease resulted from radiation exposure in service, the Under Secretary for Benefits shall refer the matter to an outside consultant in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, “sound scientific evidence” means observations, findings, or conclusions which are statistically and epidemiologically valid, are statistically significant, are capable of replication, and withstand peer review, and “sound medical evidence” means observations, findings, or conclusions which are consistent with current medical knowledge and are so reasonable and logical as to serve as the basis of management of a medical condition.
(d)
Referral to outside consultants.
(1) Referrals pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section shall be to consultants selected by the Under Secretary for Health from outside VA, upon the recommendation of the Director of the National Cancer Institute. The consultant will be asked to evaluate the claim and provide an opinion as to the likelihood the disease is a result of exposure as claimed.
(2) The request for opinion shall be in writing and shall include a description of:
(i) The disease, including the specific cell type and stage, if known, and when the disease first became manifest;
(ii) The circumstances, including date, of the veteran's exposure;
(iii) The veteran's age, gender, and pertinent family history;
(iv) The veteran's history of exposure to known carcinogens, occupationally or otherwise;
(v) Evidence of any other effects radiation exposure may have had on the veteran; and
(vi) Any other information relevant to determination of causation of the veteran's disease.
The Under Secretary for Benefits shall forward, with the request, copies of pertinent medical records and, where available, dose assessments from official sources, from credible sources as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, and from an independent expert pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3) The consultant shall evaluate the claim under the factors specified in paragraph (e) of this section and respond in writing, stating whether it is either likely, unlikely, or approximately as likely as not the veteran's disease resulted from exposure to ionizing radiation in service. The response shall set forth the rationale for the consultant's conclusion, including the consultant's evaluation under the applicable factors specified in paragraph (e) of this section. The Under Secretary for Benefits shall review the consultant's response and transmit it with any comments to the regional office of jurisdiction for use in adjudication of the claim.
(e)
Factors for consideration.
Factors to be considered in determining whether a veteran's disease resulted from exposure to ionizing radiation in service include:
(1) The probable dose, in terms of dose type, rate and duration as a factor in inducing the disease, taking into account any known limitations in the dosimetry devices employed in its measurement or the methodologies employed in its estimation;
(2) The relative sensitivity of the involved tissue to induction, by ionizing radiation, of the specific pathology;
(3) The veteran's gender and pertinent family history;
(4) The veteran's age at time of exposure;
(5) The time-lapse between exposure and onset of the disease; and
(6) The extent to which exposure to radiation, or other carcinogens, outside of service may have contributed to development of the disease.
(f)
Adjudication of claim.
The determination of service connection will be made under the generally applicable provisions of this part, giving due consideration to all evidence of record, including any opinion provided by the Under Secretary for Health or an outside consultant, and to the evaluations published pursuant to § 1.17 of this title. With regard to any issue material to consideration of a claim, the provisions of § 3.102 of this title apply.
(g)
Willful misconduct and supervening cause.
In no case will service connection be established if the disease is due to the veteran's own willful misconduct, or if there is affirmative evidence to establish that a supervening, nonservice-related condition or event is more likely the cause of the disease.
(Authority: Pub. L. 98-542)
[50 FR 34459, Aug. 26, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 42803, Oct. 18, 1989; 58 FR 16359, Mar. 26, 1993. Redesignated at 59 FR 5107, Feb. 3, 1994, and amended at 59 FR 45975, Sept. 6, 1994; 60 FR 9628, Feb. 21, 1995; 60 FR 53277, Oct. 13, 1995; 63 FR 50994, Sept. 24, 1998; 67 FR 6871, Feb. 14, 2002]
§ 3.312
Cause of death.
(a)
General.
The death of a veteran will be considered as having been due to a service-connected disability when the evidence establishes that such disability was either the principal or a contributory cause of death. The issue involved will be determined by exercise of sound judgment, without recourse to speculation, after a careful analysis has been made of all the facts and circumstances surrounding the death of the veteran, including, particularly, autopsy reports.
(b)
Principal cause of death.
The service-connected disability will be considered as the principal (primary) cause of death when such disability, singly or jointly with some other condition, was the immediate or underlying cause of death or was etiologically related thereto.
(c)
Contributory cause of death.
(1) Contributory cause of death is inherently one not related to the principal cause. In determining whether the service-connected disability contributed to death, it must be shown that it contributed substantially or materially; that it combined to cause death; that it aided or lent assistance to the production of death. It is not sufficient to show that it casually shared in producing death, but rather it must be shown that there was a causal connection.
(2) Generally, minor service-connected disabilities, particularly those of a static nature or not materially affecting a vital organ, would not be held to have contributed to death primarily due to unrelated disability. In the same category there would be included service-connected disease or injuries of any evaluation (even though evaluated as 100 percent disabling) but of a quiescent or static nature involving muscular or skeletal functions and not materially affecting other vital body functions.
(3) Service-connected diseases or injuries involving active processes affecting vital organs should receive careful consideration as a contributory cause of death, the primary cause being unrelated, from the viewpoint of whether there were resulting debilitating effects and general impairment of health to an extent that would render the person materially less capable of resisting the effects of other disease or injury primarily causing death. Where the service-connected condition affects vital organs as distinguished from muscular or skeletal functions and is evaluated as 100 percent disabling, debilitation may be assumed.
(4) There are primary causes of death which by their very nature are so overwhelming that eventual death can be anticipated irrespective of coexisting conditions, but, even in such cases, there is for consideration whether there may be a reasonable basis for holding that a service-connected condition was of such severity as to have a material influence in accelerating death. In this situation, however, it would not generally be reasonable to hold that a service-connected condition accelerated death unless such condition affected a vital organ and was of itself of a progressive or debilitating nature.

# Cross References:
Reasonable doubt. See § 3.102. Service connection for mental unsoundness in suicide. See § 3.302.
[26 FR 1582, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 54 FR 34981, Aug. 23, 1989; 54 FR 42803, Oct. 18, 1989]
§ 3.313
Claims based on service in Vietnam.
(a)
Service in Vietnam. Service in Vietnam
includes service in the waters offshore, or service in other locations if the conditions of service involved duty or visitation in Vietnam.
(b)
Service connection based on service in Vietnam.
Service in Vietnam during the Vietnam Era together with the development of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma manifested subsequent to such service is sufficient to establish service connection for that disease.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
[55 FR 43124, Oct. 26, 1990]
§ 3.314
Basic pension determinations.
(a)
Prior to the Mexican border period.
While pensions are granted based on certain service prior to the Mexican border period, the only rating factors in claims therefor are:
(1) Claims based on service of less than 90 days in the Spanish-American War require a rating determination as to whether the veteran was discharged or released from service for a service-connected disability or had at the time of separation from service a service-connected disability, shown by official service records, which in medical judgment would have warranted a discharge for disability. Eligibility in such cases requires a finding that the disability was incurred in or aggravated by service in line of duty without benefit of presumptive provisions of law or Department of Veterans Affairs regulations.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1512)
(2) Veterans entitled to pension on the basis of service in the Spanish-American War may be entitled to an increased rate of pension if rated as
being in need of regular aid and attendance. Veterans who have elected pension under Pub. L. 86-211 (73 Stat. 432) who are not rated as being in need of regular aid and attendance may be entitled to increased pension based on 100 percent permanent disability together with independent disability of 60 percent or more or by reason of being permanently housebound as provided in § 3.351 (d).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1502 (b), (c), 512)
(b)
Mexican border period and later war periods.
Non-service-connected disability and death pension may be paid based on service in the Mexican border period, World War I, World War II, the Korean conflict and the Vietnam era. Rating determinations in such claims will be required in the following situations:
(1) Claims based on service of less than 90 days may require a determination as to whether the veteran was discharged or released from service for a service-connected disability or had at the time of separation from service a service-connected disability, shown by official service records, which in medical judgment would have warranted a discharge for disability. Eligibility in such cases requires a finding that the disability was incurred in or aggravated by service in line of duty without benefit of presumptive provisions of law or Department of Veterans Affairs regulations (38 U.S.C. 1521(g)(2)) unless, in the case of death pension, the veteran was, at the time of death, receiving (or entitled to receive) compensation or retirement pay based upon a wartime service-connected disability.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1541(a) and 1542(a))
(2) Determinations of permanent total disability for pension purposes will be based on non-service-connected disability or combined non-service-connected and service-connected disabilities not the result of willful misconduct. However, for pension under Pub. L. 86-211 (73 Stat. 432), permanent and total disability will be presumed where the veteran has attained age 65 or effective January 1, 1977, where the veteran became unemployable after age 65.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1502(a), 1523(a))
(3) Veterans entitled to nonservice-connected disability pension may be entitled to an increased rate of pension if rated as being in need of regular aid and attendance. Veterans entitled to protected pension or pension under Pub. L. 86-211 (73 Stat. 432) who are not rated as being in need of regular aid and attendance may be entitled to increased pension based on a 100 percent permanent disability together with independent disability of 60 percent or more or by reason of being permanently housebound as provided in § 3.351 (d) or (e).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1502 (b), (c), 1521)
[31 FR 4680, Mar. 19, 1966, as amended at 32 FR 13224, Sept. 19, 1967; 36 FR 8446, May 6, 1971; 40 FR 56434, Dec. 3, 1975; 41 FR 56804, Dec. 30, 1976; 61 FR 20438, May 7, 1996]
§ 3.315
Basic eligibility determinations; dependents, loans, education.
(a)
Child over 18 years.
A child of a veteran may be considered a “child” after age 18 for purposes of benefits under title 38, United States Code (except ch. 19 and sec. 8502(b) of ch. 85), if found by a rating determination to have become, prior to age 18, permanently incapable of self-support.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101(4)(B))
(b)
Loans.
If a veteran of World War II the Korean conflict or the Vietnam era had less than 90 days of service, or if a veteran who served after July 25, 1947, and prior to June 27, 1950, or after January 31, 1955, and prior to August 5, 1964, or after May 7, 1975, has less than 181 days of service on active duty as defined in §§ 36.4301 and 36.4501, eligibility of the veteran for a loan under 38 U.S.C. ch. 37 requires a determination that the veteran was discharged or released because of a service-connected disability or that the official service department records show that he or she had at the time of separation from service a service-connected disability which in medical judgment would have warranted a discharge for disability. These determinations are subject to the presumption of incurrence under
§ 3.304(b). Determinations based on World War II, Korean conflict and Vietnam era service are also subject to the presumption of aggravation under § 3.306(b) while determination based on service on or after February 1, 1955, and before August 5, 1964, or after May 7, 1975, are subject to the presumption of aggravation under § 3.306 (a) and (c). The provisions of this paragraph are also applicable, regardless of length of service, in determining eligibility to the maximum period of entitlement based on discharge or release for a service-connected disability. (See also the minimum service requirements of § 3.12a.)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3702, 3707)
(c)
Veterans' educational assistance.
(1) A determination is required as to whether a veteran was discharged or released from active duty service because of a service-connected disability (or whether the official service department records show that the veteran had at time of separation from service a service-connected disability which in medical judgment would have warranted discharge for disability) whenever any of the following circumstances exist:
(i) The veteran applies for benefits under 38 U.S.C. chapter 32, the minimum active duty service requirements of 38 U.S.C. 5303A apply to him or her, and the veteran would be eligible for such benefits only if—
(A) He or she was discharged or released from active duty for a disability incurred or aggravated in line of duty, or
(B) He or she has a disability that VA has determined to be compensable under 38 U.S.C. chapter 11; or
(ii) The veteran applies for benefits under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 and—
(A) The evidence of record does not clearly show either that the veteran was discharged or released from active duty for disability or that the veteran's discharge or release from active duty was unrelated to disability, and
(B) The veteran is eligible for basic educational assistance except for the minimum length of active duty service requirements of § 21.7042(a) or § 21.7044(a) of this chapter.
(2) A determination is required as to whether a veteran was discharged or released from service in the Selected Reserve for a service-connected disability or for a medical condition which preexisted the veteran's having become a member of the Selected Reserve and which VA determines is not service connected when the veteran applies for benefits under 38 U.S.C. chapter 30 and—
(i) Either the veteran would be eligible for basic educational assistance under that chapter only if he or she was discharged from the Selected Reserve for a service-connected disability, or for a medical condition which preexisted the veteran's having become a member of the Selected Reserve and which VA finds is not service connected, or
(ii) The veteran is entitled to basic educational assistance and would be entitled to receive it at the rates stated in § 21.7136(a) or § 21.7137(a) of this chapter only if he or she was discharged from the Selected Reserve for a service-connected disability or for a medical condition which preexisted the veteran's having become a member of the Selected Reserve and which VA finds is not service connected.
(3) A determination is required as to whether a reservist has been unable to pursue a program of education due to a disability which has been incurred in or aggravated by service in the Selected Reserve when—
(i) The reservist is otherwise entitled to educational assistance under 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606, and
(ii) He or she applies for an extension of his or her eligibility period.
(4) The determinations required by paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section are subject to the presumptions of incurrence under § 3.304(b) and aggravation under § 3.306 (a) and (c) of this part, based on service rendered after May 7, 1975.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3011(a)(1)(A)(ii), 3012(b)(1), 3202(1)(A), 10 U.S.C. 16133(b))
[38 FR 871, Jan. 5, 1973, as amended at 42 FR 22869, May 5, 1977; 50 FR 53315, Dec. 31, 1985; 51 FR 1510, Jan. 14, 1986; 55 FR 25974, June 26, 1990; 61 FR 67950, Dec. 26, 1996]
§ 3.316
Claims based on chronic effects of exposure to mustard gas and Lewisite.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, exposure to the specified vesicant agents during active military service under the circumstances described below together with the subsequent development of any of the indicated conditions is sufficient to establish service connection for that condition:
(1) Full-body exposure to nitrogen or sulfur mustard during active military service together with the subsequent development of chronic conjunctivitis, keratitis, corneal opacities, scar formation, or the following cancers: Nasopharyngeal; laryngeal; lung (except mesothelioma); or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin.
(2) Full-body exposure to nitrogen or sulfur mustard or Lewisite during active military service together with the subsequent development of a chronic form of laryngitis, bronchitis, emphysema, asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
(3) Full-body exposure to nitrogen mustard during active military service together with the subsequent development of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia.
(b) Service connection will not be established under this section if the claimed condition is due to the veteran's own willful misconduct (See § 3.301(c)) or there is affirmative evidence that establishes a nonservice-related supervening condition or event as the cause of the claimed condition (See § 3.303).
[59 FR 42499, Aug. 18, 1994]
§ 3.317
Compensation for certain disabilities occurring in Persian Gulf veterans.
(a)
Compensation for disability due to undiagnosed illness and medically unexplained chronic multisymptom illnesses.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, VA will pay compensation in accordance with chapter 11 of title 38, United States Code, to a Persian Gulf veteran who exhibits objective indications of a qualifying chronic disability, provided that such disability:
(i) Became manifest either during active military, naval, or air service in the Southwest Asia theater of operations, or to a degree of 10 percent or more not later than December 31, 2026; and
(ii) By history, physical examination, and laboratory tests cannot be attributed to any known clinical diagnosis.
(2)(i) For purposes of this section, a
qualifying chronic disability
means a chronic disability resulting from any of the following (or any combination of the following):
(A) An undiagnosed illness;
(B) A medically unexplained chronic multisymptom illness that is defined by a cluster of signs or symptoms, such as:
(
1
) Chronic fatigue syndrome;
(
2
) Fibromyalgia;
(
3
) Functional gastrointestinal disorders (excluding structural gastrointestinal diseases).

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(2)(
i

# )(B)(
3

# ):
Functional gastrointestinal disorders are a group of conditions characterized by chronic or recurrent symptoms that are unexplained by any structural, endoscopic, laboratory, or other objective signs of injury or disease and may be related to any part of the gastrointestinal tract. Specific functional gastrointestinal disorders include, but are not limited to, irritable bowel syndrome, functional dyspepsia, functional vomiting, functional constipation, functional bloating, functional abdominal pain syndrome, and functional dysphagia. These disorders are commonly characterized by symptoms including abdominal pain, substernal burning or pain, nausea, vomiting, altered bowel habits (including diarrhea, constipation), indigestion, bloating, postprandial fullness, and painful or difficult swallowing. Diagnosis of specific functional gastrointestinal disorders is made in accordance with established medical principles, which generally require symptom onset at least 6 months prior to diagnosis and the presence of symptoms sufficient to diagnose the specific disorder at least 3 months prior to diagnosis.
(ii) For purposes of this section, the term
medically unexplained chronic multisymptom illness
means a diagnosed illness without conclusive pathophysiology or etiology, that is characterized by overlapping symptoms and signs and has features such as
fatigue, pain, disability out of proportion to physical findings, and inconsistent demonstration of laboratory abnormalities. Chronic multisymptom illnesses of partially understood etiology and pathophysiology, such as diabetes and multiple sclerosis, will not be considered medically unexplained.
(3) For purposes of this section, “objective indications of chronic disability” include both “signs,” in the medical sense of objective evidence perceptible to an examining physician, and other, non-medical indicators that are capable of independent verification.
(4) For purposes of this section, disabilities that have existed for 6 months or more and disabilities that exhibit intermittent episodes of improvement and worsening over a 6-month period will be considered chronic. The 6-month period of chronicity will be measured from the earliest date on which the pertinent evidence establishes that the signs or symptoms of the disability first became manifest.
(5) A qualifying chronic disability referred to in this section shall be rated using evaluation criteria from part 4 of this chapter for a disease or injury in which the functions affected, anatomical localization, or symptomatology are similar.
(6) A qualifying chronic disability referred to in this section shall be considered service connected for purposes of all laws of the United States.
(7) Compensation shall not be paid under this section for a chronic disability:
(i) If there is affirmative evidence that the disability was not incurred during active military, naval, or air service in the Southwest Asia theater of operations; or
(ii) If there is affirmative evidence that the disability was caused by a supervening condition or event that occurred between the veteran's most recent departure from active duty in the Southwest Asia theater of operations and the onset of the disability; or
(iii) If there is affirmative evidence that the disability is the result of the veteran's own willful misconduct or the abuse of alcohol or drugs.
(b)
Signs or symptoms of undiagnosed illness and medically unexplained chronic multisymptom illnesses.
For the purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, signs or symptoms which may be manifestations of undiagnosed illness or medically unexplained chronic multisymptom illness include, but are not limited to:
(1) Fatigue.
(2) Signs or symptoms involving skin.
(3) Headache.
(4) Muscle pain.
(5) Joint pain.
(6) Neurological signs or symptoms.
(7) Neuropsychological signs or symptoms.
(8) Signs or symptoms involving the respiratory system (upper or lower).
(9) Sleep disturbances.
(10) Gastrointestinal signs or symptoms.
(11) Cardiovascular signs or symptoms.
(12) Abnormal weight loss.
(13) Menstrual disorders.
(c)
Presumptive service connection for infectious diseases.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, a disease listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section will be service connected if it becomes manifest in a veteran with a qualifying period of service, provided the provisions of paragraph (c)(3) of this section are also satisfied.
(2) The diseases referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are the following:
(i) Brucellosis.
(ii) Campylobacter jejuni.
(iii) Coxiella burnetii (Q fever).
(iv) Malaria.
(v) Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
(vi) Nontyphoid Salmonella.
(vii) Shigella.
(viii) Visceral leishmaniasis.
(ix) West Nile virus.
(3) The diseases listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section will be considered to have been incurred in or aggravated by service under the circumstances outlined in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section even though there is no evidence of such disease during the period of service.
(i) With three exceptions, the disease must have become manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more within 1 year from the date of separation from a qualifying period of service as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.
Malaria must have become manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more within 1 year from the date of separation from a qualifying period of service or at a time when standard or accepted treatises indicate that the incubation period commenced during a qualifying period of service. There is no time limit for visceral leishmaniasis or tuberculosis to have become manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (c), the term
qualifying period of service
means a period of service meeting the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section or a period of active military, naval, or air service on or after September 19, 2001, in Afghanistan.
(4) A disease listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall not be presumed service connected:
(i) If there is affirmative evidence that the disease was not incurred during a qualifying period of service; or
(ii) If there is affirmative evidence that the disease was caused by a supervening condition or event that occurred between the veteran's most recent departure from a qualifying period of service and the onset of the disease; or
(iii) If there is affirmative evidence that the disease is the result of the veteran's own willful misconduct or the abuse of alcohol or drugs.
(d)
Long-term health effects potentially associated with infectious diseases.
(1) A report of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences has identified the following long-term health effects that potentially are associated with the infectious diseases listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. These health effects and diseases are listed alphabetically and are not categorized by the level of association stated in the National Academy of Sciences report (
see
Table to § 3.317). If a veteran who has or had an infectious disease identified in column A also has a condition identified in column B as potentially related to that infectious disease, VA must determine, based on the evidence in each case, whether the column B condition was caused by the infectious disease for purposes of paying disability compensation. This does not preclude a finding that other manifestations of disability or secondary conditions were caused by an infectious disease.
(2) If a veteran presumed service connected for one of the diseases listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is diagnosed with one of the diseases listed in column “B” in the table within the time period specified for the disease in the same table, if a time period is specified or, otherwise, at any time, VA will request a medical opinion as to whether it is at least as likely as not that the condition was caused by the veteran having had the associated disease in column “A” in that same table.
Table to § 3.317—Long-Term Health Effects Potentially Associated With Infectious Diseases
A
B
Disease
Brucellosis
• Arthritis.
• Cardiovascular, nervous, and respiratory system infections.
• Chronic meningitis and meningoencephalitis.
• Deafness.
• Demyelinating meningovascular syndromes.
• Episcleritis.
• Fatigue, inattention, amnesia, and depression.
• Guillain-Barré syndrome.
• Hepatic abnormalities, including granulomatous hepatitis.
• Multifocal choroiditis.
• Myelitis-radiculoneuritis.
• Nummular keratitis.
• Papilledema.
• Optic neuritis.
• Orchioepididymitis and infections of the genitourinary system.
• Sensorineural hearing loss.
• Spondylitis.
• Uveitis.
Campylobacter jejuni
• Guillain-Barré syndrome
if manifest within 2 months of the infection.
• Reactive Arthritis
if manifest within 3 months of the infection.
• Uveitis
if manifest within 1 month of the infection.
Coxiella burnetii
(Q fever)
• Chronic hepatitis.
• Endocarditis.
• Osteomyelitis.
• Post-Q-fever chronic fatigue syndrome.
• Vascular infection.
Malaria
• Demyelinating polyneuropathy.
• Guillain-Barré syndrome.
• Hematologic manifestations (particularly anemia after falciparum malaria and splenic rupture after vivax malaria).
• Immune-complex glomerulonephritis.
• Neurologic disease, neuropsychiatric disease, or both.
• Ophthalmologic manifestations, particularly retinal hemorrhage and scarring.
•
Plasmodium falciparum.
•
Plasmodium malariae.
•
Plasmodium ovale.
•
Plasmodium vivax.
• Renal disease, especially nephrotic syndrome.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
• Active tuberculosis.
• Long-term adverse health outcomes due to irreversible tissue damage from severe forms of pulmonary and extrapulmonary tuberculosis and active tuberculosis.
Nontyphoid Salmonella
• Reactive Arthritis
if manifest within 3 months of the infection.
Shigella
• Hemolytic-uremic syndrome
if manifest within 1 month of the infection.
• Reactive Arthritis
if manifest within 3 months of the infection.
Visceral leishmaniasis
• Delayed presentation of the acute clinical syndrome.
• Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis
if manifest within 2 years of the infection.
• Reactivation of visceral leishmaniasis in the context of future immunosuppression.
West Nile virus
• Variable physical, functional, or cognitive disability.
(e)
Service.
For purposes of this section:
(1) The term
Persian Gulf veteran
means a veteran who served on active military, naval, or air service in the Southwest Asia theater of operations during the Persian Gulf War.
(2) The
Southwest Asia theater of operations
refers to Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, the neutral zone between Iraq and Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Oman, the Gulf of Aden, the Gulf of Oman, the Persian Gulf, the Arabian Sea, the Red Sea, and the airspace above these locations.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1117, 1118)
[75 FR 59970, Sept. 29, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 61356, Oct. 5, 2010; 75 FR 61997, Oct. 7, 2010; 76 FR 41698, July 15, 2011; 76 FR 81836, Dec. 29, 2011; 81 FR 71384, Oct. 17, 2016; 86 FR 51001, Sept. 14, 2021]
§ 3.318
Presumptive service connection for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis manifested at any time after discharge or release from active military, naval, air, or space service is sufficient to establish service connection for that disease.
(b) Service connection will not be established under this section:
(1) If there is affirmative evidence that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis was not incurred during or aggravated by active military, naval, or air service;
(2) If there is affirmative evidence that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is due to the veteran's own willful misconduct; or
(3) If the veteran did not have active, continuous service of 90 days or more.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a)(1))
[73 FR 54693, Sept. 23, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 26126, May 3, 2022]
§ 3.319
[Reserved]
§ 3.320
Claims based on exposure to fine particulate matter.
(a)
Service connection based on presumed exposure to fine particulate matter
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a disease listed in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of
this section shall be service connected even though there is no evidence of such disease during the period of military service.
(2)
Chronic diseases associated with exposure to fine particulate matter.
The following chronic diseases will be service connected if manifested to any degree (including non-compensable) at any time following separation from a qualifying period of military service as defined in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(i) Asthma.
(ii) Rhinitis.
(iii) Sinusitis, to include rhinosinusitis.
(3)
Rare cancers associated with exposure to fine particulate matter.
The following rare cancers will be service connected if manifested to any degree (including non-compensable) at any time following separation from a qualifying period of military service as defined in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(i) Squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx.
(ii) Squamous cell carcinoma of the trachea.
(iii) Adenocarcinoma of the trachea.
(iv) Salivary gland-type tumors of the trachea.
(v) Adenosquamous carcinoma of the lung.
(vi) Large cell carcinoma of the lung.
(vii) Salivary gland-type tumors of the lung.
(viii) Sarcomatoid carcinoma of the lung.
(ix) Typical and atypical carcinoid of the lung.
(4)
Presumption of exposure.
A Veteran who has a qualifying period of service as defined in paragraph (a)(5) of this section shall be presumed to have been exposed to fine, particulate matter during such service, unless there is affirmative evidence to establish that the veteran was not exposed to fine, particulate matter during that service.
(5)
Qualifying period of service.
The term
qualifying period of service
means any period of active military, naval, air, or space service in:
(i) The Southwest Asia theater of operations during the Persian Gulf War.
(ii) Afghanistan, Syria, Djibouti, or Uzbekistan on or after September 19, 2001, during the Persian Gulf War.
(6)
Definitions.
(i) The term
Southwest Asia theater of operations means
Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, the neutral zone between Iraq and Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Oman, the Gulf of Aden, the Gulf of Oman, the Persian Gulf, the Arabian Sea, the Red Sea, and the airspace above these locations, as defined in § 3.317(e)(2).
(ii) The term
Persian Gulf War
means August 2, 1990, through date to be prescribed by Presidential proclamation or law, as defined in § 3.2(i).
(b)
Exceptions.
A disease listed in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section shall not be presumed service connected if there is affirmative evidence that:
(1) The disease was not incurred during or aggravated by a qualifying period of service; or
(2) The disease was caused by a supervening condition or event that occurred between the Veteran's most recent departure from a qualifying period of service and the onset of the disease; or
(3) The disease is the result of the Veteran's own willful misconduct.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a))
[88 FR 60341, Sept. 1, 2023]
§ 3.320a
Presumptive service connection for bladder, ureter, and related genitourinary cancers.
(a)
Presumption of exposure.
A covered veteran as defined in paragraph (c) of this section shall be presumed to have been exposed to certain toxic substances, chemicals, and airborne hazards, including fine particulate matter, during such service, unless there is affirmative evidence to establish that the veteran was not exposed to any such toxic substances, chemicals, and airborne hazards during that service.
(b)
Presumption of service connection.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the following diseases becoming manifest in a covered veteran, as defined in paragraph (c) of this section, shall be considered to have been incurred in or aggravated during active military, naval, air, or space service, notwithstanding that there is no record of evidence of such disease during the period of such service:
(1) Urinary bladder cancer, including over-lapping sites of the bladder.
(2) Ureter cancer, including the ureteric orifice, and urachus.
(c)
Covered Veteran.
For purposes of this section, the term covered veteran means any veteran who:
(1) On or after August 2, 1990, performed active military, naval, air, or space service while assigned to a duty station in, including airspace above
(i) The Southwest Asia theater of operations as defined in § 3.317(e)(2); or
(ii) Somalia; or
(2) On or after September 11, 2001, performed active military, naval, air, or space service while assigned to a duty station in, including airspace above:
(i) Afghanistan;
(ii) Djibouti;
(iii) Egypt;
(iv) Jordan;
(v) Lebanon;
(vi) Syria;
(vii) Yemen; or
(viii) Uzbekistan.
(d)
Exceptions.
A disease listed in paragraph (b) of this section shall not be presumed service connected if there is affirmative evidence that:
(1) The disease was not incurred or aggravated during active military, naval, air, or space service; or
(2) The disease was caused by a supervening condition or event that occurred between the Veteran's most recent departure from active military, naval, air, or space service and the onset of the disease; or
(3) The disease is the result of the Veteran's own willful misconduct.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1119, 1120, 1174)
[90 FR 29, Jan. 2, 2025]
§ 3.320b
Presumptive service connection for leukemias, multiple myelomas, myelodysplastic syndromes, and myelofibrosis.
(a)
Presumption of exposure.
A covered veteran as defined in § 3.320a(c) shall be presumed to have been exposed to certain toxic substances, chemicals, and airborne hazards, including fine particulate matter, during such service, unless there is affirmative evidence to establish that the veteran was not exposed to any such toxic substances, chemicals, and airborne hazards during that service.
(b)
Presumption of service connection.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the following diseases becoming manifest in a covered veteran, as defined in § 3.320a(c), shall be considered to have been incurred in or aggravated during active military, naval, air, or space service, notwithstanding that there is no record of evidence of such disease during the period of such service:
(1) Acute leukemias.
(2) Chronic leukemias.
(3) Multiple myelomas, including monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS).
(4) Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS).
(5) Myelofibrosis.
(c)
Exceptions.
A disease listed in paragraph (b) of this section shall not be presumed service connected if there is affirmative evidence that:
(1) The disease was not incurred or aggravated during active military, naval, air, or space service; or
(2) The disease was caused by a supervening condition or event that occurred between the veteran's most recent departure from active military, naval, air, or space service and the onset of the disease; or
(3) The disease is the result of the veteran's own willful misconduct.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1119, 1171, 1172, 1173, 1174)
[90 FR 1901, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 3.321
General rating considerations.
(a)
Use of rating schedule.
The 1945 Schedule for Rating Disabilities will be used for evaluating the degree of disabilities in claims for disability compensation, disability and death pension, and in eligibility determinations. The provisions contained in the rating schedule will represent as far as can practicably be determined, the average impairment in earning capacity in civil occupations resulting from disability.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
(b)
Extra-schedular ratings in unusual cases
—(1)
Disability compensation.
Ratings shall be based, as far as practicable, upon the average impairments
of earning capacity with the additional proviso that the Secretary shall from time to time readjust this schedule of ratings in accordance with experience. To accord justice to the exceptional case where the schedular evaluation is inadequate to rate a single service-connected disability, the Director of Compensation Service or his or her delegate is authorized to approve on the basis of the criteria set forth in this paragraph (b), an extra-schedular evaluation commensurate with the average impairment of earning capacity due exclusively to the disability. The governing norm in these exceptional cases is a finding by the Director of Compensation Service or delegatee that application of the regular schedular standards is impractical because the disability is so exceptional or unusual due to such related factors as marked interference with employment or frequent periods of hospitalization.
(2)
Pension.
Where the evidence of record establishes that an applicant for pension who is basically eligible fails to meet the disability requirements based on the percentage standards of the rating schedule but is found to be unemployable by reason of his or her disability(ies), age, occupational background and other related factors, the following are authorized to approve on an extra-schedular basis a permanent and total disability rating for pension purposes: the Veterans Service Center Manager or the Pension Management Center Manager; or where regular schedular standards are met as of the date of the rating decision, the rating board.
(3)
Effective dates.
The effective date of these extra-schedular evaluations granting or increasing benefits will be in accordance with § 3.400(b)(1) and (2) as to original and supplemental claims and in accordance with § 3.400(o) in claims for increased benefits.
(c)
Advisory opinion.
Cases in which application of the schedule is not understood or the propriety of an extra-schedular rating is questionable may be submitted to Central Office for advisory opinion.

# Cross References:
Effective dates; disability benefits. See § 3.400(b). Effective dates; increases. See § 3.400(o).
[26 FR 1583, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 29 FR 1463, Jan. 29, 1964; 37 FR 10442, May 23, 1972; 39 FR 5315, Feb. 12, 1974; 39 FR 32988, Sept. 13, 1974; 40 FR 57459, Dec. 10, 1975; 61 FR 20727, May 8, 1996; 74 FR 26959, June 5, 2009; 79 FR 2100, Jan. 13, 2014; 82 FR 57835, Dec. 8, 2017; 84 FR 170, Jan. 18, 2019]
§ 3.322
Rating of disabilities aggravated by service.
(a)
Aggravation of preservice disability.
In cases involving aggravation by active service, the rating will reflect only the degree of disability over and above the degree of disability existing at the time of entrance into active service, whether the particular condition was noted at the time of entrance into active service, or whether it is determined upon the evidence of record to have existed at that time. It is necessary to deduct from the present evaluation the degree, if ascertainable, of the disability existing at the time of entrance into active service, in terms of the rating schedule except that if the disability is total (100 percent) no deduction will be made. If the degree of disability at the time of entrance into service is not ascertainable in terms of the schedule, no deduction will be made.
(b)
Aggravation of service-connected disability.
Where a disease or injury incurred in peacetime service is aggravated during service in a period of war, or conversely, where a disease or injury incurred in service during a period of war is aggravated during peacetime service, the entire disability flowing from the disease or injury will be service connected based on the war service.

# Cross References:
Principles relating to service connection. See § 3.303. Aggravation of preservice disability. See § 3.306.
[26 FR 1583, Feb. 24, 1961]
§ 3.323
Combined ratings.
(a)
Compensation
—(1)
Same type of service.
When there are two or more service-connected compensable disabilities a combined evaluation will be made following the tables and rules prescribed in the 1945 Schedule for Rating Disabilities.
(2)
Wartime and peacetime service.
Evaluation of wartime and peacetime service-connected compensable disabilities will be combined to provide for the payment of wartime rates of compensation. (38 U.S.C. 1157) Effective July 1, 1973, it is immaterial whether the disabilities are wartime or peacetime service-connected since all disabilities are compensable under 38 U.S.C. 1114 and 1115 on and after that date.
(b)
Pension
—(1)
Nonservice-connected disabilities.
Evaluation of two or more nonservice-connected disabilities not the result of the veteran's own willful misconduct will be combined as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(2)
Service-connected and nonservice-connected disabilities.
Evaluations for service-connected disabilities may be combined with evaluations for disabilities not shown to be service connected and not the result of the veteran's own willful misconduct.

# Cross References:
“Willful misconduct.” See § 3.1(n). Pension. See § 3.3. Line of duty and misconduct. See § 3.301. Service connection for mental unsoundness in suicide. See § 3.302.
[26 FR 1583, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 38 FR 21923, Aug. 14, 1973; 61 FR 20438, May 7, 1996]
§ 3.324
Multiple noncompensable service-connected disabilities.
Whenever a veteran is suffering from two or more separate permanent service-connected disabilities of such character as clearly to interfere with normal employability, even though none of the disabilities may be of compensable degree under the 1945 Schedule for Rating Disabilities the rating agency is authorized to apply a 10-percent rating, but not in combination with any other rating.
[40 FR 56435, Dec. 3, 1975]
§ 3.325
[Reserved]
§ 3.326
Examinations.
For purposes of this section, the term examination includes periods of hospital observation when required by VA.
(a) Where there is a claim for disability compensation or pension but medical evidence accompanying the claim is not adequate for rating purposes, a Department of Veterans Affairs examination will be authorized. This paragraph applies to original and supplemental claims as well as claims for increase submitted by a veteran, surviving spouse, parent, or child. Individuals for whom an examination has been scheduled are required to report for the examination.
(b) Provided that it is otherwise adequate for rating purposes, any hospital report, or any examination report, from any government or private institution may be accepted for rating a claim without further examination. However, monetary benefits to a former prisoner of war will not be denied unless the claimant has been offered a complete physical examination conducted at a Department of Veterans Affairs hospital or outpatient clinic.
(c) Provided that it is otherwise adequate for rating purposes, a statement from a private physician may be accepted for rating a claim without further examination.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5107(a))

# Cross Reference:
Failure to report for VA examination. See § 3.655.
[60 FR 52864, Oct. 11, 1995, as amended at 66 FR 45632, Aug. 29, 2001; 84 FR 170, Jan. 18, 2019]
§ 3.327
Reexaminations.
(a)
General.
Reexaminations, including periods of hospital observation, will be requested whenever VA determines there is a need to verify either the continued existence or the current severity of a disability. Generally, reexaminations will be required if it is likely that a disability has improved, or if evidence indicates there has been a material change in a disability or that the current rating may be incorrect. Individuals for whom reexaminations have been authorized and scheduled are required to report for such reexaminations. Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section provide general guidelines for requesting reexaminations, but shall not be construed as limiting VA's authority to request reexaminations, or periods of hospital observation, at any
time in order to ensure that a disability is accurately rated.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(b)
Compensation cases
—(1)
Scheduling reexaminations.
Assignment of a prestabilization rating requires reexamination within the second 6 months period following separation from service. Following initial Department of Veterans Affairs examination, or any scheduled future or other examination, reexamination, if in order, will be scheduled within not less than 2 years nor more than 5 years within the judgment of the rating board, unless another time period is elsewhere specified.
(2) No periodic future examinations will be requested. In service-connected cases, no periodic reexamination will be scheduled: (i) When the disability is established as static;
(ii) When the findings and symptoms are shown by examinations scheduled in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section or other examinations and hospital reports to have persisted without material improvement for a period of 5 years or more;
(iii) Where the disability from disease is permanent in character and of such nature that there is no likelihood of improvement;
(iv) In cases of veterans over 55 years of age, except under unusual circumstances;
(v) When the rating is a prescribed scheduled minimum rating; or
(vi) Where a combined disability evaluation would not be affected if the future examination should result in reduced evaluation for one or more conditions.
(c)
Pension cases.
In nonservice-connected cases in which the permanent total disability has been confirmed by reexamination or by the history of the case, or with obviously static disabilities, further reexaminations will not generally be requested. In other cases further examination will not be requested routinely and will be accomplished only if considered necessary based upon the particular facts of the individual case. In the cases of veterans over 55 years of age, reexamination will be requested only under unusual circumstances.

# Cross Reference:
Failure to report for VA examination. See § 3.655.
[26 FR 1585, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 30 FR 11855, Sept. 16, 1965; 36 FR 14467, Aug. 6, 1971; 55 FR 49521, Nov. 29, 1990; 60 FR 27409, May 24, 1995]
§ 3.328
lndependent medical opinions.
(a)
General.
When warranted by the medical complexity or controversy involved in a pending claim, an advisory medical opinion may be obtained from one or more medical experts who are not employees of VA. Opinions shall be obtained from recognized medical schools, universities, clinics or medical institutions with which arrangements for such opinions have been made, and an appropriate official of the institution shall select the individual expert(s) to render an opinion.
(b)
Requests.
A request for an independent medical opinion in conjunction with a claim pending before VA may be initiated by the office having jurisdiction over the claim, by the claimant, or by his or her duly appointed representative. The request must be submitted in writing and must set forth in detail the reasons why the opinion is necessary. All such requests shall be submitted through the Veterans Service Center Manager or Pension Management Center Manager of the office having jurisdiction over the claim, and those requests which in the judgment of the Veterans Service Center Manager or Pension Management Center Manager merit consideration shall be referred to the Compensation Service or the Pension and Fiduciary Service for approval.
(c)
Approval.
(1) Requests for independent medical opinions shall be approved when one of the following conditions is met:
(i) The director of each Service from which a benefit is sought, or his or her designee, determines that the issue under consideration poses a medical problem of such complexity or controversy as to justify solicitation of an independent medical opinion; or
(ii) The independent medical opinion is required to fulfill the instructions contained in a remand order from the Board of Veterans' Appeals.
(2) A determination that an independent medical opinion is not warranted may be contested only as part of an appeal to the Board of Veterans' Appeals on the merits of the decision rendered on the primary issue by VA.
(d)
Notification.
The Compensation Service or the Pension and Fiduciary Service shall notify the claimant when the request for an independent medical opinion has been approved with regard to his or her claim and shall furnish the claimant with a copy of the opinion when it is received. If, in the judgment of the Secretary, disclosure of the independent medical opinion would be harmful to the physical or mental health of the claimant, disclosure shall be subject to the special procedures set forth in § 1.577 of this chapter.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5109, 5701(b)(1); 5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(3))
[55 FR 18602, May 3, 1990, as amended at 79 FR 2100, Jan. 13, 2014; 84 FR 170, Jan. 18, 2019]
§ 3.329
[Reserved]
§ 3.330
Resumption of rating when veteran subsequently reports for Department of Veterans Affairs examination.
Such ratings will be governed by the provisions of § 3.158, “Abandoned Claims,” and § 3.655, “Failure to report for Department of Veterans Affairs examination.” The period following the termination or reduction for which benefits are precluded by the cited regulations will be stated in the rating. If the evidence is insufficient to evaluate disability during any period following the termination or reduction for which payments are not otherwise precluded, the rating will contain a notation reading “Evidence insufficient to evaluate from _____ to ______.

# Cross Reference:
Failure to report for Department of Veterans Affairs examination. See § 3.655.
[29 FR 3623, Mar. 21, 1964]
§§ 3.331-3.339
[Reserved]
§ 3.340
Total and permanent total ratings and unemployability.
(a)
Total disability ratings
—(1)
General.
Total disability will be considered to exist when there is present any impairment of mind or body which is sufficient to render it impossible for the average person to follow a substantially gainful occupation. Total disability may or may not be permanent. Total ratings will not be assigned, generally, for temporary exacerbations or acute infectious diseases except where specifically prescribed by the schedule.
(2)
Schedule for rating disabilities.
Total ratings are authorized for any disability or combination of disabilities for which the Schedule for Rating Disabilities prescribes a 100 percent evaluation or, with less disability, where the requirements of paragraph 16, page 5 of the rating schedule are present or where, in pension cases, the requirements of paragraph 17, page 5 of the schedule are met.
(3)
Ratings of total disability on history.
In the case of disabilities which have undergone some recent improvement, a rating of total disability may be made, provided:
(i) That the disability must in the past have been of sufficient severity to warrant a total disability rating;
(ii) That it must have required extended, continuous, or intermittent hospitalization, or have produced total industrial incapacity for at least 1 year, or be subject to recurring, severe, frequent, or prolonged exacerbations; and
(iii) That it must be the opinion of the rating agency that despite the recent improvement of the physical condition, the veteran will be unable to effect an adjustment into a substantially gainful occupation. Due consideration will be given to the frequency and duration of totally incapacitating exacerbations since incurrence of the original disease or injury, and to periods of hospitalization for treatment in determining whether the average person could have reestablished himself or herself in a substantially gainful occupation.
(b)
Permanent total disability.
Permanence of total disability will be taken to exist when such impairment is reasonably certain to continue throughout the life of the disabled person. The permanent loss or loss of use of both hands, or of both feet, or of one hand and one foot, or of the sight of both
eyes, or becoming permanently helpless or bedridden constitutes permanent total disability. Diseases and injuries of long standing which are actually totally incapacitating will be regarded as permanently and totally disabling when the probability of permanent improvement under treatment is remote. Permanent total disability ratings may not be granted as a result of any incapacity from acute infectious disease, accident, or injury, unless there is present one of the recognized combinations or permanent loss of use of extremities or sight, or the person is in the strict sense permanently helpless or bedridden, or when it is reasonably certain that a subsidence of the acute or temporary symptoms will be followed by irreducible totality of disability by way of residuals. The age of the disabled person may be considered in determining permanence.
(c)
Insurance ratings.
A rating of permanent and total disability for insurance purposes will have no effect on ratings for compensation or pension.
[26 FR 1585, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 46 FR 47541, Sept. 29, 1981]
§ 3.341
Total disability ratings for compensation purposes.
(a)
General.
Subject to the limitation in paragraph (b) of this section, total-disability compensation ratings may be assigned under the provisions of § 3.340. However, if the total rating is based on a disability or combination of disabilities for which the Schedule for Rating Disabilities provides an evaluation of less than 100 percent, it must be determined that the service-connected disabilities are sufficient to produce unemployability without regard to advancing age.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
(b)
Incarcerated veterans.
A total rating for compensation purposes based on individual unemployability which would first become effective while a veteran is incarcerated in a Federal, State or local penal institution for conviction of a felony, shall not be assigned during such period of incarceration. However, where a rating for individual unemployability exists prior to incarceration for a felony and routine review is required, the case will be reconsidered to determine if continued eligibility for such rating exists.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5313(c))
(c)
Program for vocational rehabilitation.
Each time a veteran is rated totally disabled on the basis of individual unemployability during the period beginning after January 31, 1985, the Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR
E) Service will be notified so that an evaluation may be offered to determine whether the achievement of a vocational goal by the veteran is reasonably feasible.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1163)
[46 FR 47541, Sept. 29, 1981, as amended at 50 FR 52774, Dec. 26, 1985; 55 FR 17271, Apr. 24, 1990l; 58 FR 32445, June 10, 1993; 68 FR 34542, June 10, 2003; 87 FR 8742, Feb. 16, 2022]
§ 3.342
Permanent and total disability ratings for pension purposes.
(a)
General.
Permanent total disability ratings for pension purposes are authorized for disabling conditions not the result of the veteran's own willful misconduct whether or not they are service connected.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1502(a))
(b)
Criteria.
In addition to the criteria for determining total disability and permanency of total disability contained in § 3.340, the following special considerations apply in pension cases:
(1) Permanent total disability pension ratings will be authorized for congenital, developmental, hereditary or familial conditions, provided the other requirements for entitlement are met.
(2) The permanence of total disability will be established as of the earliest date consistent with the evidence in the case. Active pulmonary tuberculosis not otherwise established as permanently and totally disabling will be presumed so after 6 months' hospitalization without improvement. The same principle may be applied with other types of disabilities requiring hospitalization for indefinite periods. The need for hospitalization for periods shorter or longer than 6 months may be a proper basis for determining permanence. Where, in application of this principle, it is necessary to employ a
waiting period to determine permanence of totality of disability and a report received at the end of such period shows the veteran's condition is unimproved, permanence may be established as of the date of entrance into the hospital. Similarly, when active pulmonary tuberculosis is improved after 6 months' hospitalization but still diagnosed as active after 12 months' hospitalization permanence will also be established as of the date of entrance into the hospital. In other cases the rating will be effective the date the evidence establishes permanence.
(3) Special consideration must be given the question of permanence in the case of veterans under 40 years of age. For such veterans, permanence of total disability requires a finding that the end result of treatment and adjustment to residual handicaps (rehabilitation) will be permanent disability of the required degree precluding more than marginal employment. Severe diseases and injuries, including multiple fractures or the amputation of a single extremity, should not be taken to establish permanent and total disability until it is shown that the veteran after treatment and convalescence, has been unable to secure or follow employment because of the disability and through no fault of the veteran.
(4) The following shall not be considered as evidence of employability:
(i) Employment as a member-employer or similar employment obtained only in competition with disabled persons.
(ii) Participation in, or the receipt of a distribution of funds as a result of participation in, a therapeutic or rehabilitation activity under 38 U.S.C. 1718.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1718(f))
(5) The authority granted the Secretary under 38 U.S.C. 1502(a)(2) to classify as permanent and total those diseases and disorders, the nature and extent of which, in the Secretary judgment, will justify such determination, will be exercised under § 3.321(b).
(c)
Temporary program of vocational rehabilitation training for certain pension recipients.
(1) When a veteran under age 45 is awarded disability pension during the period beginning on February 1, 1985, and ending on December 31, 1995, the Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR
E) Division will be notified so that an evaluation may be made, as provided in § 21.6050, to determine that veteran's potential for rehabilitation.
(2) If a veteran secures employment within the scope of a vocational goal identified in his or her individualized written vocational rehabilitation plan, or in a related field which requires reasonably developed skills and the use of some or all of the training or services furnished the veteran under such plan, not later than one year after eligibility to counseling under § 21.6040(b)(1) of this chapter expires, the veteran's permanent and total evaluation for pension purposes shall not be terminated by reason of the veteran's capacity to engage in such employment until the veteran has maintained that employment for a period of not less than 12 consecutive months.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1524(c))
[26 FR 1586, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 26 FR 9674, Oct. 13, 1961; 29 FR 3624, Mar. 21, 1964; 39 FR 14944, Apr. 18, 1974; 46 FR 47541, Sept. 29, 1981; 50 FR 52775, Dec. 26, 1985; 53 FR 23235, June 21, 1988; 55 FR 17271, Apr. 24, 1990; 56 FR 25044, June 3, 1991; 56 FR 65851, Dec. 19, 1991; 58 FR 32445, June 10, 1993; 87 FR 8742, Feb. 16, 2022]
§ 3.343
Continuance of total disability ratings.
(a)
General.
Total disability ratings, when warranted by the severity of the condition and not granted purely because of hospital, surgical, or home treatment, or individual unemployability will not be reduced, in the absence of clear error, without examination showing material improvement in physical or mental condition. Examination reports showing material improvement must be evaluated in conjunction with all the facts of record, and consideration must be given particularly to whether the veteran attained improvement under the ordinary conditions of life,
i.e.
, while working or actively seeking work or whether the symptoms have been brought under control by prolonged rest, or generally, by following a regimen which precludes work, and, if the latter, reduction from total disability ratings will not be considered pending
reexamination after a period of employment (3 to 6 months).
(b)
Tuberculosis; compensation.
In service-connected cases, evaluations for active or inactive tuberculosis will be governed by the Schedule for Rating Disabilities (part 4 of this chapter). Where in the opinion of the rating board the veteran at the expiration of the period during which a total rating is provided will not be able to maintain inactivity of the disease process under the ordinary conditions of life, the case will be submitted under § 3.321.
(c)
Individual unemployability.
(1) In reducing a rating of 100 percent service-connected disability based on individual unemployability, the provisions of § 3.105(e) are for application but caution must be exercised in such a determination that actual employability is established by clear and convincing evidence. When in such a case the veteran is undergoing vocational rehabilitation, education or training, the rating will not be reduced by reason thereof unless there is received evidence of marked improvement or recovery in physical or mental conditions or of employment progress, income earned, and prospects of economic rehabilitation, which demonstrates affirmatively the veteran's capacity to pursue the vocation or occupation for which the training is intended to qualify him or her, or unless the physical or mental demands of the course are obviously incompatible with total disability. Neither participation in, nor the receipt of remuneration as a result of participation in, a therapeutic or rehabilitation activity under 38 U.S.C. 1718 shall be considered evidence of employability.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1718(f))
(2) If a veteran with a total disability rating for compensation purposes based on individual unemployability begins to engage in a substantially gainful occuption during the period beginning after January 1, 1985, the veteran's rating may not be reduced solely on the basis of having secured and followed such substantially gainful occupation unless the veteran maintains the occupation for a period of 12 consecutive months. For purposes of this subparagraph, temporary interruptions in employment which are of short duration shall not be considered breaks in otherwise continuous employment.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1163(a))

# Cross Reference:
Protection, total disability. See § 3.951(b).
[33 FR 16273, Nov. 6, 1968, as amended at 39 FR 14944, Apr. 29, 1974; 50 FR 52775, Dec. 26, 1985; 53 FR 23236, June 21, 1988; 55 FR 17271, Apr. 24, 1990; 57 FR 10426, Mar. 26, 1992; 58 FR 32445, June 10, 1993; 58 FR 46865, Sept. 3, 1993]
§ 3.344
Stabilization of disability evaluations.
(a)
Examination reports indicating improvement.
Rating agencies will handle cases affected by change of medical findings or diagnosis, so as to produce the greatest degree of stability of disability evaluations consistent with the laws and Department of Veterans Affairs regulations governing disability compensation and pension. It is essential that the entire record of examinations and the medical-industrial history be reviewed to ascertain whether the recent examination is full and complete, including all special examinations indicated as a result of general examination and the entire case history. This applies to treatment of intercurrent diseases and exacerbations, including hospital reports, bedside examinations, examinations by designated physicians, and examinations in the absence of, or without taking full advantage of, laboratory facilities and the cooperation of specialists in related lines. Examinations less full and complete than those on which payments were authorized or continued will not be used as a basis of reduction. Ratings on account of diseases subject to temporary or episodic improvement, e.g., manic depressive or other psychotic reaction, epilepsy, psychoneurotic reaction, arteriosclerotic heart disease, bronchial asthma, gastric or duodenal ulcer, many skin diseases, etc., will not be reduced on any one examination, except in those instances where all the evidence of record clearly warrants the conclusion that sustained improvement has been demonstrated. Ratings on account of diseases which become comparatively symptom free (findings absent) after prolonged rest, e.g. residuals of phlebitis, arteriosclerotic heart disease,
etc., will not be reduced on examinations reflecting the results of bed rest. Moreover, though material improvement in the physical or mental condition is clearly reflected the rating agency will consider whether the evidence makes it reasonably certain that the improvement will be maintained under the ordinary conditions of life. When syphilis of the central nervous system or alcoholic deterioration is diagnosed following a long prior history of psychosis, psychoneurosis, epilepsy, or the like, it is rarely possible to exclude persistence, in masked form, of the preceding innocently acquired manifestations. Rating boards encountering a change of diagnosis will exercise caution in the determination as to whether a change in diagnosis represents no more than a progression of an earlier diagnosis, an error in prior diagnosis or possibly a disease entity independent of the service-connected disability. When the new diagnosis reflects mental deficiency or personality disorder only, the possibility of only temporary remission of a super-imposed psychiatric disease will be borne in mind.
(b)
Doubtful cases.
If doubt remains, after according due consideration to all the evidence developed by the several items discussed in paragraph (a) of this section, the rating agency will continue the rating in effect, citing the former diagnosis with the new diagnosis in parentheses, and following the appropriate code there will be added the reference “Rating continued pending reexamination ______ months from this date, § 3.344.” The rating agency will determine on the basis of the facts in each individual case whether 18, 24 or 30 months will be allowed to elapse before the reexamination will be made.
(c)
Disabilities which are likely to improve.
The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply to ratings which have continued for long periods at the same level (5 years or more). They do not apply to disabilities which have not become stabilized and are likely to improve. Reexaminations disclosing improvement, physical or mental, in these disabilities will warrant reduction in rating.
[26 FR 1586, Feb. 24, 1961; 58 FR 53660, Oct. 18, 1993]

# Ratings for Special Purposes
§ 3.350
Special monthly compensation ratings.
The rates of special monthly compensation stated in this section are those provided under 38 U.S.C. 1114.
(a)
Ratings under 38 U.S.C. 1114(k).
Special monthly compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1114(k) is payable for each anatomical loss or loss of use of one hand, one foot, both buttocks, one or more creative organs, blindness of one eye having only light perception, deafness of both ears, having absence of air and bone conduction, complete organic aphonia with constant inability to communicate by speech or, in the case of a woman veteran, loss of 25% or more of tissue from a single breast or both breasts in combination (including loss by mastectomy or partial mastectomy), or following receipt of radiation treatment of breast tissue. This special compensation is payable in addition to the basic rate of compensation otherwise payable on the basis of degree of disability, provided that the combined rate of compensation does not exceed the monthly rate set forth in 38 U.S.C. 1114(l) when authorized in conjunction with any of the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 1114 (a) through (j) or (s). When there is entitlement under 38 U.S.C. 1114 (l) through (n) or an intermediate rate under (p) such additional allowance is payable for each such anatomical loss or loss of use existing in addition to the requirements for the basic rates, provided the total does not exceed the monthly rate set forth in 38 U.S.C. 1114(o). The limitations on the maximum compensation payable under this paragraph are independent of and do not preclude payment of additional compensation for dependents under 38 U.S.C. 1115, or the special allowance for aid and attendance provided by 38 U.S.C. 1114(r).
(1)
Creative organ.
(i) Loss of a creative organ will be shown by acquired absence of one or both testicles (other than undescended testicles) or ovaries or other creative organ. Loss of use of one testicle will be established when examination by a board finds that:
(
a
) The diameters of the affected testicle are reduced to one-third of the
corresponding diameters of the paired normal testicle, or
(
b
) The diameters of the affected testicle are reduced to one-half or less of the corresponding normal testicle and there is alteration of consistency so that the affected testicle is considerably harder or softer than the corresponding normal testicle; or
(
c
) If neither of the conditions (
a
) or (
b
) is met, when a biopsy, recommended by a board including a genitourologist and accepted by the veteran, establishes the absence of spermatozoa.
(ii) When loss or loss of use of a creative organ resulted from wounds or other trauma sustained in service, or resulted from operations in service for the relief of other conditions, the creative organ becoming incidentally involved, the benefit may be granted.
(iii) Loss or loss of use traceable to an elective operation performed subsequent to service, will not establish entitlement to the benefit. If, however, the operation after discharge was required for the correction of a specific injury caused by a preceding operation in service, it will support authorization of the benefit. When the existence of disability is established meeting the above requirements for nonfunctioning testicle due to operation after service, resulting in loss of use, the benefit may be granted even though the operation is one of election. An operation is not considered to be one of election where it is advised on sound medical judgment for the relief of a pathological condition or to prevent possible future pathological consequences.
(iv) Atrophy resulting from mumps followed by orchitis in service is service connected. Since atrophy is usually perceptible within 1 to 6 months after infection subsides, an examination more than 6 months after the subsidence of orchitis demonstrating a normal genitourinary system will be considered in determining rebuttal of service incurrence of atrophy later demonstrated. Mumps not followed by orchitis in service will not suffice as the antecedent cause of subsequent atrophy for the purpose of authorizing the benefit.
(2)
Foot and hand.
(i) Loss of use of a hand or a foot will be held to exist when no effective function remains other than that which would be equally well served by an amputation stump at the site of election below elbow or knee with use of a suitable prosthetic appliance. The determination will be made on the basis of the actual remaining function, whether the acts of grasping, manipulation, etc., in the case of the hand, or of balance, propulsion, etc., in the case of the foot, could be accomplished equally well by an amputation stump with prosthesis; for example:
(
a
) Extremely unfavorable complete ankylosis of the knee, or complete ankylosis of two major joints of an extremity, or shortening of the lower extremity of 3
1/2
inches or more, will constitute loss of use of the hand or foot involved.
(
b
) Complete paralysis of the external popliteal nerve (common peroneal) and consequent footdrop, accompanied by characteristic organic changes including trophic and circulatory disturbances and other concomitants confirmatory of complete paralysis of this nerve, will be taken as loss of use of the foot.
(3)
Both buttocks.
(i) Loss of use of both buttocks shall be deemed to exist when there is severe damage by disease or injury to muscle group XVII, bilateral, (diagnostic code 5317) and additional disability making it impossible for the disabled person, without assistance, to rise from a seated position and from a stooped position (fingers to toes position) and to maintain postural stability (the pelvis upon head of femur). The assistance may be done by the person's own hands or arms, and, in the matter of postural stability, by a special appliance.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1114(k))
(ii) Special monthly compensation for loss or loss of use of both lower extremities (38 U.S.C. 1114(l) through (n)) will not preclude additional compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1114(k) for loss of use of both buttocks where appropriate tests clearly substantiate that there is such additional loss.
(4)
Eye.
Loss of use or blindness of one eye, having only light perception, will be held to exist when there is inability to recognize test letters at 1 foot and when further examination of
the eye reveals that perception of objects, hand movements, or counting fingers cannot be accomplished at 3 feet. Lesser extents of vision, particularly perception of objects, hand movements, or counting fingers at distances less than 3 feet is considered of negligible utility.
(5)
Deafness.
Deafness of both ears, having absence of air and bone conduction will be held to exist where examination in a Department of Veterans Affairs authorized audiology clinic under current testing criteria shows bilateral hearing loss is equal to or greater than the minimum bilateral hearing loss required for a maximum rating evaluation under the rating schedule.
(Authority: Pub. L. 88-20)
(6)
Aphonia.
Complete organic aphonia will be held to exist where there is a disability of the organs of speech which constantly precludes communication by speech.
(Authority: Pub. L. 88-22)
(b)
Ratings under 38 U.S.C. 1114(l).
The special monthly compensation provided by 38 U.S.C. 1114(l) is payable for anatomical loss or loss of use of both feet, one hand and one foot, blindness in both eyes with visual acuity of 5/200 or less or being permanently bedridden or so helpless as to be in need of regular aid and attendance.
(1)
Extremities.
The criteria for loss and loss of use of an extremity contained in paragraph (a)(2) of this section are applicable.
(2)
Eyes, bilateral.
5/200 visual acuity or less bilaterally qualifies for entitlement under 38 U.S.C. 1114(l). However, evaluation of 5/200 based on acuity in excess of that degree but less than 10/200 (§ 4.83 of this chapter), does not qualify. Concentric contraction of the field of vision beyond 5 degrees in both eyes is the equivalent of 5/200 visual acuity.
(3)
Need for aid and attendance.
The criteria for determining that a veteran is so helpless as to be in need of regular aid and attendance are contained in § 3.352(a).
(4)
Permanently bedridden.
The criteria for rating are contained in § 3.352(a). Where possible, determinations should be on the basis of permanently bedridden rather than for need of aid and attendance (except where 38 U.S.C. 1114(r) is involved) to avoid reduction during hospitalization where aid and attendance is provided in kind.
(c)
Ratings under 38 U.S.C. 1114(m).
(1) The special monthly compensation provided by 38 U.S.C. 1114(m) is payable for any of the following conditions:
(i) Anatomical loss or loss of use of both hands;
(ii) Anatomical loss or loss of use of both legs at a level, or with complications, preventing natural knee action with prosthesis in place;
(iii) Anatomical loss or loss of use of one arm at a level, or with complications, preventing natural elbow action with prosthesis in place with anatomical loss or loss of use of one leg at a level, or with complications, preventing natural knee action with prosthesis in place;
(iv) Blindness in both eyes having only light perception;
(v) Blindness in both eyes leaving the veteran so helpless as to be in need of regular aid and attendance.
(2)
Natural elbow or knee action.
In determining whether there is natural elbow or knee action with prosthesis in place, consideration will be based on whether use of the proper prosthetic appliance requires natural use of the joint, or whether necessary motion is otherwise controlled, so that the muscles affecting joint motion, if not already atrophied, will become so. If there is no movement in the joint, as in ankylosis or complete paralysis, use of prosthesis is not to be expected, and the determination will be as though there were one in place.
(3)
Eyes, bilateral.
With visual acuity 5/200 or less or the vision field reduced to 5 degree concentric contraction in both eyes, entitlement on account of need for regular aid and attendance will be determined on the facts in the individual case.
(d)
Ratings under 38 U.S.C. 1114(n).
The special monthly compensation provided by 38 U.S.C. 1114(n) is payable for any of the conditions which follow: Amputation is a prerequisite except for loss of use of both arms and blindness without light perception in both eyes. If a prosthesis cannot be worn at the
present level of amputation but could be applied if there were a reamputation at a higher level, the requirements of this paragraph are not met; instead, consideration will be given to loss of natural elbow or knee action.
(1) Anatomical loss or loss of use of both arms at a level or with complications, preventing natural elbow action with prosthesis in place;
(2) Anatomical loss of both legs so near the hip as to prevent use of a prosthetic appliance;
(3) Anatomical loss of one arm so near the shoulder as to prevent use of a prosthetic appliance with anatomical loss of one leg so near the hip as to prevent use of a prosthetic appliance;
(4) Anatomical loss of both eyes or blindness without light perception in both eyes.
(e)
Ratings under 38 U.S.C. 1114 (o).
(1) The special monthly compensation provided by 38 U.S.C. 1114(o) is payable for any of the following conditions:
(i) Anatomical loss of both arms so near the shoulder as to prevent use of a prosthetic appliance;
(ii) Conditions entitling to two or more of the rates (no condition being considered twice) provided in 38 U.S.C. 1114(l) through (n);
(iii) Bilateral deafness rated at 60 percent or more disabling (and the hearing impairment in either one or both ears is service connected) in combination with service-connected blindness with bilateral visual acuity 20/200 or less.
(iv) Service-connected total deafness in one ear or bilateral deafness rated at 40 percent or more disabling (and the hearing impairment in either one of both ears is service-connected) in combination with service-connected blindness of both eyes having only light perception or less.
(2)
Paraplegia.
Paralysis of both lower extremities together with loss of anal and bladder sphincter control will entitle to the maximum rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114(o), through the combination of loss of use of both legs and helplessness. The requirement of loss of anal and bladder sphincter control is met even though incontinence has been overcome under a strict regimen of rehabilitation of bowel and bladder training and other auxiliary measures.
(3)
Combinations.
Determinations must be based upon separate and distinct disabilities. This requires, for example, that where a veteran who had suffered the loss or loss of use of two extremities is being considered for the maximum rate on account of helplessness requiring regular aid and attendance, the latter must be based on need resulting from pathology other than that of the extremities. If the loss or loss of use of two extremities or being permanently bedridden leaves the person helpless, increase is not in order on account of this helplessness. Under no circumstances will the combination of “being permanently bedridden” and “being so helpless as to require regular aid and attendance” without separate and distinct anatomical loss, or loss of use, of two extremities, or blindness, be taken as entitling to the maximum benefit. The fact, however, that two separate and distinct entitling disabilities, such as anatomical loss, or loss of use of both hands and both feet, result from a common etiological agent, for example, one injury or rheumatoid arthritis, will not preclude maximum entitlement.
(4)
Helplessness.
The maximum rate, as a result of including helplessness as one of the entitling multiple disabilities, is intended to cover, in addition to obvious losses and blindness, conditions such as the loss of use of two extremities with absolute deafness and nearly total blindness or with severe multiple injuries producing total disability outside the useless extremities, these conditions being construed as loss of use of two extremities and helplessness.
(f)
Intermediate or next higher rate.
An intermediate rate authorized by this paragraph shall be established at the arithmetic mean, rounded to the nearest dollar, between the two rates concerned.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1114 (p))
(1)
Extremities.
(i) Anatomical loss or loss of use of one foot with anatomical loss or loss of use of one leg at a level, or with complications preventing natural knee action with prosthesis in place, shall entitle to the rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114(l) and (m).
(ii) Anatomical loss or loss of use of one foot with anatomical loss of one leg so near the hip as to prevent use of prosthetic appliance shall entitle to the rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114(m).
(iii) Anatomical loss or loss of use of one foot with anatomical loss or loss of use of one arm at a level, or with complications, preventing natural elbow action with prosthesis in place, shall entitle to the rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114(l) and (m).
(iv) Anatomical loss or loss of use of one foot with anatomical loss or loss of use of one arm so near the shoulder as to prevent use of a prosthetic appliance shall entitle to the rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114(m).
(v) Anatomical loss or loss of use of one leg at a level, or with complications, preventing natural knee action with prosthesis in place with anatomical loss of one leg so near the hip as to prevent use of a prosthetic appliance, shall entitle to the rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114(m) and (n).
(vi) Anatomical loss or loss of use of one leg at a level, or with complications, preventing natural knee action with prosthesis in place with anatomical loss or loss of use of one hand, shall entitle to the rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114 (l) and (m).
(vii) Anatomical loss or loss of use of one leg at a level, or with complications, preventing natural knee action with prosthesis in place with anatomical loss of one arm so near the shoulder as to prevent use of a prosthetic appliance, shall entitle to the rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114 (m) and (n).
(viii) Anatomical loss of one leg so near the hip as to prevent use of a prosthetic appliance with anatomical loss or loss of use of one hand shall entitle to the rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114(m).
(ix) Anatomical loss of one leg so near the hip as to prevent use of a prosthetic appliance with anatomical loss or loss of use of one arm at a level, or with complications, preventing natural elbow action with prosthesis in place, shall entitle to the rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114 (m) and (n).
(x) Anatomical loss or loss of use of one hand with anatomical loss or loss of use of one arm at a level, or with complications, preventing natural elbow action with prosthesis in place, shall entitle to the rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114 (m) and (n).
(xi) Anatomical loss or loss of use of one hand with anatomical loss of one arm so near the shoulder as to prevent use of a prosthetic appliance shall entitle to the rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114(n).
(xii) Anatomical loss or loss of use of one arm at a level, or with complications, preventing natural elbow action with prosthesis in place with anatomical loss of one arm so near the shoulder as to prevent use of a prosthetic appliance, shall entitle to the rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114 (n) and (o).
(2) Eyes, bilateral, and blindness in connection with deafness and/or loss or loss of use of a hand or foot.
(i) Blindness of one eye with 5/200 visual acuity or less and blindness of the other eye having only light perception will entitle to the rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114 (l) and (m).
(ii) Blindness of one eye with 5/200 visual acuity or less and anatomical loss of, or blindness having no light
perception in the other eye, will entitle to a rate equal to 38 U.S.C. 1114(m).
(iii) Blindness of one eye having only light perception and anatomical loss of, or blindness having no light perception in the other eye, will entitle to a rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114 (m) and (n).
(iv) Blindness in both eyes with visual acuity of 5/200 or less, or blindness in both eyes rated under subparagraph (2) (i) or (ii) of this paragraph, when accompanied by service-connected total deafness in one ear, will afford entitlement to the next higher intermediate rate of if the veteran is already entitled to an intermediate rate, to the next higher statutory rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114, but in no event higher than the rate for (o).
(v) Blindness in both eyes having only light perception or less, or rated under subparagraph (2)(iii) of this paragraph, when accompanied by bilateral deafness (and the hearing impairment in either one or both ears is service-connected) rated at 10 or 20 percent disabling, will afford entitlement to the next higher intermediate rate, or if the
veteran is already entitled to an intermediate rate, to the next higher statutory rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114, but in no event higher than the rate for (o).
(Authority: Sec. 112, Pub. L. 98-223)
(vi) Blindness in both eyes rated under 38 U.S.C. 1114 (l), (m) or (n), or rated under subparagraphs (2)(i), (ii) or (iii) of this paragraph, when accompanied by bilaterial deafness rated at no less than 30 percent, and the hearing impairment in one or both ears is service-connected, will afford entitlement to the next higher statutory rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114, or if the veteran is already entitled to an intermediate rate, to the next higher intermediate rate, but in no event higher than the rate for (o).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1114(p))
(vii) Blindness in both eyes rated under 38 U.S.C. 1114 (l), (m), or (n), or under the intermediate or next higher rate provisions of this subparagraph, when accompanied by:
(A) Service-connected loss or loss of use of one hand, will afford entitlement to the next higher statutory rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114 or, if the veteran is already entitled to an intermediate rate, to the next higher intermediate rate, but in no event higher than the rate for (o); or
(B) Service-connected loss or loss of use of one foot which by itself or in combination with another compensable disability would be ratable at 50 percent or more, will afford entitlement to the next higher statutory rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114 or, if the veteran is already entitled to an intermediate rate, to the next higher intermediate rate, but in no event higher than the rate for (o); or
(C) Service-connected loss or loss of use of one foot which is ratable at less than 50 percent and which is the only compensable disability other than bilateral blindness, will afford entitlement to the next higher intermediate rate or, if the veteran is already entitled to an intermediate rate, to the next higher statutory rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114, but in no event higher than the rate for (o).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1114(p))
(3)
Additional independent 50 percent disabilities.
In addition to the statutory rates payable under 38 U.S.C. 1114 (l) through (n) and the intermediate or next higher rate provisions outlined above, additional single permanent disability or combinations of permanent disabilities independently ratable at 50 percent or more will afford entitlement to the next higher intermediate rate or if already entitled to an intermediate rate to the next higher statutory rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114, but not above the (o) rate. In the application of this subparagraph the disability or disabilities independently ratable at 50 percent or more must be separate and distinct and involve different anatomical segments or bodily systems from the conditions establishing entitlement under 38 U.S.C. 1114 (l) through (n) or the intermediate rate provisions outlined above. The graduated ratings for arrested tuberculosis will not be utilized in this connection, but the permanent residuals of tuberculosis may be utilized.
(4)
Additional independent 100 percent ratings.
In addition to the statutory rates payable under 38 U.S.C. 1114 (l) through (n) and the intermediate or next higher rate provisions outlined above additional single permanent disability independently ratable at 100 percent apart from any consideration of individual unemployability will afford entitlement to the next higher statutory rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114 or if already entitled to an intermediate rate to the next higher intermediate rate, but in no event higher than the rate for (o). In the application of this subparagraph the single permanent disability independently ratable at 100 percent must be separate and distinct and involve different anatomical segments or bodily systems from the conditions establishing entitlement under 38 U.S.C. 1114 (l) through (n) or the intermediate rate provisions outlined above.
(i) Where the multiple loss or loss of use entitlement to a statutory or intermediate rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114 (l) and (o) is caused by the same etiological disease or injury, that disease or injury may not serve as the basis for the independent 50 percent or 100 percent unless it is so rated without regard to the loss or loss of use.
(ii) The graduated ratings for arrested tuberculosis will not be utilized in this connection, but the permanent residuals of tuberculosis may be utilized.
(5)
Three extremities.
Anatomical loss or loss of use, or a combination of anatomical loss and loss of use, of three extremities shall entitle a veteran to the next higher rate without regard to whether that rate is a statutory rate or an intermediate rate. The maximum monthly payment under this provision may not exceed the amount stated in 38 U.S.C. 1114(p).
(g)
Inactive tuberculosis
(
complete arrest
). The rating criteria for determining inactivity of tuberculosis are set out in § 3.375.
(1) For a veteran who was receiving or entitled to receive compensation for tuberculosis on August 19, 1968, the minimum monthly rate is $67. This minimum special monthly compensation is not to be combined with or added to any other disability compensation.
(2) For a veteran who was not receiving or entitled to receive compensation for tuberculosis on August 19, 1968, the special monthly compensation authorized by paragraph (g)(1) of this section is not payable.
(h)
Special aid and attendance benefit; 38 U.S.C. 1114(r)
—(1) Maximum compensation cases. A veteran receiving the maximum rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114 (o) or (p) who is in need of regular aid and attendance or a higher level of care is entitled to an additional allowance during periods he or she is not hospitalized at United States Government expense. (See § 3.552(b)(2) as to continuance following admission for hospitalization.) Determination of this need is subject to the criteria of § 3.352. The regular or higher level aid and attendance allowance is payable whether or not the need for regular aid and attendance or a higher level of care was a partial basis for entitlement to the maximum rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114 (o) or (p), or was based on an independent factual determination.
(2)
Entitlement to compensation at the intermediate rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114 (n) and (o) plus special monthly compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1114(k).
A veteran receiving compensation at the intermediate rate between 38 U.S.C. 1114 (n) and (o) plus special monthly compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1114(k) who establishes a factual need for regular aid and attendance or a higher level of care, is also entitled to an additional allowance during periods he or she is not hospitalized at United States Government expense. (See § 3.552(b)(2) as to continuance following admission for hospitalization.) Determination of the factual need for aid and attendance is subject to the criteria of § 3.352:
(3)
Amount of the allowance.
The amount of the additional allowance payable to a veteran in need of regular aid and attendance is specified in 38 U.S.C. 1114(r)(1). The amount of the additional allowance payable to a veteran in need of a higher level of care is specified in 38 U.S.C. 1114(r)(2). The higher level aid and attendance allowance authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1114(r)(2) is payable in lieu of the regular aid and attendance allowance authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1114(r)(1).
(i)
Total plus 60 percent, or housebound; 38 U.S.C. 1114(s).
The special monthly compensation provided by 38 U.S.C. 1114(s) is payable where the veteran has a single service-connected disability rated as 100 percent and,
(1) Has additional service-connected disability or disabilities independently ratable at 60 percent, separate and distinct from the 100 percent service-connected disability and involving different anatomical segments or bodily systems, or
(2) Is permanently housebound by reason of service-connected disability or disabilities. This requirement is met when the veteran is substantially confined as a direct result of service-connected disabilities to his or her dwelling and the immediate premises or, if institutionalized, to the ward or clinical areas, and it is reasonably certain that the disability or disabilities and resultant confinement will continue throughout his or her lifetime.
(j)
Special aid and attendance benefit for residuals of traumatic brain injury (38 U.S.C. 1114(t)).
The special monthly compensation provided by 38 U.S.C. 1114(t) is payable to a veteran who, as the result of service-connected disability, is in need of regular aid and attendance for the residuals of traumatic
brain injury, is not eligible for compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1114(r)(2), and in the absence of such regular aid and attendance would require hospitalization, nursing home care, or other residential institutional care. Determination of this need is subject to the criteria of § 3.352.
(1) A veteran described in this paragraph (j) shall be entitled to the amount equal to the compensation authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1114(o) or the maximum rate authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1114(p) and, in addition to such compensation, a monthly allowance equal to the rate described in 38 U.S.C. 1114(r)(2) during periods he or she is not hospitalized at United States Government expense. (
See
§ 3.552(b)(2) as to continuance following admission for hospitalization.)
(2) An allowance authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1114(t) shall be paid in lieu of any allowance authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1114(r)(1).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 38 U.S.C. 1114(t))
[26 FR 1587, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 4739, May 18, 1962; 28 FR 1587, Feb. 20, 1963; 28 FR 5671, June 11, 1963; 40 FR 54245, Nov. 21, 1975; 45 FR 25392, Apr. 15, 1980; 46 FR 47541, Sept. 29, 1981; 48 FR 41161, Sept. 14, 1983; 49 FR 47003, Nov. 30, 1984; 54 FR 34981, Aug. 23, 1989; 60 FR 12886, Mar. 9, 1995; 67 FR 6873, Feb. 14, 2002; 68 FR 55467, Sept. 26, 2003; 74 FR 11483, Mar. 18, 2009; 83 FR 20736, May 8, 2018]
§ 3.351
Special monthly dependency and indemnity compensation, death compensation, pension and spouse's compensation ratings.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth criteria for determining whether:
(1) Increased pension is payable to a veteran by reason of need for aid and attendance or by reason of being housebound.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1521(d), (e))
(2) Increased compensation is payable to a veteran by reason of the veteran's spouse being in need of aid and attendance.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1115(1)(E))
(3) Increased dependency and indemnity compensation is payable to a surviving spouse or parent by reason of being in need of aid and attendance.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1311(c), 1315(h))
(4) Increased dependency and indemnity compensation is payable to a surviving spouse who is not in need of aid and attendance but is housebound.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1311(d))
(5) Increased pension is payable to a surviving spouse by reason of need for aid and attendance, or if not in need of aid and attendance, by reason of being housebound.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1541(d), (e))
(6) Increased death compensation is payable to a surviving spouse by reason of being in need of aid and attendance.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1122)
(b)
Aid and attendance; need.
Need for aid and attendance means helplessness or being so nearly helpless as to require the regular aid and attendance of another person. The criteria set forth in paragraph (c) of this section will be applied in determining whether such need exists.
(c)
Aid and attendance; criteria.
The veteran, spouse, surviving spouse or parent will be considered in need of regular aid and attendance if he or she:
(1) Is blind or so nearly blind as to have corrected visual acuity of 5/200 or less, in both eyes, or concentric contraction of the visual field to 5 degrees or less; or
(2) Is a patient in a nursing home because of mental or physical incapacity; or
(3) Establishes a factual need for aid and attendance under the criteria set forth in § 3.352(a).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1502(b))
(d)
Housebound, or permanent and total plus 60 percent; disability pension.
The rate of pension payable to a veteran who is entitled to pension under 38 U.S.C. 1521 and who is not in need of regular aid and attendance shall be as prescribed in 38 U.S.C. 1521(e) if, in addition to having a single permanent disability rated 100 percent disabling under the Schedule for Rating Disabilities (not including ratings based upon
unemployability under § 4.17 of this chapter) the veteran:
(1) Has additional disability or disabilities independently ratable at 60 percent or more, separate and distinct from the permanent disability rated as 100 percent disabling and involving different anatomical segments or bodily systems, or
(2) Is “permanently housebound” by reason of disability or disabilities. This requirement is met when the veteran is substantially confined to his or her dwelling and the immediate premises or, if institutionalized, to the ward or clinical area, and it is reasonably certain that the disability or disabilities and resultant confinement will continue throughout his or her lifetime.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1502(c), 1521(e))
(e)
Housebound; dependency and indemnity compensation.
The monthly rate of dependency and indemnity compensation payable to a surviving spouse who does not qualify for increased dependency and indemnity compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1311(c) based on need for regular aid and attendance shall be increased by the amount specified in 38 U.S.C. 1311(d) if the surviving spouse is permanently housebound by reason of disability. The “permanently housebound” requirement is met when the surviving spouse is substantially confined to his or her home (ward or clinical areas, if institutionalized) or immediate premises by reason of disability or disabilities which it is reasonably certain will remain throughout the surviving spouse's lifetime.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1311(d))
(f)
Housebound; improved pension; death.
The annual rate of death pension payable to a surviving spouse who does not qualify for an annual rate of death pension payable under § 3.23(a)(6) based on need for aid and attendance shall be as set forth in § 3.23(a)(7) if the surviving spouse is permanently housebound by reason of disability. The “permanently housebound” requirement is met when the surviving spouse is substantially confined to his or her home (ward or clinical areas, if institutionalized) or immediate premises by reason of disability or disabilities which it is reasonably certain will remain throughout the surviving spouse's lifetime.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1541(e))
[44 FR 45939, Aug. 6, 1979]
§ 3.352
Criteria for determining need for aid and attendance and “permanently bedridden.”
(a)
Basic criteria for regular aid and attendance and permanently bedridden.
The following will be accorded consideration in determining the need for regular aid and attendance (§ 3.351(c)(3): inability of claimant to dress or undress himself (herself), or to keep himself (herself) ordinarily clean and presentable; frequent need of adjustment of any special prosthetic or orthopedic appliances which by reason of the particular disability cannot be done without aid (this will not include the adjustment of appliances which normal persons would be unable to adjust without aid, such as supports, belts, lacing at the back, etc.); inability of claimant to feed himself (herself) through loss of coordination of upper extremities or through extreme weakness; inability to attend to the wants of nature; or incapacity, physical or mental, which requires care or assistance on a regular basis to protect the claimant from hazards or dangers incident to his or her daily environment. “Bedridden” will be a proper basis for the determination. For the purpose of this paragraph “bedridden” will be that condition which, through its essential character, actually requires that the claimant remain in bed. The fact that claimant has voluntarily taken to bed or that a physician has prescribed rest in bed for the greater or lesser part of the day to promote convalescence or cure will not suffice. It is not required that all of the disabling conditions enumerated in this paragraph be found to exist before a favorable rating may be made. The particular personal functions which the veteran is unable to perform should be considered in connection with his or her condition as a whole. It is only necessary that the evidence establish that the veteran is so helpless as to need regular aid and attendance, not that there be a constant need. Determinations that the veteran is so helpless, as
to be in need of regular aid and attendance will not be based solely upon an opinion that the claimant's condition is such as would require him or her to be in bed. They must be based on the actual requirement of personal assistance from others.
(b)
Basic criteria for the higher level aid and attendance allowance.
(1) A veteran is entitled to the higher level aid and attendance allowance authorized by § 3.350(h) in lieu of the regular aid and attendance allowance when all of the following conditions are met:
(i) The veteran is entitled to the compensation authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1114(o), or the maximum rate of compensation authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1114(p).
(ii) The veteran meets the requirements for entitlement to the regular aid and attendance allowance in paragraph (a) of this section.
(iii) The veteran needs a “higher level of care” (as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section) than is required to establish entitlement to the regular aid and attendance allowance, and in the absence of the provision of such higher level of care the veteran would require hospitalization, nursing home care, or other residential institutional care.
(2) A veteran is entitled to the higher level aid and attendance allowance authorized by § 3.350(j) in lieu of the regular aid and attendance allowance when all of the following conditions are met:
(i) As a result of service-connected residuals of traumatic brain injury, the veteran meets the requirements for entitlement to the regular aid and attendance allowance in paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii) As a result of service-connected residuals of traumatic brain injury, the veteran needs a “higher level of care” (as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section) than is required to establish entitlement to the regular aid and attendance allowance, and in the absence of the provision of such higher level of care the veteran would require hospitalization, nursing home care, or other residential institutional care.
(3) Need for a higher level of care shall be considered to be need for personal health-care services provided on a daily basis in the veteran's home by a person who is licensed to provide such services or who provides such services under the regular supervision of a licensed health-care professional. Personal health-care services include (but are not limited to) such services as physical therapy, administration of injections, placement of indwelling catheters, and the changing of sterile dressings, or like functions which require professional health-care training or the regular supervision of a trained health-care professional to perform. A licensed health-care professional includes (but is not limited to) a doctor of medicine or osteopathy, a registered nurse, a licensed practical nurse, or a physical therapist licensed to practice by a State or political subdivision thereof.
(4) The term “under the regular supervision of a licensed health-care professional”, as used in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, means that an unlicensed person performing personal health-care services is following a regimen of personal health-care services prescribed by a health-care professional, and that the health-care professional consults with the unlicensed person providing the health-care services at least once each month to monitor the prescribed regimen. The consultation need not be in person; a telephone call will suffice.
(5) A person performing personal health-care services who is a relative or other member of the veteran's household is not exempted from the requirement that he or she be a licensed health-care professional or be providing such care under the regular supervision of a licensed health-care professional.
(6) The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section are to be strictly construed. The higher level aid-and-attendance allowance is to be granted only when the veteran's need is clearly established and the amount of services required by the veteran on a daily basis is substantial.
(c)
Attendance by relative.
The performance of the necessary aid and attendance service by a relative of the beneficiary or other member of his or
her household will not prevent the granting of the additional allowance.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1114(r)(2), 1114(t))
[41 FR 29680, July 19, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 22720, Apr. 17, 1979; 60 FR 27409, May 24, 1995; 83 FR 20737, May 8, 2018]
§ 3.353
Determinations of incompetency and competency.
(a)
Definition of mental incompetency.
A mentally incompetent person is one who because of injury or disease lacks the mental capacity to contract or to manage his or her own affairs, including disbursement of funds without limitation.
(b)
Authority.
(1) Rating agencies have sole authority to make official determinations of competency and incompetency for purposes of: insurance (38 U.S.C. 1922), and, subject to § 13.110 of this chapter, disbursement of benefits. Such determinations are final and binding on field stations for these purposes.
(2) Where the beneficiary is rated incompetent, the Veterans Service Center Manager will develop information as to the beneficiary's social, economic and industrial adjustment; appoint (or recommend appointment of) a fiduciary as provided in § 13.100 of this chapter; select a method of disbursing payment as provided in § 13.100 of this chapter, or in the case of a married beneficiary, appoint the beneficiary's spouse to receive payments as provided in § 13.100 of this chapter; and authorize disbursement of the benefit.
(3) If in the course of fulfilling the responsibilities assigned in paragraph (b)(2) the Veterans Service Center Manager develops evidence indicating that the beneficiary may be capable of administering the funds payable without limitation, he or she will refer that evidence to the rating agency with a statement as to his or her findings. The rating agency will consider this evidence, together with all other evidence of record, to determine whether its prior determination of incompetency should remain in effect. Reexamination may be requested as provided in § 3.327(a) if necessary to properly evaluate the beneficiary's mental capacity to contract or manage his or her own affairs.
(c)
Medical opinion.
Unless the medical evidence is clear, convincing and leaves no doubt as to the person's incompetency, the rating agency will make no determination of incompetency without a definite expression regarding the question by the responsible medical authorities. Considerations of medical opinions will be in accordance with the principles in paragraph (a) of this section. Determinations relative to incompetency should be based upon all evidence of record and there should be a consistent relationship between the percentage of disability, facts relating to commitment or hospitalization and the holding of incompetency.
(d)
Presumption in favor of competency.
Where reasonable doubt arises regarding a beneficiary's mental capacity to contract or to manage his or her own affairs, including the disbursement of funds without limitation, such doubt will be resolved in favor of competency (see § 3.102 on reasonable doubt).
(e)
Due process.
Whenever it is proposed to make an incompetency determination, the beneficiary will be notified of the proposed action and of the right to a hearing as provided in § 3.103. Such notice is not necessary if the beneficiary has been declared incompetent by a court of competent jurisdiction or if a guardian has been appointed for the beneficiary based upon a court finding of incompetency. If a hearing is requested it must be held prior to a rating decision of incompetency. Failure or refusal of the beneficiary after proper notice to request or cooperate in such a hearing will not preclude a rating decision based on the evidence of record.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a))
[36 FR 19020, Sept. 25, 1971, and 40 FR 1241, Jan. 7, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 2069, Jan. 10, 1977; 58 FR 37856, July 14, 1993; 60 FR 55792, Nov. 3, 1995; 66 FR 48560, Sept. 21, 2001; 67 FR 46868, July 17, 2002; 68 FR 34542, June 10, 2003; 83 FR 32738, July 13, 2018]
§ 3.354
Determinations of insanity.
(a)
Definition of insanity.
An insane person is one who, while not mentally defective or constitutionally psychopathic, except when a psychosis has been engrafted upon such basic condition, exhibits, due to disease, a more or
less prolonged deviation from his normal method of behavior; or who interferes with the peace of society; or who has so departed (become antisocial) from the accepted standards of the community to which by birth and education he belongs as to lack the adaptability to make further adjustment to the social customs of the community in which he resides.
(b)
Insanity causing discharge.
When a rating agency is concerned with determining whether a veteran was insane at the time he committed an offense leading to his court-martial, discharge or resignation (38 U.S.C. 5303(b)), it will base its decision on all the evidence procurable relating to the period involved, and apply the definition in paragraph (a) of this section.
[26 FR 1589, Feb. 24, 1961]
§ 3.355
Testamentary capacity for insurance purposes.
When cases are referred to a rating agency involving the testamentary capacity of the insured to execute designations or changes of beneficiary, or designations or changes of option, the following considerations will apply:
(a) Testamentary capacity is that degree of mental capacity necessary to enable a person to perform a testamentary act. This, in general, requires that the testator reasonably comprehend the nature and significance of his act, that is, the subject and extent of his disposition, recognition of the object of his bounty, and appreciation of the consequence of his act, uninfluenced by any material delusion as to the property or persons involved.
(b) Due consideration should be given to all facts of record, with emphasis being placed on those facts bearing upon the mental condition of the testator (insured) at the time or nearest the time he executed the designation or change. In this connection, consideration should be given to lay as well as medical evidence.
(c) Lack of testamentary capacity should not be confused with insanity or mental incompetence. An insane person might have a lucid interval during which he would possess testamentary capacity. On the other hand, a sane person might suffer a temporary mental aberration during which he would not possess testamentary capacity. There is a general but rebuttable presumption that every testator possesses testamentary capacity. Therefore, reasonable doubts should be resolved in favor of testamentary capacity.
[26 FR 1590, Feb. 24, 1961]
§ 3.356
Conditions which determine permanent incapacity for self-support.
(a)
Basic determinations.
A child must be shown to be permanently incapable of self-support by reason of mental or physical defect at the date of attaining the age of 18 years.
(b)
Rating criteria.
Rating determinations will be made solely on the basis of whether the child is permanently incapable of self-support through his own efforts by reason of physical or mental defects. The question of permanent incapacity for self-support is one of fact for determination by the rating agency on competent evidence of record in the individual case. Rating criteria applicable to disabled veterans are not controlling. Principal factors for consideration are:
(1) The fact that a claimant is earning his or her own support is prima facie evidence that he or she is not incapable of self-support. Incapacity for self-support will not be considered to exist when the child by his or her own efforts is provided with sufficient income for his or her reasonable support.
(2) A child shown by proper evidence to have been permanently incapable of self-support prior to the date of attaining the age of 18 years, may be so held at a later date even though there may have been a short intervening period or periods when his or her condition was such that he or she was employed, provided the cause of incapacity is the same as that upon which the original determination was made and there were no intervening diseases or injuries that could be considered as major factors. Employment which was only casual, intermittent, tryout, unsuccessful, or terminated after a short period by reason of disability, should not be considered as rebutting permanent incapability of self-support otherwise established.
(3) It should be borne in mind that employment of a child prior or subsequent to the delimiting age may or may not be a normal situation, depending on the educational progress of the child, the economic situation of the family, indulgent attitude of parents, and the like. In those cases where the extent and nature of disability raises some doubt as to whether they would render the average person incapable of self-support, factors other than employment are for consideration. In such cases there should be considered whether the daily activities of the child in the home and community are equivalent to the activities of employment of any nature within the physical or mental capacity of the child which would provide sufficient income for reasonable support. Lack of employment of the child either prior to the delimiting age or thereafter should not be considered as a major factor in the determination to be made, unless it is shown that it was due to physical or mental defect and not to mere disinclination to work or indulgence of relatives or friends.
(4) The capacity of a child for self-support is not determinable upon employment afforded solely upon sympathetic or charitable considerations and which involved no actual or substantial rendition of services.

# Cross Reference:
Basic pension and eligibility determinations. See § 3.314.
[26 FR 1590, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 38 FR 871, Jan. 5, 1973]
§ 3.357
Civil service preference ratings.
For the purpose of certifying civil service disability preference only, a service-connected disability may be assigned an evaluation of “less than ten percent.” Any directly or presumptively service-connected disease or injury which exhibits some extent of actual impairment may be held to exist at the level of less than ten percent. For disabilities incurred in combat, however, no actual impairment is required.
[58 FR 52018, Oct. 6, 1993]
§ 3.358
Compensation for disability or death from hospitalization, medical or surgical treatment, examinations or vocational rehabilitation training (§ 3.800).
(a)
General.
This section applies to claims received by VA before October 1, 1997. If it is determined that there is additional disability resulting from a disease or injury or aggravation of an existing disease or injury suffered as a result of hospitalization, medical or surgical treatment, examination, or vocational rehabilitation training, compensation will be payable for such additional disability. For claims received by VA on or after October 1, 1997, see § 3.361.
(b)
Additional disability.
In determining that additional disability exists, the following considerations will govern:
(1) The veteran's physical condition immediately prior to the disease or injury on which the claim for compensation is based will be compared with the subsequent physical condition resulting from the disease or injury, each body part involved being considered separately.
(i) As applied to examinations, the physical condition prior to the disease or injury will be the condition at time of beginning the physical examination as a result of which the disease or injury was sustained.
(ii) As applied to medical or surgical treatment, the physical condition prior to the disease or injury will be the condition which the specific medical or surgical treatment was designed to relieve.
(2) Compensation will not be payable under this section for the continuance or natural progress of a disease or injury for which the hospitalization, medical or surgical treatment, or examination was furnished, unless VA's failure to exercise reasonable skill and care in the diagnosis or treatment of the disease or injury caused additional disability or death that probably would have been prevented by proper diagnosis or treatment. Compensation will not be payable under this section for the continuance or natural progress of a disease or injury for which vocational rehabilitation training was provided.
(c)
Cause.
In determining whether such additional disability resulted from a disease or an injury or an aggravation of an existing disease or injury suffered as a result of training, hospitalization, medical or surgical treatment, or examination, the following considerations will govern:
(1) It will be necessary to show that the additional disability is actually the result of such disease or injury or an aggravation of an existing disease or injury and not merely coincidental therewith.
(2) The mere fact that aggravation occurred will not suffice to make the additional disability compensable in the absence of proof that it resulted from disease or injury or an aggravation of an existing disease or injury suffered as the result of training, hospitalization, medical or surgical treatment, or examination.
(3) Compensation is not payable for the necessary consequences of medical or surgical treatment or examination properly administered with the express or implied consent of the veteran, or, in appropriate cases, the veteran's representative. “Necessary consequences” are those which are certain to result from, or were intended to result from, the examination or medical or surgical treatment administered. Consequences otherwise certain or intended to result from a treatment will not be considered uncertain or unintended solely because it had not been determined at the time consent was given whether that treatment would in fact be administered.
(4) When the proximate cause of the injury suffered was the veteran's willful misconduct or failure to follow instructions, it will bar him (or her) from receipt of compensation hereunder except in the case of incompetent veterans.
(5) Compensation for disability resulting from the pursuit of vocational rehabilitation is not payable unless there is established a direct (proximate) causal connection between the injury or aggravation of an existing injury and some essential activity or function which is within the scope of the vocational rehabilitation course, not necessarily limited to activities or functions specifically designated by the Department of Veterans Affairs in the individual case, since ordinarily it is not to be expected that each and every different function and act of a veteran pursuant to his or her course of training will be particularly specified in the outline of the course or training program. For example, a disability resulting from the use of an item of mechanical or other equipment is within the purview of the statute if training in its use is implicit within the prescribed program or course outlined or if its use is implicit in the performance of some task or operation the trainee must learn to perform, although such use may not be especially mentioned in the training program. In determining whether the element of direct or proximate causation is present, it remains necessary for a distinction to be made between an injury arising out of an act performed in pursuance of the course of training, that is, a required “learning activity”, and one arising out of an activity which is incident to, related to, or coexistent with the pursuit of the program of training. For a case to fall within the statute there must have been sustained an injury which, but for the performance of a “learning activity” in the prescribed course of training, would not have been sustained. A meticulous examination into all the circumstances is required, including a consideration of the time and place of the incident producing the injury.
(6) Nursing home care furnished under section 1720 of title 38, United States Code is not hospitalization within the meaning of this section. Such a nursing home is an independent contractor and, accordingly, its agents and employees are not to be deemed agents and employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs. If additional disability results from medical or surgical treatment or examination through negligence or other wrongful acts or omissions on the part of such a nursing home, its employees, or its agents, entitlement does not exist under this section unless there was an act or omission on the part of the Department of Veterans Affairs independently giving rise to such entitlement
and such acts on the part of both proximately caused the additional disability.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1151, 1720)
[26 FR 1590, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 36 FR 7659, Apr. 23, 1971; 39 FR 34531, Sept. 26, 1974; 43 FR 51015, Nov. 2, 1978; 60 FR 14223, Mar. 16, 1995; 61 FR 25788, May 23, 1996; 64 FR 1131, Jan. 8, 1999; 69 FR 46433, Aug. 3, 2004]
§ 3.359
Determination of service connection for former members of the Armed Forces of Czechoslovakia or Poland.
Rating boards will determine whether or not the condition for which treatment is claimed by former members of the Armed Forces of Czechoslovakia or Poland under 38 U.S.C. 109(c) is service connected. This determination will be made using the same criteria that applies to determinations of service connection based on service in the Armed Forces of the United States.
[43 FR 4424, Feb. 2, 1978]
§ 3.360
Service-connected health-care eligibility of certain persons administratively discharged under other than honorable condition.
(a)
General.
The health-care and related benefits authorized by chapter 17 of title 38 U.S.C. shall be provided to certain former service persons with administrative discharges under other than honorable conditions for any disability incurred or aggravated during active military, naval, or air service in line of duty.
(b)
Discharge categorization.
With certain exceptions such benefits shall be furnished for any disability incurred or aggravated during a period of service terminated by a discharge under other than honorable conditions. Specifically, they may not be furnished for any disability incurred or aggravated during a period of service terminated by a bad conduct discharge or when one of the bars listed in § 3.12(c) applies.
(c)
Eligibility criteria.
In making determinations of health-care eligibility the same criteria will be used as is now applicable to determinations of service incurrence and in line of duty when there is no character of discharge bar.
[43 FR 15154, Apr. 11, 1978]
§ 3.361
Benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1151(a) for additional disability or death due to hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, examination, training and rehabilitation services, or compensated work therapy program.
(a)
Claims subject to this section
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (2), this section applies to claims received by VA on or after October 1, 1997. This includes original claims and claims to reopen or otherwise readjudicate a previous claim for benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1151 or its predecessors. The effective date of benefits is subject to the provisions of § 3.400(i). For claims received by VA before October 1, 1997, see § 3.358.
(2)
Compensated Work Therapy.
With respect to claims alleging disability or death due to compensated work therapy, this section applies to claims that were pending before VA on November 1, 2000, or that were received by VA after that date. The effective date of benefits is subject to the provisions of §§ 3.114(a) and 3.400(i), and shall not be earlier than November 1, 2000.
(b)
Determining whether a veteran has an additional disability.
To determine whether a veteran has an additional disability, VA compares the veteran's condition immediately before the beginning of the hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, examination, training and rehabilitation services, or compensated work therapy (CWT) program upon which the claim is based to the veteran's condition after such care, treatment, examination, services, or program has stopped. VA considers each involved body part or system separately.
(c)
Establishing the cause of additional disability or death.
Claims based on additional disability or death due to hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, or examination must meet the causation requirements of this paragraph and paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section. Claims based on additional disability or death due to training and rehabilitation services or compensated work therapy program must meet the causation requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(1)
Actual causation required.
To establish causation, the evidence must
show that the hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, or examination resulted in the veteran's additional disability or death. Merely showing that a veteran received care, treatment, or examination and that the veteran has an additional disability or died does not establish cause.
(2)
Continuance or natural progress of a disease or injury.
Hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, or examination cannot cause the continuance or natural progress of a disease or injury for which the care, treatment, or examination was furnished unless VA's failure to timely diagnose and properly treat the disease or injury proximately caused the continuance or natural progress. The provision of training and rehabilitation services or CWT program cannot cause the continuance or natural progress of a disease or injury for which the services were provided.
(3)
Veteran's failure to follow medical instructions.
Additional disability or death caused by a veteran's failure to follow properly given medical instructions is not caused by hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, or examination.
(d)
Establishing the proximate cause of additional disability or death.
The proximate cause of disability or death is the action or event that directly caused the disability or death, as distinguished from a remote contributing cause.
(1)
Care, treatment, or examination.
To establish that carelessness, negligence, lack of proper skill, error in judgment, or similar instance of fault on VA's part in furnishing hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, or examination proximately caused a veteran's additional disability or death, it must be shown that the hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, or examination caused the veteran's additional disability or death (as explained in paragraph (c) of this section); and
(i) VA failed to exercise the degree of care that would be expected of a reasonable health care provider; or
(ii) VA furnished the hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, or examination without the veteran's or, in appropriate cases, the veteran's representative's informed consent. To determine whether there was informed consent, VA will consider whether the health care providers substantially complied with the requirements of § 17.32 of this chapter. Minor deviations from the requirements of § 17.32 of this chapter that are immaterial under the circumstances of a case will not defeat a finding of informed consent. Consent may be express (
i.e.
, given orally or in writing) or implied under the circumstances specified in § 17.32(b) of this chapter, as in emergency situations.
(2)
Events not reasonably foreseeable.
Whether the proximate cause of a veteran's additional disability or death was an event not reasonably foreseeable is in each claim to be determined based on what a reasonable health care provider would have foreseen. The event need not be completely unforeseeable or unimaginable but must be one that a reasonable health care provider would not have considered to be an ordinary risk of the treatment provided. In determining whether an event was reasonably foreseeable, VA will consider whether the risk of that event was the type of risk that a reasonable health care provider would have disclosed in connection with the informed consent procedures of § 17.32 of this chapter.
(3)
Training and rehabilitation services or compensated work therapy program.
To establish that the provision of training and rehabilitation services or a CWT program proximately caused a veteran's additional disability or death, it must be shown that the veteran's participation in an essential activity or function of the training, services, or CWT program provided or authorized by VA proximately caused the disability or death. The veteran must have been participating in such training, services, or CWT program provided or authorized by VA as part of an approved rehabilitation program under 38 U.S.C. chapter 31 or as part of a CWT program under 38 U.S.C. 1718. It need not be shown that VA approved that specific activity or function, as long as the activity or function is generally accepted as being a necessary component of the training, services, or CWT program that VA provided or authorized.
(e)
Department employees and facilities.
(1) A
Department employee is an individual
—
(i) Who is appointed by the Department in the civil service under title 38, United States Code, or title 5, United States Code, as an employee as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105;
(ii) Who is engaged in furnishing hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, or examinations under authority of law; and
(iii) Whose day-to-day activities are subject to supervision by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(2) A
Department facility
is a facility over which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs has direct jurisdiction.
(f)
Activities that are not hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, or examination furnished by a Department employee or in a Department facility.
The following are not hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, or examination furnished by a Department employee or in a Department facility within the meaning of 38 U.S.C. 1151(a):
(1) Hospital care or medical services furnished under a contract made under 38 U.S.C. 1703.
(2) Nursing home care furnished under 38 U.S.C. 1720.
(3) Hospital care or medical services, including examination, provided under 38 U.S.C. 8153 in a facility over which the Secretary does not have direct jurisdiction.
(g)
Benefits payable under 38 U.S.C. 1151 for a veteran's death. (1) Death before January 1, 1957.
The benefit payable under 38 U.S.C. 1151(a) to an eligible survivor for a veteran's death occurring before January 1, 1957, is death compensation. See §§ 3.5(b)(2) and 3.702 for the right to elect dependency and indemnity compensation.
(2)
Death after December 31, 1956.
The benefit payable under 38 U.S.C. 1151(a) to an eligible survivor for a veteran's death occurring after December 31, 1956, is dependency and indemnity compensation.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1151)
[69 FR 46433, Aug. 3, 2004]
§ 3.362
Offsets under 38 U.S.C. 1151(b) of benefits awarded under 38 U.S.C. 1151(a).
(a)
Claims subject to this section.
This section applies to claims received by VA on or after October 1, 1997. This includes original claims and claims to reopen or otherwise readjudicate a previous claim for benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1151 or its predecessors.
(b)
Offset of veterans' awards of compensation.
If a veteran's disability is the basis of a judgment under 28 U.S.C. 1346(b) awarded, or a settlement or compromise under 28 U.S.C. 2672 or 2677 entered, on or after December 1, 1962, the amount to be offset under 38 U.S.C. 1151(b) from any compensation awarded under 38 U.S.C. 1151(a) is the entire amount of the veteran's share of the judgment, settlement, or compromise, including the veteran's proportional share of attorney fees.
(c)
Offset of survivors' awards of dependency and indemnity compensation.
If a veteran's death is the basis of a judgment under 28 U.S.C. 1346(b) awarded, or a settlement or compromise under 28 U.S.C. 2672 or 2677 entered, on or after December 1, 1962, the amount to be offset under 38 U.S.C. 1151(b) from any dependency and indemnity compensation awarded under 38 U.S.C. 1151(a) to a survivor is only the amount of the judgment, settlement, or compromise representing damages for the veteran's death the survivor receives in an individual capacity or as distribution from the decedent veteran's estate of sums included in the judgment, settlement, or compromise to compensate for harm suffered by the survivor, plus the survivor's proportional share of attorney fees.
(d)
Offset of structured settlements.
This paragraph applies if a veteran's disability or death is the basis of a structured settlement or structured compromise under 28 U.S.C. 2672 or 2677 entered on or after December 1, 1962.
(1)
The amount to be offset.
The amount to be offset under 38 U.S.C. 1151(b) from benefits awarded under 38 U.S.C. 1151(a) is the veteran's or survivor's proportional share of the cost to the United States of the settlement or compromise, including the veteran's or survivor's proportional share of attorney fees.
(2)
When the offset begins.
The offset of benefits awarded under 38 U.S.C. 1151(a) begins the first month after the structured settlement or structured compromise has become final that such benefits would otherwise be paid.
(e)
Offset of award of benefits under 38 U.S.C. chapter 21 or 38 U.S.C. chapter 39.
(1) If a judgment, settlement, or compromise covered in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section becomes final on or after December 10, 2004, and includes an amount that is specifically designated for a purpose for which benefits are provided under 38 U.S.C. chapter 21 (38 CFR 3.809 and 3.809a) or 38 U.S.C. chapter 39 (38 CFR 3.808), and if VA awards 38 U.S.C. chapter 21 or 38 U.S.C. chapter 39 benefits after the date on which the judgment, settlement, or compromise becomes final, the amount of the award will be reduced by the amount received under the judgment, settlement, or compromise for the same purpose.
(2) If the amount described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is greater than the amount of an award under 38 U.S.C. chapter 21 or 38 U.S.C. chapter 39, the excess amount received under the judgment, settlement, or compromise will be offset against benefits otherwise payable under 38 U.S.C. chapter 11.
[69 FR 46434, Aug. 3, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 44918, Aug. 8, 2006; 75 FR 57861, Sept. 23, 2010]
§ 3.363
Bar to benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1151.
(a)
Claims subject to this section.
This section applies to claims received by VA on or after October 1, 1997. This includes original claims and claims to reopen or otherwise readjudicate a previous claim for benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1151 or its predecessors.
(b)
Administrative award, compromises, or settlements, or judgments that bar benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1151.
If a veteran's disability or death was the basis of an administrative award under 28 U.S.C. 1346(b) made, or a settlement or compromise under 28 U.S.C. 2672 or 2677 finalized, before December 1, 1962, VA may not award benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1151 for any period after such award, settlement, or compromise was made or became final. If a veteran's disability or death was the basis of a judgment that became final before December 1, 1962, VA may award benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1151 for the disability or death unless the terms of the judgment provide otherwise.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1151)
[69 FR 46434, Aug. 3, 2004]

# Rating Considerations Relative to Specific Diseases
§ 3.370
Pulmonary tuberculosis shown by X-ray in active service.
(a)
Active disease.
X-ray evidence alone may be adequate for grant of direct service connection for pulmonary tuberculosis. When under consideration, all available service department films and subsequent films will be secured and read by specialists at designated stations who should have a current examination report and X-ray. Resulting interpretations of service films will be accorded the same consideration for service-connection purposes as if clinically established, however, a compensable rating will not be assigned prior to establishment of an active condition by approved methods.
(b)
Inactive disease.
Where the veteran was examined at time of entrance into active service but X-ray was not made, or if made, is not available and there was no notation or other evidence of active or inactive reinfection type pulmonary tuberculosis existing prior to such entrance, it will be assumed that the condition occurred during service and direct service connection will be in order for inactive pulmonary tuberculosis shown by X-ray evidence during service in the manner prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, unless lesions are first shown so soon after entry on active service as to compel the conclusion, on the basis of sound medical principles, that they existed prior to entry on active service.
(c)
Primary lesions.
Healed primary type tuberculosis shown at the time of entrance into active service will not be taken as evidence to rebut direct or presumptive service connection for active reinfection type pulmonary tuberculosis.
[26 FR 1591, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 43 FR 45347, Oct. 2, 1978]
§ 3.371
Presumptive service connection for tuberculous disease; wartime and service on or after January 1, 1947.
(a)
Pulmonary tuberculosis.
(1) Evidence of activity on comparative study of X-ray films showing pulmonary tuberculosis within the 3-year presumptive period provided by § 3.307(a)(3) will be taken as establishing service connection for active pulmonary tuberculosis subsequently diagnosed by approved methods but service connection and evaluation may be assigned only from the date of such diagnosis or other evidence of clinical activity.
(2) A notation of inactive tuberculosis of the reinfection type at induction or enlistment definitely prevents the grant of service connection under § 3.307 for active tuberculosis, regardless of the fact that it was shown within the appropriate presumptive period.
(b)
Pleurisy with effusion without obvious cause.
Pleurisy with effusion with evidence of diagnostic studies ruling out obvious nontuberculous causes will qualify as active tuberculosis. The requirements for presumptive service connection will be the same as those for tuberculous pleurisy.
(c)
Tuberculous pleurisy and endobronchial tuberculosis.
Tuberculous pleurisy and endobronchial tuberculosis fall within the category of pulmonary tuberculosis for the purpose of service connection on a presumptive basis. Either will be held incurred in service when initially manifested within 36 months after the veteran's separation from service as determined under § 3.307(a)(2).
(d)
Miliary tuberculosis.
Service connection for miliary tuberculosis involving the lungs is to be determined in the same manner as for other active pulmonary tuberculosis.
[26 FR 1591, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 6387, July 6, 1962; 31 FR 4681, Mar. 19, 1966; 39 FR 34532, Sept. 26, 1974; 43 FR 45347, Oct. 2, 1978; 54 FR 34981, Aug. 23, 1989]
§ 3.372
Initial grant following inactivity of tuberculosis.
When service connection is granted initially on an original or supplemental claim for pulmonary or nonpulmonary tuberculosis and there is satisfactory evidence that the condition was active previously but is now inactive (arrested), it will be presumed that the disease continued to be active for 1 year after the last date of established activity, provided there is no evidence to establish activity or inactivity in the intervening period. For a veteran entitled to receive compensation on August 19, 1968, the beginning date of graduated ratings will commence at the end of the 1-year period. For a veteran who was not receiving or entitled to receive compensation on August 19, 1968, ratings will be assigned in accordance with the Schedule for Rating Disabilities (part 4 of this chapter). This section is not applicable to running award cases.
[33 FR 16275, Nov. 6, 1968, as amended at 84 FR 170, Jan. 18, 2019]
§ 3.373
[Reserved]
§ 3.374
Effect of diagnosis of active tuberculosis.
(a)
Service diagnosis.
Service department diagnosis of active pulmonary tuberculosis will be accepted unless a board of medical examiners, Clinic Director or Chief, Outpatient Service certifies, after considering all the evidence, including the favoring or opposing tuberculosis and activity, that such diagnosis was incorrect. Doubtful cases may be referred to the Chief Medical Director in Central Office.
(b)
Department of Veterans Affairs diagnosis.
Diagnosis of active pulmonary tuberculosis by the medical authorities of the Department of Veterans Affairs as the result of examination, observation, or treatment will be accepted for rating purposes. Reference to the Clinic Director or Chief, Outpatient Service, will be in order in questionable cases and, if necessary, to the Chief Medical Director in Central Office.
(c)
Private physician's diagnosis.
Diagnosis of active pulmonary tuberculosis by private physicians on the basis of their examination, observation or treatment will not be accepted to show the disease was initially manifested after discharge from active service unless confirmed by acceptable clinical, X-ray or laboratory studies, or by findings of active tuberculosis based upon
acceptable hospital observation or treatment.
[26 FR 1591, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 6387, July 6, 1962; 33 FR 16275, Nov. 6, 1968; 43 FR 45348, Oct. 2, 1978]
§ 3.375
Determination of inactivity (complete arrest) in tuberculosis.
(a)
Pulmonary tuberculosis.
A veteran shown to have had pulmonary tuberculosis will be held to have reached a condition of “complete arrest” when a diagnosis of inactive is made.
(b)
Nonpulmonary disease.
Determination of complete arrest of nonpulmonary tuberculosis requires absence of evidence of activity for 6 months. If there are two or more foci of such tuberculosis, one of which is active, the condition will not be considered to be inactive until the tuberculous process has reached arrest in its entirety.
(c)
Arrest following surgery.
Where there has been surgical excision of the lesion or organ, the date of complete arrest will be the date of discharge from the hospital, or 6 months from the date of excision, whichever is later.
[33 FR 16275, Nov. 6, 1968, as amended at 43 FR 45348, Oct. 2, 1978]
§§ 3.376-3.377
[Reserved]
§ 3.378
Changes from activity in pulmonary tuberculosis pension cases.
A permanent and total disability rating in effect during hospitalization will not be discontinued before hospital discharge on the basis of a change in classification from active. At hospital discharge, the permanent and total rating will be discontinued unless (a) the medical evidence does not support a finding of complete arrest (§ 3.375), or (b) where complete arrest is shown but the medical authorities recommend that employment not be resumed or be resumed only for short hours (not more than 4 hours a day for a 5-day week). If either of the two aforementioned conditions is met, discontinuance will be deferred pending examination in 6 months. Although complete arrest may be established upon that examination, the permanent and total rating may be extended for a further period of 6 months provided the veteran's employment is limited to short hours as recommended by the medical authorities (not more than 4 hours a day for a 5-day week). Similar extensions may be granted under the same conditions at the end of 12 and 18 months periods. At the expiration of 24 months after hospitalization, the case will be considered under § 3.321(b) if continued short hours of employment is recommended or if other evidence warrants submission.
[43 FR 45348, Oct. 2, 1978]
§ 3.379
Anterior poliomyelitis.
If the first manifestations of acute anterior poliomyelitis present themselves in a veteran within 35 days of termination of active military service, it is probable that the infection occurred during service. If they first appear after this period, it is probable that the infection was incurred after service.
[26 FR 1592, Feb. 24, 1961]
§ 3.380
Diseases of allergic etiology.
Diseases of allergic etiology, including bronchial asthma and urticaria, may not be disposed of routinely for compensation purposes as constitutional or developmental abnormalities. Service connection must be determined on the evidence as to existence prior to enlistment and, if so existent, a comparative study must be made of its severity at enlistment and subsequently. Increase in the degree of disability during service may not be disposed of routinely as natural progress nor as due to the inherent nature of the disease. Seasonal and other acute allergic manifestations subsiding on the absence of or removal of the allergen are generally to be regarded as acute diseases, healing without residuals. The determination as to service incurrence or aggravation must be on the whole evidentiary showing.
[26 FR 1592, Feb. 24, 1961]
§ 3.381
Service connection of dental conditions for treatment purposes.
(a) The Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) will adjudicate a claim for service connection of a dental condition for treatment purposes after the Veterans Health Administration determines a veteran meets the basic eligibility requirements of § 17.161 of this
chapter and requests VBA make a determination on questions that include, but are not limited to, any of the following:
(1) Former Prisoner of War status;
(2) Whether the veteran has a compensable or noncompensable service-connected dental condition or disability;
(3) Whether the dental condition or disability is a result of combat wounds;
(4) Whether the dental condition or disability is a result of service trauma; or
(5) Whether the veteran is totally disabled due to a service-connected disability.
(b) Treatable carious teeth, replaceable missing teeth, dental or alveolar abscesses, and periodontal disease are not compensable disabilities, but may nevertheless be service connected solely for the purpose of establishing eligibility for outpatient dental treatment as provided for in § 17.161 of this chapter. These conditions and other dental conditions or disabilities that are noncompensably rated under § 4.150 of this chapter may be service connected for purposes of Class II or Class II (a) dental treatment under § 17.161 of this chapter.
(c) The rating activity will consider each defective or missing tooth and each disease of the teeth and periodontal tissues separately to determine whether the condition was incurred or aggravated in line of duty during active service
(d) In determining service connection, the condition of teeth and periodontal tissues at the time of entry into active duty will be considered. Treatment during service, including filling or extraction of a tooth, or placement of a prosthesis, will not be considered evidence of aggravation of a condition that was noted at entry, unless additional pathology developed after 180 days or more of active service.
(e) The following principles apply to dental conditions noted at entry and treated during service:
(1) Teeth noted as normal at entry will be service-connected if they were filled or extracted after 180 days or more of active service.
(2) Teeth noted as filled at entry will be service-connected if they were extracted, or if the existing filling was replaced, after 180 days or more of active service.
(3) Teeth noted as carious but restorable at entry will not be service-connected on the basis that they were filled during service. However, new caries that developed 180 days or more after such a tooth was filled will be service-connected.
(4) Teeth noted as carious but restorable at entry, whether or not filled, will be service-connected if extraction was required after 180 days or more of active service.
(5) Teeth noted at entry as non-restorable will not be service-connected, regardless of treatment during service.
(6) Teeth noted as missing at entry will not be service connected, regardless of treatment during service.
(f) The following will not be considered service-connected for treatment purposes:
(1) Calculus;
(2) Acute periodontal disease;
(3) Third molars, unless disease or pathology of the tooth developed after 180 days or more of active service, or was due to combat or in-service trauma; and
(4) Impacted or malposed teeth, and other developmental defects, unless disease or pathology of these teeth developed after 180 days or more of active service.
(g) Teeth extracted because of chronic periodontal disease will be service-connected only if they were extracted after 180 days or more of active service.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1712)
[64 FR 30393, June 8, 1999, as amended at 77 FR 4470, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 3.382
[Reserved]
§ 3.383
Special consideration for paired organs and extremities.
(a)
Entitlement criteria.
Compensation is payable for the combinations of service-connected and nonservice-connected disabilities specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section as if both disabilities were service-connected, provided the nonservice-connected disability is not the result of the veteran's own willful misconduct.
(1) Impairment of vision in one eye as a result of service-connected disability
and impairment of vision in the other eye as a result of non-service-connected disability and
(i) The impairment of vision in each eye is rated at a visual acuity of 20/200 or less; or
(ii) The peripheral field of vision for each eye is 20 degrees or less.
(2) Loss or loss of use of one kidney as a result of service-connected disability and involvement of the other kidney as a result of nonservice-connected disability.
(3) Hearing impairment in one ear compensable to a degree of 10 percent or more as a result of service-connected disability and hearing impairment as a result of nonservice-connected disability that meets the provisions of § 3.385 in the other ear.
(4) Loss or loss of use of one hand or one foot as a result of service-connected disability and loss or loss of use of the other hand or foot as a result of nonservice-connected disability.
(5) Permanent service-connected disability of one lung, rated 50 percent or more disabling, in combination with a nonservice-connected disability of the other lung.
(b)
Effect of judgment or settlement.
(1) If a veteran receives any money or property of value pursuant to an award in a judicial proceeding based upon, or a settlement or compromise of, any cause of action for damages for the nonservice-connected disability which established entitlement under this section, the increased compensation payable by reason of this section shall not be paid for any month following the month in which any such money or property is received until such time as the total amount of such increased compensation that would otherwise have been payable equals the total of the amount of any such money received and the fair market value of any such property received. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply, however, to any portion of such increased compensation payable for any period preceding the end of the month in which such money or property of value was received.
(2) With respect to the disability combinations specified in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3) and (a)(5) of this section, the provisions of this paragraph apply only to awards of increased compensation made on or after October 28, 1986.
(c)
Social security and workers' compensation.
Benefits received under social security or workers' compensation are not subject to recoupment under paragraph (b) of this section even though such benefits may have been awarded pursuant to a judicial proceeding.
(d)
Veteran's duty to report.
Any person entitled to increased compensation under this section shall promptly report to VA the receipt of any money or property received pursuant to a judicial proceeding based upon, or a settlement or compromise of, any cause of action or other right of recovery for damages for the nonservice-connected loss or loss of use of the impaired extremity upon which entitlement under this section is based. The amount to be reported is the total of the amount of money received and the fair market value of property received. Expenses incident to recovery, such as attorneys' fees, may not be deducted from the amount to be reported.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 1160)

# Cross References:
§ 3.385 Disability due to impaired hearing; § 4.85 Evaluation of hearing impairment.
[53 FR 23236, June 21, 1988, as amended at 69 FR 48149, Aug. 9, 2004; 74 FR 11483, Mar. 18, 2009]
§ 3.384
Psychosis.
For purposes of this part, the term “psychosis” means any of the following disorders listed in the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5) (see § 4.125 for availability information):
(a) Brief Psychotic Disorder;
(b) Delusional Disorder;
(c) Psychotic Disorder Due to Another Medical Condition;
(d) Other Specified Schizophrenia Spectrum and Other Psychotic Disorder;
(e) Schizoaffective Disorder;
(f) Schizophrenia;
(g) Schizophreniform Disorder; and
(h) Substance/Medication-Induced Psychotic Disorder.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 1101, 1112(a) and (b))
[79 FR 45099, Aug. 4, 2014]
§ 3.385
Disability due to impaired hearing.
For the purposes of applying the laws administered by VA, impaired hearing will be considered to be a disability when the auditory threshold in any of the frequencies 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000 Hertz is 40 decibels or greater; or when the auditory thresholds for at least three of the frequencies 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, or 4000 Hertz are 26 decibels or greater; or when speech recognition scores using the Maryland CNC Test are less than 94 percent.
[59 FR 60560, Nov. 25, 1994]

# Effective Dates
§ 3.400
General.
Except as otherwise provided, the effective date of an evaluation and award of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation based on an initial claim or supplemental claim will be the date of receipt of the claim or the date entitlement arose, whichever is later. For effective date provisions regarding revision of a decision based on a supplemental claim or higher-level review, see § 3.2500.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5110(a))
(a)
Unless specifically provided.
On basis of facts found.
(b)
Disability benefits
—(1)
Disability pension (§ 3.3).
An award of disability pension may not be effective prior to the date entitlement arose.
(i)
Claims received prior to October 1, 1984.
Date of receipt of claim or date on which the veteran became permanently and totally disabled, if claim is filed within one year from such date, whichever is to the advantage of the veteran.
(ii)
Claims received on or after October 1, 1984.
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, date of receipt of claim.
(B) If, within one year from the date on which the veteran became permanently and totally disabled, the veteran files a claim for a retroactive award and establishes that a physical or mental disability, which was not the result of the veteran's own willful misconduct, was so incapacitating that it prevented him or her from filing a disability pension claim for at least the first 30 days immediately following the date on which the veteran became permanently and totally disabled, the disability pension award may be effective from the date of receipt of claim or the date on which the veteran became permanently and totally disabled, whichever is to the advantage of the veteran. While rating board judgment must be applied to the facts and circumstances of each case, extensive hospitalization will generally qualify as sufficiently incapacitating to have prevented the filing of a claim. For the purposes of this subparagraph, the presumptive provisions of § 3.342(a) do not apply.
(2)
Disability compensation
—(i)
Direct service connection (§ 3.4(b)).
Day following separation from active service or date entitlement arose if claim is received within 1 year after separation from service; otherwise, date of receipt of claim, or date entitlement arose, whichever is later. Separation from service means separation under conditions other than dishonorable from continuous active service which extended from the date the disability was incurred or aggravated.
(ii)
Presumptive service connection
(§§
3.307, 3.308, 3.309
). Date entitlement arose, if claim is received within 1 year after separation from active duty; otherwise date of receipt of claim, or date entitlement arose, whichever is later. Where the requirements for service connection are met during service, the effective date will be the day following separation from service if there was continuous active service following the period of service on which the presumption is based and a claim is received within 1 year after separation from active duty.
(c)
Death benefits
—(1)
Death in service (38 U.S.C. 5110(j), Pub. L. 87-825) (§§ 3.4(c), 3.5(b)).
First day of the month fixed by the Secretary concerned as the date of actual or presumed death, if claim is received with 1 year after the date the initial report of actual death or finding of presumed death was made; however benefits based on a report of
actual death are not payable for any period for which the claimant has received, or is entitled to receive an allowance, allotment, or service pay of the veteran.
(2)
Service-connected death after separation from service (38 U.S.C. 5110(d), Pub. L. 87-825) (§§ 3.4(c), 3.5(b)).
First day of the month in which the veteran's death occurred if claim is received within 1 year after the date of death; otherwise, date of receipt of claim.
(3)
Nonservice-connected death after separation from service.
(i) For awards based on claims received prior to October 1, 1984, or on or after December 10, 2004, first day of the month in which the veteran's death occurred if claim is received within one year after the date of death; otherwise, date of receipt of claim.
(ii) For awards based on claims received between October 1, 1984, and December 9, 2004, first day of the month in which the veteran's death occurred if claim is received within 45 days after the date of death; otherwise, date of receipt of claim.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5110(d))
(4)
Dependency and indemnity compensation
—(i)
Deaths prior to January 1, 1957 (§ 3.702).
Date of receipt of election.
(ii)
Child (38 U.S.C. 5110(e), Pub. L. 87-835).
First day of the month in which entitlement arose if claim is received within 1 year after the date of entitlement; otherwise, date of receipt of claim.
(iii)
Deaths on or after May 1, 1957 (in-service waiver cases) (§§ 3.5(b)(3) and 3.702).
Date of receipt of election. (See § 3.114(a)).
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Apportionment
(§§
3.450 through 3.461, 3.551
). On original claims, in accordance with the facts found. On other than original claims from the first day of the month following the month in which:
(1) Claim is received for apportionment of a veteran's award, except that where payments to him (her) have been interrupted, apportionment will be effective the day following date of last payment if a claim for apportionment is received within 1 year after that date;
(2) Notice is received that a child included in the surviving spouse's award is not in the surviving spouse's custody, except that where payments to the surviving spouse have been interrupted, apportionment will be effective the day following date of last payment if such notice is received within 1 year after that date.
(f)
Federal employees' compensation cases
(§
3.708
). Date authorized by applicable law, subject to any payments made by the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act over the same period of time.
(g)
Correction of military records (38 U.S.C. 5110(i); Pub. L. 87-825).
Where entitlement is established because of the correction, change or modification of a military record, or of a discharge or dismissal, by a Board established under 10 U.S.C. 1552 or 1553, or because of other corrective action by competent military naval, or air authority, the award will be effective from the latest of these dates:
(1) Date application for change, correction, or modification was filed with the service department, in either an original or a disallowed claim;
(2) Date of receipt of claim if claim was disallowed; or
(3) One year prior to date of reopening of disallowed claim.
(h)
Difference of opinion (§ 3.105).
(1) As to decisions not finally adjudicated (see § 3.160(d)) prior to timely receipt of an application for higher-level review, or prior to readjudication on VA initiative, the date from which benefits would have been payable if the former decision had been favorable.
(2) As to decisions which have been finally adjudicated (see § 3.160(d)), and notwithstanding other provisions of this section, the date entitlement arose, but not earlier than the date of receipt of the supplemental claim.
(3) As to decisions which have been finally adjudicated (see 3.160(d)) and readjudication is undertaken solely on VA initiative, the date of Central Office approval authorizing a favorable decision or the date of the favorable Board of Veterans' Appeals decision.
(4) Where the initial determination for the purpose of death benefits is favorable, the commencing date will be
determined without regard to the fact that the action may reverse, on a difference of opinion, an unfavorable decision for disability purposes by an adjudicative agency other than the Board of Veterans Appeals, which was in effect at the date of the veteran's death.
(i)
Disability or death due to hospitalization, etc.
(38 U.S.C. 5110(c), (d); Public Law 87-825; §§ 3.358, 3.361, and 3.800.) (1)
Disability.
Date injury or aggravation was suffered if claim is received within 1 year after that date; otherwise, date of receipt of claim.
(2)
Death.
First day of month in which the veteran's death occurred if a claim is received within 1 year following the date of death; otherwise, date of receipt of claim.
(j)
Election of Department of Veterans Affairs benefits
(§
3.700 series
). (1) Unless otherwise provided, the date of receipt of election, subject to prior payments.
(2) July 1, 1960, as to pension payable under Pub. L. 86-211, where pension is payable for June 30, 1960, under the law in effect on that date, including an award approved after that date, if the election is filed within (generally) 120 days from date of notice of the award. The award will be subject to prior payments over the same period of time.
(3) January 1, 1965, as to pension payable under Pub. L. 86-211 (73 Stat. 432) as amended by Pub. L. 88-664 if there was basic eligibility for pension on June 30, 1960, under the law in effect on that date and an election if filed prior to May 1, 1965.
(4) January 1, 1965, as to pension payable under Pub. L. 86-211 (73 Stat. 432) as amended by Pub. L. 88-664 if there was basic eligibility on that date for pension on the basis of service in the Indian wars or Spanish-American War and an election is filed prior to May 1, 1965.
(5) January 1, 1969, as to pension payable under Pub. L. 86-211 (73 Stat. 432), as amended by Pub. L. 90-275 (82 Stat. 64), if there was basic eligibility for pension on June 30, 1960, under the law in effect on that date and an election is filed prior to May 1, 1969.
(6) August 1, 1972, as to pension payable under Pub. L. (73 Stat. 432) as amended by Pub. L. 92-328 (86 Stat. 393) if there was basic eligibility on that date based on death of a veteran of the Spanish-American War and an election is filed prior to December 1, 1972.
(k)
Error
(§
3.105
). Date from which benefits would have been payable if the corrected decision had been made on the date of the reversed decision.
(l)
Foreign residence.
(See § 3.653).
(m)
Forfeiture
(§§
3.901, 3.902
). Day following date of last payment on award to payee who forfeited.
(n)
Guardian.
Day following date of last payment to prior payee or fiduciary.

# Note:
Award to guardian shall include amounts withheld for possible apportionments as well as money in Personal Funds of Patients.
(o)
Increases (38 U.S.C. 5110(a) and 5110(b)(2), Pub. L. 94-71, 89 Stat. 395; §§ 3.109, 3.156, 3.157
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (o)(2) of this section and § 3.401(b), date of receipt of claim or date entitlement arose, whichever is later. A retroactive increase or additional benefit will not be awarded after basic entitlement has been terminated, such as by severance of service connection.
(2)
Disability compensation.
Earliest date as of which it is factually ascertainable based on all evidence of record that an increase in disability had occurred if a complete claim or intent to file a claim is received within 1 year from such date, otherwise, date of receipt of claim. When medical records indicate an increase in a disability, receipt of such medical records may be used to establish effective date(s) for retroactive benefits based on facts found of an increase in a disability only if a complete claim or intent to file a claim for an increase is received within 1 year of the date of the report of examination, hospitalization, or medical treatment. The provisions of this paragraph apply only when such reports relate to examination or treatment of a disability for which service-connection has previously been established.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 5101)
(p)
Liberalizing laws and Department of Veterans Affairs issues.
See § 3.114.
(q)
New and material evidence (§ 3.156) other than service department records
—(1)
Received within appeal period or prior to
appellate decision.
The effective date will be as though the former decision had not been rendered. See §§ 20.1103, 20.1104 and 20.1304(b)(1) of this chapter.
(2)
Received after final disallowance.
Date of receipt of new claim or date entitlement arose, whichever is later.
(r)
Reopened claims.
(§§ 3.109, 3.156, 3.157, 3.160(e)) Date of receipt of claim or date entitlement arose, whichever is later, except as provided in § 20.1304(b)(1) of this chapter.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(s)
Renouncement
(§
3.106
). Except as provided in § 3.106(c), date of receipt of new claim.
(t)
Whereabouts now known.
(See § 3.158(c).)
(u)
Void, annulled or terminated marriage of a child
(
38 U.S.C. 5110
(
a
), (
k
), (
l
)
; Pub. L. 93-527, 88 Stat. 1702;
§
3.55
)—(1)
Void.
Date the parties ceased to cohabit or date of receipt of claim, whichever is later.
(2)
Annulled.
Date the decree of annulment became final if claim is filed within 1 year after that date; otherwise date of receipt of claim.
(3)
Death.
Date of death if claim is filed within 1 year after that date; otherwise date of receipt of claim. Benefits are not payable unless the provisions of § 3.55(b) of this part are met.
(4)
Divorce.
Date the decree became final if claim is filed within 1 year of that date; otherwise date of receipt of claim. Benefits are not payable unless the provisions of § 3.55(b) of this part are met.
(v)
Termination of remarriage of surviving spouse (38 U.S.C. 5110(a), (k); 38 U.S.C. 103(d) and 3010(l) effective January 1, 1971; § 3.55)
—(1)
Void.
Date the parties ceased to cohabit or date of receipt of claim, whichever is the later.
(2)
Annulled.
Date the decree of annulment became final if claim is filed within 1 year after that date; otherwise date of receipt of claim.
(3)
Death.
Date of death if claim is filed within 1 year after that date; otherwise date of receipt of claim. Benefits are not payable unless the provisions of § 3.55(a) of this part are met.
(4)
Divorce.
Date the decree became final if claim is filed within 1 year after that date; otherwise date of receipt of claim. Benefits are not payable unless the provisions of § 3.55(a) of this part are met.
(w)
Termination of relationship or conduct resulting in restriction on payment of benefits (38 U.S.C. 5110(m), effective January 1, 1971; §§ 3.50(b)(2) and 3.55).
Date of receipt of application filed after termination of relationship and after December 31, 1970. Benefits are not payable unless the provisions of § 3.55(a), as applicable, are met.
(x)
Effective date of determination of incompetency (§ 3.353).
Date of rating of incompetency. (Not applicable to an incompetency determination made for insurance purposes under 38 U.S.C. 1922).
(y)
Effective date of determination restoring competency (§ 3.353).
Date shown by evidence of record that competency was regained.
(z)
Claims based on service in the Women's Air Forces Service Pilots (WASP), or on service in a similarly situated group (Pub. L. 95-202).
(1) Original claim: Date of receipt of claim or date entitlement arose, whichever is later, or as otherwise provided under this section (e.g., paragraph (b)(1) of this section) except that no benefits shall be awarded for any period prior to November 23, 1977.
(2) Reopened claims received prior to the effective date provided in § 19.2(a) of this chapter: Latest of the following dates:
(i) November 23, 1977.
(ii) Date entitlement arose.
(iii) One year prior to date of receipt of reopened claim.
(3) Supplemental claims received more than one year after notice of decision: Latest of the following dates:
(i) Date entitlement arose.
(ii) One year prior to date of receipt of a supplemental claim.
[26 FR 1593, Feb. 24, 1961]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 3.400, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 3.401
Veterans.
Awards of pension or compensation payable to or for a veteran will be effective as follows:
(a)
Aid and attendance and housebound benefits.
(1) Except as provided in § 3.400(o)(2), the date of receipt of claim
or date entitlement arose, whichever is later. However, when an award of pension or compensation based on an original or supplemental claim is effective for a period prior to the date of receipt of the claim, any additional pension or compensation payable by reason of need for aid and attendance or housebound status shall also be awarded for any part of the award's retroactive period for which entitlement to the additional benefit is established.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501; 5110(b)(1), (3))
(2) Date of departure from hospital, institution, or domiciliary.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(3) Spouse, additional compensation for aid and attendance: Date of receipt of claim or date entitlement arose, whichever is later. However, when an award of disability compensation based on an original or supplemental claim is effective for a period prior to date of receipt of the claim additional disability compensation payable to a veteran by reason of the veteran's spouse's need for aid and attendance shall also be awarded for any part of the award's retroactive period for which the spouse's entitlement to aid and attendance is established.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501; 5110(b)(1), (2))
(b)
Dependent, additional compensation or pension for.
Latest of the following dates:
(1) Date of claim. This term means the following, listed in their order of applicability:
(i) Date of veteran's marriage, or birth of his or her child, or, adoption of a child, if the evidence of the event is received within 1 year of the event; otherwise.
(ii) Date notice is received of the dependent's existence, if evidence is received within 1 year of the Department of Veterans Affairs request.
(2) Date dependency arises.
(3) Effective date of the qualifying disability rating provided evidence of dependency is received within 1 year of notification of such rating action.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5110(f))
(4) Date of commencement of veteran's award. (Other increases, see § 3.400(o). For school attendance see § 3.667.)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5110 (f), (n))
(c)
Divorce of veteran and spouse.
See § 3.501(d).
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Retirement pay
(§
3.750
)—(1)
Election.
Date of entitlement if timely filed. Subject to prior payments of retirement pay.
(2)
Waiver.
Day following date of discontinuance or reduction of retirement pay.
(3)
Reelection.
Day the reelection is received by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(f)
Service pension (§ 3.3(a)).
Date of receipt of claim.
(g)
Tuberculosis, special compensation for arrested.
As of the date the graduated evaluation of the disability or compensation for that degree of disablement combined with other service-connected disabilities would provide compensation payable at a rate less than $67. See § 3.350(g).
(h)
Temporary increase “General Policy in Rating,” 1945 Schedule for Rating Disabilities
—(1)
Section 4.29 of this chapter.
Date of entrance into hospital, after 21 days of continuous hospitalization for treatment.
(2)
Section 4.30 of this chapter.
Date of entrance into hospital, after discharge from hospitalization (regular or release to non-bed care).
(i)
Increased disability pension based on attainment of age 78.
First day of the month during which veteran attains age 78.
[26 FR 1594, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 11889, Dec. 1, 1962; 36 FR 4599, Mar. 10, 1971; 39 FR 17222, Mar. 14, 1974; 41 FR 36493, Aug. 30, 1976; 41 FR 55874, Dec. 23, 1976; 41 FR 56804, Dec. 30, 1976; 45 FR 34886, May 23, 1980; 54 FR 34981, Aug. 23, 1989; 62 FR 5529, Feb. 6, 1997; 83 FR 32738, July 13, 2018; 84 FR 170, Jan. 18, 2019]
§ 3.402
Surviving spouse.
Awards of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation to or for a surviving spouse will be effective as follows:
(a)
Additional allowance of dependency and indemnity compensation for children
§
3.5(e).
Commencing date of surviving spouse's award. See § 3.400(c).
(b)
Legal surviving spouse entitled.
See § 3.657.
(c)
Aid and attendance and housebound benefits.
(1) Date of receipt of claim or date entitlement arose whichever is later. However, when an award of dependency and indemnity compensation (DIC) or pension based on an original or supplemental claim is effective for a period prior to date of receipt of the claim, any additional DIC or pension payable to the surviving spouse by reason of need for aid and attendance or housebound status shall also be awarded for any part of the award's retroactive period for which entitlement to the additional benefit is established.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501; 5110(d))
(2) Date of departure from hospital, institutional or domiciliary care at Department of Veterans Affairs expense. This is applicable only to aid and attendance benefits. Housebound benefits may be awarded during hospitalization at Department of Veterans Affairs expense.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
[45 FR 34887, May 23, 1980, as amended at 84 FR 170, Jan. 18, 2019]
§ 3.403
Children.
(a) Awards of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation to or for a child, or to or for a veteran or surviving spouse on behalf of such child, will be effective as follows:
(1)
Permanently incapable of selfsupport (§ 3.57(a)(3)).
In original claims, date fixed by §§ 3.400(b) or (c) or 3.401(b). In claims for continuation of payments, 18th birthday if the condition is claimed prior to or within 1 year after that date; otherwise from date of receipt of claim.
(2)
Majority (§ 13.100).
Direct payment to child if competent, from date of majority or, date of last payment, whichever is the earlier date.
(3)
Posthumous child.
Date of child's birth if proof of birth is received within 1 year of that date, or if a claim or an intent to file a claim as set forth in § 3.155(b), is received within 1 year after the veteran's death; otherwise, date of claim.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5110(n))
(4)
School attendance.
(See § 3.667.)
(5)
Adopted child.
Date of adoption either interlocutory or final or date of adoptive placement agreement, but not earlier than the date from which benefits are otherwise payable.
(b)
Monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. 1805 for an individual suffering from spina bifida who is a child of a Vietnam veteran.
Except as provided in § 3.814(e), an award of the monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. 1805 to or for an individual suffering from spina bifida who is a child of a Vietnam veteran will be effective either date of birth if claim is received within one year of that date, or the later of the date of claim or the date entitlement arose, but not earlier than October 1, 1997.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1805, 1832, 5110)
(c)
Monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. 1815 for an individual with covered birth defects who is a child of a woman Vietnam veteran.
Except as provided in § 3.114(a) or § 3.815(i), an award of the monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. 1815 to or for an individual with one or more covered birth defects who is a child of a woman Vietnam veteran will be effective as of the date VA received the claim (or the date of birth if the claim is received within one year of that date), the date entitlement arose, or December 1, 2001, whichever is latest.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1815, 1832, 1834, 5110)
(d)
Monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. 1821 for an individual suffering from spina bifida who is a child of a veteran with covered service in Korea.
Except as provided in § 3.814(e), an award of the monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. 1821 based on the existence of an individual suffering from spina bifida who is a child of a veteran with covered service in Korea will be effective from either the date of birth if claim is received within 1 year of that date, or the later of the date of claim or date
entitlement arose, but not earlier than December 16, 2003.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1821, 1832, 5110)
[26 FR 1594, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 11889, Dec. 1, 1962; 36 FR 4599, Mar. 10, 1971; 38 FR 872, Jan. 5, 1973; 39 FR 20204, June 7, 1974; 41 FR 36493, Aug. 30, 1976; 45 FR 34887, May 23, 1980; 62 FR 51279, Sept. 30, 1997; 67 FR 49587, July 31, 2002; 76 FR 4248, Jan. 25, 2011; 79 FR 57697, Sept. 25, 2014; 83 FR 32738, July 13, 2018]
§ 3.404
Parents.
Awards of additional amounts of compensation and dependency and indemnity compensation based on a parent's need for aid and attendance will be effective the date of receipt of claim or date entitlement arose, whichever is later. However, when an award of dependency and indemnity compensation based on an original or supplemental claim is effective for a period prior to date of receipt of claim, any additional dependency and indemnity compensation payable by reason of need for aid and attendance may also be awarded for any part of the award's retroactive period for which entitlement to aid and attendance is established. When the parent is provided hospital, institutional or domiciliary care at Department of Veterans Affairs expense, the effective date will be the date of departure therefrom.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501; 5110(d))
[45 FR 34887, May 23, 1980, as amended at 84 FR 171, Jan. 18, 2019]
§ 3.405
Filipino veterans and their survivors; benefits at the full-dollar rate.
Public Laws 106-377 and 108-183, which provide disability compensation and dependency and indemnity compensation at full-dollar rates to certain Filipino veterans and their survivors, are considered liberalizing laws. As such, the provisions of 38 CFR 3.114(a) apply when determining the effective date of an award. If the requirements of § 3.114(a) are not satisfied, then the effective date of an award of benefits at the full-dollar rate under § 3.42 will be determined as follows:
(a)
Initial entitlement to full-dollar rate.
The latest of the following:
(1) Date entitlement arose;
(2) Date on which the veteran or survivor first met the residency and citizenship or permanent resident alien status requirements in § 3.42, if VA receives evidence of this within one year of that date; or
(3) Effective date of service connection, provided VA receives evidence that the veteran or survivor meets the residency and citizenship or permanent resident alien status requirements in § 3.42 within one year of the date of notification of the decision establishing service connection.
(b)
Resumption of full-dollar rate.
(1) Date the veteran or survivor returned to the United States after an absence of more than 60 consecutive days; or
(2) First day of the calendar year following the year in which the veteran or survivor was absent from the United States for a total of 183 days or more, or the first day after that date that the veteran or survivor returns to the United States.
[71 FR 8221, Feb. 16, 2006]

# Apportionments
§ 3.450
General.
(a)(1) All or any part of the pension, compensation, or emergency officers' retirement pay payable on account of any veteran may be apportioned.
(i) On behalf of his or her spouse, children, or dependent parents if the veteran is incompetent and is being furnished hospital treatment, institutional, or domiciliary care by the United States, or any political subdivision thereof.
(ii) If the veteran is not residing with his or her spouse, or if the veteran's children are not residing with the veteran and the veteran is not reasonably discharging his or her responsibility for the spouse's or children's support.
(2) Where any of the children of a deceased veteran are not living with the veteran's surviving spouse, the pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation otherwise payable to the surviving spouse may be apportioned.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5307)
(b) Except as provided in § 3.458(e), no apportionment of disability or death benefits will be made or changed solely
because a child has entered active duty with the air, military, or naval services of the United States.
(c) No apportionment will be made where the veteran, the veteran's spouse (when paid “as wife” or “as husband”), surviving spouse, or fiduciary is providing for dependents. The additional benefits for such dependents will be paid to the veteran, spouse, surviving spouse, or fiduciary.
(d) Any amounts payable for children under §§ 3.459, 3.460 and 3.461 will be equally divided among the children.
(e) The amount payable for a child in custody of and residing with the surviving spouse shall be paid to the surviving spouse. Amounts payable to a surviving spouse for a child in the surviving spouse's custody but residing with someone else may be apportioned if the surviving spouse is not reasonably contributing to the child's support.
(f) Prior to release of any amounts the relationship of the claimant and the dependency of a parent will be fully developed, and the necessary evidence secured.
(g) The provisions of § 3.460 are applicable where the surviving spouse is entitled to a higher rate of pension under the circumstances described in that section.
[26 FR 1594, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 26 FR 7266, Aug. 11, 1961; 27 FR 6974, July 24, 1962; 32 FR 13226, Sept. 19, 1967; 37 FR 6678, Apr. 1, 1972; 44 FR 45939, Aug. 6, 1979]
§ 3.451
Special apportionments.
Without regard to any other provision regarding apportionment where hardship is shown to exist, pension, compensation, emergency officers' retirement pay, or dependency and indemnity compensation may be specially apportioned between the veteran and his or her dependents or the surviving spouse and children on the basis of the facts in the individual case as long as it does not cause undue hardship to the other persons in interest, except as to those cases covered by § 3.458(b) and (c). In determining the basis for special apportionment, consideration will be given such factors as: Amount of Department of Veterans Affairs benefits payable; other resources and income of the veteran and those dependents in whose behalf apportionment is claimed; and special needs of the veteran, his or her dependents, and the apportionment claimants. The amount apportioned should generally be consistent with the total number of dependents involved. Ordinarily, apportionment of more than 50 percent of the veteran's benefits would constitute undue hardship on him or her while apportionment of less than 20 percent of his or her benefits would not provide a reasonable amount for any apportionee.
[44 FR 45940, Aug. 6, 1979]
§ 3.452
Situations when benefits may be apportioned.
Veterans benefits may be apportioned:
(a) If the veteran is not residing with his or her spouse or his or her children and a claim for apportionment is filed for or on behalf of the spouse or children.
(b) Pending the appointment of a guardian or other fiduciary.
(c)(1) Where an incompetent veteran without a fiduciary is receiving institutional care by the United States or a political subdivision, his or her benefit may be apportioned for a spouse or child, or, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2), for a dependent parent, unless such benefit is paid to a spouse (“as wife” or “as husband”) for the use of the veteran and his or her dependents.
(2) Where a married veteran is receiving section 306 or improved pension and the amount payable is reduced under § 3.551(c) because of hospitalization, an apportionment may be paid to the veteran's spouse as provided in § 3.454(b).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a); 5307; 5503(a))
(d) Where additional compensation is payable on behalf of a parent and the veteran or his or her guardian neglects or refuses to contribute such an amount to the support of the parent the additional compensation will be paid to the parent upon receipt of a claim.

# Cross References:
Disappearance of veteran.
See
§ 3.656. Reduction because of hospitalization.
See
§ 3.551. Penal institutions.
See
§ 3.666.
[26 FR 7266, Aug. 11, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 6974, July 24, 1962; 40 FR 21724, May 19, 1975; 44 FR 45940, Aug. 6, 1979; 66 FR 48560, Sept. 21, 2001; 68 FR 34542, June 10, 2003; 83 FR 32738, July 13, 2018]
§ 3.453
Veterans compensation or service pension or retirement pay.
Rates of apportionment of disability compensation, service pension or retirement pay will be determined under § 3.451.
[26 FR 7266, Aug. 11, 1961]
§ 3.454
Veterans disability pension.
Apportionment of disability pension will be as follows:
(a) Where a veteran with spouse, or child is incompetent and without legal fiduciary and is maintained in an institution by the United States or any political subdivision thereof, $25 monthly will be paid as an institutional award to the Director of a Department of Veterans Affairs medical center or chief officer of a non-Department of Veterans Affairs institution for the use of the veteran, and the balance will be paid to the dependent or dependents. If the veteran has no spouse, or child but has a dependent parent, apportionment will be in accordance with § 3.451.
(b)(1) Where the amount of section 306 pension payable to a married veteran under 38 U.S.C. 1521(b), as in effect on December 31, 1978, is reduced to $50 monthly under § 3.551(c), an apportionment may be made to such veteran's spouse upon an affirmative showing of hardship. The amount of the apportionment generally will be the difference between $50 and the total amount of pension payable on December 31, 1978.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(2) Where the amount of improved pension payable to a married veteran under 38 U.S.C. 1521(b) is reduced to $60 monthly under § 3.551(d) or (e)(2), an apportionment may be made to such veteran's spouse upon an affirmative showing of hardship. The amount of the apportionment generally will be the difference between $50 and the rate payable if pension was being paid under 38 U.S.C. 1521(c) including the additional amount payable under 38 U.S.C. 1521(e) if the veteran is so entitled.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(3) Where the amount of improved pension payable to a married veteran under 38 U.S.C. 1521(b) is reduced to $90 monthly under § 3.551(e)(1) an apportionment may be made to such veteran's spouse upon an affirmative showing of hardship. The amount of the apportionment generally will be the difference between $90 and the rate payable if pension was being paid under 38 U.S.C. 1521(c) including the additional amount payable under 38 U.S.C. 1521(e) if the veteran is so entitled.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
[40 FR 36329, Aug. 20, 1975, as amended at 44 FR 45940, Aug. 6, 1979; 56 FR 65850, 65851, Dec. 19, 1991; 57 FR 7847, Mar. 4, 1992; 68 FR 34542, June 10, 2003]
§ 3.458
Veteran's benefits not apportionable.
Veteran's benefits will not be apportioned:
(a) Where the total benefit payable to the disabled person does not permit payment of a reasonable amount to any apportionee.
(b) Where the spouse of the disabled person has been found guilty of conjugal infidelity by a court having proper jurisdiction.
(c) For purported or legal spouse of the veteran if it has been determined that he or she has lived with another person and held herself or himself out openly to the public to be the spouse of such other person, except where such relationship was entered into in good faith with a reasonable basis (for example trickery on the part of the veteran) for the spouse believing that the marriage to the veteran was legally terminated. No apportionment to the spouse will thereafter be made unless there has been a reconciliation and later estrangement.
(d) Where the child of the disabled person has been legally adopted by another person.
(e) Where a child enters the active military, air, or naval service, any additional amount will be paid to the veteran unless such child is included in an
existing apportionment to an estranged spouse. No adjustment in the apportioned award will be made based on the child's entry into service.
(f)(1) For the spouse, child, father or mother of a disabled veteran, where forfeiture was declared prior to September 2, 1959, if the dependent is determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs to have been guilty of mutiny, treason, sabotage, or rendering assistance to an enemy of the United States or its allies.
(2) For any dependent of a disabled veteran, or surviving spouse where forfeiture of benefits by a person primarily entitled was declared after September 1, 1959, by reason of fraud, treasonable acts, or subversive activities.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6103(b); 6104(c); 6105(a))
(g) Until the estranged spouse of a veteran files claim for an apportioned share. If there are any children of the veteran not in his or her custody an apportionment will not be authorized unless and until a claim for an apportioned share is filed in their behalf.

# Cross References:
Child. See § 3.57. Child adopted out of family. See § 3.58.
[26 FR 7266, Aug. 11, 1961, as amended at 40 FR 21724, May 19, 1975; 44 FR 45940, Aug. 6, 1979; 80 FR 48451, Aug. 13, 2015]
§ 3.459
Death compensation.
(a) Death compensation will be apportioned if the child or children of the deceased veteran are not in the custody of the surviving spouse.
(b) The surviving spouse may not be paid less than $65 monthly plus the amount of an aid and attendance allowance where applicable.
[40 FR 21725, May 19, 1975, as amended at 44 FR 45940, Aug. 6, 1979]
§ 3.460
Death pension.
Death pension will be apportioned if the child or children of the deceased veteran are not in the custody of the surviving spouse. Where the surviving spouse's rate is in excess of $70 monthly because of having been the spouse of the veteran during service or because of need for regular aid and attendance, the additional amount will be added to the surviving spouse's share.
(a)
Civil, Indian and Spanish-American wars.
Where pension is payable under 38 U.S.C. 1532, 1534, or 1536 apportionment will be based on the facts in the individual case in accordance with § 3.451.
(b)
Section 306 and old-law death pension.
Appointment of benefits provided under these pension programs will be at rates approved by the Under Secretary for Benefits except when the facts and circumstances in a case warrant special apportionment under § 3.451.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5307)
(c)
Improved death pension.
Apportionment of the benefits provided under this program shall be made under the special apportionment provision of § 3.451.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5307)
[41 FR 21324, May 25, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 14018, Apr. 4, 1978; 44 FR 45940, Aug. 6, 1979; 61 FR 20727, May 8, 1996]
§ 3.461
Dependency and indemnity compensation.
(a)
Conditions under which apportionment may be made.
The surviving spouse's award of dependency and indemnity compensation will be apportioned where there is a child or children under 18 years of age and not in the custody of the surviving spouse. The surviving spouse's award of dependency and indemnity compensation will not be apportioned under this condition for a child over the age of 18 years.
(b)
Rates payable.
(1) The share for each of the chidren under 18 years of age, including those in the surviving spouse's custody as well as those who are not in such custody, will be at rates approved by the Under Secretary for Benefits except when the facts and circumstances in a case warrant special apportionment under § 3.451. The share for the surviving spouse will be the difference between the children's share and the total amount payable. In the application of this rule, however, the surviving spouse's share will not be reduced to an amount less than 50 percent of that to which the surviving spouse would otherwise be entitled.
(2) The additional amount of aid and attendance, where applicable, will be
added to the surviving spouse's share and not otherwise included in the computation.
(3) Where the surviving spouse has elected to receive dependency and indemnity compensation instead of death compensation, the share of dependency and indemnity compensation for a child or children under 18 years of age will be whichever is the greater:
(i) The apportioned share computed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or
(ii) The share which would have been payable as death compensation but not in excess of the total dependency and indemnity compensation.
[43 FR 14018, Apr. 4, 1978, as amended at 61 FR 20727, May 8, 1996]

# Reductions and Discontinuances
§ 3.500
General.
The effective date of a rating which results in the reduction or discontinuance of an award will be in accordance with the facts found except as provided in § 3.105. The effective date of reduction or discontinuance of an award of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation for a payee or dependent will be the earliest of the dates stated in these paragraphs unless otherwise provided. Where an award is reduced, the reduced rate will be effective the day following the date of discontinuance of the greater benefit.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5112(b))
(a)
Except as otherwise provided (38 U.S.C. 5112(a)).
In accordance with the facts found.
(b)
Error; payee's or administrative (38 U.S.C. 5112(b), (9), (10)).
(1) Effective date of award or day preceding act, whichever is later, but not prior to the date entitlement ceased, on an erroneous award based on an act of commission or omission by a payee or with the payee's knowledge.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (r) of this section, and § 3.501 (e) and (g), date of last payment on an erroneous award based solely on administrative error or error in judgment.
(c)
Annual income.
See § 3.660.
(d)
Apportionment
(§§
3.450 series; § 3.556
). (1) Except as otherwise provided, date of last payment when reason for apportionment no longer exists.
(2) Where pension was apportioned under § 3.551(c), day preceding date of veteran's release from hospital, unless overpayment would result; date of last payment if necessary to avoid overpayment.
(e)
Federal employees' compensation
(§
3.708
). The day preceding the date the award of benefits under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act became effective. If children on rolls and surviving spouse has primary title, award to children discontinued same date as surviving spouse's award.
(Authority: 5 U.S.C. 8116)
(f)
Contested claims § 3.402(b) and § subpart F of part 20 of this chapter).
Date of last payment.
(g)
Death (38 U.S.C. 5112 (a), (b))
—(1)
Payee (includes apportionee).
Last day of month before death.
(2)
Dependent of payee (includes apportionee):
(i) Death prior to October 1, 1982: last day of the calendar year in which death occurred.
(ii) Death on or after October 1, 1982: last day of the month in which death occurred, except that section 306 and old-law pension reductions or terminations will continue to be effective the last day of the calendar year in which death occurred.
(3)
Veteran receiving retirement pay.
Date of death.
(h)
Dependency of parent (38 U.S.C. 5112; Pub. L. 90-275;
§§
3.4(a), (b)(2), 3.250, 3.551(b) and 3.660
). See § 3.660.
(i)
Election of Department of Veterans Affairs benefits
(§
3.700 series
). Day preceding beginning date of award under other law.
(j)
Foreign residence (38 U.S.C. 5308(a)).
See § 3.653.
(k)
Fraud (38 U.S.C. 6103(a), (d); §§ 3.669 and 3.901).
Beginning date of award or day preceding date of fraudulent act, whichever is later.
(l)-(m) [Reserved]
(n)
Marriage (or remarriage)
(38 U.S.C. 101(3), 5112 (b))—(1)
Payee
(
includes apportionee
). Last day of month before marriage.
(2)
Dependent of payee (includes apportionee):
(i) Marriage prior to October 1, 1982: last day of the calendar year in which marriage occurred.
(ii) Marriage on or after October 1, 1982: last day of the month in which marriage occurred, except that section 306 and old-law pension reductions or terminations will continue to be effective the last day of the calendar year in which marriage occurred.
(3)
Conduct of surviving spouse.
Last day of month before inception of relationship.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101(4), 501)
(o)
Penal institutions.
See § 3.666.
(p)
Philippines (38 U.S.C. 107(a)(3); § 3.40).
Date of last payment when recognition of service withdrawn.
(q)
Renouncement
(§
3.106
). Last day of the month in which the renouncement is received.
(r)
Service connection (38 U.S.C. 5112(b)(6); § 3.105).
Last day of month following 60 days after notice to payee. Applies to reduced evaluation, and severance of service connection.
(s)
Treasonable acts or subversive activities
(38 U.S.C. 6104 and 6105; §§ 3.902, 3.903). (1)
Treasonable acts.
Date of the forfeiture decision or date of last payment, whichever is earlier.
(2)
Subversive activities.
Beginning date of award or day preceding date of commission of subversive activities for which convicted, whichever is later.
(t)
Whereabouts unknown
(§§ 3.158, 3.656). Date of last payment.
(u)
Change in law or Department of Veterans Affairs issue, or interpretation.
See § 3.114.
(v)
Failure to furnish evidence of continued eligibility.
See § 3.652 (a) and (b).
(w)
Failure to furnish Social Security number.
Last day of the month during which the 60 day period following the date of VA request expires.
(x)
Radiation Exposure Compensation Act of 1990 (§ 3.715).
(Compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation only.) Last day of the month preceding the month in which payment under the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act of 1990 is issued.
(y)
Compensation for certain disabilities due to undiagnosed illnesses (§§ 3.105; 3.317).
Last day of the month in which the 60-day period following notice to the payee of the final rating action expires. This applies to both reduced evaluations and severance of service connection.
(Authority: Pub. L. 103-446; 38 U.S.C. 501(a))
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 8301)

# Cross Reference:
Failure to return questionnaire. See § 3.661(b).
[26 FR 1596, Feb. 24, 1961]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 3.500, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 3.501
Veterans.
The effective date of discontinuance of pension or compensation to or for a veteran will be the earliest of the dates stated in this section. Where an award is reduced, the reduced rate will be payable the day following the date of discontinuance of the greater benefit.
(a)
Active service pay (38 U.S.C. 5112(b)(3); Pub. L. 87-825; § 3.700(a)).
Day preceding entrance on active duty. See § 3.654.
(b)
Aid and attendance—(1) Section 3.552(b)(1).
Last day of calendar month following month in which veteran is hospitalized at Department of Veterans Affairs expense.
(2)
Section 3.552(b)(2).
Last day of calendar month following month in which veteran hospitalized at United States Government expense.
(3)
Aid and attendance for spouse.
End of month in which award action is taken if need for aid and attendance has ceased.
(c)
Disappearance of veteran.
See § 3.656.
(d)
Divorce or annulment (38 U.S.C. 5112(b)(2)):
(1) Divorce or annulment prior to October 1, 1982: last day of the calendar year in which divorce or annulment occurred.
(2) Divorce or annulment on or after October 1, 1982: last day of the month in which divorce or annulment occurred, except that section 306 and old-law pension reductions or terminations will continue to be effective the last day of the calendar year in which divorce or annulment occurred.
(e)
Employability regained (38 U.S.C. 5112(b) (5), (6); Pub. L. 87-825; § 3.105)
—(1)
Pension.
Last day of month in which discontinuance is approved.
(2)
Compensation.
Last day of month following 60 days after notice to payee.
(f)
Employment questionnaire, failure to return.
Reduce award to the amount payable for the schedular evaluation shown in the current rating as of the day following the date of last payment.
(g)
Evaluation reduced (38 U.S.C. 5112(b) (5), (6); Pub. L. 87-825; § 3.105)
—(1)
Pension.
Last day of month in which reduction or discontinuance is approved.
(2)
Compensation.
Last day of month following 60 days after notice to payee.
(h)
Examination; failure to report.
See § 3.655.
(i)
Hospitalization
—(1)
Section 3.551(b).
Last day of the sixth calendar month following admission if veteran without dependents.
(2)
Section 3.551(c).
(i) Last day of the second calendar month following admission to domiciliary care if veteran without spouse or child or, though married, is receiving pension at the rate provided for a veteran without dependents. (ii) Last day of the third calendar month following admission for hospital or nursing home care if veteran without spouse or child or, though married, is receiving pension at the rate provided for a veteran without dependents. (iii) Upon readmission to hospital, domiciliary, or nursing home care within 6 months of a period for which pension was reduced under § 3.551(c)(1), the last day of the month of such readmission.
(3)
Section 3.552(b)
Upon readmission to hospital care within 6 months of a period of hospital care for which pension was affected by the provisions of § 3.552(b)(1) and (2) or § 3.552(k) and discharge or release was against medical advice or was the result of disciplinary action, the day preceding the date of such readmission.
(4)
Section 3.551(d)
(i) Last day of the second calendar month following admission to domiciliary care if veteran without spouse or child or, though married, is receiving pension at the rate for a veteran without dependents.
(ii) Last day of the third calendar month following admission for hospitalization or nursing home care if veteran without spouse or child or, though married, is receiving pension at the rate for a veteran without dependents.
(iii) Upon readmission to hospital, domiciliary, or nursing home care within 6 months of a period for which pension was reduced under § 3.551(d)(1) or (2), the last day of the month of such readmission.
(5)
Section 3.551(e)
(i) Last day of the third calendar month following admission to domiciliary or nursing home care if veteran without spouse or child or, though married, is receiving pension at the rate for a veteran without dependents. (ii) Upon readmission to domiciliary or nursing home care within 6 months of a period of domiciliary or nursing home care for which pension was reduced under § 3.551(e)(1), the last day of the month of such readmission.
(6)
Section 3.551(h).
(i) Last day of the calendar month in which Medicaid payments begin, last day of the month following 60 days after issuance of a prereduction notice required under § 3.103(b)(2), or the earliest date on which payment may be reduced without creating an overpayment, whichever date is later; or
(ii) If the veteran willfully conceals information necessary to make the reduction, the last day of the month in which that willful concealment occurred.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503)
(j) [Reserved]
(k)
Lump-sum readjustment pay.
See § 3.700(a)(2).
(l)
Retirement pay (38 U.S.C. 5112(b)(3); Pub. L. 87-825; § 3.750).
Day before effective date of retirement pay.
(m)
Temporary increase (38 U.S.C. 5112(b)(8); § 4.29 of this chapter).
Last day of month in which hospitalization or treatment terminated, whichever is earlier, where temporary increase in
compensation was authorized because of hospitalization for treatment.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5505)
[26 FR 1596, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 11889, Dec. 1, 1962; 29 FR 12368, Aug. 28, 1964; 29 FR 16329, Dec. 5, 1964; 35 FR 2828, Feb. 11, 1970; 37 FR 6679, Apr. 1, 1972; 38 FR 34115, Dec. 11, 1973; 41 FR 55874, Dec. 23, 1976; 44 FR 45941, Aug. 6, 1979; 48 FR 34473, July 29, 1983; 53 FR 23236, June 21, 1988; 56 FR 25045, June 3, 1991; 56 FR 65849, 65853, Dec. 19, 1991; 66 FR 48560, Sept. 21, 2001; 68 FR 34542, June 10, 2003; 83 FR 32738, July 13, 2018]
§ 3.502
Surviving spouses.
The effective date of discontinuance of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation to or for a surviving spouse will be the earliest of the dates stated in this section. Where an award is reduced, the reduced rate will be payable the day following the date of discontinuance of the greater benefit.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(a)
Additional allowance of dependency and indemnity compensation for children (38 U.S.C. 5112(b) § 3.5(e)(3).
(1) If marriage occurred prior to October 1, 1982, the day preceding child's 18th birthday or last day of calendar year in which child's marriage occurred (see § 3.500(n) (2) and (3)), whichever is earlier.
(2) If marriage occurred on or after October 1, 1982, the day preceding child's 18th birthday or last day of the month in which marriage occurred (see § 3.500(n) (2) and (3)) whichever is earlier.
(b)
Pay grade; dependency and indemnity compensation (38 U.S.C. 1311(a), 5112(b)(10); Pub. L. 91-96, 83 Stat. 144).
Date of last payment when rate is reduced because of new certification of pay grade.
(c)
Legal surviving spouse entitled.
Date of last payment on award to another person as surviving spouse. See § 3.657.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(d)
Marriage.
See § 3.500(n).
(e)
Aid and attendance (§ 3.351(a)).
(1) Date of last payment, if need for aid and attendance has ceased.
(2) If hospitalized at Department of Veterans Affairs expense as a veteran, the date specified in § 3.552(b) (1) or (3).
(f)
Medicaid-covered nursing home care (§ 3.551(i)).
(1) Last day of the calendar month in which Medicaid payments begin, last day of the month following 60 days after issuance of a prereduction notice required under § 3.103(b)(2), or the earliest date on which payment may be reduced without creating an overpayment, whichever date is later; or
(2) If the surviving spouse willfully conceals information necessary to make the reduction, the last day of the month in which that willful concealment occurred.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503)
[26 FR 1596, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 11890, Dec. 1, 1962; 33 FR 2995, Feb. 15, 1968; 35 FR 2828, Feb. 11, 1970; 37 FR 6679, Apr. 1, 1972; 41 FR 55874, Dec. 23, 1976; 48 FR 34473, July 29, 1983; 53 FR 23237, June 21, 1988; 58 FR 32445, June 10, 1993]
§ 3.503
Children.
(a) The effective date of discontinuance of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation to or for a child, or to or for a veteran or surviving spouse on behalf of such child, will be the earliest of the dates stated in this section. Where an award is reduced, the reduced rate will be payable the day following the date of discontinuance of the greater benefit.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(1)
Age 18 (or 23) (38 U.S.C. 5112(a); § 3.57).
Day before 18th (or 23d birthday).
(2)
Enters service.
Date of last payment of apportioned disability benefits for child not in custody of estranged spouse. Full rate payable to veteran. No change where payments are being made for the child to the veteran, his (her) estranged spouse, his (her) surviving spouse, or to the fiduciary of a child not in the surviving spouse's custody.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(3)
Permanently incapable of selfsupport (38 U.S.C. 5112(a), (b)(6); Pub. L. 87-825; §§ 3.57, 3.950)
—(i)
Pension.
Date of last payment.
(ii)
Compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation.
Last day of
month following 60 days after notice to payee.
(4)
Marriage.
See § 3.500(n).
(5)
School attendance.
See § 3.667.
(6)
Stepchild no longer member of veteran's household
(§
3.57
). Last day child was a member of household.
(7)
Two parent cases
(§
3.703
). Day preceding beginning date of award based on service of the other parent.
(8)
Dependents' educational assistance
(§§
3.707, 3.807, and
§
21.3023 of this chapter
). Day preceding beginning date of educational assistance allowance.
(9)
Surviving spouse becomes entitled.
Date of last payment. See § 3.657.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(10)
Interlocutory adoption decree or adoptive placement agreement.
Date child left custody of adopting parent during the interlocutory period or during adoptive placement agreement, or date of rescission of the decree or date of termination of the adoptive placement agreement, whichever first occurs.
(b)
Monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 18 for certain individuals who are children of Vietnam veterans or children of veterans with covered service in Korea.
The effective date of discontinuance of the monthly allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 18 will be the last day of the month before the month in which the death of the individual occurred.
(c)
Medicaid-covered nursing home care (§ 3.551(i)).
(1) Last day of the calendar month in which Medicaid payments begin, last day of the month following 60 days after issuance of a prereduction notice required under § 3.103(b)(2), or the earliest date on which payment may be reduced without creating an overpayment, whichever date is later; or
(2) If the child or the child's custodian willfully conceals information necessary to make the reduction, the last day of the month in which that willful concealment occurred.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1832, 5112(b))
[26 FR 1597, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 11890, Dec. 1, 1962; 30 FR 14983, Dec. 3, 1965; 34 FR 839, Jan. 18, 1969; 38 FR 872, Jan. 5, 1973; 41 FR 55875, Dec. 23, 1976; 53 FR 23237, June 21, 1988; 62 FR 51279, Sept. 30, 1997; 67 FR 49587, July 31, 2002; 76 FR 4248, Jan. 25, 2011; 83 FR 47275, Sept. 18, 2018]
§ 3.504
Parents; aid and attendance.
The effective date of discontinuance of an increased award because of the parent's need for aid and attendance will be the day of last payment if need for aid and attendance has ceased. If hospitalized at Department of Veterans Affairs expense as a veteran the date will be specified in § 3.552(b) (1) or (3).
(Authority: Pub. L. 92-197, 85 Stat. 660)
[37 FR 6679, Apr. 1, 1972]
§ 3.505
Filipino veterans and their survivors; benefits at the full-dollar rate.
The effective date of discontinuance of compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation for a Filipino veteran or his or her survivor under § 3.42 will be the earliest of the dates stated in this section. Where an award is reduced, the reduced rate will be payable the day following the date of discontinuance of the greater benefit.
(a) If a veteran or survivor receiving benefits at the full-dollar rate under § 3.42 is physically absent from the U.S. for a total of 183 days or more during any calendar year, VA will reduce benefits to the rate of $0.50 for each dollar authorized under the law, effective on the 183rd day of absence from the U.S.
(b) If a veteran or survivor receiving benefits at the full-dollar rate under § 3.42 is physically absent from the U.S. for more than 60 consecutive days, VA will reduce benefits to the rate of $0.50 for each dollar authorized under the law, effective on the 61st day of the absence.
(c) If a veteran or survivor receiving benefits at the full-dollar rate under § 3.42 loses either U.S. citizenship or status as an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the U.S., VA will reduce benefits to the rate of $0.50 for each dollar authorized under the law, effective on the day he or she no longer satisfies one of these criteria.
(d) If mail to a veteran or survivor receiving benefits at the full-dollar rate under § 3.42 is returned to VA by the U.S. Postal Service, VA will make reasonable efforts to determine the correct mailing address. If VA is unable to determine the veteran's or survivor's correct address through reasonable efforts, VA will reduce benefits to
the rate of $0.50 for each dollar authorized under law, effective the first day of the month that follows the month for which VA last paid benefits.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 107)
[71 FR 8221, Feb. 16, 2006]

# Hospitalization Adjustments
§ 3.551
Reduction because of hospitalization.
(a)
General.
Pension is subject to reduction as specified below when a veteran who has neither spouse, child nor dependent parent is hospitalized, unless the veteran is hospitalized for Hansen's disease. The provisions of this section apply to initial periods of hospitalization and to readmissions following discharge from a prior period of hospitalization. If the veteran is hospitalized for observation and examination, the date treatment began is considered the date of admission. Special rules governing discontinuance of aid and attendance allowance are contained in § 3.552. Except as otherwise indicated the terms “hospitalized” and “hospitalization” in §§ 3.551 through 3.556 mean:
(1) Hospital treatment in a Department of Veterans Affairs hospital or in any hospital at Department of Veterans Affairs expense.
(2) Institutional, domiciliary or nursing home care in a Department of Veterans Affairs institution or domiciliary or at Department of Veterans Affairs expense.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(b)
Old-law pension.
(1) Old law pension in excess of $30 monthly for a veteran who has neither spouse, child nor dependent parent shall continue at the full monthly rate until the end of the sixth calendar month following the month of admission for hospitalization. The rate payable will be reduced effective the first of the seventh calendar month to $30 monthly or 50 percent of the amount otherwise payable, whichever is greater. The reduced rate will be effective the first day of the seventh calendar month following admission. Payment of the amount withheld may be made on termination of hospitalization, as provided in § 3.556. (Sec. 306(b))
(2)
Readmission following regular discharge.
Where a veteran has been given an approved discharge or release, readmission the next day to the same or any other VA institution begins a new period of hospitalization, unless the veteran was released for purposes of admission to another VA institution.
(3)
Readmission following irregular discharge.
When a veteran whose award is subject to reduction under this paragraph has been discharged or released from a VA institution against medical advice or as a result of disciplinary action, reentry within 6 months from the date of previous admission constitutes a continuation of that period of hospitalization and the award will not be reduced prior to the first day of the seventh calendar month following the month of original admission, exclusive of authorized absences. Reentry 6 months or more after such discharge or release shall be considered a new admission.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(c)
Section 306 pension.
(1) Where any veteran having neither spouse nor child, or any veteran who is married or has a child and is receiving pension as a veteran without dependents, is being furnished hospital, nursing home or domiciliary care by the Department of Veterans Affairs, no pension in excess of $50 monthly shall be paid to or for the veteran for any period after the end of the second full calendar month following the month of admission for such care.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(2) No pension in excess of $50 monthly shall be paid to or for a veteran having neither spouse nor child, or to a veteran who is married or has a child and is receiving pension as a veteran without dependents, for any period after the month in which the veteran is readmitted within 6 months of a period of care for which pension was reduced under paragraph (c) (1) of this section.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(3) Where section 306 pension is being paid to a married veteran at a rate for a veteran without dependents all or any part of the monthly amount of
pension withheld in excess of $50 may be apportioned for a spouse as provided in § 3.454(b).
(d)
Improved pension prior to February 1, 1990.
(1) Where any veteran having neither spouse nor child, or any veteran who is married or has a child and is receiving pension as a veteran without dependents, is being furnished domiciliary care by VA, no pension in excess of $60 monthly shall be paid to or for the veteran for any period after the end of the second full calendar month following the month of admission for such care. (38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(2) Where any veteran having neither spouse nor child, or any veteran who is married or has a child and is receiving pension as a veteran without dependents, is furnished hospital or nursing home care by VA, no pension in excess of $60 monthly shall be paid to or for the veteran for any period after the end of the third full calendar month following the month of admission for such care. (38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(3) No pension in excess of $60 monthly shall be paid to or for a veteran having neither spouse nor child, or to a veteran who is married or has a child and is receiving pension as a veteran without dependents, for any period after the month in which the veteran is readmitted within 6 months of a period of care for which pension was reduced under paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section. (38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(4) Where improved pension is being paid to a married veteran at the rate prescribed by 38 U.S.C. 1521(b) all or any part of the rate payable under 38 U.S.C. 1521(c) may be apportioned for a spouse as provided in § 3.454(b). (38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(5) The provisions of paragraphs (d) (1), (2), and (3) of this section are not applicable to any veteran who has a child, but is receiving pension as a veteran without a dependent because it is reasonable that some part of the child's estate be consumed for the child's maintenance under 38 U.S.C. 1522(b).
(6) For the purpose of paragraphs (d) (1), (2), and (3) of this section, if a veteran is furnished hospital or nursing home care by VA and then is transferred to VA-furnished domiciliary care, the period of hospital or nursing home care shall be considered as domiciliary care. Similarly, if a veteran is furnished domiciliary care by VA and then is transferred to VA-furnished hospital or nursing home care, the period of domiciliary care shall be considered hospital or nursing home care.
(e)
Improved pension after January 31, 1990.
(1) Where any veteran having neither spouse nor child, or any veteran who is married or has a child and is receiving pension as a veteran without dependents, is furnished domiciliary or nursing home care by VA, no pension in excess of $90 monthly shall be paid to or for the veteran for any period after the end of the third full calendar month following the month of admission for such care.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(2) No pension in excess of $90 monthly shall be paid to a veteran having neither spouse nor child, or to a veteran who is married or has a child and is receiving pension as a veteran without dependents, for any period after the month in which the veteran is readmitted within six months of a period of domiciliary or nursing home care for which pension was reduced under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(3) Where improved pension is being paid to a married veteran at the rate prescribed by 38 U.S.C. 1521(b) all or any part of the rate payable under 38 U.S.C. 1521(c) may be apportioned for a spouse as provided in § 3.454(b).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(4) For the purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, if a veteran is furnished hospital care by VA and then is transferred to VA-furnished nursing home or domiciliary care, the period of hospital care shall not be considered as nursing home or domiciliary care. Transfers from VA-furnished nursing home or domiciliary care to VA-furnished hospital care then back to nursing home or domiciliary care shall be considered as continuous nursing home or domiciliary care provided the period of hospitalization does not exceed six months. Similarly, if a veteran is transferred from domiciliary or nursing home to a VA hospital and dies while so hospitalized, the entire period
of VA care shall be considered as domiciliary or nursing home care. Nursing home or domiciliary care shall be considered as terminated effective the date of transfer to a VA hospital if the veteran is completely discharged from VA care following the period of hospitalization or if the period of hospitalization exceeds six months.
(5) Effective February 1, 1990, reductions of improved pension based on admissions or readmissions to VA hospitals or any hospital at VA expense shall no longer be made except when required under the provisions of 38 CFR 3.552.
(6) The provisions of paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section are not applicable to any veteran who has a child, but is receiving pension as a veteran without a dependent because it is reasonable that some part of the child's estate be consumed for the child's maintenance under 38 U.S.C. 1522(b).
(f)
Computation of period.
For purposes of computing periods of hospitalization in paragraph (c) of this section, authorized absences of 96 hours or less will be included as periods of hospitalization, and those of over 96 hours excluded. Also, for purposes of that paragraph, periods of treatment or care of 60 total days will be considered two calendar months of hospitalization and periods of 90 total days considered three calendar months, exclusive of authorized absences in excess of 96 hours.
(g)
Proof of dependents.
The veteran will be considered to have neither spouse, child nor dependent parent in the absence of satisfactory proof. Statements contained in the claims folder concerning the existence of such dependents will be considered a prima facie showing. If the necessary evidence is not received: (1) Within 60 days after the date of request where the award is subject to reduction under paragraph (b) of this section, or (2) prior to the effective date of reduction under paragraph (c) of this section, the veteran's award will be reduced on the basis of no dependents. The full rate may be authorized from the date of reduction if the necessary evidence is received within 1 year after the date of request.
(h)
Hospitalization
—(1)
General.
The reduction required by paragraphs (d) and (e), except as they refer to domiciliary care, shall not be made for up to three additional calendar months after the last day of the third month referred to in paragraphs (d)(2) or (e)(1) of this section, or after the last day of the month referred to in paragraphs (d)(3) or (e)(2) of this section, under the following conditions:
(i) The Chief Medical Director, or designee, certifies that the primary purpose for furnishing hospital or nursing home care during the additional period is to provide the veteran with a prescribed program of rehabilitation under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, designed to restore the veteran's ability to function within the veteran's family and community; and
(ii) The veteran is admitted to a Department of Veterans Affairs hospital or nursing home after October 16, 1981.
(2)
Continued hospitalization for rehabilitation.
The reduction required by paragraph (d) or (e) of this section shall not be made for periods after the expiration of the additional period provided by paragraph (h)(1) of this section under the following conditions:
(i) The veteran remains hospitalized or in a nursing home after the expiration of the additional period provided by paragraph (h)(1) of this section; and
(ii) The Chief Medical Director, or designee, certifies that the primary purpose for furnishing continued hospital or nursing home care after the additional period provided by paragraph (h)(1) of this section is to provide the veteran with a program of rehabilitation under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, designed to restore the veteran's ability to function within the veteran's family and community.
(3)
Termination of hospitalization for rehabilitation.
Pension in excess of $60 monthly or $90, if reduction is under paragraph (e)(1) payable to a veteran under this paragraph shall be reduced the end of the calendar month in which the primary purpose of hospitalization or nursing home care is no longer to provide the veteran with a program of rehabilitation under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code designed to restore the veteran's ability to function
within the veteran's family and community.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503(a))
(i)
Certain beneficiaries receiving Medicaid-covered nursing home care.
This paragraph (i) applies to a veteran without a spouse or child, to a surviving spouse without a child, and to a surviving child. Effective November 5, 1990, and terminating on the date provided in 38 U.S.C. 5503(d)(7), if such a beneficiary is receiving Medicaid-covered nursing home care, no pension or survivors pension in excess of $90 per month will be paid to or for the beneficiary for any period after the month in which the Medicaid payments begin. A beneficiary is not liable for any pension paid in excess of the $90 per month by reason of the Secretary's inability or failure to reduce payments, unless that inability or failure is the result of willful concealment, by the beneficiary, of information necessary to make that reduction.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503)

# Cross References:
Time limits. See § 3.109. Apportionment. See § 3.400(e). Reductions and discontinuances; general. See § 3.500. Incompetents; resumption. See § 3.558.
[27 FR 7677, Aug. 3, 1962]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 3.551, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 3.552
Adjustment of allowance for aid and attendance.
(a)(1) When a veteran who is already entitled to the aid and attendance allowance is hospitalized, the additional compensation or increased pension for aid and attendance shall be discontinued as provided in paragraph (b) of this section except as to disabilities specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (See paragraph (k) of this section for rules applicable to a veteran who establishes entitlement to the aid and attendance allowance on or after date of admission to hospitalization).
(2) The allowance for aid and attendance will be continued during hospitalization where the disability is paraplegia involving paralysis of both lower extremities together with loss of anal and bladder sphincter control, or Hansen's disease, except where discontinuance is required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section. In addition, in pension cases only, the aid and attendance allowance will be continued where the pensionable disability is blindness (visual acuity
5/200
or less) or concentric contraction of visual field to 5 degrees or less. Awards are, however, subject to the provisions of § 3.551 (except where the disabling condition is Hansen's disease) .
(3) Additional compensation for dependents under § 3.4(b)(2) is payable during hospitalization in addition to the rates authorized by this section. The rates specified will also be increased by amounts authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1114(k) based on independently ratable disability, subject to the statutory ceiling on the total amount of compensation payable as set forth in § 3.350(a).
(b)(1) Where a veteran is admitted for hospitalization on or after October 1, 1964, the additional compensation or increased pension for aid and attendance will be discontinued effective the last day of the month following the month in which the veteran is admitted for hospitalization at the expense of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(2) When a veteran is hospitalized at the expense of the United States Government, the additional aid and attendance allowance authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1114(r)(1) or (2) or 38 U.S.C. 1114(t) will be discontinued effective the last day of the month following the month in which the veteran is admitted for hospitalization.
(3) Where a veteran affected by the provisions of paragraph (b) (1) and (2) or paragraph (k) of this section is discharged or released from the hospital against medical advice or as the result of disciplinary action, and is readmitted to such hospitalization within 6 months after that date, the allowance, additional compensation, or increased pension will be discontinued effective the day preceding the date of readmission. A readmission 6 months or more after such discharge or release will be considered as a new admission.
(c) Reduction will not be made where the same monthly rate of compensation would be payable without consideration of need for regular aid and attendance. This can only be determined after careful review of the current maximum entitlement without regard to any amount for aid and attendance.
(d) Where entitlement by reason of need for regular aid and attendance is the basis of the monthly rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114(1) the award will be reduced to the rate payable under 38 U.S.C. 1114(s).
(e) Where a veteran is in receipt of section 306 pension, the aid and attendance allowance shall be reduced to the housebound rate of $61 monthly (or $76.25 if the veteran was age 78 or older on December 31, 1978). Where a veteran is in receipt of old-law pension, the total amount payable shall be reduced to $100 monthly. Where a veteran is in receipt of improved pension, the applicable aid and attendance rate shall be reduced to the otherwise applicable rate under 38 U.S.C. 1521(e). No reduction shall be made, however, for any case involving the disabilities specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(f) Where entitlement to the rate in 38 U.S.C. 1114(o) is based in part on need for regular aid and attendance reduction because of being hospitalized will be to the rate payable for the other conditions shown.
(g) Where a veteran entitled to one of the rates under 38 U.S.C. 1114 (l), (m), or (n) by reason of anatomical losses or losses of use of extremities, blindness (visual acuity 5/200 or less or light perception only), or anatomical loss of both eyes is being paid compensation at the rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114(o) because of entitlement to another rate under section 1114(l) on account of need for aid and attendance, the compensation will be reduced while hospitalized to the following:
(1) If entitlement is under section 1114(l) and in addition there is need for regular aid and attendance for another disability, the award during hospitalization will be at the rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114(m) since the disability requiring aid and attendance is 100 percent disabling.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1114(p))
(2) If entitlement is under section 1114(m), at the rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114(n).
(3) If entitlement is under section 1114(n), the rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114(o) would be continued, since the disability previously causing the need for regular aid and attendance would then be totally disabling entitling the veteran to the maximum rate under 38 U.S.C. 1114(p).
(h) If, because of blindness, a veteran requires regular aid and attendance, but has better vision than “light perception only” the award under 38 U.S.C. 1114(m) will be reduced while hospitalized to the rate payable under 38 U.S.C. 1114(1).
(i) If the disability meets the aid and attendance requirements of 38 U.S.C. 1114(l) and the intermediate or next higher rate was assigned for disability independently ratable at 50 percent or 100 percent, the award based on such entitlement will be reduced because of hospitalization to the amount payable under 38 U.S.C. 1114(s).
(j) The section 306 pension aid and attendance allowance authorized by § 3.252(f) is subject to reduction for hospitalization under the provisions of this section in the same manner as the regular section 306 pension aid and attendance allowance. The amount payable shall not be reduced to less than the housebound rate of $61 monthly (or $76.25 monthly if the veteran was age 78 or older on December 31, 1978).
(k)(1) This paragraph is applicable to hospitalized veterans who were not entitled to the aid and attendance allowance prior to hospital admission but who establish entitlement to it on or after the date of hospital admission.
(2) If the effective date of entitlement to the aid and attendance allowance is on or after the date of admission to hospitalization, the aid and attendance allowance shall not be paid until the date of discharge or release from hospitalization, unless the aid and attendance allowance is based on a disability specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. If the aid and attendance allowance is based on a disability specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the aid and attendance allowance shall be paid during hospitalization.
(3) If the aid and attendance allowance is not payable to a veteran under paragraph (k)(2) of this section, the veteran shall receive the appropriate reduced rate under paragraphs (d) through (j) of this section while hospitalized.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503(c))
[28 FR 1588, Feb. 20, 1963, as amended at 30 FR 14983, Dec. 3, 1965; 32 FR 13226, Sept. 19, 1967; 37 FR 19133, Sept. 19, 1972; 38 FR 34115, Dec. 11, 1973; 41 FR 55875, Dec. 23, 1976; 44 FR 22721, Apr. 17, 1979; 44 FR 45941, Aug. 6, 1979; 46 FR 31011, June 12, 1981; 46 FR 47541, Sept. 29, 1981; 68 FR 34542, June 10, 2003; 83 FR 20737, May 8, 2018]
§§ 3.553-3.555
[Reserved]
§ 3.556
Adjustment on discharge or release.
(a)
Temporary Absence—30 days.
(1) Where a competent veteran whose award was reduced under § 3.551(b) is placed on non-bed care status or other authorized absence of 30 days or more the full monthly rate, excluding any allowance for regular aid and attendance, will be restored effective the date of reduction. The full monthly rate for an incompetent veteran, or for a competent veteran whose pension was reduced under § 3.551(c), will be restored effective the date of departure from the hospital unless it is determined that apportionment for a spouse should be continued. In all instances, any allowance for regular aid and attendance will be restored effective the date of departure from the hospital.
(2) Upon the veteran's return to the hospital, an award which is subject to reduction under § 3.551 (b) or (c) will again be reduced effective the date of the veteran's return to the hospital. In all instances, any allowance for regular aid and attendance will be discontinued, if in order, effective the date of the veteran's return to the hospital.
(b)
Temporary absence—less than 30 days.
A temporary absence of less than 30 days, including the day of departure, will not require adjustment of the award. This applies to any approved absence. Any allowance for regular aid and attendance for such periods will be authorized after the veteran has been discharged from the hospital.
(c)
Adjustment based on need.
Where an award of pension was reduced under § 3.551(c), the full rate covering absences of less than 30 days may be restored, subject to prior payments, prior to discharge from hospitalization at the request of the Director of the hospital, center or domiciliary, where this action is necessary to meet the veteran's financial needs, if the veteran has been hospitalized for more than 6 months and the periods of absence exceed a total of 30 days.
(d)
Irregular discharge.
When a competent veteran is given an irregular discharge, the full rate will be restored effective the date of release from the hospital. Payment of any amount withheld under § 3.551(b) will not be authorized until the expiration of 6 months after termination of hospitalization unless the prior release is changed to a regular release. However, amounts not paid under paragraph (c) of this section covering absence of less than 30 days where the award was reduced under § 3.551(c) will be authorized immediately.
(e)
Regular discharge.
When a veteran, either competent or incompetent, is given a regular discharge or release, the full rate, including any allowance for regular aid and attendance will be restored effective the date of release from the hospital, subject to prior payments. The award will be based on the most recent rating and, where the award was reduced under § 3.551(b), will include, in the case of a competent veteran, any amounts withheld because of hospitalization. The amount withheld for an incompetent veteran will not be authorized until the expiration of 6 months following a rating of competency by VA. Any institutional award will be discontinued effective date of last payment, as provided in § 3.501(j). Where an apportionment made under § 3.551(c) is not continued, the apportionment will be discontinued effective the day preceding the date of the veteran's release from the hospital, or, if adjusted, effective the date of the veteran's release from the hospital, unless an overpayment would result. In the excepted cases, the awards to the
veteran and apportionee will be adjusted as of date of last payment.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503)
(f)
Types of discharges.
A discharge is considered regular if it is granted because of having received maximum hospital benefits. A discharge for disciplinary reasons or because of the patient's refusal to accept, neglect of or obstruction of treatment; refusal to accept transfer, or failure to return from authorized absence, is considered irregular.
[27 FR 7678, Aug. 3, 1962, as amended at 27 FR 8794, Sept. 1, 1962; 38 FR 34115, Dec. 11, 1973; 39 FR 34532, Sept. 26, 1974; 40 FR 45169, Oct. 1, 1975; 44 FR 22721, Apr. 17, 1979; 44 FR 45942, Aug. 6, 1979; 50 FR 50616, Dec. 11, 1985]
§ 3.557
[Reserved]
§ 3.558
Resumption and payment of withheld benefits; incompetents with estates that equaled or exceeded statutory limit.
(a) Payments for the veteran will be resumed and apportionment awards discontinued under the applicable provisions of § 3.556(a), (d), and (e) upon authorized absence from the hospital for 30 days or more or a regular or irregular discharge or release. Care and maintenance payments to an institution will not be made for any period the veteran is not receiving such care and maintenance.
(b) Any amount not paid because of the provisions of former § 3.557(b) (as in effect prior to December 27, 2001), and any amount of compensation or retirement pay withheld pursuant to the provisions of § 3.551(b) (and/or predecessor regulatory provisions) as it was constituted prior to August 1, 1972, and not previously paid because of the provisions of former § 3.557(b) (as in effect prior to December 27, 2001), will be awarded to the veteran if he or she is subsequently rated competent by VA for a period of not less than six months.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503)
[27 FR 7679, Aug. 3, 1962, as amended at 36 FR 25225, Dec. 30, 1971; 38 FR 34116, Dec. 11, 1973; 40 FR 45170, Oct. 1, 1975; 41 FR 18412, May 4, 1976; 50 FR 50617, Dec. 11, 1985; 58 FR 34224, June 24, 1993; 66 FR 48560, Sept. 21, 2001; 68 FR 34542, June 10, 2003]
§ 3.559
[Reserved]

# Adjustments and Resumptions
§ 3.650
Rate for additional dependent.
(a)
Running awards.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section where a claim is filed by an additional dependent who has apparent entitlement which, if established, would require reduction of pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation being paid to another dependent, payments to the person or persons on the rolls will be reduced as follows:
(1) Where benefits would be payable from a date prior to the date of filing claim, the reduction will be effective from the date of potential entitlement of the additional dependent.
(2) Where benefits would be payable from the date of filing claim, the reduction will be effective the date of receipt of the claim by the additional dependent, or date of last payment, whichever is later.
If entitlement of the additional dependent is not established, benefits previously being paid will be resumed, if otherwise in order, commencing the day following the effective date of reduction.
(b)
New awards.
If the additional dependent is found to be entitled, the full rate payable will be authorized effective the date of entitlement.
(c)
Retroactive DIC award to a school child
—(1)
General.
If DIC (dependency and indemnity compensation) is being currently paid to a veteran's child or children under 38 U.S.C. 1313(a), and DIC is retroactively awarded to an additional child of the veteran based on school attendance, the full rate payable to the additional child shall be awarded the first of the month following the month in which the award to the additional child is approved. The rate payable under the current award shall be reduced effective the date the full rate is awarded to the additional child. The rate payable to the additional child for periods prior to the date the full rate is awarded shall be the difference between the rate payable for all the children and the rate that was payable before the additional child established entitlement.
(2)
Applicability.
The provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section are applicable only when the following conditions are met:
(i) The additional child was receiving DIC under 38 U.S.C. 1313(a) prior to attaining age 18; and
(ii) DIC for the additional child was discontinued on or after attainment of age 18; and
(iii) After DIC has been discontinued, the additional child reestablishes entitlement to DIC under 38 U.S.C. 1313(a) based on attendance at an approved school and the effective date of entitlement is prior to the date the Department of Veterans Affairs receives the additional child's claim to reestablish entitlement.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1313(b))
(3)
Effective date.
This paragraph is applicable to DIC paid after September 30, 1981. If DIC is retroactively awarded for a period prior to October 1, 1981, payment for the period prior to October 1, 1981 shall be made under paragraph (a) of this section and payment for the period after September 30, 1981, shall be made under this paragraph.
[29 FR 9564, July 15, 1964, as amended at 47 FR 24551, June 7, 1982]
§ 3.651
Change in status of dependents.
Except as otherwise provided:
(a) A payee who becomes entitled to pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation or to a greater rate because payment of that benefit to another payee has been reduced or discontinued will be awarded the benefit or increased benefit without the filing of a new claim.
(b) The commencement or adjustment will be effective the day following the reduction or discontinuance of the award to the other payee if the necessary evidence is received in the Department of Veterans Affairs within 1 year from the date of request therefor; otherwise from the date of receipt of a new claim.
(c) The rate for the persons entitled will be the rate that would have been payable if they had been the only original persons entitled.
[26 FR 1598, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended 27 FR 11890, Dec. 1, 1962; 30 FR 133, Jan. 7, 1965]
§ 3.652
Periodic certification of continued eligibility.
Except as otherwise provided:
(a) Individuals to whom benefits are being paid are required to certify, when requested, that any or all of the eligibility factors which established entitlement to the benefit being paid continue to exist. The beneficiary will be advised at the time of the request that the certification must be furnished within 60 days from the date of the request therefor and that failure to do so will result in the reduction or termination of benefits.
(1) If the certification is not received within 60 days from the date of the request, the eligibility factor(s) for which certification was requested will be considered to have ceased to exist as of the end of the month in which it was last shown by the evidence of record to have existed. For purposes of this paragraph, the effective date of reduction or termination of benefits will be in accordance with §§ 3.500 through 3.504 as in effect on the date the eligibility factor(s) is considered to have ceased to exist. The claimant will be advised of the proposed reduction or termination of benefits and the date the proposed action will be effective. An additional 60 days from the date of notice of the proposed action will be provided for the claimant to respond.
(2) If the certification is not received within the additional 60 day period, the proposed reduction or termination of benefits will be put into effect.
(b) When the required certification is received, benefits will be adjusted, if necessary, in accordance with the facts found.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)

# Cross References:
Employment Questionnaire, failure to return. See § 3.501(f). Income and Net Worth Questionnaires. See § 3.661.
[52 FR 43063, Nov. 9, 1987]
§ 3.653
Foreign residence.
(a)
General.
Pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation is not payable to an alien who is located in the territory of or under the control of an enemy of the
United States or of its allies. The benefit may, however, be paid to the dependents of such alien, but not in excess of the amount which would be payable to the dependent if the alien were dead.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5308)
(b)
Retroactive payments.
Any amount not paid to an alien under this section, together with any amounts placed to the alien's credit in the special deposit account in the Treasury or covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts under 31 U.S.C. 123-128 will be paid to him or her on the filing of a new claim. Such claim should be supported with evidence that the alien has not been guilty of mutiny, treason, sabotage or rendering assistance to an enemy, as provided in § 3.902(a).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5309)
(c)
Treasury Department list.
This paragraph is applicable to claims for benefits for aliens residing in countries identified on the list established by the Secretary of the Treasury as countries to which checks could not be delivered with reasonable assurance that the payee would actually receive and be able to negotiate a check for full value.
(1)
Evidence requests.
Requests for evidence to establish either basic or continued entitlement will not be made where such evidence would be obtained from a country on the Treasury Department list unless the claimant requests that checks be sent to him or her in care of a U.S. Foreign Service post in a country which is not on the list.
(2)
Awards.
Payments for a claimant residing in a country included in the Treasury Department list will not be authorized unless the claimant requests that checks be sent to him or her in care of a U.S. Foreign Service post in a country which is not on the list.
(3)
Retroactive payments.
Where award action is authorized under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, or a new claim has been filed after a country has been removed from the Treasury Department list, all benefits to which the payee is otherwise entitled will be paid as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. There is no time limit for filing claim.
(d)
Germany and Japan.
Where payments were discontinued before July 1, 1954, because the payee was a citizen or subject of Germany or Japan, no payments will be made for any period prior to the date of filing a new claim.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5309(b))
[26 FR 1599, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 31 FR 13172, Oct. 12, 1966; 47 FR 24551, June 7, 1982]
§ 3.654
Active service pay.
(a)
General.
Pension, compensation, or retirement pay will be discontinued under the circumstances stated in § 3.700(a)(1) for any period for which the veteran received active service pay. For the purposes of this section, active service pay means pay received for active duty, active duty for training or inactive duty training.
(b)
Active duty or active duty for training.
(1) Where the veteran receives active service pay as a result of returning to active duty status or active duty for training as described in § 3.6(c), with the exception of annual active duty for training typically performed 15 days each year by reservists and members of the National Guard and Active Duty for Special Work to receive training (see paragraph (c) of this section), the award will be discontinued effective the day preceding reentrance into active duty or active duty for training status. If the exact date is not known, payments will be discontinued effective date of last payment, and the effective date of discontinuance will be adjusted to the day preceding reentrance when the date of reentrance has been ascertained from the service department.
(2) Payments, if otherwise in order, will be resumed effective the day following release from active duty or active duty for training if notice from the Department of Defense of such release or a claim for recommencement of payments is received within one year from the date of such release; otherwise, payments will be resumed effective one year prior to the date of receipt of a new claim. Prior determinations of service connection will not be disturbed except as provided in § 3.105. Compensation will be resumed based on
the combined evaluation in effect at the time payments were discontinued. If a reduction in evaluation that lowers the combined evaluation is considered warranted, the provisions of § 3.105(e) will apply. If a disability is incurred or aggravated, or a service-connected disability worsens in the most recent period of service, compensation for that disability or increase in disability cannot be paid unless a claim therefor is filed.
(c)
Training duty.
Prospective adjustment of awards may be made where the veteran waives his or her Department of Veterans Affairs benefit covering anticipated receipt of active service pay because of expected periods of active duty for training (annual active duty for training typically performed 15 days each year by reservists and members of the National Guard or Active Duty for Special Work to receive training) or inactive duty training. Where readjustment is in order because service pay was not received for expected training duty, retroactive payments may be authorized if a claim for readjustment is received within one year after the end of the fiscal year for which payments were waived.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a) and 5304(c))
[27 FR 11890, Dec. 1, 1962, as amended at 88 FR 86062, Dec. 12, 2023]
§ 3.655
Failure to report for Department of Veterans Affairs examination.
(a)
General.
When entitlement or continued entitlement to a benefit cannot be established or confirmed without a current VA examination or reexamination and a claimant, without good cause, fails to report for such examination, or reexamination, action shall be taken in accordance with paragraph (b) or (c) of this section as appropriate. Examples of good cause include, but are not limited to, the illness or hospitalization of the claimant, death of an immediate family member, etc. For purposes of this section, the terms
examination
and
reexamination
include periods of hospital observation when required by VA.
(b)
Original or supplemental claim, or claim for increase.
When a claimant fails to report for an examination scheduled in conjunction with an original compensation claim, the claim shall be rated based on the evidence of record. When the examination was scheduled in conjunction with any other original claim, a supplemental claim for a benefit which was previously disallowed, or a claim for increase, the claim shall be denied.
(c)
Running award.
(1) When a claimant fails to report for a reexamination and the issue is continuing entitlement, VA shall issue a pretermination notice advising the payee that payment for the disability or disabilities for which the reexamination was scheduled will be discontinued or, if a minimum evaluation is established in part 4 of this title or there is an evaluation protected under § 3.951(b) of this part, reduced to the lower evaluation. Such notice shall also include the prospective date of discontinuance or reduction, the reason therefor and a statement of the claimant's procedural and appellate rights. The claimant shall be allowed 60 days to indicate his or her willingness to report for a reexamination or to present evidence that payment for the disability or disabilities for which the reexamination was scheduled should not be discontinued or reduced.
(2) If there is no response within 60 days, or if the evidence submitted does not establish continued entitlement, payment for such disability or disabilities shall be discontinued or reduced as of the date indicated in the pretermination notice or the date of last payment, whichever is later.
(3) If notice is received that the claimant is willing to report for a reexamination before payment has been discontinued or reduced, action to adjust payment shall be deferred. The reexamination shall be rescheduled and the claimant notified that failure to report for the rescheduled examination shall be cause for immediate discontinuance or reduction of payment. When a claimant fails to report for such rescheduled examination, payment shall be reduced or discontinued as of the date of last payment and shall not be further adjusted until a VA examination has been conducted and the report reviewed.
(4) If within 30 days of a pretermination notice issued under
paragraph (c)(1) of this section the claimant requests a hearing, action to adjust payment shall be deferred as set forth in § 3.105(i)(1) of this part. If a hearing is requested more than 30 days after such pretermination notice but before the proposed date of discontinuance or reduction, a hearing shall be scheduled, but payment shall nevertheless be discontinued or reduced as of the date proposed in the pretermination notice or date of last payment, whichever is later, unless information is presented which warrants a different determination. When the claimant has also expressed willingness to report for an examination, however, the provisions of paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall apply.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)

# Cross References:
Procedural due process and appellate rights: See § 3.103. Examinations: See § 3.326. Reexaminations: See § 3.327. Resumption of rating when veteran subsequently reports for VA examination: See § 3.330.
[55 FR 49521, Nov. 29, 1990; 58 FR 46865, Sept. 3, 1993; 80 FR 18117, Apr. 3, 2015; 84 FR 171, Jan. 18, 2019]
§ 3.656
Disappearance of veteran.
(a) When any veteran has disappeared for 90 days or more and his or her whereabouts remain unknown to the members of his or her family and the Department of Veterans Affairs, disability compensation which he or she was receiving or entitled to receive may be paid to or for his or her spouse, children and parents, effective the day following the date of last payment to the veteran if a claim is received within 1 year after that date; otherwise from the date of receipt of a claim. The total amount payable will be the lesser of these amounts:
(1) Dependency and indemnity compensation.
(2) Amount of compensation payable to the veteran at the time of disappearance, subject to authorized insurance deductions.
(b) Where a veteran's whereabouts become known to the Department of Veterans Affairs after an award to dependents has been made as provided in this section, the award to the dependents will be discontinued effective date of last payment, and appropriate action will be taken to adjust the veteran's award in accordance with the facts found.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1158)
(c) Awards to dependents will not be continued under this section in any case where the facts are such as to bring into effect the presumption of death under § 3.212.
(d) When any veteran has disappeared for 90 days or more and the veteran's whereabouts remain unknown to members of the veteran's family and the Department of Veterans Affairs, any improved pension, section 306 or service pension which the veteran was receiving or entitled to receive may be paid to or for the spouse or children. The status of the veteran at the time of disappearance, with respect to permanent and total disability, income and net worth will be presumed to continue unchanged. Payment for the spouse or children will be effective the day following the date of last payment to the veteran if a claim is received within 1 year after that date; otherwise from date of receipt of a claim. The total amount payable will be the lesser of these amounts:
(1) The service death pension rate if the veteran was receiving service pension or the improved death pension rate if the veteran was receiving section 306 or improved pension.
(2) The amount of pension payable to the veteran at the time of disappearance.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1507)
[26 FR 1599, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 11891, Dec. 1, 1962; 30 FR 6649, May 14, 1965; 40 FR 14313, Mar. 31, 1975; 44 FR 45942, Aug. 6, 1979]
§ 3.657
Surviving spouse becomes entitled, or entitlement terminates.
Where a surviving spouse establishes entitlement to pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation, an award to another person as surviving spouse, or for a child or children as if there were no surviving spouse will be discontinued or adjusted as provided in this section.
(a)
Surviving spouse's awards.
For periods on or after December 1, 1962,
where a legal surviving spouse establishes entitlement after payments have been made to another person as surviving spouse, the full rate payable to the legal surviving spouse will be authorized effective the date of entitlement. Payments to the former payee will be discontinued as follows:
(1) Where benefits are payable to the legal surviving spouse from a date prior to the date of filing claim, the award to the former payee will be terminated the day preceding the effective date of the award to the legal surviving spouse.
(2) Where benefits are payable to the legal surviving spouse from the date of filing claim, the award to the former payee will be terminated effective the date of receipt of the claim or date of last payment, whichever is later.
(b)
Children's awards.
(1) Where a surviving spouse establishes entitlement and:
(i) Payments were being made for a child or children at a lower monthly rate than that provided where there is a surviving spouse, the award to the surviving spouse will be effective the date provided by the applicable law, and will be the difference between the rate paid for the children and the rate payable for the surviving spouse and children. The full rate will be payable for the surviving spouse effective the day following the date of last payment for the children;
(ii) Payments were being made for a child or children at the same or higher monthly rate than that provided where there is a surviving spouse, the award to the surviving spouse will be effective the day following the date of last payment on the awards on behalf of the children.
(2) Where a surviving spouse has received benefits after entitlement was terminated and,
(i) The child or children were entitled to a lower monthly rate, the award to the surviving spouse will be amended to authorize payment at the rate provided for the children as if there were no surviving spouse, covering the period from the date the surviving spouse's entitlement terminated to the date of last payment. The award for the child or children will be made effective the following day.
(ii) The child or children were entitled to a higher monthly rate, the award to the surviving spouse will be discontinued effective date of last payment. The award to the children will be effective the day following the date the surviving spouse's entitlement terminated and will be the difference between the rate payable for the children and the rate paid on the surviving spouse's award. The full rate will be payable for the children effective the day following the date of last payment to the surviving spouse.
[39 FR 20204, June 7, 1974, as amended at 44 FR 45942, Aug. 6, 1979]
§ 3.658
Offsets; dependency and indemnity compensation.
(a) When an award of dependency and indemnity compensation is made covering a period for which death compensation or benefits under the Federal Employee's Compensation Act, based on military service, have been paid to the same payee based on the same death, the award of dependency and indemnity compensation will be made subject to an offset of payments of death compensation or benefits under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act over the same period.
(b) When an award of dependency and indemnity compensation is made covering a period for which death benefits have been paid to the same payee based on the death of another spouse the award will be made subject to an offset of payments of death pension or compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation over the same period in the case of the other spouse.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 103(d)(2), 5304(b)(3))
[41 FR 17387, Apr. 26, 1976]
§ 3.659
Two parents in same parental line.
The provisions of this section are applicable for periods commencing on or after January 1, 1957 in cases involving payments of death compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation, and in addition, for periods commencing on or after June 9, 1960, in cases involving payments of death pension based on death on or after that date.
(a) If death pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation is payable based on the service of one parent, an award of such benefits to or on account of a child will be made subject to any payments of these benefits made to or on account of that child over the same period of time based on the service of another parent in the same parental line.
(b) Any reduction or discontinuance of an award to the child or to a surviving spouse will be effective the day preceding the commencing date of death pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation or, under the circumstances described in § 3.707, the commencing date of dependents' educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 35, to or on account of the child based on the service of another parent in the same parental line. Any increase to a surviving spouse or another child will be effective the commencing date of the award to the child.

# Cross Reference:
Two-parent cases. See § 3.503(a)(7). Two parents in same parental line. See § 3.703.
[27 FR 4917, May 25, 1962, as amended at 29 FR 9564, July 15, 1964; 41 FR 17387, Apr. 26, 1976]
§ 3.660
Dependency, income and estate.
(a)
Reduction or discontinuance
—(1)
General.
A veteran, surviving spouse or child who is receiving pension, or a parent who is receiving compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation must notify the Department of Veterans Affairs of any material change or expected change in his or her income or other circumstances which would affect his or her entitlement to receive, or the rate of, the benefit being paid. Such notice must be furnished when the recipient acquires knowledge that he or she will begin to receive additional income or when his or her marital or dependency status changes. In pension claims subject to § 3.252(b) or § 3.274 and in compensation claims subject to § 3.250(a)(2), notice must be furnished of any material increase in corpus of the estate or net worth.
(2)
Effective dates.
Where reduction or discontinuance of a running award of section 306 pension or old-law pension is required because dependency of another person ceased due to marriage, annulment, divorce or death, or because of an increase in income, which increase could not reasonably have been anticipated based on the amount actually received from that source the year before, the reduction or discontinuance shall be made effective the end of the year in which the increase occurred. Where reduction or discontinuance of a running award of improved pension or dependency and indemnity compensation is required because of an increase in income, the reduction or discontinuance shall be made effective the end of the month in which the increase occurred. Where reduction or discontinuance of a running award of any benefit is required because of an increase in net worth or corpus of estate, because dependency of a parent ceased, or because dependency of another person ceased prior to October 1, 1982, due to marriage, annulment, divorce, or death, the award shall be reduced or discontinued effective the last day of the calendar year in which the increase occurred or dependency ceased. Except as noted in this subparagraph for section 306 or old-law pension, where the dependency of another person ceased on or after October 1, 1982, due to marriage, annulment, divorce or death, the reduction or discontinuance shall be effective the last day of the month in which dependency ceased.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5112(b))
(3)
Overpayments.
Overpayments created by retroactive discontinuance of benefits will be subject to recovery if not waived. Where dependency and indemnity compensation was being paid to two parents living together, an overpayment will be established on the award to each parent.
(b)
Award or increase; income.
Where pension or dependency and indemnity compensation was not paid for a particular 12-month annualization period because the claim was disallowed, an award was deferred under § 3.260(b) or § 3.271(f), payments were discontinued or made at a lower rate based on anticipated or actual income, benefits otherwise payable may be authorized commencing the first of a 12-month
annualization period as provided in this paragraph. In all other cases, benefits may not be authorized for any period prior to the date of receipt of a new claim.
(1)
Anticipated income.
Where payments were not made or were made at a lower rate because of anticipated income, pension or dependency and indemnity compensation may be awarded or increased in accordance with the facts found but not earlier than the beginning of the appropriate 12-month annualization period if satisfactory evidence is received within the same or the next calendar year.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5110(h))
(2)
Actual income.
Where the claimant's actual income did not permit payment, or payment was made at a lower rate, for a given 12-month annualization period, pension or dependency and indemnity compensation may be awarded or increased, effective the beginning of the next 12-month annualization period, if satisfactory evidence is received within that period.
(c)
Increases; change in status.
Where there is change in the payee's marital status or status of dependents which would permit payment at a higher rate and the change in status is by reason of the claimant's marriage or birth or adoption of a child, the effective date of the increase will be the date of the event if the required evidence is received within 1 year of the event. Where there is a change in dependency status for any reason other than marriage, or the birth or adoption of a child, which would permit payment at a higher rate, the increased rate will be effective the date of receipt of a claim or an intent to file a claim as set forth in § 3.155(b) if the required evidence is received within 1 year of Department of Veterans Affairs request. The rate payable for each period will be determined, as provided in §§ 3.260(f) or 3.273(c). (See § 3.651 as to increase due to termination of payments to another payee. Also see § 3.667 as to increase based on school attendance.)
(d)
Corpus of estate; net worth.
Where a claim has been finally disallowed or terminated because of the corpus of estate and net worth provisions of § 3.263 and entitlement is established on the basis of a reduction in estate or net worth, or a change in circumstances such as health, acquisition of a dependent, or increased rate of depletion of the estate, benefits or increased benefits will not be paid for any period prior to the date of receipt of a new claim.
[30 FR 3354, Mar. 12, 1965, as amended at 44 FR 45942, Aug. 6, 1979; 48 FR 34473, July 29, 1983; 57 FR 59300, Dec. 15, 1992; 79 FR 57697, Sept. 25, 2014; 83 FR 47275, Sept. 18, 2018]
§ 3.661
Eligibility Verification Reports.
(a)
Determination and entitlement.
(1) Where the report shows a change in income, net worth, marital status, status of dependents or change in circumstances affecting the application of the net worth provisions, the award will be adjusted in accordance with § 3.660(a)(2).
(2) Where there is doubt as to the extent of anticipated income payment of pension or dependency and indemnity compensation will be authorized at the lowest appropriate rate or will be withheld, as provided in § 3.260(b) or § 3.271 (f).
(b)
Failure to return report
—(1)
Section 306 and old-law pension
—(i)
Discontinuance.
Discontinuance of old-law or section 306 pension shall be effective the last day of the calendar year for which income (and net worth in a section 306 pension case) was to be reported.
(ii)
Resumption of benefits.
Payment of old-law or section 306 pension may be resumed, if otherwise in order, from the date of last payment if evidence of entitlement is received within the calendar year following the calendar year for which income (and net worth in a section 306 pension case) was to be reported; otherwise pension may not be paid for any period prior to the date of receipt of a new claim.
(2)
Improved pension and dependency and indemnity compensation
—(i)
Discontinuance.
Discontinuance of dependency and indemnity compensation (DIC) or improved pension shall be effective the first day of the 12-month annualization period for which income (and net worth in an improved pension case) was to be reported or the effective date of the award, whichever is the later date.
(ii)
Adjustment of overpayment.
If evidence of entitlement to improved pension or DIC for any period for which payment of improved pension or DIC was discontinued for failure to file an Eligibility Verification Report is received at any time, payment of improved pension or DIC shall be awarded for the period of entitlement for which benefits were discontinued for failure to file an Eligibility Verification Report.
(iii)
Resumption of benefits.
Payment of improved pension and DIC may be resumed, if otherwise in order, from the date of last payment if evidence of entitlement is received within the 12-month annualization period following the 12-month annualization period for which income (and net worth in an improved pension case) was to be reported; otherwise pension or DIC may not be paid for any period prior to receipt of a new claim.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
[30 FR 3355, Mar. 12, 1965, as amended at 44 FR 45942, Aug. 6, 1979; 46 FR 55098, Nov. 6, 1981; 57 FR 59300, Dec. 15, 1992]
§§ 3.662-3.664
[Reserved]
§ 3.665
Incarcerated beneficiaries and fugitive felons—compensation.
(a)
General.
Any person specified in paragraph (c) of this section who is incarcerated in a Federal, State or local penal institution in excess of 60 days for conviction of a felony will not be paid compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation (DIC) in excess of the amount specified in paragraph (d) of this section beginning on the 61st day of incarceration. VA will inform a person whose benefits are subject to this reduction of the rights of the person's dependents to an apportionment while the person is incarcerated, and the conditions under which payments to the person may be resumed upon release from incarceration. In addition, VA will also notify the person's dependents of their right to an apportionment if the VA is aware of their existence and can obtain their addresses. However, no apportionment will be made if the veteran or the dependent is a fugitive felon as defined in paragraph (n) of this section.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section the term
compensation
includes disability compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1151. The term
dependency and indemnity compensation
(DIC) includes death compensation payable under 38 U.S.C. 1121 or 1141, death compensation and DIC payable under 38 U.S.C. 1151, and any benefit payable under chapter 13 of title 38, United States Code. The term
release from incarceration
includes participation in a work release or halfway house program, parole, and completion of sentence. For purposes of this section, a felony is any offense punishable by death or imprisonment for a term exceeding 1 year, unless specifically categorized as a misdemeanor under the law of the prosecuting jurisdiction.
(c)
Applicability.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section are applicable to the following persons:
(1) A person serving a period of incarceration for conviction of a felony committed after October 7, 1980.
(2) A person serving a period of incarceration after September 30, 1980 (regardless of when the felony was committed) when the following conditions are met:
(i) The person was incarcerated on October 1, 1980; and
(ii) An award of compensation or DIC is approved after September 30, 1980.
(3) A veteran who, on October 7, 1980, was incarcerated in a Federal, State, or local penal institution for a felony committed before that date, and who remains so incarcerated for a conviction of that felony as of December 27, 2001.
(d)
Amount payable during incarceration
—(1)
Veteran rated 20 percent or more.
A veteran to whom the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section apply with a service-connected disability evaluation of 20 percent or more shall receive the rate of compensation payable under 38 U.S.C. 1114(a).
(2)
Veteran rated less than 20 percent.
A veteran to whom the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section apply with a service-connected disability evaluation of less than 20 percent (even though the rate for 38 U.S.C. 1114 (k) or (q) is paid) shall receive one-half the rate of compensation payable under 38 U.S.C. 1114(a).
(3)
Surviving spouse, parent or child.
A surviving spouse, parent, or child, beneficiary to whom the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section apply shall receive one-half the rate of compensation payable under 38 U.S.C. 1114(a).
(e)
Apportionment
—(1)
Compensation.
All or part of the compensation not paid to an incarcerated veteran may be apportioned to the veteran's spouse, child or children and dependent parents on the basis of individual need. In determining individual need consideration shall be given to such factors as the apportionee claimant's income and living expenses, the amount of compensation available to be apportioned, the needs and living expenses of other apportionee claimants as well as any special needs, if any, of all apportionee claimants.
(2)
DIC.
All or part of the DIC not paid to an incarcerated surviving spouse or other children not in the surviving spouse's custody may be apportioned to another child or children. All or part of the DIC not paid to an incarcerated child may be apportioned to the surviving spouse or other children. These apportionments shall be made on the basis of individual need giving consideration to the factors set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f)
Effective dates.
An apportionment under this section shall be effective the date of reduction of payments made to the incarcerated person, subject to payments to the incarcerated person over the same period, if a claim or intent to file a claim as set forth in § 3.155(b) is received within 1 year after notice to the incarcerated person as required by paragraph (a) of this section, and any necessary evidence is received within 1 year from the date of request by the Department of Veterans Affairs; otherwise, payments may not be made for any period prior to the date of receipt of a new claim or intent to file a claim as set forth in § 3.155(b).
(g)
Incarcerated dependent.
No apportionment may be made to or on behalf of any person who is incarcerated in a Federal, State, or local penal institution for conviction of a felony.
(h)
Notice to dependent for whom apportionment granted.
A dependent for whom an apportionment is granted under this section shall be informed that the apportionment is subject to immediate discontinuance upon the incarcerated person's release or participation in a work release or halfway house program. A dependent shall also be informed that if the dependent and the incarcerated person do not live together when the incarcerated person is released (or participates in a work release or halfway house program) the dependent may submit a new claim for apportionment.
(i)
Resumption upon release
—(1)
No apportionment or family reunited.
If there was no apportionment at the time of release from incarceration, or if the released person is reunited with all dependents for whom an apportionment was granted, the released person's award shall be resumed the date of release from incarceration if the Department of Veterans Affairs receives notice of release within 1 year following release; otherwise the award shall be resumed the date of receipt of notice of release. If there was an apportionment award during incarceration, it shall be discontinued date of last payment to the apportionee upon receipt of notice of release of the incarcerated person. Payment to the released person shall then be resumed at the full rate from date of last payment to the apportionee. Payment to the released person from date of release to date of last payment to the apportionee shall be made at the rate which is the difference between the released person's full rate and the sum of (i) the rate that was payable to the apportionee and (ii) the rate payable during incarceration.
(2)
Apportionment granted and family not reunited.
If there was an apportionment granted during incarceration and the released person is not reunited with all dependents for whom an apportionment was granted, the released person's award shall be resumed as stated in paragraph (i)(1) of this section except that when the released person's award is resumed it shall not include any additional amount payable by reason of a dependent(s) not reunited with the released person. The award to this dependent(s) will then be reduced to the additional amount payable for the dependent(s).
(3)
Apportionment to a dependent parent.
An apportionment made to a dependent parent under this section cannot be continued beyond the veteran's release from incarceration unless the veteran is incompetent and the provisions of § 3.452(c) (1) and (2) are for application. When a competent veteran is released from incarceration an apportionment made to a dependent parent shall be discontinued and the veteran's award resumed as provided in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
(j)
Increased compensation during incarceration
—(1)
General.
The amount of any increased compensation awarded to an incarcerated veteran that results from other than a statutory rate increase may be subject to reduction due to incarceration. This applies to a veteran whose compensation is subject to reduction under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section prior to approval of an award of increased compensation as well as to veteran whose compensation is not subject to reduction under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section prior to approval of an award of increased compensation.
(2)
Veteran subject to reduction under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.
If prior to approval of an award of increased compensation the veteran's compensation was reduced under the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, the amount of the increase shall be reduced as follows if the veteran remains incarcerated:
(i) If the veteran's schedular evaluation is increased from 10 percent to 20 percent or greater, the amount payable to the veteran shall be increased from one-half the rate payable under 38 U.S.C. 1114(a) to the rate payable under section 1114(a).
(ii) If the veteran's schedular evaluation was 20 percent or more, none of the increased compensation shall be paid to the veteran while the veteran remains incarcerated.
(3)
Veteran's compensation not subject to reduction under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section prior to award of increased compensation.
If prior to the approval of an award of increased compensation the veteran is incarcerated in a Federal, State, or local penal institution for conviction of a felony and the veteran's compensation was not reduced under the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, none of the increased compensation shall be paid to the veteran for periods after October 7, 1980, subject to the following conditions:
(i) The veteran remains incarcerated after October 7, 1980 in a Federal, State, or local penal institution for conviction of a felony; and
(ii) The award of increased compensation is approved after October 7, 1980. If the effective date of the increase is prior to October 8, 1980, the amount payable for periods prior to October 8, 1980, shall not be reduced.
(4)
Apportionments.
The amount of any increased compensation reduced under this paragraph may be apportioned as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(k)
Retroactive awards.
Whenever compensation or DIC is awarded to an incarcerated person any amounts due for periods prior to date of reduction under this section shall be paid to the incarcerated person.
(l)
DIC parents.
If two parents are both entitled to DIC and were living together prior to the time of the DIC payable to one parent was reduced due to incarceration, they shall be considered as two parents not living together for the purpose of determining entitlement to DIC.
(m)
Conviction overturned on appeal.
If a conviction is overturned on appeal, any compensation or DIC withheld under this section as a result of incarceration for such conviction (less the amount of any apportionment) shall be restored to the beneficiary.
(n)
Fugitive felons.
(1) Compensation is not payable on behalf of a veteran for any period during which he or she is a fugitive felon. Compensation or DIC is not payable on behalf of a dependent of a veteran for any period during which the veteran or the dependent is a fugitive felon.
(2) For purposes of this section, the term
fugitive felon
means a person who is a fugitive by reason of:
(i) Fleeing to avoid prosecution, or custody or confinement after conviction, for an offense, or an attempt to commit an offense, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which the person flees; or
(ii) Violating a condition of probation or parole imposed for commission of a felony under Federal or State law.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (n) of this section, the term
felony
includes a high misdemeanor under the laws of a State which characterizes as high misdemeanors offenses that would be felony offenses under Federal law.
(4) For purposes of paragraph (n) of this section, the term
dependent
means a spouse, surviving spouse, child, or dependent parent of a veteran.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 5313, 5313B; Sec. 506, Pub. L. 107-103, 115 Stat. 996-997)
[46 FR 47542, Sept. 29, 1981, as amended at 68 FR 34542, June 10, 2003; 79 FR 57697, Sept. 25, 2014]
§ 3.666
Incarcerated beneficiaries and fugitive felons—pension.
If any individual to or for whom pension is being paid under a public or private law administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs is imprisoned in a Federal, State or local penal institution as the result of conviction of a felony or misdemeanor, such pension payments will be discontinued effective on the 61st day of imprisonment following conviction. The payee will be informed of his or her rights and the rights of dependents to payments while he or she is imprisoned as well as the conditions under which payments to him or to her may be resumed on his or her release from imprisonment. However, no apportionment will be made if the veteran or the dependent is a fugitive felon as defined in paragraph (e) of this section. Payments of pension authorized under this section will continue until notice is received by the Department of Veterans Affairs that the imprisonment has terminated.
(a)
Disability pension.
Payment may be made to the spouse, child or children of a veteran disqualified under this section:
(1) If the veteran continues to be eligible except for the provisions of this section, and
(2) If the annual income of the spouse or child is such that death pension would be payable.
(3) At the rate payable under the death pension law or the rate which the veteran was receiving at the time of imprisonment, whichever is less.
(4) From the day following the date of discontinuance of payments to the veteran, subject to payments made to the veteran over the same period, if a claim or intent to file a claim as set forth in § 3.155(b) is received within 1 year after notice to the veteran as required by this section and any necessary evidence is received within 1 year from the date of request; otherwise payments may not be made for any period prior to the date of receipt of a new claim or intent to file a claim as set forth in § 3.155(b).
(b)
Death pension.
Payment may be made to a child or children where a surviving spouse or child is disqualified under this section:
(1) If surviving spouse is disqualified to child or children at the rate of death pension payable if there were no such surviving spouse; or
(2) If a child is disqualified, to a surviving spouse or other child or children at the rate of death pension payable if there were no such child, and
(3) From the day following the date of discontinuance of payments to the disqualified person, subject to payments made to that person over the same period if evidence of income is received within 1 year after date of request; otherwise payments may not be made for any period prior to the date of receipt of a claim or intent to file a claim as set forth in § 3.155(b).
(4) The income limitation applicable to eligible persons will be that which would apply if the imprisoned person did not exist.
(c)
Resumption of pension upon release from incarceration.
Pension will be resumed as of the day of release if notice is received within 1 year following release; otherwise resumption will be effective the date of receipt of such notice. Where an award or increased award was made to any other payee based upon the disqualification of the veteran, surviving spouse, or child while in prison, such award will be reduced or discontinued as of date of last payment and pension will be resumed to the released prisoner at a rate which will be the difference, if any, between the total pension payable and the amount which was paid to the other person or persons through the date of
last payment and thereafter the full rate.
(d)
Veteran entitled to compensation.
If an imprisoned veteran is entitled to a lesser rate of disability compensation, it shall be awarded as of the 61st day of imprisonment in lieu of the pension the veteran was receiving if the veteran has neither spouse nor child. If the veteran has a spouse or a child, compensation will be awarded only after the veteran has been furnished an explanation of the effect of electing compensation on the amount available for apportionment. If the veteran then requests compensation, it shall be awarded from the date veteran requests the Department of Veterans Affairs to take such action.
(e)
Fugitive felons.
(1) Pension is not payable on behalf of a veteran for any period during which he or she is a fugitive felon. Pension or death pension is not payable on behalf of a dependent of a veteran for any period during which the veteran or the dependent is a fugitive felon.
(2) For purposes of this section, the term
fugitive felon
means a person who is a fugitive by reason of:
(i) Fleeing to avoid prosecution, or custody or confinement after conviction for an offense, or an attempt to commit an offense, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which the person flees; or
(ii) Violating a condition of probation or parole imposed for commission of a felony under Federal or State law.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, the term
felony
includes a high misdemeanor under the laws of a State which characterizes as high misdemeanors offenses that would be felony offenses under Federal law.
(4) For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, the term
dependent
means a spouse, surviving spouse, child, or dependent parent of a veteran.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 5313, 5313B)
[26 FR 1601, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 40 FR 6971, Feb. 18, 1975; 40 FR 22254, May 22, 1975; 44 FR 45943, Aug. 6, 1979; 46 FR 47543, Sept. 29, 1981; 62 FR 5529, Feb. 6, 1997; 68 FR 34543, June 10, 2003; 79 FR 57697, Sept. 25, 2014]
§ 3.667
School attendance.
(a)
General.
(1) Pension or compensation may be paid from a child's 18th birthday based upon school attendance if the child was at that time pursing a course of instruction at an approved educational institution and a claim for such benefits is filed within 1 year from the child's 18th birthday.
(2) Pension or compensation based upon a course of instruction at an approved educational institution which was begun after a child's 18th birthday may be paid from the commencement of the course if a claim is filed within 1 year from that date.
(3) An initial award of DIC (dependency and indemnity compensation) to a child in the child's own right is payable from the first day of the month in which the child attains age 18 if the child was pursuing a course of instruction at an approved educational institution on the child's 18th birthday, and if a claim for benefits is filed within 1 year from the child's 18th birthday. In the case of a child who attains age 18 after September 30, 1981, if the child was, immediately before attaining age 18, counted under 38 U.S.C. 1311(b) for the purpose of determining the amount of DIC payable to the surviving spouse, the effective date of an award of DIC to the child shall be the date the child attains age 18 if a claim for DIC is filed within 1 year from that date.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5110(e))
(4) An initial award of dependency and indemnity compensation to a child in its own right based upon a course of instruction at an approved educational institution which was begun after the child's 18th birthday may be paid from the first day of the month in which the course commenced if a claim is filed within 1 year from that date.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5110(e))
(5) Where a child was receiving dependency and indemnity compensation in its own right prior to age 18, payments may be continued from the 18th birthday if the child was then attending an approved educational institution and evidence of such school attendance is received within 1 year from the 18th birthday. Where the child was receiving dependency and indemnity compensation in its own right prior to age 18 and was not attending an approved educational institution on the
18th birthday but commences attendance at an approved educational institution after the 18th birthday, payments may be resumed from the commencing date of the course if evidence of such school attendance is filed within 1 year from that date.
(b)
Vacation periods.
A child is considered to be in school during a vacation or other holiday period if he or she was attending an approved educational institution at the end of the preceding school term and resumes attendance, either in the same or a different approved educational institution, at the beginning of the next term. If an award has been made covering a vacation period, and the child fails to commence or resume school attendance, benefits will be terminated the date of last payment or the last day of the month preceding the date of failure to pursue the course, whichever is the earlier.
(c)
Ending dates.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, benefits may be authorized through the last day of the month in which a course was or will be completed.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5112(b)(7))
(d)
Transfers to other schools.
When benefits have been authorized based upon school attendance and it is shown that during a part or all of that period the child was pursuing a different course in the same approved educational institution or a course in a different approved educational institution, payments previously made will not be disturbed.
(e)
Accrued benefits only.
When a claim for accrued benefits is filed by or on behalf of a veteran's child over 18 but under 23 years of age, who was pursuing a course of instruction at the time of the payee's death and payment of accrued benefits only is involved, evidence of school attendance need not be confirmed by the school. When the payee's death occurred during a school vacation period, the requirements will be considered to have been met if the child was carried on the school rolls on the last day of the regular school term immediately preceding the date of the payee's death.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5112(b)(7))
(f)
Nonduplication.
Pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation may not be authorized:
(1) After a child has elected to receive educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 35 (see § 3.707 and § 21.3023 of this chapter); or
(2) Based on an educational program in a school where the child is wholly supported at the expense of the Federal Government, such as a service academy.

# Cross Reference:
Dependents' educational assistance. See § 3.707.
[26 FR 1601, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 30 FR 14983, Dec. 3, 1965; 32 FR 12114, Aug. 23, 1967; 34 FR 839, Jan. 18, 1969; 40 FR 22254, May 22, 1975; 47 FR 24552, June 7, 1982; 65 FR 12116, Mar. 8, 2000]
§ 3.668
[Reserved]
§ 3.669
Forfeiture.
(a)
General.
Upon receipt of notice from a Regional Counsel (or in cases under the jurisdiction of the Manila Regional Office, the Veterans Service Center Manager) that a case is being formally submitted for consideration of forfeiture of a payee's rights under § 3.905 of this part or that the payee has been indicted for subversive activities, payments will be suspended effective date of last payment.
(b)
Fraud or treasonable act
—(1)
Fraud.
If forfeiture of rights is not declared, payments shall be resumed from date of last payment, if otherwise in order. If it is determined that rights have been forfeited, benefits shall be discontinued effective the commencing date of the award or the day preceding the commission of the act resulting in the forfeiture, whichever is later.
(2)
Treasonable acts.
If forfeiture of rights is not declared, payments shall be resumed from date of last payment, if otherwise in order. If it is determined that rights have been forfeited, benefits shall be discontinued the date of the forfeiture decision or date of last payment, whichever is earlier.
(c)
Subversive activities.
If the payee is acquitted of the charge, payments will be resumed from date of last payment, if otherwise in order. If the payee is convicted, benefits will be discontinued effective the commencing date of the
award or the day preceding the commission of the act resulting in the forfeiture, whichever is later.
(d)
Pardons.
(1) Where the payee's offense has been pardoned by the President of the United States, the award will be resumed, if otherwise in order, effective the date of the pardon if claim is filed within 1 year from that date; otherwise benefits may not be authorized for any period prior to the date of filing claim. The award will be subject to any existing overpayment.
(2) Payments to a dependent of the person whose benefits were declared forfeited before September 2, 1959, will be discontinued effective the day preceding the date of the pardon.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)

# Cross References:
Fraud. See § 3.901. Treasonable acts. See § 3.902. Subversive activities. See § 3.903.
[27 FR 8616, Aug. 29, 1962, as amended 28 FR 5618, June 7, 1963; 39 FR 28630, Aug. 9, 1974; 46 FR 34801, July 6, 1981; 71 FR 52290, Sept. 5, 2006]

# Concurrent Benefits and Elections
§ 3.700
General.
Not more than one award of pension, compensation, or emergency officers', regular or reserve retirement pay will be made concurrently to any person based on his or her own service except as provided in § 3.803 relating to naval pension and § 3.750(c) relating to waiver of retirement pay. Not more than one award of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation may be made concurrently to a dependent on account of more than one period of service of a veteran.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5304(a))
(a)
Veterans
—(1)
Active service pay.
(i) Pension, compensation, or retirement pay on account of his or her own service will not be paid to any person for any period for which he or she receives active service pay.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5304(c))
(ii) Time spent by members of the ROTC in drills as part of their activities as members of the corps is not active service.
(iii) Reservists may waive their pension, compensation, or retirement pay for periods of field training, instruction, other duty or drills. A waiver may include prospective periods and contain a right of recoupment for the days for which the reservists did not receive payment for duty by reason of failure to report for duty.
(2)
Lump-sum readjustment pay.
(i) Where entitlement to disability compensation was established prior to September 15, 1981, a veteran who has received a lump-sum readjustment payment under former 10 U.S.C. 687 (as in effect on September 14, 1981) may receive disability compensation for disability incurred in or aggravated by service prior to the date of receipt of lump-sum readjustment payment subject to deduction of an amount equal to 75 percent of the amount received as readjustment payment.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(ii) Readjustment pay authorized under former 10 U.S.C. 3814(a) is not subject to recoupment through withholding of disability compensation, entitlement to which was established prior to September 15, 1981.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(iii) Where entitlement to disability compensation was established on or after September 15, 1981, a veteran who has received a lump-sum readjustment payment may receive disability compensation for disability incurred in or aggravated by service prior to the date of receipt of the lump-sum readjustment payment, subject to recoupment of the readjustment payment. Where payment of readjustment pay was made on or before September 30, 1996, VA will recoup from disability compensation an amount equal to the total amount of readjustment pay. Where payment of readjustment pay was made after September 30, 1996, VA will recoup from disability compensation an amount equal to the total amount of readjustment pay less the amount of Federal income tax withheld from such pay.
(Authority: 10 U.S.C. 1174(h)(2))
(iv) The receipt of readjustment pay does not affect the payment of disability compensation based on a subsequent period of service. Compensation payable for service-connected disability incurred or aggravated in a subsequent period of service will not be reduced for the purpose of offsetting readjustment pay based on a prior period of service.
(Authority: 10 U.S.C. 1174(h)(2))
(3)
Severance pay.
Where the disability or disabilities found to be service-connected are the same as those upon which disability severance pay is granted, or where entitlement to disability compensation was established on or after September 15, 1981, an award of compensation will be made subject to recoupment of the disability severance pay. Prior to the initial determination of the degree of disability recoupment will be at the full monthly compensation rate payable for the disability or disabilities for which severance pay was granted. Following initial determination of the degree of disability recoupment shall not be at a monthly rate in excess of the monthly compensation payable for that degree of disability. For this purpose the term “initial determination of the degree of disability” means the first regular schedular compensable rating in accordance with the provisions of subpart B, part 4 of this chapter and does not mean a rating based in whole or in part on a need for hospitalization or a period of convalescense. Where entitlement to disability compensation was established prior to September 15, 1981, compensation payable for service-connected disability other than the disability for which disability severance pay was granted will not be reduced for the purpose of recouping disability severance pay. Where entitlement to disability compensation was established on or after September 15, 1981, a veteran may receive disability compensation for disability incurred or aggravated by service prior to the date of receipt of the severance pay, but VA must recoup from that disability compensation an amount equal to the severance pay. Where payment of severance pay was made on or before September 30, 1996, VA will recoup from disability compensation an amount equal to the total amount of the severance pay. Where payment of severance pay was made after September 30, 1996, VA will recoup from disability compensation an amount equal to the total amount of the severance pay less the amount of Federal income tax withheld from such pay. For members of the Armed Forces who separated under Chapter 61 of title 10, United States Code, on or after January 28, 2008, no recoupment of severance pay will be made for disabilities incurred in line of duty in a combat zone or incurred during performance of duty in combat-related operations as designated by the Department of Defense.
(Authority: 10 U.S.C. 1174(h)(2) and 1212(d))
(4)
Improved pension.
If a veteran is entitled to improved pension on the basis of the veteran's own service and is also entitled to pension under any pension program currently or previously in effect on the basis of any other person's service, the Department of Veterans Affairs shall pay the veteran only the greater benefit.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1521(i))
(5)
Separation pay and special separation benefits.
(i) Where entitlement to disability compensation was established on or after September 15, 1981, a veteran who has received separation pay may receive disability compensation for disability incurred in or aggravated by service prior to the date of receipt of separation pay subject to recoupment of the separation pay. Where payment of separation pay was made on or before September 30, 1996, VA will recoup from disability compensation an amount equal to the total amount of separation pay. Where payment of separation pay was made after September 30, 1996, VA will recoup from disability compensation an amount equal to the total amount of separation pay less the amount of Federal income tax withheld from such pay. The Federal income tax withholding amount is the flat withholding rate for Federal income tax withholding.
(ii) The receipt of separation pay does not affect the payment of disability compensation based on a subsequent period of service. Compensation payable for service-connected disability incurred or aggravated in a subsequent period of service will not be reduced for the purpose of offsetting separation pay based on a prior period of service.
(iii) Where payment of special separation benefits under 10 U.S.C. 1174a was made on or after December 5, 1991, VA will recoup from disability compensation an amount equal to the total amount of special separation benefits less the amount of Federal income tax withheld from such pay. The Federal income tax withholding amount is the flat withholding rate for Federal income tax withholding.
(Authority: 10 U.S.C. 1174 and 1174a)
(b)
Dependents
—(1)
Surviving spouse.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the receipt of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation by a surviving spouse because of the death of any veteran, or receipt of pension or compensation because of his or her own service, shall not bar the payment to the surviving spouse of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation because of the death or disability of any other veteran; however, other than insurance, concurrent benefits under laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs may not be authorized to a surviving spouse by reason of the death of more than one veteran to whom the surviving spouse has been married. The surviving spouse may elect to receive benefits based on the death of one such spouse and the election places the right to benefits based on the deaths of other spouses in suspense. The suspension may be lifted at any time by another election based on the death of another spouse. Benefits payable in the elected case will be subject to prior payments for the same period based on the death of the other spouse where, under the provisions of § 3.400(c), there is entitlement in the elected case prior to date of receipt of the election.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5304)
(2)
Children.
Except as provided in § 3.703 and paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the receipt of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation by a child on account of the death of a veteran or the receipt by the child of pension or compensation on account of his or her own service will not bar the payment of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation on account of the death or disability of any other veteran.
(3)
Parents.
The receipt of compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation by a parent on account of the death of a veteran or receipt by him or her of pension or compensation on account of his or her own service, will not bar the payment of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation on account of the death or disability of any other person.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5304(b))
[26 FR 1601, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 29 FR 11359, Aug. 6, 1964; 29 FR 15207, Nov. 11, 1964; 30 FR 11389, Sept. 8, 1965; 35 FR 10648, July 1, 1970; 40 FR 59346, Dec. 23, 1975; 44 FR 45943, Aug. 6, 1979; 52 FR 27340, July 21, 1987; 56 FR 1111, Jan. 11, 1991; 67 FR 60868, Sept. 27, 2002; 74 FR 26957, June 5, 2009; 74 FR 36610, July 24, 2009]
§ 3.701
Elections of pension or compensation.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided, a person entitled to receive pension or compensation under more than one law or section of a law administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs may elect to receive whichever benefit, regardless of whether it is the greater or lesser benefit, even though the election reduces the benefits payable to his or her dependents. Such person may at any time elect or reelect the other benefit. An election by a veteran controls the rights of all dependents in that case. An election by a surviving spouse controls the claims of all children including children over 18 and children not in the custody of the surviving spouse. The election of improved pension by a surviving spouse, however, shall not prejudice the rights of any child receiving an apportionment on December 31, 1978. Termination of a marriage or marital relationship which
had been the reason for terminating an award of section 306 or old-law pension does not restore to the surviving spouse the right to receive section 306 or old-law pension. The claimant's entitlement, if otherwise established, is under the current provisions of 38 U.S.C. 1541.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(b)
Form of election.
An election must be in writing and must specify the benefit the person wishes to receive.
(c)
Change from one law to another.
Except as otherwise provided, where payments of pension or compensation are being made to a person under one law, the right to receive benefits under another law being in suspension, and a higher rate of pension or compensation becomes payable under the other law, benefits at the higher rate will not be paid for any date prior to the date of receipt of an election.
[26 FR 1602, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 36 FR 12618, July 2, 1971; 44 FR 45943, Aug. 6, 1979; 79 FR 57697, Sept. 25, 2014]
§ 3.702
Dependency and indemnity compensation.
(a)
Right to elect.
A person who is eligible for death compensation and who has entitlement to dependency and indemnity compensation pursuant to the provisions of § 3.5(b)(2) or (3) may receive dependency and indemnity compensation upon the filing of a claim. The claim of such a person for service-connected death benefits shall be considered a claim for dependency and indemnity compensation subject to confirmation by the claimant. The effective date of payment is controlled by the provisions of § 3.400(c)(4).
(b)
Effect on child's entitlement.
Where a surviving spouse is entitled to death compensation, the amount of which is based in part on the existence of a child who has attained the age of 18 years, and elects to receive dependency and indemnity compensation, the independent award of dependency and indemnity compensation to which the child is entitled will be awarded to or for the child without separate election by or for the child. Should such a surviving spouse not elect to receive dependency and indemnity compensation, the independent dependency and indemnity compensation to which a child who has attained 18 years of age is entitled, may be awarded upon application by or for the child. The effective date of award in these situations will be in accordance with § 3.400(c)(4)(ii).
(c)
Limitation.
A claim for dependency and indemnity compensation may not be filed or withdrawn after the death of the surviving spouse, child, or parent.
(d)
Finality of election.
(1) Except as noted in paragraphs (d)(2) and (g) of this section, an election to receive dependency and indemnity compensation is final and the claimant may not thereafter reelect death pension or compensation in that case. An election is final when the payee (or the payee's fiduciary) has negotiated one check for this benefit or when the payee dies after filing an election but prior to negotiation of a check.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d)(1), effective November 2, 1994, a surviving spouse who is receiving dependency and indemnity compensation may elect to receive death pension instead of such compensation.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1317)
(e)
Surviving spouse becomes entitled.
A surviving spouse who becomes eligible to receive death compensation by reason of liberalizing provisions of any law may receive death compensation or elect dependency and indemnity compensation even though dependency and indemnity compensation has been paid to a child or children of the veteran.
(f)
Death pension rate.
(1) Effective October 1, 1961, where the monthly rate of dependency and indemnity compensation payable to a surviving spouse who has children is less than the monthly rate of death pension which would be payable to such surviving spouse if the veteran's death had not been service connected, dependency and indemnity compensation shall be paid to such surviving spouse in an amount equal to the pension rate for any month (or part thereof) in which this rate is greater.
(2) Effective June 22, 1966, where the monthly rate of dependency and indemnity compensation payable to a surviving spouse who has children is less than the monthly rate of death pension
which would be payable for the children if the veteran's death had not been service connected and the surviving spouse were not entitled to such pension, dependency and indemnity compensation shall be payable to the surviving spouse in an amount equal to the monthly rate of death pension which would be payable to the children for any month (or part thereof) in which this rate is greater.
(g)
Medal of Honor pension.
A surviving spouse who qualifies for dependency and indemnity compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1311 or 1318 may, by notifying the Secretary in writing, elect to receive instead Medal of Honor pension, if entitled to such pension. See also § 3.802(c)(2) and (3).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1562(a)(2)(C))

# Cross Reference:
Deaths prior to January 1, 1957. See § 3.400(c)(3)(i).
[35 FR 18661, Dec. 9, 1970, as amended at 39 FR 20205, June 7, 1974; 41 FR 17387, Apr. 26, 1976; 44 FR 45943, Aug. 6, 1979; 60 FR 18356, Apr. 11, 1995; 61 FR 20727, May 8, 1996; 62 FR 5529, Feb. 6, 1997; 87 FR 68363, Nov. 15, 2022]
§ 3.703
Two parents in same parental line.
(a)
General.
Death compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation is not payable for a child if dependency and indemnity compensation is paid to or for a child or to the surviving spouse on account of the child by reason of the death of another parent in the same parental line where both parents died before June 9, 1960. Where the death of one such parent occurred on or after June 9, 1960, gratuitous benefits may not be paid or furnished to or on account of any child by reason of the death of more than one parent in the same parental line.
(b)
Election.
The child or his or her fiduciary may elect to receive benefits based on the service of either veteran. An election of pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation based on the death of one parent places the right to such benefits based on the death of another parent in suspension. The suspension may be lifted at any time by making another election.
(c)
Other payees.
Where a child has elected to receive pension, compensation, dependency and indemnity compensation or dependents' educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 35 based on the death of a veteran, he (or she) will be excluded from consideration in determining the eligibility or rate payable to a surviving spouse or another child or children in the case of another deceased veteran in the same parental line. See § 3.659(b).

# Cross References:
Two-parent cases. See § 3.503(a)(7). Two parents in same parental line. See § 3.659.
[27 FR 4993, May 29, 1962, as amended at 39 FR 20205, June 7, 1974]
§ 3.704
Elections within class of dependents.
(a)
Children.
Where children are eligible to receive monthly benefits under more than one law in the same case, the election of benefits under one law by or on behalf of one child will not serve to increase the rate allowable for any other child under another law in that case. The rate payable for each child will not exceed the amount which would be paid if all children were receiving benefits under the same law. Where a child is no longer eligible to receive pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation because of having elected dependents' educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 35, the child will be excluded from consideration in determining the rate payable for another child or children.
(b)
Parents.
If there are two parents eligible for dependency and indemnity compensation and only one parent files claim for this benefit, the rate of dependency and indemnity compensation for that parent will not exceed the amount which would be paid to him or her if both parents had filed claim for dependency and indemnity compensation. The rate of death compensation for the other parent will not exceed the amount which would be paid if both parents were receiving this benefit.
[26 FR 1602, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 4993, May 29, 1962; 34 FR 839, Jan. 18, 1969; 39 FR 20205, June 7, 1974; 54 FR 34981, Aug. 23, 1989]
§§ 3.705-3.706
[Reserved]
§ 3.707
Dependents' educational assistance.
(a)
Child.
The conditions applicable to the bar to payment of pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation for a child concurrently with educational assistance allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 35 are set forth in § 21.3023 of this chapter.
(b)
Spouse or surviving spouse.
There is no bar to the payment of pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation to a spouse concurrently with educational assistance allowance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 35.

# Cross References:
Discontinuance. See § 3.503(a)(8). Certification. See § 3.807.
[34 FR 840, Jan. 18, 1969, as amended at 41 FR 29120, July 15, 1976]
§ 3.708
Federal Employees' Compensation.
(a)
Military service
—(1)
Initial election.
Where a person is entitled to compensation from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) based upon disability or death due to service in the Armed Forces and is also entitled based upon service in the Armed Forces to pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation under the laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs, the claimant will elect which benefit he or she will receive. Pension compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation may not be paid in such instances by the Department of Veterans Affairs concurrently with compensation from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs. Benefits are not payable by the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs for disability or death incurred on or after January 1, 1957, based on military service.
(2)
Right of reelection.
Persons receiving compensation from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs based on death due to military service may elect to receive dependency and indemnity compensation at any time. Once payment of dependency and indemnity compensation has been granted, all further right to FECA benefits is extinguished and only dependency and indemnity compensation is payable thereafter.
(3)
Rights of children.
Where primary title is vested in the surviving spouse, the claimant's election controls the rights of any of the veteran's children, regardless of whether they are in the claimant's custody and regardless of the fact that such children may not be eligible to receive benefits under laws administered by the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs. A child who is eligible for dependency and indemnity compensation or other benefits independent of the surviving spouse's entitlement may receive such benefits concurrently with payment of FECA benefits to the surviving spouse.
(4)
Entitlement based on 38 U.S.C. 1151.
The provisions of this paragraph are applicable also in those cases in which disability or death occurs as a result of having submitted to an examination, medical or surgical treatment, hospitalization or hospital care, training, or compensated work therapy program. See §§ 3.358 and 3.361.
(b)
Civilian employment
—(1)
Same disability or death.
Where a person is entitled to compensation from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs based upon civilian employment and is also entitled to compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation under laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs for the same disability or death, the claimant will elect which benefit he or she will receive. On or after September 13, 1960, an award cannot be approved for payment of compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation concurrently with compensation from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs in such instances and an election to receive benefits from either agency is final. See § 3.958. There is no right of reelection. (5 U.S.C. 8116(b)) A child who is eligible for dependency and indemnity compensation or other benefits independent of the surviving spouse's entitlement may receive such benefits concurrently with payment of FECA benefits to the surviving spouse.
(2)
Not the same disability or death.
There is no prohibition against payment of benefits under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act concurrently with other benefits administered
by the Department of Veterans Affairs when such benefits are not based on the same disability or death.
[39 FR 18099, May 23, 1974, as amended at 41 FR 29120, July 15, 1976; 44 FR 45943, Aug. 6, 1979; 69 FR 46435, Aug. 3, 2004]
§ 3.710
Civil service annuitants.
Department of Veterans Affairs benefits may be paid concurrently with civil service retirement benefits. However, payments will be considered income as provided in § 3.262 (e) and (h).
[29 FR 15208, Nov. 11, 1964]
§ 3.711
Improved pension elections.
Except as otherwise provided by this section and § 3.712, a person entitled to receive section 306 or old-law pension on December 31, 1978, may elect to receive improved pension under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 1521, 1541, or 1542 as in effect on January 1, 1979. Except as provided by § 3.714, an election of improved pension is final when the payee (or the payee's fiduciary) negotiates one check for this benefit and there is no right to reelection. Any veteran eligible to make an election under this section who is married to a veteran who is also eligible to make such an election may not receive improved pension unless the veteran's spouse also elects to receive improved pension.
(Authority: Sec. 306(a)(1) of Pub. L. 95-588, 92 Stat. 2497)
[46 FR 11661, Feb. 10, 1981]
§ 3.712
Improved pension elections; surviving spouses of Spanish-American War veterans.
(a)
General.
A surviving spouse of a Spanish-American War veteran eligible for pension under 38 U.S.C. 1536 may elect to receive improved pension under 38 U.S.C. 1541. Except as provided by § 3.714, an election of improved pension is final when the payee (or the payee's fiduciary) negotiates one check for this benefit and there is no right of reelection.
(b)
Aid and attendance.
A surviving spouse of a Spanish-American War veteran who is receiving or entitled to receive pension based on need for regular aid and attendance shall be paid whichever is the greater: The monthly rate authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1536 (a) and (b) and 1544 or the monthly rate authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1541 and 544, as 38 U.S.C. 1541 and 1544 were in effect on December 31, 1978, based on the surviving spouse's current income and net worth. Pension under 38 U.S.C. 1541 and 1544, as in effect on December 31, 1978, is not payable if the current size of the surviving spouse's net worth is a bar to payment under § 3.252(b) or if the surviving spouse's income exceeds the applicable limitation as in effect on December 31, 1978. Elections are not required for this purpose. The change in rate shall be effective the first day of the month in which the facts warrant such change.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1536)
[44 FR 45943, Aug. 6, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 11661, Feb. 10, 1981; 61 FR 67950, Dec. 26, 1996]
§ 3.713
Effective dates of improved pension elections.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section an election to receive improved pension shall be effective the date of receipt of the election.
(b)
Persons entitled to pension on December 31, 1978.
The effective date of an election to receive improved pension filed before October 1, 1979, by a person entitled to receive either old-law pension or section 306 pension on December 31, 1978, shall be January 1, 1979, or if to the beneficiary's advantage, at any date after January 1, 1979, and before October 1, 1979. The amount of improved pension payable from the effective date of the election shall be reduced by the amount of old-law pension or section 306 pension paid to the beneficiary for such period.
(Authority: Sec. 306(d) of Pub. L. 95-588, 92 Stat. 2497).
[44 FR 45944, Aug. 6, 1979]
§ 3.714
Improved pension elections—public assistance beneficiaries.
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions are applicable to this section.
(1)
Pensioner.
This means a person who was entitled to section 306 or old-law pension, or a dependent of such a person for the purposes of chapter 15 of title 38, United States Code as in effect on December 31, 1978.
(2)
Public assistance.
This means payments under the following titles of the Social Security Act:
(i) Title I (Grants to States for Old Age Assistance and Medical Assistance to the Aged).
(ii) Title X (Grants to States for Aid to the Blind).
(iii) Title XIV (Grants to States for Aid to the Permanently and Totally Disabled).
(iv) Part A of title IV (Aid to Families with Dependent Children).
(v) Title XVI (Supplemental Security Income for the Aged, Blind and Disabled).
(3)
Medicaid.
This means a State plan for medical assistance under title XIX of the Social Security Act.
(4)
Informed election.
The term “informed election” means an election of improved pension (or a reaffirmation of a previous election of improved pension) after the Department of Veterans Affairs has complied with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
General.
In some States only a person in receipt of public assistance is eligible for medicaid. When this is the case the following applies effective January 1, 1979:
(1) A pensioner may not be required to elect improved pension to receive, or to continue to receive, public assistance; or
(2) A pensioner may not be denied (or suffer a reduction in the amount of) public assistance by reason of failure or refusal to elect improved pension.
(c)
Public assistance deemed to continue.
Public assistance (or a supplementary payment under Pub. L. 93-233, sec. 13(c)) payable to a pensioner may have been terminated because the pensioner's income increased as a result of electing improved pension. In this instance public assistance (or a supplementary payment under Pub. L. 93-233, sec. 13(c)) shall be deemed to have remained payable to a pensioner for each month after December 1978 when the following conditions are met:
(1) The pensioner was in receipt of pension for the month of December 1978; and
(2) The pensioner was in receipt of public assistance (or a supplementary payment under Pub. L. 93-233, sec. 13(c)) prior to June 17, 1980, and for the month of December 1978, and
(3) The pensioner's public assistance payments (or a supplementary payment under Pub. L. 93-233, sec. 13(c)) were discontinued because of an increase in income resulting from an election of improved pension.
(d)
End of the deemed period of entitlement to public assistance.
The deemed period of entitlement to public assistance (or a supplementary payment under Pub. L. 93-233, sec. 13(c)) ends the first calendar month that begins more than 10 days after a pensioner makes an informed election of improved pension. (If the pensioner is unable to make an informed election the informed election may be made by a member of the pensioner's family.) A pensioner who fails to disaffirm a previously made election of improved pension within the time limits set forth in paragraph (e) of this section shall be deemed to have reaffirmed the previous election. This will also end the deemed period of entitlement to public assistance.
(e)
Notice of right to make informed election or disaffirm election previously made.
The Department of Veterans Affairs shall send a written notice to each pensioner to whom paragraph (b) of this section applies and who is eligible to elect or who has elected improved pension. The notice shall be in clear and understandable language. It shall include the following:
(1) A description of the consequences to the pensioner (and the pensioner's family if applicable) of losing medicaid eligibility because of an increase in income resulting from electing improved pension; and
(2) A description of the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section; and
(3) In the case of a pensioner who has previously elected improved pension, a form for the purpose of enabling the pensioner to disaffirm the previous election of improved pensions; and
(4) The following provisons of Pub. L. 96-272, sec. 310(b)(2)(B):
(i) That a pensioner has 90 days from the date the notice is mailed to the pensioner to disaffirm a previous election by completing the disaffirmation form and mailing it to the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(ii) That a pensioner who disaffirms a previous election shall receive, beginning the calendar month after the calendar month in which the Department of Veterans Affairs receives the disaffirmation, the amount of pension payable if improved pension had not been elected.
(iii) That a pensioner who disaffirms a previous election may again elect improved pension but without a right to disaffirm the subsequent election.
(iv) That a pensioner who disaffirms an election of improved pension shall not be indebted to the United States for the period in which the pensioner received improved pension.
(Authority: Pub. L. 96-272, sec. 310; 94 Stat. 500)
(f)
Notification to the Social Security Administration.
The Department of Veterans Affairs shall promptly furnish the Social Security Administration the following information:
(1) The name and identifying information of each pensioner who disaffirms his or her election of improved pension.
(2) The name and identifying information of each pensioner who fails to disaffirm and election of improved pension within the 90-day period described in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section.
(3) The name and identifying information of each pensioner who after disaffirming his or her election of improved pension, subsequently reelected improved pension.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
[46 FR 11661, Feb. 10, 1981, as amended at 71 FR 44919, Aug. 8, 2006]
§ 3.715
Radiation Exposure Compensation Act of 1990, as amended.
(a)
Compensation.
(1) A radiation-exposed veteran, as defined in 38 CFR 3.309(d)(3), who receives a payment under the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act of 1990, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) (RECA), will not be denied compensation to which the veteran is entitled under 38 CFR 3.309(d) for months beginning after March 26, 2002.
(2) A veteran who is not a “radiation-exposed veteran,” as defined in 38 CFR 3.309(d)(3), is not entitled to VA compensation for disability caused by a disease that is attributable to exposure to radiation for which the veteran has received a payment under RECA.
(b)
Dependency and indemnity compensation.
A person who receives a payment under RECA based upon a veteran's death will not be denied dependency and indemnity compensation to which the person is entitled under 38 CFR 3.5 and 3.22 for months beginning after March 26, 2002.
(c)
Offset of RECA payment against VA benefits.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the amount of a RECA payment will be deducted from the amount of compensation payable pursuant to § 3.309(d) or the amount of dependency and indemnity compensation payable.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1112(c)(4), 1310(c); 42 U.S.C. 2210 note)
[71 FR 44919, Aug. 8, 2006]

# Retirement
§ 3.750
Entitlement to concurrent receipt of military retired pay and disability compensation.
(a)
Definition of military retired pay.
For the purposes of this part, military retired pay is payment received by a veteran that is classified as retired pay by the Service Department, including retainer pay, based on the recipient's service as a member of the Armed Forces or as a commissioned officer of the Public Health Service, the Coast and Geodetic Survey, the Environmental Science Services Administration, or the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(b)
Payment of both military retired pay and disability compensation or improved pension
—(1)
Compensation.
Subject to paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, a veteran who is entitled to military retired pay and disability compensation for a service-connected disability rated 50 percent or more, or a combination of service-connected disabilities rated 50 percent or more, under the schedule for rating disabilities (38 CFR part 4, subpart B), is entitled to receive both payments subject to the phase-in period described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Chapter 61 disability retirees retiring with 20 or more years of service.
Disability retired pay payable under 10 U.S.C. Chapter 61 to a veteran with 20 or more years of creditable service may be paid concurrently with disability compensation to a qualifying veteran subject to the following:
(i) Any waiver required during the phase-in period under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(ii) If the veteran's disability retired pay exceeds the amount of retired pay the veteran would have received had the veteran retired based on length of service, the veteran must waive that excess amount of disability retired pay in order to receive VA disability compensation.
(3)
Chapter 61 disability retirees retiring with less than 20 years of service.
Veterans who receive disability retired pay under 10 U.S.C. Chapter 61 with less than 20 years of creditable service are not eligible for concurrent receipt.
(4)
Improved Pension.
A veteran may receive improved pension and military retired pay at the same time without having to waive military retired pay. However, in determining entitlement to improved pension, VA will treat military retired pay in the same manner as countable income from other sources.
(c)
Waiver
—(1)
When a waiver is necessary.
(i) A waiver of military retired pay is necessary in order to receive disability compensation when a veteran is eligible for both military retired pay and disability compensation but is not eligible under paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section to receive both benefits at the same time.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, all veterans who are eligible to receive both military retired pay and disability compensation at the same time under paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section must file a waiver in order to receive the maximum allowable amount of disability compensation during the phase-in period. The phase-in period ends on December 31, 2013. After the phase-in period, veterans retired under 10 U.S.C. chapter 61 who are eligible for concurrent receipt must still file a waiver under the circumstances described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(Authority: 10 U.S.C. 1414, 38 U.S.C. 5304, 5305)
(2)
When a waiver is not necessary.
Unless paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section applies, veterans who are entitled to receive disability compensation based on a VA determination of individual unemployability as well as veterans rated 100-percent disabled under the VA schedule for rating disabilities need not file waivers of military retired pay. The phase-in period does not apply to this group of veterans.
(3)
How to file a waiver of military retired pay.
A veteran may request a waiver of military retired pay in any written, signed statement, including a VA form, which reflects a desire to waive all or some military retired pay. The statement must be submitted to VA or to the Federal agency that pays the veteran's military retired pay. VA will treat as a waiver an application for VA compensation filed by a veteran who is entitled to military retired pay.
(d)
Elections and the right to reelect either benefit.
(1) A veteran who has filed a waiver of military retired pay under this section has elected to receive disability compensation. A veteran may reelect between benefits covered by this section at any time by submitting a written, signed statement to VA or to the Federal agency that pays the veteran's military retired pay.
(2) An election filed within 1 year from the date of notification of Department of Veterans Affairs entitlement will be considered as “timely filed” for effective date purposes. See § 3.401(e)(1). If the veteran is incompetent, the 1-year period will begin on the date that notification is sent to the next friend or fiduciary. In initial determinations, elections may be applied retroactively if the claimant was not advised of his or her right of election and its effect.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5304(a), 5305)
[71 FR 67061, Nov. 20, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 11647, Mar. 19, 2009]
§ 3.751
Statutory awards; retired service personnel.
Retired Regular and Reserve officers and enlisted personnel are not entitled
to statutory awards of disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs in addition to their retirement pay. However, under § 3.750(c), eligible persons may waive an amount equal to the basic disability compensation and any statutory award otherwise payable by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
[41 FR 53797, Dec. 9, 1976]
§ 3.752
[Reserved]
§ 3.753
Public Health Service.
Disability compensation may be paid concurrently with retirement pay to an officer of the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service, who was receiving disability compensation on December 31, 1956, as follows:
(a) An officer who incurred a disability before July 29, 1945, but retired for nondisability purposes prior to such date.
(b) An officer who incurred a disability before July 29, 1945, but retired for nondisability purposes between July 4, 1952, and December 31, 1956.
(c) An officer who incurred a disability between July 29, 1945, and July 3, 1952, but retired for nondisability purposes between July 4, 1952, and December 31, 1956.
[26 FR 1604, Feb. 24, 1961]
§ 3.754
Emergency officers' retirement pay.
A retired emergency officer of World War I has basic eligibility to retirement pay by the Department of Veterans Affairs under Pub. L. 87-875 (sec. 11(b), Pub. L. 85-857) from date of filing application therefor after October 24, 1962, if the following requirements are met:
(a) Emergency officers' retirement pay would have been granted under Pub. L. 506, 70th Congress (Act of May 24, 1928) if application therefor had been filed before May 25, 1929.
(b) Such retirement pay would have continued to be payable under section 10 of Pub. L. 2, 73d Congress, or under section 1 of Pub. L. 743, 76th Congress.
(c) The monthly rate of retirement pay at any time between May 24, 1928 and May 24, 1929, inclusive, would have been lower than the monthly rate of disability compensation payable to the retired emergency officer.

# Cross Reference:
Emergency officers' retirement pay. See § 3.953(b).
[28 FR 72, Jan. 3, 1963]

# Special Benefits
§ 3.800
Disability or death due to hospitalization, etc.
This section applies to claims received by VA before October 1, 1997. For claims received by VA on or after October 1, 1997, see §§ 3.362 and 3.363.
(a) Where disease, injury, death or the aggravation of an existing disease or injury occurs as a result of having submitted to an examination, medical or surgical treatment, hospitalization or the pursuit of a course of vocational rehabilitation under any law administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs and not the result of his (or her) own willful misconduct, disability or death compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation will be awarded for such disease, injury, aggravation, or death as if such condition were service connected. The commencing date of benefits is subject to the provisions of § 3.400(i).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1151)
(1) Benefits under paragraph (a) of this section will be in lieu of any benefits the veteran may be entitled to receive under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act inasmuch as concurrent payments are prohibited. (See § 3.708.)
(2) Where any person is awarded a judgment on or after December 1, 1962, against the United States in a civil action brought pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1346(b), or enters into a settlement or compromise on or after December 1, 1962, under 28 U.S.C. 2672 or 2677, by reason of a disability, aggravation or death within the purview of this section, no compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation shall be paid to such person for any month beginning after the date such judgment, settlement, or compromise on account of such disability, aggravation, or death becomes final until the total amount of benefits which would be paid except for this provision equals the
total amount included in such judgment, settlement, or compromise. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply, however, to any portion of such compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation payable for any period preceding the end of the month in which such judgment, settlement or compromise becomes final.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(3) If an administrative award was made or a settlement or compromise became final before December 1, 1962, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation may not be authorized for any period after such award settlement, or compromise whether before or after December 1, 1962. There is no bar to payment of compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation and no set-off because of a judgment which became final before December 1, 1962, unless specified in the terms of the judgment.
(4)
Offset of award of benefits under 38 U.S.C. chapter 21 or 38 U.S.C. chapter 39.
(i) If a judgment, settlement, or compromise covered by paragraph (a)(2) of this section becomes final on or after December 10, 2004, and includes an amount that is specifically designated for a purpose for which benefits are provided under 38 U.S.C. chapter 21 (38 CFR 3.809 and 3.809a) or 38 U.S.C. chapter 39 (38 CFR 3.808), and if VA awards 38 U.S.C. chapter 21 or 38 U.S.C. chapter 39 benefits after the date on which the judgment, settlement, or compromise becomes final, the amount of the award will be reduced by the amount received under the judgment, settlement, or compromise for the same purpose.
(ii) If the amount described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section is greater than the amount of an award under 38 U.S.C. chapter 21 or 38 U.S.C. chapter 39, the excess amount received under the judgment, settlement, or compromise will be offset against benefits otherwise payable under 38 U.S.C. chapter 11.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1151(b)(2))
(b)(1) If death occurred prior to January 1, 1957, the benefit payable will be death compensation. See §§ 3.5(b)(2) and 3.702 as to right of election to dependency and indemnity compensation.
(2) If death occurs on or after January 1, 1957, the benefit payable will be dependency and indemnity compensation.

# Cross References:
Claims; injury due to hospital treatment, etc. See § 3.154. Effective dates; disability or death due to hospitalization, etc. See § 3.400(i).
[26 FR 1604, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 11892, Dec. 1, 1962; 29 FR 16252, Dec. 4, 1964; 39 FR 34532, Sept. 26, 1974; 53 FR 23237, June 21, 1988; 64 FR 1132, Jan. 8, 1999; 69 FR 46435, Aug. 3, 2004; 71 FR 44919, Aug. 8, 2006; 75 FR 57861, Sept. 23, 2010]
§ 3.801
Special acts.
(a)
General.
A special act is one authorizing the payment of benefits to a particular person or persons. If a beneficiary in a special act has no claim before the Department of Veterans Affairs, a formal application must be filed before benefits may be awarded.
(b)
Limitations.
Where the rate, commencement, and duration are fixed by a special act, they are not subject to be varied by the provisions and limitations of the public laws, but where not fixed, the rate and continuance of the benefit is subject to variance in accordance with the public laws.
(c)
Provisions of act.
(1) When pension or compensation is granted by a special act, which fixes the rate and commencement, the rate thereunder cannot be increased nor can any other pension or compensation be paid in the absence of the payee's election, unless the special act expressly states that the benefit granted thereby is in addition to the benefit which the person is entitled to receive under any public law.
(2) If a special act corrects the nature of separation from military service and does not grant pension or compensation directly, the claimant acquires a status so that he or she may apply for and be allowed benefits. The claimant, then, is placed in the same position he or she would have been if originally released under conditions other than dishonorable.
(d)
Service.
A special act of Congress, reciting that a person is considered to have been mustered into the service on a named date and honorably discharged
on a subsequently named date, is sufficient regardless of whether the service department has any record of such service.
(e)
Hospitalization.
Pension payable under special acts is subject to reduction pursuant to § 3.551.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 5503)
[26 FR 1605, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 39 FR 34532, Sept. 26, 1974; 68 FR 34543, June 10, 2003]
§ 3.802
Medal of Honor.
(a) The Secretary of the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Air Force, or the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating will determine the eligibility of applicants to be entered on the Medal of Honor Roll and will deliver to the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs a copy of each certificate issued in which the right of the person named in the certificate to the special pension is set forth. The special pension will be authorized on the basis of such certification. A surviving spouse may be eligible for special pension in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(Authority: 10 U.S.C. 1134a; 38 U.S.C. 1562)
(b) An award of special pension at the monthly rate specified in 38 U.S.C. 1562 will be made beginning as of the date on which the person's name is entered on the Army, Navy, Air Force, and/or Coast Guard Medal of Honor Roll. The special pension will be paid in addition to all other payments under laws of the United States. However, a person awarded more than one Medal of Honor, or a person married to more than one person who has been awarded a Medal of Honor, may not receive more than one special pension. A person who is entitled to special pension under paragraph (a) of this section may elect not to receive special pension by notifying the Secretary of such election in writing.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1562)
(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, the Secretary shall pay special pension under this section to the surviving spouse (as defined in § 3.50(b)) of a person whose name has been entered on the Army, Navy, Air Force, and/or Coast Guard Medal of Honor Roll and a copy of whose certificate has been delivered to the Secretary under 10 U.S.C. 1134a(d).
(1) No special pension shall be paid to a surviving spouse of a person under this section unless such surviving spouse was married to such person—
(i) For one year or more prior to the veteran's death; or
(ii) For any period of time if a child was born of the marriage, or was born to them before the marriage.
(2) No special pension shall be paid to a surviving spouse of a person under this section if such surviving spouse is receiving dependency and indemnity compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1311 or 1318.
(3) A surviving spouse who qualifies for Medal of Honor pension may, by notifying the Secretary in writing, elect to receive instead dependency and indemnity compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1311 or 1318, if entitled to such compensation. See also § 3.702(g).
(4) Special pension, including any lump sum payment under paragraph (d) of this section, may only be paid to a surviving spouse for months beginning after January 5, 2021.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1562 and note)
(d)(1) VA will pay to each veteran or service member who is receiving or who in the future receives Medal of Honor pension a retroactive lump sum special pension payment equal to the total amount of Medal of Honor pension that person would have received during the period beginning the first day of the month after the date of the event for which the veteran earned the Medal of Honor and ending on the last day of the month preceding the month in which pension was awarded under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(2) VA will calculate the veteran's or service member's lump sum payment using the monthly Medal of Honor pension rates in effect from the first day of the month after the date of the event for which the veteran or service member earned the Medal of Honor, to the last day of the month preceding the
month in which the individual was initially awarded the Medal of Honor pension under paragraph (b) of this section. VA will not make a retroactive lump sum payment under this paragraph (d)(2) before October 1, 2003.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1562(f))
(e) In the case of a posthumous entry on a qualifying Medal of Honor Roll, VA will pay to each surviving spouse who is receiving or who in the future receives Medal of Honor pension under paragraph (c) of this section a retroactive lump sum payment using the monthly Medal of Honor pension rates in effect from the first day of the month after the date of the event for which the veteran or service-member earned the Medal of Honor, to the last day of the month preceding the month in which the surviving spouse was initially awarded the Medal of Honor pension. VA will not make a retroactive posthumous lump sum payment under this paragraph (e) for periods before February 1, 2021.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1562(f) and 1562 note)
[87 FR 68363, Nov. 15, 2022]
§ 3.803
Naval pension.
(a) Payment of naval pension will be authorized on the basis of a certification by the Secretary of the Navy.
(Authority: 10 U.S.C. 6160)
(b) Awards of naval pension in effect prior to July 14, 1943, or renewed or continued may be paid concurrently with Department of Veterans Affairs pension or compensation; however, naval pension allowance under 10 U.S.C. 6160 may not exceed one-fourth of the rate of disability pension or compensation otherwise payable, exclusive of additional allowances for dependents or specific disabilities.
(c) New awards of naval pension may not be made concurrently with Department of Veterans Affairs pension or compensation.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5304(a))
(d) Naval pension remaining unpaid at the date of the veteran's death is not payable by the Department of Veterans Affairs as an accrued benefit.
[26 FR 1605, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 28 FR 2857, Mar. 22, 1963; 44 FR 22721, Apr. 17, 1979]
§ 3.804
Special allowance under 38 U.S.C. 1312.
(a) The provisions of this section are applicable to the payment of a special allowance by the Department of Veterans Affairs to the surviving dependents of a veteran who served after September 15, 1940, and who died on or after January 1, 1957, as a result of such service and who was not a fully and currently insured individual under title II of the Social Security Act.
(b) The special allowance is not payable: (1) Where the veteran's death resulted from Department of Veterans Affairs hospitalization, treatment, examination, or training;
(2) Where the veteran's death was due to service rendered with the Commonwealth Army of the Philippines while such forces were in the service of the Armed Forces pursuant to the military order of the President dated July 26, 1941, or was due to service in the Philippine Scouts under section 14, Pub. L. 190, 79th Congress.
(c) A claim for dependency and indemnity compensation on a form prescribed will be accepted as a claim for the special allowance where it is determined that this benefit is payable or where a specific inquiry concerning entitlement to the special allowance is received.
(d) Payment of this allowance will be authorized on the basis of a certification from the Social Security Administration. Award actions subsequent to the original award, including adjustment and discontinuance, will be made in accordance with new certifications from the Social Security Administration.
(e)(1) The special allowance will be payable only if the death occurred: (i) While on active duty, active duty for training, or inactive duty training as a member of a uniformed service (line of duty is not a factor); or
(ii) As the result of a disease or injury which was incurred or aggravated in line of duty while on active duty or active duty for training, or an injury
which was incurred or aggravated in line of duty while on inactive duty training, as a member of a uniformed service after September 15, 1940, if the veteran was discharged or released from the period of such duty, under conditions other than dishonorable.
(2) Where the veteran died after separation from service: (i) Discharge from service must have been under conditions other than dishonorable as outlined in § 3.12.
(ii) Line of duty and service connection will be determined as outlined in § 3.1(k) and (m) and the § 3.300 series.
[26 FR 1605, Feb. 24, 1961]
§ 3.805
Loan guaranty for surviving spouses; certification.
A certification of loan guaranty benefits may be extended to surviving spouses based on an application filed on or after January 1, 1959, if:
(a) The veteran served in the Armed Forces of the United States (Allied Nations are not included) at any time on or after September 16, 1940; and
(b) The veteran died in service; or
(c) The veteran died after separation from service and such separation was under conditions other than dishonorable provided the veteran's death was the result of injury or disease incurred in or aggravated by service in line of duty rendered on or after September 16, 1940, regardless of the date of entrance into such service (cases where compensation is payable because of death resulting from hospitalization, treatment, examination, or training are not included); and
(d) The surviving spouse meets the requirements of the term “surviving spouse” as outlined in § 3.50; and
(e) The veteran's surviving spouse is unmarried; and
(f) The applicant is not an eligible veteran.

# Cross References:
Wife, widow or spouse. See § 3.50(b). Terminated marital relationships. See § 3.55.
[26 FR 1605, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 31 FR 4347, Mar. 12, 1966; 37 FR 24662, Nov. 18, 1972; 40 FR 54245, Nov. 21, 1975, 41 FR 49636, Nov. 10, 1976; 44 FR 22721, Apr. 17, 1979; 62 FR 5529, Feb. 6, 1997]
§ 3.806
Death gratuity; certification.
(a) Where a veteran dies on or after January 1, 1957, and during the 120-day period which begins on the day following the date of his or her discharge or release from active duty, active duty for training, or inactive training duty, the Department of Veterans Affairs will certify that fact to the Secretary concerned if the Department of Veterans Affairs determines on the basis of a claim filed with it that:
(1) Death resulted from:
(i) Disease or injury incurred or aggravated while on such active duty or active duty for training; or
(ii) Injury incurred or aggravated while on such inactive duty training; and
(2) The deceased person was discharged or released from such service under conditions other than dishonorable.
(b) In all cases, other than listed in paragraph (a) of this section, the certification will be furnished at the request of the Secretary concerned.
(c) For the purposes of this section, line of duty is not a factor. The standards, criteria, and procedures for determining incurrence or aggravation of a disease or injury under paragraph (a) of this section are those applicable under disability and death compensation laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1323)
[26 FR 1605, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 40 FR 54245, Nov. 21, 1975]
§ 3.807
Dependents' educational assistance; certification.
For the purposes of dependents' educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 35 (see § 21.3020), the child, spouse or surviving spouse of a veteran or serviceperson will have basic eligibility if the following conditions are met:
(a)
General.
Basic eligibility exists if the veteran:
(1) Was discharged from service under conditions other than dishonorable, or died in service; and
(2) Has a permanent total service-connected disability; or
(3) A permanent total service-connected disability was in existence at the date of the veteran's death; or
(4) Died as a result of a service-connected disability; or (if a serviceperson)
(5) Is on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces and
(i) Now is, and, for a period of more than 90 days, has been listed by the Secretary concerned as missing in action, captured in line of duty by a hostile force, or forcibly detained or interned in line of duty by a foreign Government or power; or
(ii) Has been determined by VA to have a total disability permanent in nature incurred or aggravated in the line of duty during active military, naval, air, or space service; is hospitalized or receiving outpatient medical care, services, or treatment for such disability; is likely to be discharged or released from such service for such disability; and the pursuit of a course of education by such individual's spouse or child for which benefits under 38 U.S.C. chapter 35 are sought occurred after December 22, 2006.
(b)
Service.
Service-connected disability or death must have been the result of active military, naval, air, or space service on or after April 21, 1898. (Pub. L. 89-358) Effective September 30, 1966, educational assistance for a child (but not for a spouse or surviving spouse) may be authorized based on service in the Philippine Commonwealth Army or as a Philippine Scout as defined in § 3.40(b), (c), or (d) of this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3565)
(c)
Service connection.
For purpose of this section, the term “service-connected disability” encompasses combinations of disabilities of paired organs or extremities treated as if service-connected under the provisions of § 3.383(a) of this part. The standards and criteria for determining service connection, either direct or presumptive, are those applicable to the period of service during which the disability was incurred or aggravated (38 U.S.C. 3501(a)). Cases where eligibility for service-connected benefits is established under § 3.358, 3.361, or 3.800 are not included.
(d)
Relationship
—(1) “Child” means the son or daughter of a veteran who meets the requirements of § 3.57, except as to age and marital status.
(2) “Spouse” means a person whose marriage to the veteran meets the requirements of § 3.50(a) of this part.
(3) “Surviving spouse” means a person whose marriage to the veteran meets the requirements of §§ 3.50(b) or 3.52 of this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1160, 3501)

# Cross References:
Discontinuance. See § 3.503(a)(8) Election; concurrent benefits. See § 3.707 Nonduplication. See § 21.3023 of this chapter.
[29 FR 9537, July 14, 1964, as amended at 31 FR 4347, Mar. 12, 1966; 34 FR 840, Jan. 18, 1969; 38 FR 8658, Apr. 5, 1973; 40 FR 54245, Nov. 21, 1975; 53 FR 46607, Nov. 18, 1988; 59 FR 62585, Dec. 6, 1994; 69 FR 46435, Aug. 3, 2004; 73 FR 1076, Jan. 7, 2008; 87 FR 26126, May 3, 2022]
§ 3.808
Automobiles or other conveyances and adaptive equipment; certification.
(a)
Entitlement.
A certificate of eligibility for financial assistance in the purchase of one automobile or other conveyance in an amount not exceeding the amount specified in 38 U.S.C. 3902 (including all State, local, and other taxes where such are applicable and included in the purchase price) and of basic entitlement to necessary adaptive equipment will be provided to—
(1) A veteran who is entitled to compensation under chapter 11 of title 38, United States Code, for a disability described in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(2) A member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who has a disability described in paragraph (b) of this section that is the result of an injury or disability incurred or disease contracted in or aggravated by active military, naval, air, or space service.
(b)
Disability.
One of the following must exist:
(1) Loss or permanent loss of use of one or both feet;
(2) Loss or permanent loss of use of one or both hands;
(3) Permanent impairment of vision of both eyes: Central visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye, with corrective glasses, or central visual
acuity of more than 20/200 if there is a field defect in which the peripheral field has contracted to such an extent that the widest diameter of visual field subtends an angular distance no greater than 20° in the better eye.
(4) Severe burn injury: Deep partial thickness or full thickness burns resulting in scar formation that cause contractures and limit motion of one or more extremities or the trunk and preclude effective operation of an automobile.
(5) Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
(6) For adaptive equipment eligibility only, ankylosis of one or both knees or one or both hips.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3901, 3902)
(c)
Claim for conveyance and certification for adaptive equipment.
A specific application for financial assistance in purchasing a conveyance is required which must contain a certification by the claimant that the conveyance will be operated only by persons properly licensed. The application will also be considered as an application for the adaptive equipment to insure that the claimant will be able to operate the conveyance in a manner consistent with safety and to satisfy the applicable standards of licensure of the proper licensing authorities. Simultaneously with the certification provided pursuant to the introductory text of this section, a claimant for financial assistance in the purchase of an automobile will be furnished a certificate of eligibility for financial assistance in the purchase of such adaptive equipment as may be appropriate to the claimant's losses unless the need for such equipment is contraindicated by a physical or legal inability to operate the vehicle. There is no time limitation in which to apply. An application by a claimant on active duty will be deemed to have been filed with VA on the date it is shown to have been placed in the hands of military authority for transmittal.
(d)
Additional eligibility criteria for adaptive equipment.
Claimants for adaptive equipment must also satisfy the additional eligibility criteria of §§ 17.156, 17.157, and 17.158 of this chapter.
(e)
Definition.
The term
adaptive equipment,
means generally, that equipment which must be part of or added to a conveyance manufactured for sale to the general public to make it safe for use by the claimant and to assist him or her in meeting the applicable standards of licensure of the proper licensing authority.
(1) With regard to automobiles and similar vehicles the term includes a basic automatic transmission as to a claimant who has lost or lost the use of a limb. In addition, the term includes, but is not limited to, power steering, power brakes, power window lifts and power seats. The term also includes air-conditioning equipment when such equipment is necessary to the health and safety of the veteran and to the safety of others, and special equipment necessary to assist the eligible person into or out of the automobile or other conveyance, regardless of whether the automobile or other conveyance is to be operated by the eligible person or is to be operated for such person by another person; and any modification of the interior space of the automobile or other conveyance if needed because of the physical condition of such person in order for such person to enter or operate the vehicle.
(2) With regard to automobiles and similar vehicles the term includes such items of equipment as the Chief Medical Director may, by directive, specify as ordinarily necessary for any of the classes of losses specified in paragraph (b) of this section and for any combination of such losses. Such specifications of equipment may include a limit on the financial assistance to be provided based on judgment and experience.
(3) The term also includes other equipment which the Chief Medical Director or designee may deem necessary in an individual case.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 1151(c)(2), 3902))
[36 FR 7588, Apr. 22, 1971, as amended at 38 FR 14370, June 1, 1973; 40 FR 37037, Aug. 25, 1975; 43 FR 4423, Feb. 2, 1978; 47 FR 24552, June 7, 1982; 53 FR 46607, Nov. 18, 1988; 66 FR 44528, Aug. 24, 2001; 71 FR 44919, Aug. 8, 2006; 78 FR 57487, Sept. 19, 2013; 80 FR 10003, Feb. 25, 2015; 87 FR 26126, May 3, 2022]
§ 3.809
Specially adapted housing under 38 U.S.C. 2101(a)(2)(A)(i).
In order for a certificate of eligibility for assistance in acquiring specially adapted housing under 38 U.S.C. 2101(a)(2)(A)(i) or 2101A(a) to be extended to a veteran or a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty, the following requirements must be met:
(a)
General.
A member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty must have a disability that was incurred or aggravated in line of duty in active military, naval, air, or space service and meets the requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section. A veteran must be entitled to compensation under chapter 11 of title 38, United States Code, for a service-connected disability that meets the requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Disability.
The disability must be rated as one of the following:
(1) A permanent and total disability due to the loss or loss of use of both lower extremities, such as to preclude locomotion without the aid of braces, crutches, canes, or a wheelchair.
(2) A permanent disability due to blindness in both eyes, having central visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye with the use of a standard correcting lens. For the purposes of this paragraph (b)(2), an eye with a limitation in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees shall be considered as having a central visual acuity of 20/200 or less.
(3) A permanent and total disability due to the loss or loss of use of one lower extremity together with residuals of organic disease or injury which so affect the functions of balance or propulsion as to preclude locomotion without the aid of braces, crutches, canes, or a wheelchair.
(4) A permanent and total disability due to the loss or loss of use of one lower extremity together with the loss or loss of use of one upper extremity which so affect the functions of balance or propulsion as to preclude locomotion without the aid of braces, crutches, canes, or a wheelchair.
(5) A permanent and total disability due to the loss or loss of use of both upper extremities such as to preclude use of the arms at or above the elbow.
(6) A permanent and total disability due to full thickness or subdermal burns that have resulted in contractures with limitation of motion of two or more extremities or of at least one extremity and the trunk.
(c)
Preclude locomotion.
This term means the necessity for regular and constant use of a wheelchair, braces, crutches or canes as a normal mode of locomotion although occasional locomotion by other methods may be possible.
(d)
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
VA considers § 3.809(b) satisfied if the veteran or member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty has service-connected amyotrophic lateral sclerosis rated 100 percent disabling under 38 CFR 4.124a, diagnostic code 8017.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 1151(c)(1), 2101, 2101A)
Cross Reference:
Assistance to certain disabled veterans in acquiring specially adapted housing. See §§ 36.4400 through 36.4410 of this chapter.
[78 FR 72576, Dec. 3, 2013, as amended at 86 FR 56215, Oct. 8, 2021; 87 FR 26126, May 3, 2022]
§ 3.809a
Special home adaptation grants under 38 U.S.C. 2101(b).
A certificate of eligibility for assistance in acquiring necessary special home adaptations, or, on or after October 28, 1986, for assistance in acquiring a residence already adapted with necessary special features, under 38 U.S.C. 2101(b) or 2101A(a) may be issued to a veteran who served after April 20, 1898, or to a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who is eligible for the benefit under this section on or after December 16, 2003, if the following requirements are met:
(a) The member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty or veteran is not entitled to a certificate of eligibility for assistance in acquiring specially adapted housing under § 3.809 nor had the member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty or veteran previously received assistance in acquiring specially adapted housing under 38 U.S.C. 2101(a). A member of the Armed
Forces serving on active duty or veteran who first establishes entitlement under this section and who later becomes eligible for a certificate of eligibility under § 3.809 may be issued a certificate of eligibility under § 3.809.
(b) A member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty must have a disability that was incurred or aggravated in line of duty in active military, naval, air, or space service and meets the requirements described in paragraph (c) of this section. A veteran must be entitled to compensation under chapter 11 of title 38, United States Code, for a disability that meets the requirements described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) VA has rated the disability as permanently and totally disabling and it:
(1) Includes the anatomical loss or loss of use of both hands;
(2) Is due to deep partial thickness burns that have resulted in contracture(s) with limitation of motion of two or more extremities or of at least one extremity and the trunk;
(3) Is due to full thickness or subdermal burns that have resulted in contracture(s) with limitation of motion of one or more extremities or the trunk; or
(4) Is due to residuals of an inhalation injury (including, but not limited to, pulmonary fibrosis, asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1151(c)(1), 2101, 2101A, 2104)

# Cross Reference:
Assistance to certain disabled veterans in acquiring specially adapted housing.
See
§§ 36.4400 through 36.4410 of this chapter.
[46 FR 47543, Sept. 29, 1981, as amended at 53 FR 23237, June 21, 1988; 75 FR 57861, Sept. 23, 2010; 79 FR 54609, Sept. 12, 2014; 86 FR 56216, Oct. 8, 2021; 87 FR 26126, May 3, 2022]
§ 3.810
Clothing allowance.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a veteran who has a service-connected disability, or a disability compensable under 38 U.S.C. 1151 as if it were service connected, is entitled, upon application therefore, to an annual clothing allowance, which is payable in a lump sum, as specified in this paragraph.
(1)
One clothing allowance.
A veteran is entitled to one annual clothing allowance if—
(i) A VA examination or a hospital or examination report from a facility specified in § 3.326(b) establishes that the veteran, because of a service-connected disability or disabilities due to loss or loss of use of a hand or foot compensable at a rate specified in § 3.350(a), (b), (c), (d), or (f), wears or uses one qualifying prosthetic or orthopedic appliance (including, but not limited to, a wheelchair) which tends to wear or tear clothing; or
(ii) The Under Secretary for Health or a designee certifies that—
(A) A veteran, because of a service-connected disability or disabilities, wears or uses one qualifying prosthetic or orthopedic appliance (including, but not limited to, a wheelchair) which tends to wear or tear clothing; or
(B) A veteran uses medication prescribed by a physician for one skin condition, which is due to a service-connected disability, that causes irreparable damage to the veteran's outergarments.
(2)
More than one clothing allowance; multiple types of garments affected.
A veteran is entitled to an annual clothing allowance for each prosthetic or orthopedic appliance (including, but not limited to, a wheelchair) or medication used by the veteran if each appliance or medication—
(i) Satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(ii) Affects a distinct type of article of clothing or outergarment.
(3)
Two clothing allowances; single type of garment affected.
A veteran is entitled to two annual clothing allowances if a veteran uses more than one prosthetic or orthopedic appliance, (including, but not limited to, a wheelchair), medication for more than one skin condition, or an appliance and a medication, and the appliance(s) or medication(s)—
(i) Each satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(ii) Together tend to wear or tear a single type of article of clothing or irreparably damage a type of outergarment at an increased rate of damage to the clothing or
outergarment due to a second appliance or medication.
(b) Effective August 1, 1972, the initial lump sum clothing allowance is due and payable for veterans meeting the eligibility requirements of paragraph (a) of this section as of that date. Subsequent annual payments for those meeting the eligibility requirements of paragraphs (a) of this section will become due on the anniversary date thereafter, both as to initial claims and recurring payments under previously established entitlement.
(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the application for clothing allowance must be filed within 1 year of the anniversary date (August 1) for which entitlement is initially established, otherwise, the application will be acceptable only to effect payment of the clothing allowance becoming due on any succeeding anniversary date for which entitlement is established, provided the application is filed within 1 year of such date. The 1-year period for filing application will include the anniversary date and terminate on July 31 of the following year.
(2) Where the initial determination of service connection for the qualifying disability is made subsequent to an anniversary date for which entitlement is established, the application for clothing allowance may be filed within 1 year from the date of notification to the veteran of such determination.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1162)
(d) If a veteran is incarcerated in a Federal, State, or local penal institution for a period of more than 60 days and is furnished clothing without charge by the institution, VA shall reduce the amount of the annual clothing allowance by 1/365th of the amount otherwise payable for each day the veteran was incarcerated during the 12-month period preceding the anniversary date for which entitlement is established. No reduction shall be made for the first 60 days of incarceration.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5313A)
[37 FR 19134, Sept. 19, 1972, as amended at 39 FR 2362, Jan. 21, 1974; 49 FR 28242, July 11, 1984; 56 FR 5756, Feb. 13, 1991; 62 FR 35422, July 1, 1997; 76 FR 70885, Nov. 16, 2011; 77 FR 34218, June 11, 2012]
§ 3.811
Minimum income annuity and gratuitous annuity.
(a)
Eligibility for minimum income annuity.
The minimum income annuity authorized by Public Law 92-425 as amended is payable to a person:
(1) Whom the Department of Defense or the Department of Transportation has determined meets the eligibility criteria of section 4(a) of Pub. L. 92-425 as amended other than section 4(a)(1) and (2); and
(2) Who is eligible for pension under subchapter III of chapter 15 of title 38, United States Code, or section 306 of the Veterans' and Survivors' Pension Improvement Act of 1978; and
(3) Whose annual income, as determined in establishing pension eligibility, is less than the maximum annual rate of pension in effect under 38 U.S.C. 1541(b).
(b)
Computation of the minimum income annuity payment
—(1)
Annual income.
VA will determine a beneficiary's annual income for minimum income annuity purposes under the provisions of §§ 3.271 and 3.272 of this part for beneficiaries receiving improved pension, or under §§ 3.260 through 3.262 of this part for beneficiaries receiving old law or section 306 pensions, except that the amount of the minimum income annuity will be excluded from the calculation.
(2) VA will determine the minimum income annuity payment for beneficiaries entitled to improved pension by subtracting the annual income for minimum income annuity purposes from the maximum annual pension rate under 38 U.S.C. 1541(b).
(3) VA will determine the minimum income annuity payment for beneficiaries receiving old law and section 306 pensions by reducing the maximum annual pension rate under 38 U.S.C. 1541(b) by the amount of the Retired Servicemen's Family Protection Plan benefit, if any, that the beneficiary receives and subtracting from that amount the annual income for minimum income annuity purposes.
(4) VA will recompute the monthly minimum income annuity payment whenever there is a change to the maximum annual rate of pension in effect under 38 U.S.C. 1541(b), and whenever
there is a change in the beneficiary's income.
(c) An individual otherwise eligible for pension under subchapter III of chapter 15 of title 38, United States Code, or section 306 of the Veterans' and Survivors' Pension Improvement Act of 1978 shall be considered eligible for pension for purposes of determining eligibility for the minimum income annuity even though as a result of adding the amount of the minimum income annuity authorized under Public Law 92-425 as amended to any other countable income, no amount of pension is due.
(d) If the Department of Defense or the Department of Transportation determines that a minimum income annuitant also is entitled to the gratuitous annuity authorized by Pub. L. 100-456 as amended, which is payable to certain surviving spouses of servicemembers who died before November 1, 1953, and were entitled to retired or retainer pay on the date of death, VA will combine the payment of the gratuitous annuity with the minimum income annuity payment.
(e)
Termination.
Other than as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if a beneficiary receiving the minimum income annuity becomes ineligible for pension, VA will terminate the minimum income annuity effective the same date.
(Authority: Sec. 4, Pub. L. 92-425, 86 Stat. 706, 712, as amended (10 U.S.C. 1448 note))
[63 FR 412, Jan. 6, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 62943, Nov. 10, 1998]
§ 3.812
Special allowance payable under section 156 of Pub. L. 97-377.
The provisions of this section apply to the payment of a special allowance to certain surviving spouses and children of individuals who died on active duty prior to August 13, 1981, or who died as a result of a service-connected disability which was incurred or aggravated prior to August 13, 1981. This special allowance is a replacement for certain social security benefits which were either reduced or terminated by provisions of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981.
(a)
Eligibility requirements.
(1) A determination must first be made that the person on whose earnings record the claim is based either died on active duty prior to August 13, 1981, or died as a result of a service-connected disability which was incurred or aggravated prior to August 13, 1981. For purposes of this determination, character of discharge is not a factor for consideration, and death on active duty subsequent to August 12, 1981, is qualifying provided that the death resulted from a service-connected disability which was incurred or aggravated prior to August 13, 1981.
(2) Once a favorable determination has been made under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, determinations as to the age, relationship and school attendance requirements contained in paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of section 156 of Pub. L. 97-377 will be made. In making these eligibility determinations VA shall apply the provisions of the Social Security Act, and any regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, as in effect during the claimant's period of eligibility. Unless otherwise provided in this section, when issues are raised concerning eligibility or entitlement to this special allowance which cannot be appropriately resolved under the provisions of the Social Security Act, or the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, the provisions of title 38, Code of Federal Regulations, are for application.
(b)
Computation of payment rate
—(1)
Basic entitlement rate.
A basic entitlement rate will be computed for each eligible claimant in accordance with the provisions of subparagraphs (a)(2) and (b)(2) of section 156 of Pub. L. 97-377 using data to be provided by the Social Security Administration. This basic entitlement rate will then be used to compute the monthly payment rate as described in paragraphs (b)(2) to (b)(6) of this section.
(2)
Original or reopened awards to surviving spouses.
The monthly payment rate shall be equal to the basic entitlement rate increased by the overall average percentage (rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent) of each legislative increase in dependency and indemnity compensation rates under 38 U.S.C. 1311 which became effective concurrently with or subsequent to the effective date of the earliest adjustment
under section 215(i) of the Social Security Act that was disregarded in computing the basic entitlement rate.
(3)
Original and reopened awards to children.
The monthly payment rate shall be equal to the basic entitlement rate increased by the overall average percentage (rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent) of each legislative increase in the rates of educational assistance allowance under 38 U.S.C. 3531(b) which became effective concurrently with or subsequent to the effective date of the earliest adjustment under section 215(i) of the Social Security Act that was disregarded in computing the basic entitlement rate.
(4)
Subsequent legislative increases in rates.
The monthly rate of special allowance payable to a surviving spouse shall be increased by the same overall average percentage increase (rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent) and on the same effective date as any legislative increase in the rates payable under 38 U.S.C. 1311. The monthly rate of special allowance payable to a child shall be increased by the same overall average percentage increase (rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent) and on the same effective date as any legislative increase in the rates payable under 38 U.S.C. 3531(b).
(5)
Amendment of awards.
Prompt action shall be taken to amend any award of this special allowance to conform with evidence indicating a change in basic eligibility, any basic entitlement rate, or any effective date previously determined. It is the claimant's responsibility to promptly notify VA of any change in their status or employment which affects eligibility or entitlement.
(6)
Rounding of monthly rates.
Any monthly rate computed under the provisions of this paragraph, if not a multiple of $1, shall be rounded to the next lower multiple of $1.
(c)
Claimants not entitled to this special allowance.
The following are not entitled to this special allowance for the reasons indicated.
(1) Claimants eligible for death benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1151. The deaths in such cases are not service-connected.
(2) Claimants eligible for death benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1318. The deaths in such cases are not service connected.
(3) Claimants whose claims are based on an individual's service in:
(i) The Commonwealth Army of the Philippines while such forces were in the service of the Armed Forces pursuant to the military order of the President dated July 26, 1941, including recognized guerrilla forces (see 38 U.S.C. 107).
(ii) The Philippine Scouts under section 14, Pub. L. 190, 79th Congress (see 38 U.S.C. 107).
(iii) The commissioned corps of the Public Health Service (specifically excluded by section 156 of Pub. L. 97-377), or
(iv) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (specifically excluded by section 156 of Pub. L. 97-377).
(d)
Appellate jurisdiction.
VA shall have appellate jurisdiction of all determinations made in connection with this special allowance.
(e)
Claims.
Claimants must file or submit a complete claim on a paper or electronic form prescribed by the Secretary in order for VA to pay this special allowance. When VA receives an intent to file a claim or inquiries as to eligibility, VA will follow the procedures outlined in § 3.155. Otherwise, the date of receipt of the complete claim will be accepted as the date of claim for this special allowance. See §§ 3.150, 3.151, 3.155, 3.400.
(f)
Retroactivity and effective dates.
There is no time limit for filing a claim for this special allowance. Upon the filing of a complete claim, benefits shall be payable for all periods of eligibility beginning on or after the first day of the month in which the claimant first became eligible for this special allowance, except that no payment may be made for any period prior to January 1, 1983.
(Authority: Sec. 156, Pub. L. 97-377, 96 Stat. 1830, 1920 (1982))
[49 FR 21709, May 23, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 26030, June 21, 1989; 60 FR 20643, Apr. 27, 1995; 79 FR 57697, Sept. 25, 2014]
§ 3.813
Interim benefits for disability or death due to chloracne or porphyria cutanea tarda.
(a)
Disability benefits.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a
veteran who served in the active military, naval or air service in the Republic of Vietnam during the Vietnam era, and who suffers from chloracne or porphyria cutanea tarda which became manifest within one year after the date of the veteran's most recent departure from the Republic of Vietnam during such service, shall be paid interim disability benefits under this section in the same manner and to the same extent that compensation would be payable if such disabilities were service-connected.
(b)
Death benefits.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if a veteran described in paragraph (a) of this section dies as a result of chloracne or porphyria cutanea tarda, the veteran's survivors shall be paid interim death benefits under this section based upon the same elgibility requirements and at the same rates that dependency and indemnity compensation would be payable if the death were service-connected.
(c)
Exceptions.
Benefits under this section are not payable for any month for which compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation is payable for the same disability or death, nor are benefits payable under this section (1) when there is affirmative evidence that the disease was not incurred by the veteran during service in the Republic of Vietnam during the Vietnam era, (2) when there is affirmative evidence to establish that an intercurrent injury or disease, which is a recognized cause of the disease for which benefits are being claimed, was suffered by the veteran between the date of the veteran's most recent departure from the Republic of Vietnam during active military, naval or air service and the onset of the claimed disease, or (3) if it is determined, based on evidence in the veteran's service records and other records provided by the Secretary of Defense, that the veteran was not exposed to dioxin during active military, naval or air service in the Republic of Vietnam during the Vietnam era.
(d)
Similarity to service-connected benefits.
For purposes of all laws administered by VA (except chapters 11 and 13 of title 38 U.S.C.), a disease establishing eligibility for disability or death benefits under this section shall be treated as if it were service-connected, and the receipt of disability or death benefits shall be treated as if such benefits were compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation, respectively.
(e)
Effective dates.
Benefits under this section may not be paid for any period prior to October 1, 1984, nor for any period after September 30, 1986.
(Authority: Pub. L. 98-542)
[50 FR 34460, Aug. 26, 1985]
§ 3.814
Monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 18 for an individual suffering from spina bifida whose biological father or mother is or was a Vietnam veteran or a veteran with covered service in Korea.
(a)
Monthly monetary allowance.
VA will pay a monthly monetary allowance under subchapter I of 38 U.S.C. chapter 18, based upon the level of disability determined under the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, to or for a person who VA has determined is an individual suffering from spina bifida whose biological mother or father is or was a Vietnam veteran or a veteran with covered service in Korea. Receipt of this allowance will not affect the right of the individual or any related person to receive any other benefit to which he or she may be entitled under any law administered by VA. An individual suffering from spina bifida is entitled to only one monthly allowance under this section, even if the individual's biological father and mother are or were both Vietnam veterans or veterans with covered service in Korea.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Definitions
—(1)
Vietnam veteran.
For the purposes of this section, the term “Vietnam veteran” means a person who performed active military, naval, or air service in the Republic of Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 1975, without regard to the characterization of the person's service.
Service in the Republic of Vietnam
includes service in the waters offshore and service in other locations if the conditions of service involved duty or visitation in the Republic of Vietnam.
(2)
Covered service in Korea.
For the purposes of this section, the term
“veteran with covered service in Korea” means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service in or near the Korean DMZ between September 1, 1967, and August 31, 1971, and who is determined by VA, in consultation with the Department of Defense, to have been exposed to an herbicide agent during such service. Exposure to an herbicide agent will be conceded if the veteran served between April 1, 1968, and August 31, 1971, in a unit that, as determined by the Department of Defense, operated in or near the Korean DMZ in an area in which herbicides are known to have been applied during that period, unless there is affirmative evidence to establish that the veteran was not exposed to any such agent during that service.
(3)
Individual.
For the purposes of this section, the term “individual” means a person, regardless of age or marital status, whose biological father or mother is or was a Vietnam veteran and who was conceived after the date on which the veteran first served in the Republic of Vietnam during the Vietnam era, or whose biological father or mother is or was a veteran with covered service in Korea and who was conceived after the date on which the veteran first had covered service in Korea as defined in this section. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 3.204(a)(1), VA will require the types of evidence specified in §§ 3.209 and 3.210 sufficient to establish in the judgment of the Secretary that a person is the biological son or daughter of a Vietnam veteran or a veteran with covered service in Korea.
(4)
Spina bifida.
For the purposes of this section, the term “spina bifida” means any form and manifestation of spina bifida except spina bifida occulta.
(d)
Disability evaluations.
(1) Except as otherwise specified in this paragraph, VA will determine the level of payment as follows:
(i)
Level I.
The individual walks without braces or other external support as his or her primary means of mobility in the community, has no sensory or motor impairment of the upper extremities, has an IQ of 90 or higher, and is continent of urine and feces without the use of medication or other means to control incontinence.
(ii)
Level II.
Provided that none of the disabilities is severe enough to warrant payment at Level III, and the individual: walks with braces or other external support as his or her primary means of mobility in the community; or, has sensory or motor impairment of the upper extremities, but is able to grasp pen, feed self, and perform self care; or, has an IQ of at least 70 but less than 90; or, requires medication or other means to control the effects of urinary bladder impairment and no more than two times per week is unable to remain dry for at least three hours at a time during waking hours; or, requires bowel management techniques or other treatment to control the effects of bowel impairment but does not have fecal leakage severe or frequent enough to require wearing of absorbent materials at least four days a week; or, has a colostomy that does not require wearing a bag.
(iii)
Level III.
The individual uses a wheelchair as his or her primary means of mobility in the community; or, has sensory or motor impairment of the upper extremities severe enough to prevent grasping a pen, feeding self, and performing self care; or, has an IQ of 69 or less; or, despite the use of medication or other means to control the effects of urinary bladder impairment, at least three times per week is unable to remain dry for three hours at a time during waking hours; or, despite bowel management techniques or other treatment to control the effects of bowel impairment, has fecal leakage severe or frequent enough to require wearing of absorbent materials at least four days a week; or, regularly requires manual evacuation or digital stimulation to empty the bowel; or, has a colostomy that requires wearing a bag.
(2) If an individual who would otherwise be paid at Level I or II has one or more disabilities, such as blindness, uncontrolled seizures, or renal failure that result either from spina bifida, or from treatment procedures for spina bifida, the Director of the Compensation Service may increase the monthly payment to the level that, in his or her judgment, best represents the extent to which the disabilities resulting from spina bifida limit the individual's ability to engage in ordinary day-to-day
activities, including activities outside the home. A Level II or Level III payment will be awarded depending on whether the effects of a disability are of equivalent severity to the effects specified under Level II or Level III.
(3) VA may accept statements from private physicians, or examination reports from government or private institutions, for the purpose of rating spina bifida claims without further examination, provided the statements or reports are adequate for assessing the level of disability due to spina bifida under the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section. In the absence of adequate medical information, VA will schedule an examination for the purpose of assessing the level of disability.
(4) VA will pay an individual eligible for a monetary allowance due to spina bifida at Level I unless or until it receives medical evidence supporting a higher payment. When required to reassess the level of disability under paragraph (d)(5) or (d)(6) of this section, VA will pay an individual eligible for this monetary allowance at Level I in the absence of evidence adequate to support a higher level of disability or if the individual fails to report, without good cause, for a scheduled examination. Examples of good cause include, but are not limited to, the illness or hospitalization of the claimant, death of an immediate family member, etc.
(5) VA will pay individuals under the age of one year at Level I unless a pediatric neurologist or a pediatric neurosurgeon certifies that, in his or her medical judgment, there is a neurological deficit that will prevent the individual from ambulating, grasping a pen, feeding himself or herself, performing self care, or from achieving urinary or fecal continence. If any of those deficits are present, VA will pay the individual at Level III. In either case, VA will reassess the level of disability when the individual reaches the age of one year.
(6) VA will reassess the level of payment whenever it receives medical evidence indicating that a change is warranted. For individuals between the ages of one and twenty-one, however, it must reassess the level of payment at least every five years.
(e)
Effective dates.
Except as otherwise provided, VA will award the monetary allowance for an individual suffering from spina bifida based on an initial claim or supplemental claim as of the date VA received the claim (or the date of birth if the claim is received within 1 year of that date) or the date entitlement arose, whichever is later.
(1) VA will increase benefits as of the earliest date the evidence establishes that the level of severity increased, but only if the beneficiary applies for an increase within one year of that date.
(2) If a claimant reopens a previously disallowed claim based on corrected military records, VA will award the benefit from the latest of the following dates: the date the veteran or beneficiary applied for a correction of the military records; the date the disallowed claim was filed; or, the date one year before the date of receipt of the reopened claim.
(f)
Reductions and discontinuances.
VA will generally reduce or discontinue awards according to the facts found except as provided in §§ 3.105 and 3.114(b).
(1) If benefits were paid erroneously because of beneficiary error, VA will reduce or discontinue benefits as of the effective date of the erroneous award.
(2) If benefits were paid erroneously because of administrative error, VA will reduce or discontinue benefits as of the date of last payment.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1805, 1811, 1812, 1821, 1831, 1832, 1833, 1834, 5101, 5110, 5111, 5112)

# Cross Reference:
38 CFR 3.307(a)(6)(iv).
[62 FR 51279, Sept. 30, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 35282, June 2, 2000; 66 FR 13436, Mar. 6, 2001; 67 FR 49587, July 31, 2002; 76 FR 4249, Jan. 25, 2011; 79 FR 2100, Jan. 13, 2014; 84 FR 171, Jan. 18, 2019]
§ 3.815
Monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 18 for an individual with disability from covered birth defects whose biological mother is or was a Vietnam veteran; identification of covered birth defects.
(a)
Monthly monetary allowance
—(1)
General.
VA will pay a monthly monetary allowance under subchapter II of 38 U.S.C. chapter 18 to or for an individual whose biological mother is or was a Vietnam veteran and who VA has determined to have disability resulting
from one or more covered birth defects. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the amount of the monetary allowance paid will be based upon the level of such disability suffered by the individual, as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section.
(2)
Affirmative evidence of cause other than mother's service during Vietnam era.
No monetary allowance will be provided under this section based on a particular birth defect of an individual in any case where affirmative evidence establishes that the birth defect results from a cause other than the active military, naval, or air service of the individual's mother during the Vietnam era and, in determining the level of disability for an individual with more than one birth defect, the particular defect resulting from other causes will be excluded from consideration. This will not prevent VA from paying a monetary allowance under this section for other birth defects.
(3)
Nonduplication; spina bifida.
In the case of an individual whose only covered birth defect is spina bifida, a monetary allowance will be paid under § 3.814, and not under this section, nor will the individual be evaluated for disability under this section. In the case of an individual who has spina bifida and one or more additional covered birth defects, a monetary allowance will be paid under this section and the amount of the monetary allowance will be not less than the amount the individual would receive if his or her only covered birth defect were spina bifida. If, but for the individual's one or more additional covered birth defects, the monetary allowance payable to or for the individual would be based on an evaluation at Level I, II, or III, respectively, under § 3.814(d), the evaluation of the individual's level of disability under paragraph (e) of this section will be not less than Level II, III, or IV, respectively.
(b)
No effect on other VA benefits.
Receipt of a monetary allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 18 will not affect the right of the individual, or the right of any person based on the individual's relationship to that person, to receive any other benefit to which the individual, or that person, may be entitled under any law administered by VA.
(c)
Definitions
—(1)
Vietnam veteran.
For the purposes of this section, the term
Vietnam veteran
means a person who performed active military, naval, or air service in the Republic of Vietnam during the period beginning on February 28, 1961, and ending on May 7, 1975, without regard to the characterization of the person's service. Service in the Republic of Vietnam includes service in the waters offshore and service in other locations if the conditions of service involved duty or visitation in the Republic of Vietnam.
(2)
Individual.
For the purposes of this section, the term individual means a person, regardless of age or marital status, whose biological mother is or was a Vietnam veteran and who was conceived after the date on which the veteran first entered the Republic of Vietnam during the period beginning on February 28, 1961, and ending on May 7, 1975. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 3.204(a)(1), VA will require the types of evidence specified in §§ 3.209 and 3.210 sufficient to establish that a person is the biological son or daughter of a Vietnam veteran.
(3)
Covered birth defect.
For the purposes of this section, the term
covered birth defect
means any birth defect identified by VA as a birth defect that is associated with the service of women Vietnam veterans in the Republic of Vietnam during the period beginning on February 28, 1961, and ending on May 7, 1975, and that has resulted, or may result, in permanent physical or mental disability. However, the term
covered birth defect
does not include a condition due to a:
(i) Familial disorder;
(ii) Birth-related injury; or
(iii) Fetal or neonatal infirmity with well-established causes.
(d)
Identification of covered birth defects.
All birth defects that are not excluded under the provisions of this paragraph are covered birth defects.
(1) Covered birth defects include, but are not limited to, the following (however, if a birth defect is determined to be familial in a particular family, it will not be a covered birth defect):
(i) Achondroplasia;
(ii) Cleft lip and cleft palate;
(iii) Congenital heart disease;
(iv) Congenital talipes equinovarus (clubfoot);
(v) Esophageal and intestinal atresia;
(vi) Hallerman-Streiff syndrome;
(vii) Hip dysplasia;
(viii) Hirschprung's disease (congenital megacolon);
(ix) Hydrocephalus due to aqueductal stenosis;
(x) Hypospadias;
(xi) Imperforate anus;
(xii) Neural tube defects (including spina bifida, encephalocele, and anencephaly);
(xiii) Poland syndrome;
(xiv) Pyloric stenosis;
(xv) Syndactyly (fused digits);
(xvi) Tracheoesophageal fistula;
(xvii) Undescended testicle; and
(xviii) Williams syndrome.
(2) Birth defects that are familial disorders, including hereditary genetic conditions, are not covered birth defects. Familial disorders include, but are not limited to, the following, unless the birth defect is not familial in a particular family:
(i) Albinism;
(ii) Alpha-antitrypsin deficiency;
(iii) Crouzon syndrome;
(iv) Cystic fibrosis;
(v) Duchenne's muscular dystrophy;
(vi) Galactosemia;
(vii) Hemophilia;
(viii) Huntington's disease;
(ix) Hurler syndrome;
(x) Kartagener's syndrome (Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia);
(xi) Marfan syndrome;
(xii) Neurofibromatosis;
(xiii) Osteogenesis imperfecta;
(xiv) Pectus excavatum;
(xv) Phenylketonuria;
(xvi) Sickle cell disease;
(xvii) Tay-Sachs disease;
(xviii) Thalassemia; and
(xix) Wilson's disease.
(3) Conditions that are congenital malignant neoplasms are not covered birth defects. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Medulloblastoma;
(ii) Neuroblastoma;
(iii) Retinoblastoma;
(iv) Teratoma; and
(v) Wilm's tumor.
(4) Conditions that are chromosomal disorders are not covered birth defects. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Down syndrome and other Trisomies;
(ii) Fragile X syndrome;
(iii) Klinefelter's syndrome; and
(iv) Turner's syndrome.
(5) Conditions that are due to birth-related injury are not covered birth defects. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Brain damage due to anoxia during or around time of birth;
(ii) Cerebral palsy due to birth trauma, (iii) Facial nerve palsy or other peripheral nerve injury;
(iv) Fractured clavicle; and
(v) Horner's syndrome due to forceful manipulation during birth.
(6) Conditions that are due to a fetal or neonatal infirmity with well-established causes or that are miscellaneous pediatric conditions are not covered birth defects. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Asthma and other allergies;
(ii) Effects of maternal infection during pregnancy, including but not limited to, maternal rubella, toxoplasmosis, or syphilis;
(iii) Fetal alcohol syndrome or fetal effects of maternal drug use;
(iv) Hyaline membrane disease;
(v) Maternal-infant blood incompatibility;
(vi) Neonatal infections;
(vii) Neonatal jaundice;
(viii) Post-infancy deafness/hearing impairment (onset after the age of one year);
(ix) Prematurity; and
(x) Refractive disorders of the eye.
(7) Conditions that are developmental disorders are not covered birth defects. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Attention deficit disorder;
(ii) Autism;
(iii) Epilepsy diagnosed after infancy (after the age of one year);
(iv) Learning disorders; and
(v) Mental retardation (unless part of a syndrome that is a covered birth defect).
(8) Conditions that do not result in permanent physical or mental disability are not covered birth defects. These include, but are not limited to:
(i) Conditions rendered non-disabling through treatment;
(ii) Congenital heart problems surgically corrected or resolved without disabling residuals;
(iii) Heart murmurs unassociated with a diagnosed cardiac abnormality;
(iv) Hemangiomas that have resolved with or without treatment; and
(v) Scars (other than of the head, face, or neck) as the only residual of corrective surgery for birth defects.
(e)
Disability evaluations.
Whenever VA determines, upon receipt of competent medical evidence, that an individual has one or more covered birth defects, VA will determine the level of disability currently resulting, in combination, from the covered birth defects and associated disabilities. No monetary allowance will be payable under this section if VA determines under this paragraph that an individual has no current disability resulting from the covered birth defects, unless VA determines that the provisions of paragraph (a)(3) of this section are for application. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, VA will determine the level of disability as follows:
(1)
Levels of disability.
(i)
Level 0.
The individual has no current disability resulting from covered birth defects.
(ii)
Level I.
The individual meets one or more of the following criteria:
(A) The individual has residual physical or mental effects that only occasionally or intermittently limit or prevent some daily activities; or
(B) The individual has disfigurement or scarring of the head, face, or neck without gross distortion or gross asymmetry of any facial feature (nose, chin, forehead, eyes (including eyelids), ears (auricles), cheeks, or lips).
(iii)
Level II.
The individual meets one or more of the following criteria:
(A) The individual has residual physical or mental effects that frequently or constantly limit or prevent some daily activities, but the individual is able to work or attend school, carry out most household chores, travel, and provide age-appropriate self-care, such as eating, dressing, grooming, and carrying out personal hygiene, and communication, behavior, social interaction, and intellectual functioning are appropriate for age; or
(B) The individual has disfigurement or scarring of the head, face, or neck with either gross distortion or gross asymmetry of one facial feature or one paired set of facial features (nose, chin, forehead, eyes (including eyelids), ears (auricles), cheeks, or lips).
(iv)
Level III.
The individual meets one or more of the following criteria:
(A) The individual has residual physical or mental effects that frequently or constantly limit or prevent most daily activities, but the individual is able to provide age-appropriate self-care, such as eating, dressing, grooming, and carrying out personal hygiene;
(B) The individual is unable to work or attend school, travel, or carry out household chores, or does so intermittently and with difficulty;
(C) The individual's communication, behavior, social interaction, and intellectual functioning are not entirely appropriate for age; or
(D) The individual has disfigurement or scarring of the head, face, or neck with either gross distortion or gross asymmetry of two facial features or two paired sets of facial features (nose, chin, forehead, eyes (including eyelids), ears (auricles), cheeks, or lips).
(v)
Level IV.
The individual meets one or more of the following criteria:
(A) The individual has residual physical or mental effects that prevent age-appropriate self-care, such as eating, dressing, grooming, and carrying out personal hygiene;
(B) The individual's communication, behavior, social interaction, and intellectual functioning are grossly inappropriate for age; or
(C) The individual has disfigurement or scarring of the head, face, or neck with either gross distortion or gross asymmetry of three facial features or three paired sets of facial features (nose, chin, forehead, eyes (including eyelids), ears (auricles), cheeks, or lips).
(2)
Assessing limitation of daily activities.
Physical or mental effects on the following functions are to be considered in assessing limitation of daily activities:
(i) Mobility (ability to stand and walk, including balance and coordination);
(ii) Manual dexterity;
(iii) Stamina;
(iv) Speech;
(v) Hearing;
(vi) Vision (other than correctable refraction errors);
(vii) Memory;
(viii) Ability to concentrate;
(ix) Appropriateness of behavior; and
(x) Urinary and fecal continence.
(f)
Information for determining whether individuals have covered birth defects and rating disability levels.
(1) VA may accept statements from private physicians, or examination reports from government or private institutions, for the purposes of determining whether an individual has a covered birth defect and for rating claims for covered birth defects. If they are adequate for such purposes, VA may make the determination and rating without further examination. In the absence of adequate information, VA may schedule examinations for the purpose of determining whether an individual has a covered birth defect and/or assessing the level of disability.
(2) Except in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section, VA will not pay a monthly monetary allowance unless or until VA is able to obtain medical evidence adequate to determine that an individual has a covered birth defect and adequate to assess the level of disability due to covered birth defects.
(g)
Redeterminations.
VA will reassess a determination under this section whenever it receives evidence indicating that a change is warranted.
(h)
Referrals.
If a regional office is unclear in any case as to whether a condition is a covered birth defect, it may refer the issue to the Director of the Compensation Service for determination.
(i)
Effective dates.
Except as provided in § 3.114(a) or paragraph (i)(1) or (2) of this section, VA will award the monetary allowance under subchapter II of 38 U.S.C. chapter 18, for an individual with disability resulting from one or more covered birth defects, based on an initial claim or supplemental claim, as of the date VA received the claim (or the date of birth if the claim is received within one year of that date), the date entitlement arose, or December 1, 2001, whichever is latest. Subject to the condition that no benefits may be paid for any period prior to December 1, 2001:
(1) VA will increase benefits as of the earliest date the evidence establishes that the level of severity increased, but only if the beneficiary applies for an increase within one year of that date.
(2) If a claimant reopens a previously disallowed claim based on corrected military records, VA will award the benefit from the latest of the following dates: the date the veteran or beneficiary applied for a correction of the military records; the date the disallowed claim was filed; or, the date one year before the date of receipt of the reopened claim.
(j)
Reductions and discontinuances.
VA will generally reduce or discontinue awards under subchapter II of 38 U.S.C. chapter 18 according to the facts found except as provided in §§ 3.105 and 3.114(b).
(1) If benefits were paid erroneously because of beneficiary error, VA will reduce or discontinue benefits as of the effective date of the erroneous award.
(2) If benefits were paid erroneously because of administrative error, VA will reduce or discontinue benefits as of the date of last payment.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1811, 1812, 1813, 1814, 1815, 1816, 1831, 1832, 1833, 1834, 5101, 5110, 5111, 5112)
[67 FR 49588, July 31, 2002, as amended at 76 FR 4249, Jan. 25, 2011; 79 FR 2100, Jan. 13, 2014; 84 FR 171, Jan. 18, 2019]
§ 3.816
Awards under the Nehmer Court Orders for disability or death caused by a condition presumptively associated with herbicide exposure.
(a)
Purpose.
This section states effective-date rules required by orders of a United States district court in the class-action case of
Nehmer
v.
United States Department of Veterans Affairs,
No. CV-86-6160 TEH (N.D. Cal.).
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section—
(1)
Nehmer class member
means:
(i) A Vietnam veteran who has a covered herbicide disease; or
(ii) A surviving spouse, child, or parent of a deceased Vietnam veteran who died from a covered herbicide disease.
(2)
Covered herbicide disease
means a disease for which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs has established a presumption of service connection pursuant to the Agent Orange Act of 1991, Public Law 102-4, other than chloracne, as provided in § 3.309(e).
(c)
Effective date of disability compensation.
If a
Nehmer
class member is entitled to disability compensation for a covered herbicide disease, the effective date of the award will be as follows:
(1) If VA denied compensation for the same covered herbicide disease in a decision issued between September 25, 1985 and May 3, 1989, the effective date of the award will be the later of the date VA received the claim on which the prior denial was based or the date the disability arose, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. A prior decision will be construed as having denied compensation for the same disease if the prior decision denied compensation for a disease that reasonably may be construed as the same covered herbicide disease for which compensation has been awarded. Minor differences in the terminology used in the prior decision will not preclude a finding, based on the record at the time of the prior decision, that the prior decision denied compensation for the same covered herbicide disease.
(2) If the class member's claim for disability compensation for the covered herbicide disease was either pending before VA on May 3, 1989, or was received by VA between that date and the effective date of the statute or regulation establishing a presumption of service connection for the covered disease, the effective date of the award will be the later of the date such claim was received by VA or the date the disability arose, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. A claim will be considered a claim for compensation for a particular covered herbicide disease if:
(i) The claimant's application and other supporting statements and submissions may reasonably be viewed, under the standards ordinarily governing compensation claims, as indicating an intent to apply for compensation for the covered herbicide disability; or
(ii) VA issued a decision on the claim, between May 3, 1989 and the effective date of the statute or regulation establishing a presumption of service connection for the covered disease, in which VA denied compensation for a disease that reasonably may be construed as the same covered herbicide disease for which compensation has been awarded.
(3) If the class member's claim referred to in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section was received within one year from the date of the class member's separation from service, the effective date of the award shall be the day following the date of the class member's separation from active service.
(4) If the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section are not met, the effective date of the award shall be determined in accordance with §§ 3.114 and 3.400.
(d)
Effective date of dependency and indemnity compensation (DIC).
If a Nehmer class member is entitled to DIC for a death due to a covered herbicide disease, the effective date of the award will be as follows:
(1) If VA denied DIC for the death in a decision issued between September 25, 1985 and May 3, 1989, the effective date of the award will be the later of the date VA received the claim on which such prior denial was based or the date the death occurred, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(2) If the class member's claim for DIC for the death was either pending before VA on May 3, 1989, or was received by VA between that date and the effective date of the statute or regulation establishing a presumption of service connection for the covered herbicide disease that caused the death, the effective date of the award will be the later of the date such claim was received by VA or the date the death occurred, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. In accordance with § 3.152(b)(1), a claim by a surviving spouse or child for death pension will be considered a claim for DIC.
In all other cases, a claim will be considered a claim for DIC if the claimant's application and other supporting statements and submissions may reasonably be viewed, under the standards ordinarily governing DIC claims, as indicating an intent to apply for DIC.
(3) If the class member's claim referred to in paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section was received within one year from the date of the veteran's death, the effective date of the award shall be the first day of the month in which the death occurred.
(4) If the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section are not met, the effective date of the award shall be determined in accordance with §§ 3.114 and 3.400.
(e)
Effect of other provisions affecting retroactive entitlement
—(1)
General.
If the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) or (c)(2) or (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section are satisfied, the effective date shall be assigned as specified in those paragraphs, without regard to the provisions in 38 U.S.C. 5110(g) or § 3.114 prohibiting payment for periods prior to the effective date of the statute or regulation establishing a presumption of service connection for a covered herbicide disease. However, the provisions of this section will not apply if payment to a
Nehmer
class member based on a claim described in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section is otherwise prohibited by statute or regulation, as, for example, where a class member did not qualify as a surviving spouse at the time of the prior claim or denial.
(2)
Claims Based on Service in the Republic of Vietnam Prior to August 5, 1964.
If a claim referred to in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section was denied by VA prior to January 1, 1997, and the veteran's service in the Republic of Vietnam ended before August 5, 1964, the effective-date rules of this regulation do not apply. The effective date of benefits in such cases shall be determined in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 5110. If a claim referred to in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section was pending before VA on January 1, 1997, or was received by VA after that date, and the veteran's service in the Republic of Vietnam ended before August 5, 1964, the effective date shall be the later of the date provided by paragraph (c) or (d) of this section or January 1, 1997.
(Authority: Public Law 104-275, sec. 505)
(f)
Payment of Benefits to Survivors or Estates of Deceased Beneficiaries
—(1)
General.
If a
Nehmer
class member entitled to retroactive benefits pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) or (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section dies prior to receiving payment of any such benefits, VA shall pay such unpaid retroactive benefits to the first individual or entity listed below that is in existence at the time of payment:
(i) The class member's spouse, regardless of current marital status.

# Note to paragraph (
f

# )(1)(
i

# ):
For purposes of this paragraph, a spouse is the person who was legally married to the class member at the time of the class member's death.
(ii) The class member's child(ren), regardless of age or marital status (if more than one child exists, payment will be made in equal shares, accompanied by an explanation of the division).

# Note to paragraph (
f

# )(1)(
ii

# ):
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “child” includes natural and adopted children, and also includes any stepchildren who were members of the class member's household at the time of the class member's death.
(iii) The class member's parent(s), regardless of dependency (if both parents are alive, payment will be made in equal shares, accompanied by an explanation of the division).

# Note to paragraph (
f

# )(1)(
iii

# ):
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “parent” includes natural and adoptive parents, but in the event of successive parents, the persons who last stood as parents in relation to the class member will be considered the parents.
(iv) The class member's estate.
(2)
Inapplicability of certain accrued benefit requirements.
The provisions of 38 U.S.C. 5121(c) and § 3.1000(c) requiring survivors to file claims for accrued benefits do not apply to payments under this section. When a
Nehmer
class member dies prior to receiving retroactive payments under this section, VA will pay the amount to an identified payee in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section without requiring an application from the
payee. Prior to releasing such payment, however, VA may ask the payee to provide further information as specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(3)
Identifying payees.
VA shall make reasonable efforts to identify the appropriate payee(s) under paragraph (f)(1) of this section based on information in the veteran's claims file. If further information is needed to determine whether any appropriate payee exists or whether there are any persons having equal or higher precedence than a known prospective payee, VA will request such information from a survivor or authorized representative if the claims file provides sufficient contact information. Before releasing payment to an identified payee, VA will ask the payee to state whether there are any other survivors of the class member who may have equal or greater entitlement to payment under this section, unless the circumstances clearly indicate that such a request is unnecessary.
(4)
Bar to accrued benefit claims.
Payment of benefits pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall bar a later claim by any individual for payment of all or any part of such benefits as accrued benefits under 38 U.S.C. 5121 and § 3.1000.
(g)
Awards covered by this section.
This section applies only to awards of disability compensation or DIC for disability or death caused by a disease listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
[68 FR 50970, Aug. 25, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 61736, Oct. 17, 2008; 78 FR 54766, Sept. 6, 2013; 86 FR 68410, Dec. 2, 2021]

# Forfeiture
§ 3.900
General.
(a) Forfeiture of benefits based on one period of service does not affect entitlement to benefits based on a period of service beginning after the offense causing the prior forfeiture.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any offense committed prior to January 1, 1959, may cause a forfeiture and any forfeiture in effect prior to January 1, 1959, will continue to be a bar on and after January 1, 1959.
(Authority: Section 3, Pub. L. 85-857)
(2) Effective September 2, 1959, forfeiture of benefits may not be declared except under the circumstances set forth in § 3.901(d), § 3.902(d), or § 3.903. Forfeitures declared before September 2, 1959, will continue to be a bar on and after that date.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6103(d) and 6105)
(c) Pension or compensation payments are not subject to forfeiture because of violation of hospital rules.
(d) When the person primarily entitled has forfeited his or her rights by reason of fraud or a treasonable act determination as to the rights of any dependents of record to benefits under § 3.901(c) or § 3.902(c) may be made upon receipt of an application.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6103(b) and 38 U.S.C. 6104(b))
[26 FR 1607, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 8590, Aug. 28, 1962; 53 FR 17934, May 19, 1988]
§ 3.901
Fraud.
(a)
Definition.
An act committed when a person knowingly makes or causes to be made or conspires, combines, aids, or assists in, agrees to, arranges for, or in any way procures the making or presentation of a false or fraudulent affidavit, declaration, certificate, statement, voucher, or paper, concerning any claim for benefits under any of the laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs (except laws relating to insurance benefits).
(b)
Effect on claim.
For the purposes of paragraph (d) of this section, any person who commits fraud forfeits all rights to benefits under all laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs other than laws relating to insurance benefits.
(c)
Forfeiture before September 2, 1959.
Where forfeiture for fraud was declared before September 2, 1959, in the case of a veteran entitled to disability compensation, the compensation payable except for the forfeiture may be paid to the veteran's spouse, children and parents provided the decision to apportion
was authorized prior to September 2, 1959. The total amount payable will be the lesser of these amounts:
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6103)
(1) Service-connected death benefit payable.
(2) Amount of compensation payable but for the forfeiture.
No benefits are payable to any person who participated in the fraud causing the forfeiture.
(d)
Forfeiture after September 1, 1959.
After September 1, 1959, forfeiture by reason of fraud may be declared only
(1) Where the person was not residing or domiciled in a State as defined in § 3.1(i) at the time of commission of the fraudulent act; or
(2) Where the person ceased to be a resident of or domiciled in a State as defined in § 3.1(i) before expiration of the period during which criminal prosecution could be instituted; or
(3) The fraudulent act was committed in the Philippine Islands.
Where the veteran's rights have been forfeited, no part of his or her benefit may be paid to his or her dependents.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6103)
(e)
Remission of forfeitures imposed prior to September 2, 1959.
Where it is determined that a forfeiture for fraud which was imposed prior to September 2, 1959, would not be imposed under the law and regulation in effect on and after September 2, 1959, the forfeiture shall be remitted effective June 30, 1972. Benefits to which a person becomes eligible by virtue of the remission, upon application therefor, shall be awarded effective as provided by § 3.114.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6103)
[27 FR 8590, Aug. 28, 1962, as amended at 37 FR 19134, Sept. 19, 1972; 53 FR 17934, May 19, 1988]
§ 3.902
Treasonable acts.
(a)
Definition.
An act of mutiny, treason, sabotage or rendering assistance to an enemy of the United States or of its allies.
(b)
Effect on claim.
For the purposes of paragraph (d) of this section, any person determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs to be guilty of a treasonable act forfeits all gratuitous benefits under laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs which he or she may be receiving or would have been entitled to receive in the future.
(c)
Forfeiture before September 2, 1959.
Where forfeiture for treasonable acts was declared before September 2, 1959, the Secretary may pay any part of benefits so forfeited to the dependents of the person provided the decision to apportion was authorized prior to September 2, 1959, except that the amount may not be in excess of that which the dependent would be entitled to as a death benefit.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6104(c))
(1)
Compensation.
Whenever a veteran entitled to disability compensation has forfeited his or her right, any part of the compensation payable except for the forfeiture may be paid to the veteran's spouse, children and parents. The total amount payable will be the lesser of these amounts:
(i) Service-connected death benefit payable.
(ii) Amount of compensation payable but for the forfeiture.
No benefits are payable to any person participating in the treasonable act causing the forfeiture.
(2)
Pension.
Whenever a veteran entitled to pension has forfeited his or her right, any part of the pension payable except for the forfeiture provision may be paid to the veteran's spouse and children. The total amount payable will be the lesser of these amounts:
(i) Nonservice-connected death benefit payable.
(ii) Amount of pension being paid the veteran at the time of forfeiture.
No benefits are payable to any person who participated in the treasonable act causing the forfeiture.
(d)
Forfeiture after September 1, 1959.
After September 1, 1959, forfeiture by reason of a treasonable act may be declared only
(1) Where the person was not residing or domiciled in a State as defined in § 3.1(i) at the time of commission of the act; or
(2) Where the person ceased to be a resident of or domiciled in a State as
defined in § 3.1(i) before expiration of the period during which criminal prosecution could be instituted; or
(3) The treasonable act was committed in the Philippine Islands.
No part of the benefits forfeited by the person primarily entitled shall be paid to any dependent.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6104)
(e)
Children.
A treasonable act committed by a child or children, regardless of age, who are in the surviving spouse's custody and included in an award to such person will not affect the award to the surviving spouse.
[27 FR 8590, Aug. 28, 1962; 53 FR 17934, May 19, 1988]
§ 3.903
Subversive activities.
(a)
Definition.
Any offense for which punishment is prescribed: (1) In title 18 U.S.C., sections 792, 793, 794, 798, 2381 through 2385, 2387 through 2390, and chapter 105;
(2) In title 18 U.S.C., sections 175, 229, 831, 1091, 2332a, and 2332b, for claims filed on or after December 17, 2003.
(3) In the Uniform Code of Military Justice, Articles 94, 104 and 106 (10 U.S.C. 894, 904, and 906);
(4) In the following sections of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954: Sections 222 through 226 (42 U.S.C. 2272-2276); and
(5) In section 4 of the Internal Security Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 783).
(b)
Effect on claim.
(1) Any person who is convicted after September 1, 1959, of subversive activities shall from and after the date of commission of such offense have no right to gratuitous benefits (including the right to burial in a national cemetery) under laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs based on periods of military, naval, air, or space service commencing before the date of the commission of such offense and no other person shall be entitled to such benefits on account of such person.
(2) The Attorney General will notify the Department of Veterans Affairs in each case in which a person is indicted or convicted of an offense listed in paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (4) of this section. The Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of the Treasury, as may be appropriate, will notify the Department of Veterans Affairs in each case in which a person is convicted of an offense listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(c)
Presidential pardon.
Where any person whose right to benefits has been so terminated is granted a pardon of the offense by the President of the United States, the right to such benefits shall be restored as of the date of such pardon, if otherwise eligible.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6105)
[27 FR 8591, Aug. 28, 1962, as amended at 38 FR 4511, Feb. 15, 1973; 38 FR 30106, Nov. 1, 1973; 53 FR 17934, May 19, 1988; 71 FR 44919, Aug. 8, 2006; 87 FR 26126, May 3, 2022]
§ 3.904
Effect of forfeiture after veteran's death.
(a)
Fraud.
Whenever a veteran has forfeited his or her right by reason of fraud, his or her surviving dependents upon proper application may be paid pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation, if otherwise eligible. No benefits are payable to any person who participated in the fraud causing the forfeiture.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6103(c))
(b)
Treasonable acts.
Death benefits may be paid as provided in paragraph (a) of this section where forfeiture by reason of a treasonable act was declared before September 2, 1959, and such benefits were authorized prior to that date. Otherwise, no award of gratuitous benefits (including the right to burial in a national cemetery) may be made to any person based on any period of service commencing before the date of commission of the offense which resulted in the forfeiture.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6104(c))
(c)
Subversive activities.
Where the veteran was convicted of subversive activities after September 1, 1959, no award of gratuitous benefits (including the right to burial in a national cemetery) may be made to any person based on any period of service commencing before the date of commission of the offense which resulted in the forfeiture unless the veteran had been granted a pardon of the offense by the President of the United States. If pardoned, the veteran's surviving dependents upon
proper application may be paid pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation, if otherwise eligible, and the right to burial in a national cemetery is restored.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6105(a))
[27 FR 8591, Aug. 28, 1962, as amended at 38 FR 30106, Nov. 1, 1973; 39 FR 13970, Apr. 19, 1974; 53 FR 16924, May 19, 1988]
§ 3.905
Declaration of forfeiture or remission of forfeiture.
(a)
Jurisdiction.
At the regional office level, except in VA Regional Office, Manila, Philippines, the Regional Counsel is authorized to determine whether the evidence warrants formal consideration as to forfeiture. In the Manila Regional Office the Veterans Service Center Manager is authorized to make this determination. Submissions may also be made by the director of a service, the Chairman, Board of Veterans Appeals, and the General Counsel. Jurisdiction to determine whether the claimant or payee has forfeited the right to gratuitous benefits or to remit a prior forfeiture is vested in the Director, Compensation Service, and the Director, Pension and Fiduciary Service, and personnel to whom authority has been delegated under the provisions of § 3.100(c).
(b)
Fraud or treasonable acts.
Forfeiture of benefits under § 3.901 or § 3.902 will not be declared until the person has been notified by the Regional Counsel or, in VA Regional Office, Manila, Philippines, the Veterans Service Center Manager, of the right to present a defense. Such notice shall consist of a written statement sent to the person's latest address of record setting forth the following:
(1) The specific charges against the person;
(2) A detailed statement of the evidence supporting the charges, subject to regulatory limitations on disclosure of information;
(3) Citation and discussion of the applicable statute;
(4) The right to submit a statement or evidence within 60 days, either to rebut the charges or to explain the person's position;
(5) The right to a hearing within 60 days, with representation by counsel of the person's own choosing, that fees for the representation are limited in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 5904(c) and that no expenses incurred by a claimant, counsel or witness will be paid by VA.
(c)
Subversive activities.
Automatic forfeiture of benefits under § 3.903 will be effectuated by an official authorized to declare a forfeiture as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Finality of decisions.
A decision of forfeiture is subject to the provisions of § 3.104(a) and §§ 20.1103 and 20.1104 of this chapter. The officials authorized to file administrative appeals and the time limit for filing such appeals are set forth in § 19.51 of this chapter.
(e)
Remission of forfeiture.
In event of remission of forfeiture under § 3.901(e), any amounts paid as an apportionment(s) during periods of the previously forfeited beneficiary's reentitlement will be offset.

# Cross References:
Effective dates; forfeiture. See § 3.400(m). Reductions and discontinuances; fraud. See § 3.500(k). Reductions and discontinuances; treasonable acts or subversive activities. See § 3.500(s). Adjustments and resumptions. See § 3.669. Burial benefits. See § 3.1609.
[28 FR 2234, Mar. 7, 1963, as amended at 29 FR 7547, June 12, 1964; 37 FR 19134, Sept. 19, 1972; 39 FR 13970, Apr. 19, 1974; 53 FR 17934, May 19, 1988; 58 FR 32443, June 10, 1993; 79 FR 2100, Jan. 13, 2014]

# Protection
§ 3.950
Helpless children; Spanish-American and prior wars.
Marriage is not a bar to the payment of pension or compensation to a helpless child under an award approved prior to April 1, 1944. The presumption, arising from the fact of marriage, that helplessness has ceased may be overcome by positive proof of continuing helplessness. As to awards approved on or after April 1, 1944, pension or compensation may not be paid to a helpless child who has married.
[26 FR 1608, Feb. 24, 1961]
§ 3.951
Preservation of disability ratings.
(a) A readjustment to the Schedule for Rating Disabilities shall not be grounds for reduction of a disability
rating in effect on the date of the readjustment unless medical evidence establishes that the disability to be evaluated has actually improved.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
(b) A disability which has been continuously rated at or above any evaluation of disability for 20 or more years for compensation purposes under laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs will not be reduced to less than such evaluation except upon a showing that such rating was based on fraud. Likewise, a rating of permanent total disability for pension purposes which has been in force for 20 or more years will not be reduced except upon a showing that the rating was based on fraud. The 20-year period will be computed from the effective date of the evaluation to the effective date of reduction of evaluation.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 110)
[34 FR 11970, July 16, 1969, as amended at 57 FR 10426, Mar. 26, 1992]
§ 3.952
Protected ratings.
Ratings under the Schedule of Disability Ratings, 1925, which were the basis of compensation on April 1, 1946, are subject to modification only when a change in physical or mental condition would have required a reduction under the 1925 schedule, or an increased evaluation has been assigned under the Schedule for Rating Disabilities, 1945 (looseleaf edition), after which time all evaluations will be under the 1945 schedule (loose-leaf edition) only. Such increased evaluations must be of an other than temporary nature (due to hospitalization, surgery, etc.). When a temporary evaluation is involved, the 1925 schedule evaluation will be restored after the period of increase has elapsed unless the permanent residuals would have required reduction under that schedule, or unless an increased evaluation would be assignable under a 1945 schedule (looseleaf edition) rating. In any instance where the changed condition represents an increased degree of disability under either rating schedule but the evaluation provided by the 1945 schedule (looseleaf edition) is less than the evaluation in effect under the 1925 schedule on April 1, 1946, the 1925 schedule evaluation and award are protected.
[26 FR 12766, Dec. 30, 1961]
§ 3.953
Pub. L. 85-56 and Pub. L. 85-857.
(a)
In receipt of or entitled to receive benefits on December 31, 1958.
Any person receiving or entitled to receive benefits under any public law administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs on December 31, 1958, may, except where there was fraud, clear and unmistakable error of fact or law, or misrepresentation of material facts, continue to receive such benefits as long as the conditions warranting such payment under those laws continue. The greater benefit under the previous law or the corresponding section of title 38 U.S.C., will be paid in the absence of an election to receive the lesser benefit.
(Authority: Section 10, Pub. L. 85-857)
(b)
Emergency officers' retirement pay.
Any person who was receiving, or entitled to receive, emergency officers' retirement pay, or other privileges or benefits as a retired emergency officer of World War I, on December 31, 1958, under the laws in effect on that day, will, except where there was fraud, clear and unmistakable error as to conclusion of fact or law, or misrepresentation of material facts, continue to receive, or be entitled to receive, emergency officers' retirement pay at the rate otherwise payable on December 31, 1958, and such other privileges and benefits, so long as the conditions warranting such pay, privileges, and benefits under those laws continue.
(Authority: Section 11, Pub. L. 85-857)
(c)
Service connection established under prior laws.
In the absence of fraud, misrepresentation of material facts or clear and unmistakable error, all cases where compensation was payable on December 31, 1957, for disability service connected under prior laws, repealed by Pub. L. 85-56, including those service connected under the second proviso of section 200 of the World War Veterans' Act, 1924, as amended, are protected by section 2316(b), Pub. L. 85-56 and section 10, Pub. L. 85-857 as to both service connection and rate of compensation,
so long as the conditions warranting such status and rate continue. Any disability so service connected may be evaluated under the Schedule for Rating Disabilities, 1945 (looseleaf edition) and benefits awarded on the basis thereof, as well as special monthly compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1114, provided such action results in compensation payable at a rate equal to or higher than that payable on December 31, 1957. Where a changed physical condition warrants reevaluation of service-connected disabilities, compensation will be awarded under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 1114.
[26 FR 1608, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 26 FR 8561, Sept. 13, 1961; 26 FR 12766, Dec. 30, 1961]
§§ 3.955-3.956
[Reserved]
§ 3.957
Service connection.
Service connection for any disability or death granted or continued under title 38 U.S.C., which has been in effect for 10 or more years will not be severed except upon a showing that the original grant was based on fraud or it is clearly shown from military records that the person concerned did not have the requisite service or character of discharge. The 10-year period will be computed from the effective date of the Department of Veterans Affairs finding of service connection to the effective date of the rating decision severing service connection, after compliance with § 3.105(d). The protection afforded in this section extends to claims for dependency and indemnity compensation or death compensation.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1159)
[33 FR 15286, Oct. 15, 1968]
§ 3.958
Federal employees' compensation cases.
Any award approved prior to September 13, 1960, authorizing Department of Veterans Affairs benefits concurrently with an award of benefits under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act based on a finding that the same disability or death was due to civilian employment is not affected by the prohibition against concurrent awards contained in 5 U.S.C. 8116(b).
[41 FR 20408, May 18, 1976]
§ 3.959
Tuberculosis.
Any veteran who, on August 19, 1968, was receiving or entitled to receive compensation for active or inactive (arrested) tuberculosis may receive compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1114(q) and 1156 as in effect before August 20, 1968.
(Authority: Pub. L. 90-493; 82 Stat. 809)
[33 FR 16275, Nov. 6, 1968]
§ 3.960
Section 306 and old-law pension protection.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, any person eligible to elect improved pension under § 3.711 or 3.712 who is in receipt of section 306 or old-law pension on December 31, 1978, shall in the absence of an election to receive improved pension, continue to receive such pension at the monthly rate payable on December 31, 1978.
(b)
Termination.
Pension payable under paragraph (a) of this section shall be terminated for any one of the following reasons:
(1) A veteran pensioner ceases to be permanently and totally disabled.
(2) A surviving spouse pensioner ceases to meet the definition of
surviving spouse
in 38 U.S.C. 101(3).
(3) A child pensioner ceases to meet the definition of
child
in 38 U.S.C. 101(4).
(4) A section 306 pensioner's countable annual income, determined under §§ 3.250 to 3.270, exceeds the applicable amount stated in § 3.26(a).
(5) An old-law pensioner's countable annual income determined under §§ 3.250 to 3.270 exceeds the applicable amount stated in § 3.26(c).
(6) A section 306 pensioner has a net worth of such size that it is reasonable that some part of it be consumed for the pensioner's maintenance. Evaluation of net worth shall be made under § 3.263.
(c)
Reduction.
The pension rate payable under paragraph (a) of this section shall be reduced by the amount of any additional pension payable by reason of a dependent upon the loss of such dependent. A veteran or surviving spouse who no longer has any dependents shall not continue to receive either section
306 pension or old-law pension if countable annual income exceeds the appropriate rate in § 3.26(a), (b), or (c).
(d)
Finality of termination.
Termination of section 306 pension or old-law pension for one of the reasons listed in paragraph (b) of this section precludes a person from thereafter establishing entitlement under any other pension program except the improved pension program.
(Authority: Sec. 306 of Pub. L. 95-588, 92 Stat. 2497)
[44 FR 45944, Aug. 6, 1979, as amended at 56 FR 28824, June 25, 1991]

# Accrued
§ 3.1000
Entitlement under 38 U.S.C. 5121 to benefits due and unpaid upon death of a beneficiary.
(a)
Basic entitlement.
Except as provided in §§ 3.1001 and 3.1008, where death occurred on or after December 1, 1962, periodic monetary benefits (other than insurance and servicemembers' indemnity) authorized under laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs, to which a payee was entitled at his or her death under existing ratings or decisions or those based on evidence in the file at date of death, and due and unpaid will, upon the death of such person, be paid as follows:
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5121(a)
(1) Upon the death of a veteran to the living person first listed as follows:
(i) His or her spouse;
(ii) His or her children (in equal shares);
(iii) His or her dependent parents (in equal shares) or the surviving parent.
(2) Upon the death of a surviving spouse or remarried surviving spouse, to the veteran's children.
(3) Upon the death of a child, to the surviving children of the veteran entitled to death pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation.
(4) Upon the death of a child claiming benefits under chapter 18 of this title, to the surviving parents.
(5) In all other cases, only so much of the accrued benefit may be paid as may be necessary to reimburse the person who bore the expense of last sickness or burial. (See § 3.1002.)
(b)
Apportionments.
(1) Upon the death of a person receiving an apportioned share of benefits payable to a veteran, all or any part of such unpaid amount is payable to the veteran or to any other dependent or dependents of the veteran.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5121(a)(1))
(2) Where at the date of death of the veteran an apportioned share is being paid to or has been withheld on behalf of another person, the apportioned amount remaining unpaid for periods prior to the last day of the month before the veteran's death is payable to the apportionee.
(3) Where the accrued death pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation was payable for a child as an apportioned share of the surviving spouse's benefit, payment will be made under the provisions of paragraph (a)(5) of this section, on the expenses of such deceased child's last sickness or burial.
(c)
Claims and evidence.
Application for accrued benefits must be filed within 1 year after the date of death. A claim for death pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation, by an apportionee, surviving spouse, child or parent is deemed to include claim for any accrued benefits. (See § 3.152(b)).
(1) If an application for accrued benefits is incomplete because the claimant has not furnished information necessary to establish that he or she is within the category of eligible persons under the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) or paragraph (b) of this section and that circumstances exist which make the claimant the specific person entitled to payment of all or part of any benefits which may have accrued, VA shall notify the claimant:
(i) Of the type of information required to complete the application;
(ii) That VA will take no further action on the claim unless VA receives the required information; and
(iii) That if VA does not receive the required information within 1 year of the date of the original VA notification of information required, no benefits will be awarded on the basis of that application.
(2) Failure to file timely claim, or a waiver of rights, by a preferred dependent will not serve to vest title in a person in a lower class or a claimant for reimbursement; neither will such failure or waiver by a person or persons in a joint class serve to increase the amount payable to another or others in the class.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5121(c); 5112(b))
(d)
Definitions.
(1)
Spouse
means the surviving spouse of the veteran, whose marriage meets the requirements of § 3.1(j) or § 3.52. Where the marriage meets the requirements of § 3.1(j) date of marriage and continuous cohabitation are not factors.
(2)
Child
is as defined in § 3.57 and includes an unmarried child who became permanently incapable of self-support prior to attaining 18 years of age as well as an unmarried child over the age of 18 but not over 23 years of age, who was pursuing a course of instruction within the meaning of § 3.57 at the time of the payee's death. However, upon the death of a child in receipt of death pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation, any accrued will be payable to the surviving child or children of the veteran entitled to death pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation. Upon the death of a child, another child who has elected dependents' educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 35 may receive accrued death pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation, payable on behalf of the deceased child for periods prior to the commencement of benefits under that chapter.
(3)
Dependent parent
is as defined in § 3.59:
Provided,
That the mother or father was dependent within the meaning of § 3.250 at the date of the veteran's death.
(4)
Evidence in the file at date of death
means evidence in VA's possession on or before the date of the beneficiary's death, even if such evidence was not physically located in the VA claims folder on or before the date of death, in support of a claim for VA benefits pending on the date of death.
(5)
Claim for VA benefits pending on the date of death
means a claim filed with VA that had not been finally adjudicated by VA on or before the date of death. Such a claim includes a deceased beneficiary's claim to reopen a finally disallowed claim based upon new and material evidence or a deceased beneficiary's claim of clear and unmistakable error in a prior rating or decision. Any new and material evidence must have been in VA's possession on or before the date of the beneficiary's death.
(e)
Subsistence allowance.
Subsistence allowance under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. ch. 31 remaining due and unpaid at the date of the veteran's death, is payable under the provisions of this section.
(f)
Dependents' educational assistance.
Educational assistance allowance or special restorative training allowance under 38 U.S.C. ch. 35, remaining due and unpaid at the date of death of an eligible surviving spouse or eligible child is payable to a child or children of the veteran (see paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3) and (d)(2) of this section), or on the expenses of last sickness and burial (see paragraph (a)(5) of this section.) Benefits due and unpaid at the date of death of an eligible spouse are payable only on the expenses of last sickness and burial (see paragraph (a)(5) of this section).
(g)
Veterans educational assistance.
Educational assistance allowance under 38 U.S.C chapters 30, 32, or 34, and 10 U.S.C. chapter 1606 remaining due and unpaid at the date of the veteran's death is payable under the provisions of this section.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5121)
(h)
Clothing allowance.
Clothing allowance under 38 U.S.C. 1162 remaining due and unpaid at the date of the veteran's death is payable under the provisions of this section.
(i)
Active service pay.
Benefits awarded under this section do not include compensation or pension benefits for
any period for which the veteran received active service pay.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5304(c))
[26 FR 1608, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 11892, Dec. 1, 1962; 30 FR 11389, Sept. 8, 1965; 31 FR 4790, Mar. 22, 1966; 34 FR 840, Jan. 18, 1969; 39 FR 15126, May 1, 1974; 56 FR 18733, Apr. 24, 1991; 56 FR 24239, May 29, 1991; 61 FR 67950, Dec. 26, 1996; 62 FR 5529, Feb. 6, 1997; 62 FR 35423, July 1, 1997; 67 FR 65708, Oct. 28, 2002; 71 FR 78369, Dec. 29, 2006; 80 FR 18117, Apr. 3, 2015]
§ 3.1001
Hospitalized competent veterans.
The provisions of this section apply only to the payment of amounts actually withheld on a running award under § 3.551(b) which are payable in a lump sum after the veteran's death.
(a)
Basic entitlement.
Where an award of disability pension for a competent veteran without dependents was reduced because of hospital treatment or institutional or domiciliary care by the Department of Veterans Affairs and the veteran dies while receiving such treatment or care or before payment of amounts withheld, the lump sum is payable to the living person first listed as follows:
(1) The veteran's spouse, as defined in § 3.1000(d)(1);
(2) The veteran's children (in equal shares), as defined in § 3.57 but without regard to their age or marital status;
(3) The veteran's dependent parents (in equal shares), or the surviving dependent parent, as defined in § 3.1000(d)(3);
(4) In all other cases, only so much of the lump sum may be paid as may be necessary to reimburse a person who bore the expenses of last sickness or burial. (See § 3.1002.)
(b)
Claim.
Applications must be filed with the Department of Veterans Affairs within 5 years after the death of the veteran. If, however, any person otherwise entitled is under legal disability at the time of the veteran's death, the 5-year period will run from the date of termination or removal of the legal disability.
(1) There is no time limit on the retroactive period of an award or for furnishing evidence.
(2) Failure to file timely claim, or a waiver of rights, by a preferred dependent will not serve to vest title in a person in a lower class or a claimant for reimbursement; neither will such failure or waiver by a person or persons in a joint class serve to increase the amount payable to another or others in the class.
(c)
Lump sum withheld after discharge from institution.
The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will apply in the event of the death of any veteran prior to receiving a lump sum which was withheld because treatment or care was terminated against medical advice or as the result of disciplinary action.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503)
[26 FR 1609, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 5539, June 12, 1962; 27 FR 8177, Aug. 16, 1962; 27 FR 11893, Dec. 1, 1962; 39 FR 15126, May 1, 1974]
§ 3.1002
Political subdivisions of United States.
No part of any accrued benefits will be used to reimburse any political subdivision of the United States for expenses incurred in the last sickness or burial of any beneficiary. (See § 3.1(o)).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5121(b) and 5502(d))
[39 FR 15126, May 1, 1974]
§ 3.1003
Returned and canceled checks.
Where the payee of a check for benefits has died prior to negotiating the check, the check shall be returned to the issuing office and canceled.
(a) The amount represented by the returned check, or any amount recovered following improper negotiation of the check, shall be payable to the living person or persons in the order of precedence listed in § 3.1000(a)(1) through (5), except that the total amount payable shall not include any payment for the month in which the payee died (see § 3.500(g)), and payments to persons described in § 3.1000(a)(5) shall be limited to the amount necessary to reimburse such persons for the expenses of last sickness and/or burial.
(1) There is no limit on the retroactive period for which payment of the amount represented by the check may be made, and no time limit for filing a claim to obtain the proceeds of the
check or for furnishing evidence to perfect a claim.
(2) Nothing in this section will preclude payment to an otherwise entitled claimant having a lower order of precedence under § 3.1000(a)(1) through (5), if it is shown that the person or persons having a higher order of precedence are deceased at the time the claim is adjudicated.
(b) Subject to the limitations in § 3.500(g) of this part, any amount not paid in the manner provided in paragraph (a) of this section shall be paid to the estate of the deceased payee, provided that the estate, including the amount paid under this paragraph, will not will not revert to the state because there is no one eligible to inherit it.
(c) The provisions of this section do not apply to checks for lump sums representing amounts withheld under § 3.551(b) or § 3.557. These amounts are subject to the provisions of §§ 3.1001 and 3.1007, as applicable.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 5122)
[59 FR 25329, May 16, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 54207, Oct. 6, 1999; 80 FR 18117, Apr. 3, 2015]
§§ 3.1004-3.1006
[Reserved]
§ 3.1007
Hospitalized incompetent veterans.
Where an award of disability pension for an incompetent veteran without dependents was reduced under § 3.551(b) because of hospitalization, institutional or domiciliary care by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or an award of disability pension, compensation or emergency officers' retirement pay was discontinued under former § 3.557(b) (as applicable prior to December 27, 2001) because the veteran was hospitalized by the United States or a political subdivision and had an estate which equaled or exceeded the statutory maximum, and the veteran dies before payment of amounts withheld or not paid by reason of such care, no part of such amount will be paid to any person. The provisions of this section are applicable to amounts withheld for periods prior to as well as subsequent to the rating of incompetency. The term
dies before payment
includes cases in which a check was issued and the veteran died before negotiating the check.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5503)
[39 FR 30349, Aug. 22, 1974, as amended at 66 FR 48561, Sept. 21, 2001; 68 FR 34543, June 10, 2003]
§ 3.1008
Accrued benefits payable to foreign beneficiaries.
In case of death of the payee of any check in payment of periodic monetary benefits (other than insurance and servicemembers' indemnity) accruing under laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs, while the amount thereof remains in the special deposit account established by Pub. L. 828, 76th Congress, such amount will be payable under section 3 of that act. (31 U.S.C. 125) However, the accrued amount will be payable only if the person on whose behalf checks were issued and the person claiming the accrued amount have not been guilty of mutiny, treason, sabotage, or rendering assistance to an enemy of the United States or of its allies.
[26 FR 1609, Feb. 24, 1961]
§ 3.1009
Personal funds of patients.
The provisions of this section are applicable to gratuitous benefits deposited by the Department of Veterans Affairs either before, on, or after December 1, 1959, in a personal funds of patients account for an incompetent veteran who was incompetent at the date of death. Where the veteran died after November 30, 1959:
(a)
Eligible persons.
Gratuitous benefits shall be paid to the living person first listed as follows:
(1) His or her spouse, as defined in § 3.1000(d)(1);
(2) His or her children (in equal shares), as defined in § 3.57 but without regard to their age or marital status;
(3) His or her dependent parents (in equal shares) as defined in § 3.59 or the surviving parent, provided that the parent was dependent within the meaning of § 3.250 at the date of the veteran's death.
(4) In all other cases, only so much may be paid as may be necessary to reimburse a person who bore the expense of last sickness or burial. (See § 3.1002.)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5502(d))
(b)
Claim.
Application must be filed with the Department of Veterans Affairs within 5 years after the death of the veteran. If, however, any person otherwise entitled is under legal disability at the time of the veteran's death, the 5-year period will run from the date of termination or removal of the legal disability.
(1) There is no time limit for the submission of evidence.
(2) Failure to file timely claim, or a waiver of rights, by a preferred dependent will not serve to vest title in a person in a lower class or a claimant for reimbursement; neither will such failure or waiver by a person or persons in a joint class serve to increase the amount payable to another or others in the class.
[27 FR 5539, June 12, 1962, as amended at 28 FR 10487, Sept. 28, 1963; 39 FR 30349, Aug. 22, 1974]
§ 3.1010
Substitution under 38 U.S.C. 5121A following death of a claimant.
(a)
Eligibility.
If a claimant dies on or after October 10, 2008, a person eligible for accrued benefits under § 3.1000(a) listed in 38 CFR 3.1000(a)(1) through (5) may, in priority order, request to substitute for the deceased claimant in a claim for periodic monetary benefits (other than insurance and servicemembers' indemnity) under laws administered by the Secretary, or an appeal of a decision with respect to such a claim, that was pending before the agency of original jurisdiction or the Board of Veterans' Appeals when the claimant died. Upon VA's grant of a request to substitute, the substitute may continue the claim or appeal on behalf of the deceased claimant for purposes of processing the claim or appeal to completion. Any benefits ultimately awarded are payable to the substitute and other members of a joint class, if any, in equal shares.
(b)
Time and place for filing a request.
A person may not substitute for a deceased claimant under this section unless the person files a request to substitute with the agency of original jurisdiction no later than one year after the claimant's death.
(c)
Request format.
(1) A request to substitute must be submitted in writing. At a minimum, a request to substitute must indicate intent to substitute; include the deceased claimant's claim number, Social Security number, or appeal number; and include the names of the deceased claimant and the person requesting to substitute.
(2) In lieu of a specific request to substitute, a claim for accrued benefits, survivors pension, or dependency and indemnity compensation by an eligible person listed in § 3.1000(a)(1) through (5) is deemed to include a request to substitute if a claim for periodic monetary benefits (other than insurance and servicemembers' indemnity) under laws administered by the Secretary, or an appeal of a decision with respect to such a claim, was pending before the agency of original jurisdiction or the Board of Veterans' Appeals when the claimant died. A claimant for accrued benefits, survivors pension, or dependency and indemnity compensation may waive the right to substitute in writing over the claimant's signature.
(d)
Evidence of eligibility.
A person filing a request to substitute must provide evidence of eligibility to substitute. Evidence of eligibility to substitute means evidence demonstrating that the person is among those listed in the categories of eligible persons in § 3.1000(a)(1) through (5) and first in priority order. If a person's request to substitute does not include evidence of eligibility when it is originally submitted and the person may be an eligible person, the Secretary will notify the person—
(1) Of the evidence of eligibility required to complete the request to substitute;
(2) That VA will take no further action on the request to substitute unless VA receives the evidence of eligibility; and
(3) That VA must receive the evidence of eligibility no later than 60 days after the date of notification or one year after the claimant's death, whichever is later, or VA will deny the request to substitute.
(e)
Decisions on substitution requests.
Subject to the provisions of § 20.1302 of this chapter, the agency of original jurisdiction will decide in the first instance all requests to substitute, including any request to substitute in an appeal pending before the Board of Veterans' Appeals.
(1)
Notification.
The agency of original jurisdiction will provide written notification of the granting or denial of a request to substitute to the person who filed the request, together with notice in accordance with § 3.103(b)(1).
(2)
Appeals.
The denial of a request to substitute may be appealed to the Board of Veterans' Appeals pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 7104(a) and 7105.
(3)
Joint class representative.
(i) A
joint class
means a group of two or more persons eligible to substitute under the same priority group under § 3.1000(a)(1) through (a)(5), e.g., two or more surviving children.
(ii) In the case of a joint class of potential substitutes, only one person of the joint class may be a substitute at any one time. The first eligible person in the joint class to file a request to substitute will be the substitute representing the joint class.
(f)
Adjudications involving a substitute.
The following provisions apply with respect to a claim or appeal in which a survivor has been substituted for the deceased claimant:
(1)
Notice under
§
3.159.
VA will send notice under § 3.159(b), “Department of Veterans Affairs assistance in developing claims,” to the substitute only if the required notice was not sent to the deceased claimant or if the notice sent to the deceased claimant was inadequate.
(2)
Expansion of the claim not permitted.
A substitute may not add an issue to or expand the claim. However, a substitute may raise new theories of entitlement in support of the claim.
(3)
Submission of evidence and other rights.
A substitute has the same rights regarding hearings, representation, appeals, and the submission of evidence as would have applied to the claimant had the claimant not died. However, rights that may have applied to the claimant prior to death but which cannot practically apply to a substitute, such as the right to a medical examination, are not available to the substitute. The substitute must complete any action required by law or regulation within the time period remaining for the claimant to take such action on the date of his or her death. The time remaining to take such action will start to run on the date of the mailing of the decision granting the substitution request.
(4)
Board of Veterans' Appeals procedures.
The rules and procedures governing appeals involving substitutes before the Board of Veterans' Appeals are found in parts 19 and 20 of this chapter.
(g)
Limitations on substitution.
The following limitations apply with respect to substitution:
(1)
A claim or appeal must be pending.
(i) A claim is considered to be pending if the claimant had filed the claim with an agency of original jurisdiction but dies before the agency of original jurisdiction makes a decision on the claim. A claim is also considered to be pending if, at the time of the claimant's death, the agency of original jurisdiction has made a decision on the claim, but the claimant has not filed a notice of disagreement, and the period allowed by law for filing a notice of disagreement has not expired.
(ii) An appeal is considered to be pending if a claimant filed a notice of disagreement in response to a notification from an agency of original jurisdiction of its decision on a claim, but dies before the Board of Veterans' Appeals issues a final decision on the appeal. If the Board issued a final decision on an appeal prior to the claimant's death, the appeal is not pending before VA for purposes of this section, even if the 120-day period for appealing the Board's decision to the Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims has not yet expired.
(2)
Benefits awarded.
Any benefits ultimately awarded are limited to any past-due benefits for the time period between the effective date of the award and what would have been the effective date of discontinuance of the award as a result of the claimant's death.
(3)
Benefits for last sickness and burial only.
When substitution cannot be established under any of the categories listed in § 3.1000(a)(1) through (a)(4),
only so much of any benefits ultimately awarded may be paid as may be necessary to reimburse the person who bore the expense of last sickness and burial. No part of any benefits ultimately awarded shall be used to reimburse any political subdivision of the United States for expenses incurred in the last sickness or burial of any claimant.
(4)
Substitution by subordinate members prohibited.
Failure to timely file a request to substitute, or a waiver of the right to request substitution, by a person of a preferred category of eligible person will not serve to vest the right to request substitution in a person in a lower category or a person who bore the expense of last sickness and burial; neither will such failure or waiver by a person or persons in a joint class serve to increase the amount payable to other persons in the class.
(5)
Death of a substitute.
If a substitute dies while a claim or appeal is pending before an agency of original jurisdiction, or an appeal of a decision on a claim is pending before the Board, another member of the same joint class or a member of the next preferred subordinate category listed in § 3.1000(a)(1) through (5) may substitute for the deceased substitute but only if the person requesting the successive substitution files a request to substitute no later than one year after the date of the substitute's death (not the date of the claimant's death).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5121, 5121A)
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0740)
[79 FR 52982, Sept. 5, 2014]

# Subpart B—Burial Benefits

# Source:
79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Authority:
105 Stat. 386, 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 2303-2308, unless otherwise noted.

# Burial Benefits: General
§ 3.1700
Types of VA burial benefits.
(a)
Burial benefits.
VA provides the following types of burial benefits, which are discussed in §§ 3.1700 through 3.1712:
(1) Burial allowance based on service-connected death;
(2) Burial allowance based on non-service-connected death;
(3) Burial allowance for a veteran who died while hospitalized by VA;
(4) Burial plot or interment allowance; and
(5) Reimbursement for transportation of remains.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Burial
means all the legal methods of disposing of the remains of a deceased person, including, but not limited to, cremation, burial at sea, and medical school donation.
(2)
Covered veterans' cemetery
is a designation for an eligible cemetery considered in the determination of transportation benefits under § 3.1709 that meets the following criteria:
(i) A deceased veteran as described in 38 U.S.C. 2308(b) is eligible to be buried within the cemetery;
(ii) The cemetery is either owned by a State or is on trust land owned by, or held in trust for, a Tribal organization; and
(iii) The cemetery is one for which the Secretary has made a grant under 38 U.S.C. 2408.
(c)
Cross references.
(1) Other benefits and services related to the memorialization or interment of a deceased veteran and certain survivors include the following:
(i) Burial in a national cemetery (see §§ 38.600 and 38.617 through 38.629 of this chapter);
(ii) Presidential memorial certificates (see 38 U.S.C. 112);
(iii) Burial flags (see § 1.10 of this chapter); and
(iv) Headstones or markers (see §§ 38.630 through 38.633 of this chapter).
(2) The provisions of §§ 3.1702 through 3.1711 do not apply to any of the programs listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
[79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 78253, Sept. 25, 2024]
§ 3.1701
Deceased veterans for whom VA may provide burial benefits.
For purposes of providing burial benefits under subpart B of this part, the
term “veteran” means the same as provided in 38 U.S.C. 101(2). A veteran must be deceased, and burial benefits for that veteran must be authorized by a specific provision of law. For purposes of the non-service-connected burial allowance under 38 U.S.C. 2303, the term “veteran” includes a person who died during a period deemed to be active military, naval, air, or space service under §§ 3.6(b)(7), 3.7(m) and 3.7(o).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101(2), 2303, 2307, 2308)
[79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 26126, May 3, 2022; 89 FR 78253, Sept. 25, 2024]
§ 3.1702
Persons who may receive burial benefits; priority of payments.
(a)
Automatic payments to surviving spouses of eligible deceased veterans.
(1) On or after July 7, 2014, VA may automatically pay a burial benefit to an eligible veteran's surviving spouse, whether or not previously established as a dependent spouse on the deceased veteran's compensation or pension award, when VA knows of or is informed of the existence of the surviving spouse, can establish the surviving spouse's relationship under § 3.204 (when applicable), and is able to determine burial benefits eligibility based on evidence of record at the time VA updates its computer system to reflect the veteran's date of death.
(2) VA may grant additional burial benefits, including the plot or interment allowance under § 3.1707, the transportation benefit under § 3.1709, and the service-connected burial allowance under § 3.1704, to the surviving spouse or any other eligible person in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and based on a claim described in § 3.1703.
(b)
Priority of payments—claims received on or after July 7, 2014.
(1) Except for claims a State, an agency or political subdivision of a State, or a Tribal organization files under § 3.1707 or § 3.1708, VA will pay, upon the death of a veteran, the first living person to file of those listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section:
(i) His or her surviving spouse;
(ii) The survivor of a legal union between the deceased veteran and the survivor that is not covered by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph,
legal union
means a formal relationship between the decedent and the survivor that
(A) Existed on the date of the veteran's death,
(B) Was recognized under the law of the State in which the couple formalized the relationship, and
(C) Was evidenced by the State's issuance of documentation memorializing the relationship;
(iii) His or her children, regardless of age;
(iv) His or her parents or the surviving parent; or
(v) The executor or administrator of the estate of the deceased veteran. If no executor or administrator has been appointed, VA may pay burial benefits based on a claim filed by a person acting for such estate who will distribute the burial benefits to the person or persons entitled to such distribution under the laws of the veteran's last State of residence.
(2) In the case of a veteran whose remains are unclaimed, VA will pay the person or entity that provided burial services and transportation subject to the limitations prescribed in §§ 3.1708 and 3.1709.
(3) VA will pay burial benefits to a single representative of the categories in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. VA will not divide applicable burial benefits among claimants; it is the responsibility of the recipient to distribute benefits as may be required.
(c) Priority of payments—claims received before July 7, 2014.
(1) Claims for burial allowance may be executed by:
(i) The funeral director, if entire bill or any balance is unpaid (if unpaid bill or the unpaid balance is less than the applicable statutory burial allowance, only the unpaid amount may be claimed by the funeral director); or
(ii) The individual whose personal funds were used to pay burial, funeral, and transportation expenses; or
(iii) The executor or administrator of the estate of the veteran or the estate of the person who paid the expenses of the veteran's burial or provided such services. If no executor or administrator has been appointed then by some person acting for such estate who will
make distribution of the burial allowance to the person or persons entitled under the laws governing the distribution of interstate estates in the State of the decedent's personal domicile.
(2) Claims for the plot or interment allowance (except for claims filed by a State, an agency or political subdivision thereof, or a Tribal organization) under § 3.1707 may be executed by:
(i) The funeral director, if he or she provided the plot or interment services, or advanced funds to pay for them, and if the entire bill for such or any balance thereof is unpaid (if the unpaid bill or the unpaid balance is less than the statutory plot or interment allowance, only the unpaid amount may be claimed by the funeral director); or
(ii) The person(s) whose personal funds were used to defray the cost of the plot or interment expenses; or
(iii) The person or entity from whom the plot was purchased or who provided interment services if the bill for such is unpaid in whole or in part. An unpaid bill for a plot will take precedence in payment of the plot or interment allowance over an unpaid bill for other interment expenses or a claim for reimbursement for such expenses. Any remaining balance of the plot or interment allowance may then be applied to interment expenses; or
(iv) The executor or administrator of the estate of the veteran or the estate of the person who bore the expense of the plot or interment expenses. If no executor or administrator has been appointed, claim for the plot or interment allowance may be filed as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section for the burial allowance.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2303, 2307, 2308)
Cross Reference: § 3.1(i) for the definition of “State”.
[79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 39888, Aug. 13, 2018; 89 FR 78254, Sept. 25, 2024]
§ 3.1703
Claims for burial benefits.
(a)
When claims must be filed
— (1)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, VA must receive a claim for the non-service-connected burial allowance for veterans described within § 3.1705(b) or § 3.1708(b) no later than 2 years after the burial of the veteran. There are no other time limitations to file claims for burial benefits under subpart B of this part.
(2)
Correction of character of discharge.
If the non-service-connected burial allowance was not payable at the time of the veteran's death or burial because of the character of the veteran's discharge from service, VA may pay the allowance if a competent authority corrects the deceased veteran's discharge to reflect a discharge under conditions other than dishonorable. Claims for the non-service-connected burial allowance must be filed no later than 2 years after the date that the discharge was corrected.
(b)
Supporting evidence
—(1)
General rule.
In order to pay burial benefits, VA must receive all of the following:
(i) A claim, except as provided in § 3.1702(a);
(ii) Proof of the veteran's death in accordance with § 3.211, Death; and
(iii) For persons listed under § 3.1702(b), except as provided in § 3.1702(a), a statement certifying that the claimant incurred burial, plot or interment, or transportation costs of the deceased veteran.
(2)
Payment for transportation expenses.
In order to pay transportation costs, VA must receive supporting documentation, preferably on letterhead, showing who incurred the costs, the name of the deceased veteran, the specific transportation expenses incurred, and the dates of the services rendered.
(3)
Eligibility based on evidence of record.
VA may establish eligibility for benefits in this subpart based upon evidence of service and disability that VA relied upon to grant disability compensation or pension during the veteran's lifetime, unless VA has some other evidence on the date that it receives notice of the veteran's death that creates doubt as to the correctness of that evidence.
(The information collection requirements in this section are approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2900-0003)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2304, 5107(a))
[79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 78254, Sept. 25, 2024]

# Burial Benefits: Allowances

# Expenses Paid by VA
§ 3.1704
Burial allowance based on service-connected death.
(a)
General rule.
VA will pay the maximum burial allowance specified in 38 U.S.C. 2307 for the burial and funeral expenses of a veteran described in paragraph (b) of this section, unless VA has evidence on the date it receives notice of the veteran's death that the expenses incurred were less than that amount. Payment of the service-connected burial allowance is in lieu of other allowances authorized by subpart B of this part, except those allowances listed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Eligibility.
A burial allowance is payable under this section for a veteran who died as a result of a service-connected disability or disabilities. VA will presume, unless it has evidence to the contrary on the date it receives notice of the veteran's death, that a veteran died as a result of a service-connected disability or disabilities if, at the date of death, the veteran was rated totally disabled for a service-connected disability or disabilities, excluding a total disability rating based on individual unemployability.
(c)
Additional allowances available based on service-connected death.
In addition to the service-connected burial allowance authorized by this section:
(1) VA may pay the transportation benefit under § 3.1709; and
(2) VA may pay the plot or interment allowance under § 3.1707(b).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2303, 2307, 2308)
Cross Reference: § 3.1(i), for the definition of “State”.
[79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 78254, Sept. 25, 2024]
§ 3.1705
Burial allowance based on non-service-connected death.
(a)
General rule.
VA will pay the maximum burial allowance specified in 38 U.S.C. 2303 for the burial and funeral expenses of a veteran described in paragraph (b) of this section, unless VA has evidence on the date it receives notice of the veteran's death that the expenses incurred were less than that amount. Payment of the non-service-connected burial allowance is subject to other applicable regulations in subpart B of this part.
(b)
Eligibility.
A burial allowance is payable under this section for a veteran who, on the date of death:
(1) Was receiving VA pension or disability compensation;
(2) Would have been receiving disability compensation but for the receipt of military retired pay; or
(3) Had pending any of the following claims:
(i) An original claim for pension or disability compensation, and the evidence in the claims file on the date of death and any evidence received under paragraph (d) of this section is sufficient to grant pension or disability compensation effective before the date of death; or
(ii) A claim to reopen a previously denied pension or disability compensation claim, based on new and material evidence, and the evidence in the claims file on the date of the veteran's death and any evidence received under paragraph (d) of this section is sufficient to reopen the claim and grant pension or disability compensation effective before the date of death; or
(iii) A claim for which a person would be eligible to substitute for the deceased veteran under 38 U.S.C. 5121A, Substitution in case of death of claimant, and that claim, once processed to completion by the substitute, results in the grant of pension or disability compensation effective before the date of death.
(c)
Evidence in the claims file on the date of the veteran's death
means evidence in VA's possession on or before the date of the deceased veteran's death, even if such evidence was not part of the VA claims file on or before the date of death.
(d)
Requesting additional evidence.
If the veteran had either an original claim or a claim to reopen pending on the date of death and there is sufficient evidence in VA's possession to support an award of compensation or pension prior to the date of death, but VA determines that additional evidence is needed to confirm that the deceased would have been entitled prior to death, VA will request such evidence. If VA does not receive such evidence
within 1 year after the date of the request, it will deny the claim.
(e)
Additional benefits available based on non-service-connected death.
In addition to the non-service-connected burial allowance authorized by this section:
(1) VA may pay the transportation benefit under § 3.1709; and
(2) VA may pay the plot or interment allowance under § 3.1707.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2303, 2304, 2308)
Cross Reference: § 3.1(i), for the definition of “State”.
[79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 78254, Sept. 25, 2024]
§ 3.1706
Burial allowance for a veteran who died while hospitalized by VA.
(a)
General rule.
VA will pay up to the maximum burial allowance specified in 38 U.S.C. 2303(a) for the burial and funeral expenses of a veteran described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Eligibility.
A burial allowance is payable under this section for a veteran whose death was not service-connected and who died while hospitalized by VA. For purposes of this allowance, a veteran was hospitalized by VA if the veteran:
(1) Was properly admitted to a VA facility (as described in 38 U.S.C. 1701(3)) for hospital, nursing home, or domiciliary care under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 1710 or 1711(a);
(2) Was transferred or admitted to a non-VA facility (as described in 38 U.S.C. 1701(4)) for hospital care under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 1703;
(3) Was transferred or admitted to a nursing home for nursing home care at the expense of the U.S. under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 1720;
(4) Was transferred or admitted to a State nursing home for nursing home care for which payment is authorized under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 1741;
(5) Was traveling under proper prior authorization, and at VA expense, to or from a specified place for purpose of examination, treatment, or care; or
(6) Was hospitalized by VA pursuant to any of paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section but was not at the facility at the time of death and was:
(i) On authorized absence that did not exceed 96 hours at the time of death;
(ii) On unauthorized absence for a period not in excess of 24 hours at the time of death; or
(iii) Absent from the facility for a period not in excess of 24 hours of combined authorized and unauthorized absence at the time of death.
(c)
Hospitalization in the Philippines.
Hospitalization in the Philippines under 38 U.S.C. 1731, 1732, and 1733 does not meet the requirements of this section.
(d)
Additional allowances available based on death while hospitalized by VA.
In addition to the burial allowance authorized by this section:
(1) VA may pay the transportation benefit under § 3.1709; and
(2) VA may pay the plot or interment allowance under § 3.1707.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2303, 2308)
Cross Reference: § 3.1(z) for the definition of “nursing home”, § 3.1(i) for the definition of “State”.
[79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 78254, Sept. 25, 2024]
§ 3.1707
Plot or interment allowances for burial in a State veterans cemetery or other cemetery.
(a)
General eligibility.
For a veteran who was eligible for burial in a national cemetery under 38 U.S.C. 2402, but was not buried in a national cemetery or other cemetery under the jurisdiction of the U.S., VA will pay the allowances described below, provided all criteria are met.
(b)
Plot or interment allowance for burial in a State or Tribal veterans cemetery.
VA will pay the plot or interment allowance in the amount specified in 38 U.S.C. 2303(b)(1) (without regard to whether any other burial benefits were provided for that veteran) to a State, an agency or political subdivision of a State, or a Tribal organization that provided a burial plot or interment for the veteran without charge if the State, agency or political subdivision of the State, or Tribal organization:
(1) Is claiming the plot or interment allowance for burial of the veteran in a cemetery, or section of a cemetery, owned by the State, agency or subdivision of the State, or on trust land owned by, or held in trust for, a Tribal organization;
(2) Did not charge for the expense of the plot or interment; and
(3) Uses the cemetery or section of a cemetery solely for the interment of:
(i) Persons eligible for burial in a national cemetery; and
(ii) In a claim based on a veteran's death after October 31, 2000, either:
(A) Deceased members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces not otherwise eligible for interment in a national cemetery;
(B) Deceased former members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces not otherwise eligible for interment in a national cemetery who were discharged or released from service under conditions other than dishonorable; or
(C) Individuals described in 38 U.S.C. 2408(i)(2).
(c)
Plot or interment allowance payable based on burial in other than a State or Tribal veterans cemetery.
* * *
(c)
Plot or interment allowance payable based on burial in other than a State or Tribal veterans cemetery.
Unless VA has evidence on the date it receives notice of the veteran's death that the expenses incurred were less, VA will pay the maximum plot or interment allowance specified in 38 U.S.C. 2303(b)(2) to a claimant who incurred plot or interment expenses relating to the purchase of a burial plot for a deceased veteran if the veteran is buried in a cemetery other than a cemetery described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this section and:
(1) The veteran is eligible for a burial allowance under § 3.1705, Burial allowance based on non-service-connected death;
(2) The veteran is eligible for a burial allowance under § 3.1706, Burial allowance for a veteran who died while hospitalized by VA;
(3) The veteran was discharged from active service for a disability incurred or aggravated in line of duty (VA will accept the official service record of such discharge as proof of eligibility for the plot or interment allowance and VA will disregard any previous VA determination made in connection with a claim for monetary benefits that the disability was not incurred or aggravated in line of duty); or
(4) The veteran, at the time of discharge from active service, had a disability, shown by official service records, which in medical judgment would have justified a discharge for disability.
(d)
Definitions.
For purposes of subpart B of this part,
plot
or
burial plot
means the final disposal site of the remains, whether it is a grave, mausoleum vault, columbarium niche, or other similar place.
Plot or interment expenses
are those expenses associated with the final disposition of the remains and are not confined to the acts done within the burial grounds but may include the removal of remains for burial or interment.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 2303(b))
Cross Reference: § 3.1(i) for the definition of “State”.
[79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 78254, Sept. 25, 2024]
§ 3.1708
Burial of a veteran whose remains are unclaimed.
(a)
General.
VA will pay the maximum burial allowance specified in 38 U.S.C. 2303 for the burial and funeral expenses of a veteran described in paragraph (b) of this section, unless VA has evidence on the date it receives notice of the veteran's death that the expenses incurred were less than that amount.
(b)
Eligibility.
A burial allowance is payable under this section for a veteran if the Secretary determines that:
(1) There is no next of kin or other person claiming the remains of the deceased veteran; and
(2) There are not sufficient resources available in the veteran's estate to cover the burial and funeral expenses.
(c)
Additional benefit for transportation of unclaimed remains.
In addition to the burial allowance authorized by this section, VA may pay the transportation benefit under § 3.1709.
(d)
Burial.
When VA determines that a veteran's remains are unclaimed, the Director of the VA regional office in the area in which the veteran died will immediately complete arrangements for burial in a national cemetery or, at his or her option, in a cemetery or cemetery section meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of § 3.1707, Plot or interment allowance.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2303, 2308)
Cross Reference: § 3.1(i) for the definition of “State”.
[79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 78254, Sept. 25, 2024]
§ 3.1709
Transportation expenses for burial.
(a)
General.
VA will pay the transportation expenses, subject to paragraph (d) of this section, of a veteran's remains to the place of burial for a veteran described in paragraph (b) of this section or for burial in a national cemetery or a covered veterans' cemetery, as defined in § 3.1700(b)(2), for a veteran described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Eligibility for transportation to the place of burial under 38 U.S.C. 2303(a).
VA will pay the expense incurred to transport an eligible veteran's remains to the place of burial, subject to paragraph (d) of this section, where the death occurs within a State and the place of burial is in the same State or any other State.
(1) A veteran described in this paragraph is a deceased veteran who meets any of the following criteria:
(i) A veteran covered under 38 CFR 3.1705(b), or a veteran who died of a service-connected disability and who also satisfies the criteria listed under 38 CFR 3.1705(b)).
(ii) A veteran covered under 38 CFR 3.1706(b).
(iii) A veteran covered under 38 CFR 3.1708(b).
(2) A payment authorized under paragraph (b) of this section shall not duplicate any payment authorized under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Eligibility for transportation benefit under 38 U.S.C. 2308.
For a veteran described below, VA will pay for the expense incurred, subject to paragraph (d) of this section, to transport a veteran's remains for burial in a national cemetery or a covered veterans' cemetery, as defined in 38 CFR 3.1700(b)(2).
(1) A veteran described in this paragraph is a deceased veteran who:
(i) Died as the result of a service-connected disability and who is not eligible for the transportation benefit under paragraph (b) of this section; or
(ii) Died outside of a State.
(2) The amount payable under this paragraph (c) will not exceed the cost of transporting the remains to the national cemetery closest to the veteran's last place of residence in which burial space is available and is subject to the limitations set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) A payment authorized under this paragraph (c) shall not duplicate any payment authorized under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Reimbursable transportation expenses.
(1) VA will pay reasonable transportation expenses, including but not limited to the costs of shipment via common carrier (
i.e.
, procuring permits for shipment, a shipping case, sealing of the shipping case, and applicable Federal taxes) and costs of transporting the remains to the place of burial.
(2) A reasonable transportation expense is an expense that is usual and customary in the context of burial transportation, with a corresponding charge that is the usual and customary charge made to the general public for the same or similar services.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2303, 2308)
[79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 78254, Sept. 25, 2024]

# Burial Benefits: Other
§ 3.1710
Escheat (payment of burial benefits to an estate with no heirs).
VA will not pay burial benefits if the payment would escheat (that is, would be turned over to the State because there are no heirs to the estate of the person to whom such benefits would be paid).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a))
§ 3.1711
Effect of contributions by government, public, or private organizations.
(a)
Contributions by government or employer.
With respect to claims for a plot or interment allowance under § 3.1707, if VA has evidence that the U.S., a State, any agency or political subdivision of the U.S. or of a State, Tribal organization, or the employer of the deceased veteran has paid or contributed payment to the veteran's plot or interment expenses, VA will pay the claimant up to the lesser of:
(1) The allowable statutory amount; or
(2) The amount of the total plot or interment expenses minus the amount of expenses paid by any or all of the organizations described in this paragraph (a).
(b)
Burial expenses paid by other agencies of the U.S.
(1)
Burial allowance when Federal law or regulation also provides for payment.
VA cannot pay the non-service-connected burial allowance when any Federal law or regulation also specifically provides for the payment of the deceased veteran's burial, funeral, or transportation expenses. However, VA will pay the non-service-connected burial allowance when a Federal law or regulation allows the payment of burial expenses using funds due, or accrued to the credit of, the deceased veteran (such as Social Security benefits), but the law or regulation does not specifically require such payment. In such cases, VA will pay the maximum amount specified in 38 U.S.C. 2303.
(2)
Payment by military service department.
VA will not pay or will recoup the non-service-connected burial allowance for deaths occurring during active service or for other deaths for which the service department pays the burial, funeral, or transportation expenses.
(3)
When a veteran dies while hospitalized.
When a veteran dies while hospitalized at the expense of the U.S. government (including, but not limited to, death in a VA facility) and benefits would be otherwise payable under 10 U.S.C. 1482 and a provision of this subpart B, only one of these benefits is payable. VA will attempt to locate a relative of the veteran or another person entitled to reimbursement under § 3.1702(b) and will ask that person to elect between these benefits.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2303)
[79 FR 32658, June 6, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 78255, Sept. 25, 2024]
§ 3.1712
Effect of forfeiture on payment of burial benefits.
(a)
Forfeiture for fraud.
VA will pay burial benefits, if otherwise in order, based on a deceased veteran who forfeited his or her right to receive benefits due to fraud under § 3.901, Fraud. However, VA will not pay burial benefits to a claimant who participated in fraudulent activity that resulted in forfeiture under § 3.901.
(b)
Forfeiture for treasonable acts or for subversive activity.
VA will not pay burial benefits based on a period of service commencing before the date of commission of the offense if either the veteran or the claimant has forfeited the right to all benefits except insurance payments under § 3.902, Forfeiture for treasonable acts, or § 3.903, Forfeiture for subversive activities, because of a treasonable act or subversive activities, unless the offense was pardoned by the President of the U.S.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 6103, 6104, 6105)
Cross Reference: § 3.1(aa), for the definition of “fraud.”
§ 3.1713
Eligibility based on status before 1958.
When any person dies who had a status under any law in effect on December 31, 1957, that afforded entitlement to burial benefits, burial benefits will be paid, if otherwise in order, even though such status does not meet the service requirements of 38 U.S.C. chapter 23.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2305)
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Universal Adjudication Rules That Apply to Benefit Claims Governed by Part 3 of This Title

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 501(a), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
66 FR 18195, Apr. 6, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 3.2100
Scope of Applicability.
Unless otherwise specified, the provisions of this subpart apply only to claims governed by part 3 of this title.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a))
§ 3.2130
Will VA accept a signature by mark or thumbprint?
VA will accept signatures by mark or thumbprint if:
(a) They are witnessed by two people who sign their names and give their addresses, or
(b) They are witnessed by an accredited agent, attorney, or service organization representative, or
(c) They are certified by a notary public or any other person having the authority to administer oaths for general purposes, or
(d) They are certified by a VA employee who has been delegated authority by the Secretary under 38 CFR 2.3.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5101).
§ 3.2400
Applicability of modernized review system.
(a)
Applicability.
The modernized review system defined in 38 CFR 19.2(b) applies to all claims, requests for reopening of finally adjudicated claims, and requests for revision based on clear and unmistakable error:
(1) For which VA issues notice of an initial decision on or after the effective date of the modernized review system as provided in 38 CFR 19.2(a); or
(2) Where a claimant has elected review of a legacy claim under the modernized review system as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Legacy claims.
A legacy claim is a claim, or request for reopening or revision of a finally adjudicated claim, for which VA provided notice of a decision prior to the effective date of the modernized review system and the claimant has not elected to participate in the modernized review system as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Election into the modernized review system.
For claims governed by this part, pursuant to election by a claimant, the modernized review system applies where:
(1)
Rapid appeals modernization program election.
A claimant with a legacy appeal elects to opt-in to the modernized review system on or after November 1, 2017, as part of a program authorized by the Secretary pursuant to section 4 of Public Law 115-55; or
(2)
Election after receiving a statement of the case.
A claimant with a legacy appeal elects to opt-in to the modernized review system, following issuance, on or after the effective date of the modernized system, of a VA Statement of the Case or Supplemental Statement of the Case, by filing for a review option under the new system in accordance with § 3.2500 on a form prescribed by the Secretary within the time allowed for filing a substantive appeal under 38 CFR 19.52(b) and other applicable provisions in part 19 of this chapter.
(d)
Effect of election.
Once an eligible claimant elects the modernized review system with respect to a particular claim, the provisions of 38 CFR parts 3, 19, and 20 applicable only to legacy claims and appeals no longer apply to that claim.
[84 FR 171, Jan. 18, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 4336, Feb. 15, 2019]
§ 3.2500
Review of decisions.
(a)
Reviews available.
(1) Within one year from the date on which the agency of original jurisdiction issues a notice of a decision on a claim or issue as defined in § 3.151(c), except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (c), (e), and (f) of this section, a claimant may elect one of the following administrative review options by timely filing the appropriate form prescribed by the Secretary:
(i) A request for higher-level review under § 3.2601 or
(ii) An appeal to the Board under § 20.202 of this chapter.
(2) At any time after VA issues notice of a decision on an issue within a claim, a claimant may file a supplemental claim under § 3.2501.
(b)
Concurrent election prohibited.
With regard to the adjudication of a claim or an issue as defined in § 3.151(c), a claimant who has filed for review under one of the options available under paragraph (a) of this section may not, while that review is pending final adjudication, file for review under a different available option. While the adjudication of a specific benefit is pending on appeal before a federal court, a claimant may not file for administrative review of the claim under any of options listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Continuously pursued issues.
A claimant may continuously pursue a claim or an issue by timely and properly filing one of the following administrative review options, as specified
(except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (c), (e), and (f) of this section), after any decision by the agency of original jurisdiction, Board of Veterans' Appeals, or by the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, provided that any appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims is timely filed as determined by the court:
(1) Following notice of a decision on an initial claim or a supplemental claim, the claimant may file a supplemental claim, request a higher-level review, or appeal to the Board of Veterans' Appeals.
(2) Following notice of a decision on a higher-level review, the claimant may file a supplemental claim or appeal to the Board of Veterans' Appeals. (See appeal to the Board, 38 CFR 20.202).
(3) Following notice of a decision on an appeal to the Board of Veterans' Appeals, the claimant may file a supplemental claim or file a notice of appeal to the Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims.
(4) Following a decision on an appeal to the Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, the claimant may file a supplemental claim.
(d)
Voluntary withdrawal.
A claimant may withdraw a supplemental claim or a request for a higher-level review at any time before VA renders a decision on the issue. A claimant must submit in writing or through electronic submission in a manner prescribed by the Secretary any notice of withdrawal of an issue under the selected review option to the agency of original jurisdiction. The withdrawal will be effective the date VA receives it. A claimant may withdraw an appeal to the Board of Veteran's Appeals as prescribed in § 20.205.
(e)
Changing review options while a review is pending adjudication
—(1)
Within one year of prior decision notice.
A claimant may change the review option selected by withdrawing the request as prescribed in § 3.2500(d) and filing the appropriate application for the requested review option within one year from the date on which VA issued notice of a decision on an issue.
(2)
More than one year after notice of a decision.
A claimant may change the review option selected to a supplemental claim after expiration of one-year following the date on which VA issued a notice of decision on an issue by following the procedure specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Where VA receives the supplemental claim application after expiration of the one-year period, continuous pursuit of the claim will be broken and VA will apply the effective date provisions under paragraph (h)(2) of this section, unless VA grants an extension of the one-year period for good cause shown under § 3.109(b) and the supplemental claim application is received within the extension period allowed.
(f)
Applicability.
This section applies to claims and requests under the modernized review system as set forth in § 3.2400, with the exception that a supplemental claim may not be filed in connection with a denial of a request to revise a final decision of the agency of original jurisdiction based on clear and unmistakable error.
(g)
Review of simultaneously contested claims.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this part, a party to a simultaneously contested claim may only seek administrative review of a decision by the agency of original jurisdiction on such claim by filing an appeal to the Board as prescribed in § 20.402 of this chapter within 60 days of the date VA issues notice of the decision on the claim. (See contested claims, 38 CFR 20.402).
(h)
Effective dates
—(1)
Continuously pursued claims.
Except as otherwise provided by other provisions of this part, including § 3.400, the effective date will be fixed in accordance with the date of receipt of the initial claim or date entitlement arose, whichever is later, if a claimant continuously pursues an issue by timely filing in succession any of the available review options as specified in paragraph (c) of this section within one year of the issuance of the decision (or the time period specified in paragraph (f) of this section, as applicable to simultaneously contested claims), provided that any appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims must be accepted as timely by that court.
(2)
Supplemental claims received more than one year after notice of decision.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, for supplemental claims received more than one year after the date on which the agency of original jurisdiction issues notice of a decision or the Board of Veterans' Appeals issued notice of a decision, the effective date will be fixed in accordance with the date entitlement arose, but will not be earlier than the date of receipt of the supplemental claim.
[84 FR 171, Jan. 18, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 4336, Feb. 15, 2019; 84 FR 54033, Oct. 9, 2019]
§ 3.2501
Supplemental claims.
Except as otherwise provided, a claimant or his or her authorized representative, if any, who disagrees with a prior VA decision may file a supplemental claim (see § 3.1(p)(2)) by submitting in writing or electronically a complete application (see § 3.160(a)) on a form prescribed by the Secretary any time after the agency of original jurisdiction issues notice of a decision, regardless of whether the claim is pending (see
§
3.160(c)) or has become finally adjudicated (see
§
3.160(d)). If new and relevant evidence is presented or secured with respect to the supplemental claim, the agency of original jurisdiction will readjudicate the claim taking into consideration all of the evidence of record. If new and relevant evidence is not presented or secured, the agency of original jurisdiction will issue a decision finding that there was insufficient evidence to readjudicate the claim. In determining whether new and relevant evidence is presented or secured, VA will consider any VA treatment records reasonably identified by the claimant and any evidence received by VA after VA issued notice of a decision on the claim and while the evidentiary record was closed (see 3.103(c)).
(a)
New and relevant evidence.
The new and relevant standard will not impose a higher evidentiary threshold than the previous new and material evidence standard under § 3.156(a).
(1)
Definition.
New evidence is evidence not previously part of the actual record before agency adjudicators. Relevant evidence is information that tends to prove or disprove a matter at issue in a claim. Relevant evidence includes evidence that raises a theory of entitlement that was not previously addressed.
(2)
Receipt prior to notice of a decision.
New and relevant evidence received before VA issues its decision on a supplemental claim will be considered as having been filed in connection with the claim.
(b)
Evidentiary record.
The evidentiary record for a supplemental claim includes all evidence received by VA before VA issues notice of a decision on the supplemental claim. For VA to readjudicate the claim, the evidentiary record must include new and relevant evidence that was not of record as of the date of notice of the prior decision.
(c)
Duty to assist.
Upon receipt of a substantially complete supplemental claim, VA's duty to assist in the gathering of evidence under § 3.159 of this part is triggered and includes any such assistance that may help secure new and relevant evidence as defined in paragraph (a) of this section to complete the supplemental claim application.
(d)
Date of filing.
The filing date of a supplemental claim is determined according to § 3.155, with the exception of the intent to file rule found in § 3.155(b) which applies to initial claims.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 5103A(h), 5108)
[83 FR 172, Jan. 18, 2019]
§ 3.2502
Return by higher-level adjudicator or remand by the Board of Veterans' Appeals.
Upon receipt of a returned claim from a higher-level adjudicator or remand by the Board of Veterans' Appeals, the agency of original jurisdiction will expeditiously readjudicate the claim in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 5109B. The agency of original jurisdiction retains jurisdiction of the claim. In readjudicating the claim, the agency of original jurisidction will correct all identified duty to assist errors, complete a new decision and issue notice to the claimant and or his or her legal representative in accordance with 3.103(f). The effective date of any evaluation and award of pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation will be determined
in accordance with the date of receipt of the initial claim as prescribed under § 3.2500(g).
[84 FR 172, Jan. 18, 2019]

# Revisions
§ 3.2600
Legacy review of benefit claims decisions.
This section applies only to legacy claims as defined in § 3.2400 in which a Notice of Disagreement is timely filed on or after June 1, 2001, under regulations applicable at the time of filing.
(a) A claimant who has filed a Notice of Disagreement submitted in accordance with the provisions of § 20.201 of this chapter, and either § 20.302(a) or § 20.501(a) of this chapter, as applicable, with a decision of an agency of original jurisdiction on a benefit claim has a right to a review of that decision under this section. The review will be conducted by a Veterans Service Center Manager, Pension Management Center Manager, or Decision Review Officer, at VA's discretion. An individual who did not participate in the decision being reviewed will conduct this review. Only a decision that has not yet become final (by appellate decision or failure to timely appeal) may be reviewed. Review under this section will encompass only decisions with which the claimant has expressed disagreement in the Notice of Disagreement. The reviewer will consider all evidence of record and applicable law, and will give no deference to the decision being reviewed.
(b) Unless the claimant has requested review under this section with his or her Notice of Disagreement, VA will, upon receipt of the Notice of Disagreement, notify the claimant in writing of his or her right to a review under this section. To obtain such a review, the claimant must request it not later than 60 days after the date VA mails the notice. This 60-day time limit may not be extended. If the claimant fails to request review under this section not later than 60 days after the date VA mails the notice, VA will proceed with the traditional appellate process by issuing a Statement of the Case. A claimant may not have more than one review under this section of the same decision.
(c) The reviewer may conduct whatever development he or she considers necessary to resolve any disagreements in the Notice of Disagreement, consistent with applicable law. This may include an attempt to obtain additional evidence or the holding of an informal conference with the claimant. Upon the request of the claimant, the reviewer will conduct a hearing under the version of § 3.103(c) of this chapter predating Public Law 115-55.
(d) The reviewer may grant a benefit sought in the claim notwithstanding § 3.105(b), but, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, may not revise the decision in a manner that is less advantageous to the claimant than the decision under review. A review decision made under this section will include a summary of the evidence, a citation to pertinent laws, a discussion of how those laws affect the decision, and a summary of the reasons for the decision.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the reviewer may reverse or revise (even if disadvantageous to the claimant) prior decisions of an agency of original jurisdiction (including the decision being reviewed or any prior decision that has become final due to failure to timely appeal) on the grounds of clear and unmistakable error (see § 3.105(a)).
(f) Review under this section does not limit the appeal rights of a claimant. Unless a claimant withdraws his or her Notice of Disagreement as a result of this review process, VA will proceed with the traditional appellate process by issuing a Statement of the Case.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5109A and 7105(d))
[66 FR 21874, May 2, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 46868, July 17, 2002; 74 FR 26959, June 5, 2009; 79 FR 57697, Sept. 25, 2014; 84 FR 172, Jan. 18, 2019; 84 FR 4336, Feb. 15, 2019]
§ 3.2601
Higher-level review.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to all claims under the modernized review system, with the exception of simultaneously contested claims.
(b)
Requirements for election.
A claimant who is dissatisfied with a decision by the agency of original jurisdiction
may file a request for higher-level review in accordance with § 3.2500, by submitting a complete request for review on a form prescribed by the Secretary.
(c)
Complete request.
A complete request for higher-level review is a submission of a request on a form prescribed by the Secretary, whether paper or electronic, that meets the following requirements:
(1) A complete request must provide the name of the claimant and the relationship to the veteran, if applicable;
(2) A complete request must be signed by the claimant or a person legally authorized to sign for the claimant; and
(3) A complete request must specify the date of the underlying decision for which review is requested and specify the issues for which review is requested.
(d)
Filing period.
A complete request for higher-level review must be received by VA within one year of the date of VA's issuance of the notice of the decision. If VA receives an incomplete request form, VA will notify the claimant and the claimant's representative, if any, of the information necessary to complete the request form prescribed by the Secretary. If a complete request is submitted within 60 days of the date of the VA notification of such incomplete request or prior to the expiration of the one-year filing period, VA will consider it filed as of the date VA received the incomplete application form that did not meet the standards of a complete request.
(e)
Who may conduct a higher-level review.
Higher-level review will be conducted by an experienced adjudicator who did not participate in the prior decision. Selection of a higher-level adjudicator to conduct a higher-level review is at VA's discretion. As a general rule, an adjudicator in an office other than the office that rendered the prior decision will conduct the higher-level review. An exception to this rule applies for claims requiring specialized processing, such as where there is only one office that handles adjudication of a particular type of entitlement. A claimant may request that the office that rendered the prior decision conduct the higher-level review, and VA will grant the request in the absence of good cause to deny such as when processing is centralized at one office within the agency of original jurisdiction or when the office that rendered the prior decision does not have higher-level review personnel available to conduct the review.
(f)
Evidentiary record.
The evidentiary record in a higher-level review is limited to the evidence of record as of the date the agency of original jurisdiction issued notice of the prior decision under review and the higher-level adjudicator may not consider additional evidence. The higher-level adjudicator may not order development of additional evidence that may be relevant to the claim under review, except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
(g)
Duty to assist errors.
The higher-level adjudicator will ensure that VA complied with its statutory duty to assist (see § 3.159) in gathering evidence applicable prior to issuance of the decision being reviewed. If the higher-level adjudicator both identifies a duty to assist error that existed at the time of VA's decision on the claim under review and cannot grant the maximum benefit for the claim, the higher-level adjudicator must return the claim for correction of the error and readjudication. Upon receipt, the agency of jurisdiction will expeditiously readjudicate the claim in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 5109B.
(1) For disability evaluations, the
maximum benefit
means the highest schedular evaluation allowed by law and regulation for the issue under review.
(2) For ancillary benefits, the
maximum benefit
means the granting of the benefit sought.
(3) For pension benefits or dependents indemnity compensation, the
maximum benefit
means granting the highest benefit payable.
(h)
Informal conferences.
A claimant or his or her representative may include a request for an informal conference with a request for higher-level review. For purposes of this section,
informal conference
means contact with a claimant's representative or, if not represented, with the claimant, telephonically, or as otherwise determined by VA, for the sole purpose of allowing
the claimant or representative to identify any errors of law or fact in a prior decision based on the record at the time the decision was issued. If requested, VA will make reasonable efforts to contact the claimant and/or the authorized representative to conduct one informal conference during a higher-level review, but if such reasonable efforts are not successful, a decision may be issued in the absence of an informal conference. The higher-level adjudicator with determinative authority over the issue will conduct the informal conference, absent exceptional circumstances. VA will not receive any new evidence or introduction of facts not present at the time of the prior decision or apart of the evidentiary record in support of the higher-level review during the informal conference in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. Any expenses incurred by the claimant in connection with the informal conference are the responsibility of the claimant.
(i)
De novo review.
The higher-level adjudicator will consider only those decisions and claims for which the claimant has requested higher-level review, and will conduct a de novo review giving no deference to the prior decision, except as provided in § 3.104(c).
(j)
Difference of opinion.
The higher-level adjudicator may grant a benefit sought in the claim under review based on a difference of opinion (see § 3.105(b)). However, any finding favorable to the claimant is binding except as provided in § 3.104(c) of this part. In addition, the higher-level adjudicator will not revise the outcome in a manner that is less advantageous to the claimant based solely on a difference of opinion. The higher-level adjudicator may reverse or revise (even if disadvantageous to the claimant) prior decisions by VA (including the decision being reviewed or any prior decision) on the grounds of clear and unmistakable error under § 3.105(a)(1) or (a)(2), as applicable, depending on whether the prior decision is finally adjudicated.
(k)
Notice requirements.
Notice of a decision made under this section will include all of the elements described in § 3.103(f), a general statement indicating whether evidence submitted while the record was closed was not considered, and notice of the options available to have such evidence considered.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5109A and 7105(d))
[84 FR 173, Jan. 18, 2019]
Pt. 4

# PART 4—SCHEDULE FOR RATING DISABILITIES

# Subpart A—General Policy in Rating
Sec.
4.1
Essentials of evaluative rating.
4.2
Interpretation of examination reports.
4.3
Resolution of reasonable doubt.
4.6
Evaluation of evidence.
4.7
Higher of two evaluations.
4.9
Congenital or developmental defects.
4.10
Functional impairment.
4.13
Effect of change of diagnosis.
4.14
Avoidance of pyramiding.
4.15
Total disability ratings.
4.16
Total disability ratings for compensation based on unemployability of the individual.
4.17
Total disability ratings for pension based on unemployability and age of the individual.
4.17a
Misconduct etiology.
4.18
Unemployability.
4.19
Age in service-connected claims.
4.20
Analogous ratings.
4.21
Application of rating schedule.
4.22
Rating of disabilities aggravated by active service.
4.23
Attitude of rating officers.
4.24
Correspondence.
4.25
Combined ratings table.
4.26
Bilateral factor.
4.27
Use of diagnostic code numbers.
4.28
Prestabilization rating from date of discharge from service.
4.29
Ratings for service-connected disabilities requiring hospital treatment or observation.
4.30
Convalescent ratings.
4.31
Zero percent evaluations.

# Subpart B—Disability Ratings

# The Musculoskeletal System
4.40
Functional loss.
4.41
History of injury.
4.42
Complete medical examination of injury cases.
4.43
Osteomyelitis.
4.44
The bones.
4.45
The joints.
4.46
Accurate measurement.
4.47-4.54
[Reserved]
4.55
Principles of combined ratings for muscle injuries.
4.56
Evaluation of muscle disabilities.
4.57
Static foot deformities.
4.58
Arthritis due to strain.
4.59
Painful motion.
4.60
[Reserved]
4.61
Examination.
4.62
Circulatory disturbances.
4.63
Loss of use of hand or foot.
4.64
Loss of use of both buttocks.
4.65
[Reserved]
4.66
Sacroiliac joint.
4.67
Pelvic bones.
4.68
Amputation rule.
4.69
Dominant hand.
4.70
Inadequate examinations.
4.71
Measurement of ankylosis and joint motion.
4.71a
Schedule of ratings—musculoskeletal system.
4.72
[Reserved]
4.73
Schedule of ratings—muscle injuries.

# The Organs of Special Sense
4.75
General considerations for evaluating visual impairment.
4.76
Visual acuity.
4.76a
Computation of average concentric contraction of visual fields.
4.77
Visual fields.
4.78
Muscle function.
4.79
Schedule of ratings—eye.
4.80-4.84
[Reserved]

# Impairment of Auditory Acuity
4.85
Evaluation of hearing impairment.
4.86
Exceptional patterns of hearing impairment.
4.87
Schedule of ratings—ear.
4.87a
Schedule of ratings—other sense organs.

# Infectious Diseases, Immune Disorders and Nutritional Deficiencies
4.88
[Reserved]
4.88a
Chronic fatigue syndrome.
4.88b
Schedule of ratings—infectious diseases, immune disorders and nutritional deficiencies.
4.88c
Ratings for inactive nonpulmonary tuberculosis initially entitled after August 19, 1968.
4.89
Ratings for inactive nonpulmonary tuberculosis in effect on August 19, 1968.

# The Respiratory System
4.96
Special provisions regarding evaluation of respiratory conditions.
4.97
Schedule of ratings—respiratory system.

# The Cardiovascular System
4.100
Application of the general rating formula for diseases of the heart.
4.101-4.103
[Reserved]
4.104
Schedule of ratings—cardiovascular system.

# The Digestive System
4.110-4.111
[Reserved]
4.112
Weight loss and nutrition.
4.113
Coexisting abdominal conditions.
4.114
Schedule of ratings—digestive system.

# The Genitourinary System
4.115
Nephritis.
4.115a
Ratings of the genitourinary system—dysfunctions.
4.115b
Ratings of the genitourinary system—diagnoses.

# Gynecological Conditions and Disorders of the Breast
4.116
Schedule of ratings—gynecological conditions and disorders of the breast.

# The Hematologic and Lymphatic Systems
4.117
Schedule of ratings—hemic and lymphatic systems.

# The Skin
4.118
Schedule of ratings—skin.

# The Endocrine System
4.119
Schedule of ratings—endocrine system.

# Neurological Conditions and Convulsive Disorders
4.120
Evaluations by comparison.
4.121
Identification of epilepsy.
4.122
Psychomotor epilepsy.
4.123
Neuritis, cranial or peripheral.
4.124
Neuralgia, cranial or peripheral.
4.124a
Schedule of ratings—neurological conditions and convulsive disorders.

# Mental Disorders
4.125
Diagnosis of mental disorders.
4.126
Evaluation of disability from mental disorders.
4.127
Intellectual disability (intellectual developmental disorder) and personality disorders.
4.128
Convalescence ratings following extended hospitalization.
4.129
Mental disorders due to traumatic stress.
4.130
Schedule of ratings—Mental disorders.

# Dental and Oral Conditions
4.149
[Reserved]
4.150
Schedule of ratings—dental and oral conditions.
Appendix A to Part 4—Table of Amendments and Effective Dates Since 1946
Appendix B to Part 4—Numerical Index of Disabilities
Appendix C to Part 4—Alphabetical Index of Disabilities

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 1155, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
29 FR 6718, May 22, 1964, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Policy in Rating
§ 4.1
Essentials of evaluative rating.
This rating schedule is primarily a guide in the evaluation of disability resulting from all types of diseases and injuries encountered as a result of or incident to military service. The percentage ratings represent as far as can practicably be determined the average impairment in earning capacity resulting from such diseases and injuries and their residual conditions in civil occupations. Generally, the degrees of disability specified are considered adequate to compensate for considerable loss of working time from exacerbations or illnesses proportionate to the severity of the several grades of disability. For the application of this schedule, accurate and fully descriptive medical examinations are required, with emphasis upon the limitation of activity imposed by the disabling condition. Over a period of many years, a veteran's disability claim may require reratings in accordance with changes in laws, medical knowledge and his or her physical or mental condition. It is thus essential, both in the examination and in the evaluation of disability, that each disability be viewed in relation to its history.
[41 FR 11292, Mar. 18, 1976]
§ 4.2
Interpretation of examination reports.
Different examiners, at different times, will not describe the same disability in the same language. Features of the disability which must have persisted unchanged may be overlooked or a change for the better or worse may not be accurately appreciated or described. It is the responsibility of the rating specialist to interpret reports of examination in the light of the whole recorded history, reconciling the various reports into a consistent picture so that the current rating may accurately reflect the elements of disability present. Each disability must be considered from the point of view of the veteran working or seeking work. If a diagnosis is not supported by the findings on the examination report or if the report does not contain sufficient detail, it is incumbent upon the rating board to return the report as inadequate for evaluation purposes.
[41 FR 11292, Mar. 18, 1976]
§ 4.3
Resolution of reasonable doubt.
It is the defined and consistently applied policy of the Department of Veterans Affairs to administer the law under a broad interpretation, consistent, however, with the facts shown in every case. When after careful consideration of all procurable and assembled data, a reasonable doubt arises regarding the degree of disability such doubt will be resolved in favor of the claimant. See § 3.102 of this chapter.
[40 FR 42535, Sept. 15, 1975]
§ 4.6
Evaluation of evidence.
The element of the weight to be accorded the character of the veteran's service is but one factor entering into the considerations of the rating boards in arriving at determinations of the evaluation of disability. Every element in any way affecting the probative value to be assigned to the evidence in each individual claim must be thoroughly and conscientiously studied by each member of the rating board in the light of the established policies of the Department of Veterans Affairs to the end that decisions will be equitable and just as contemplated by the requirements of the law.
§ 4.7
Higher of two evaluations.
Where there is a question as to which of two evaluations shall be applied, the higher evaluation will be assigned if the disability picture more nearly approximates the criteria required for that rating. Otherwise, the lower rating will be assigned.
§ 4.9
Congenital or developmental defects.
Mere congenital or developmental defects, absent, displaced or supernumerary parts, refractive error of the eye, personality disorder and mental deficiency are not diseases or injuries
in the meaning of applicable legislation for disability compensation purposes.
[41 FR 11292, Mar. 18, 1976]
§ 4.10
Functional impairment.
The basis of disability evaluations is the ability of the body as a whole, or of the psyche, or of a system or organ of the body to function under the ordinary conditions of daily life including employment. Whether the upper or lower extremities, the back or abdominal wall, the eyes or ears, or the cardiovascular, digestive, or other system, or psyche are affected, evaluations are based upon lack of usefulness, of these parts or systems, especially in self-support. This imposes upon the medical examiner the responsibility of furnishing, in addition to the etiological, anatomical, pathological, laboratory and prognostic data required for ordinary medical classification, full description of the effects of disability upon the person's ordinary activity. In this connection, it will be remembered that a person may be too disabled to engage in employment although he or she is up and about and fairly comfortable at home or upon limited activity.
[41 FR 11292, Mar. 18, 1976]
§ 4.13
Effect of change of diagnosis.
The repercussion upon a current rating of service connection when change is made of a previously assigned diagnosis or etiology must be kept in mind. The aim should be the reconciliation and continuance of the diagnosis or etiology upon which service connection for the disability had been granted. The relevant principle enunciated in § 4.125, entitled “Diagnosis of mental disorders,” should have careful attention in this connection. When any change in evaluation is to be made, the rating agency should assure itself that there has been an actual change in the conditions, for better or worse, and not merely a difference in thoroughness of the examination or in use of descriptive terms. This will not, of course, preclude the correction of erroneous ratings, nor will it preclude assignment of a rating in conformity with § 4.7.
[29 FR 6718, May 22, 1964, as amended at 61 FR 52700, Oct. 8, 1996]
§ 4.14
Avoidance of pyramiding.
The evaluation of the same disability under various diagnoses is to be avoided. Disability from injuries to the muscles, nerves, and joints of an extremity may overlap to a great extent, so that special rules are included in the appropriate bodily system for their evaluation. Dyspnea, tachycardia, nervousness, fatigability, etc., may result from many causes; some may be service connected, others, not. Both the use of manifestations not resulting from service-connected disease or injury in establishing the service-connected evaluation, and the evaluation of the same manifestation under different diagnoses are to be avoided.
§ 4.15
Total disability ratings.
The ability to overcome the handicap of disability varies widely among individuals. The rating, however, is based primarily upon the average impairment in earning capacity, that is, upon the economic or industrial handicap which must be overcome and not from individual success in overcoming it. However, full consideration must be given to unusual physical or mental effects in individual cases, to peculiar effects of occupational activities, to defects in physical or mental endowment preventing the usual amount of success in overcoming the handicap of disability and to the effect of combinations of disability. Total disability will be considered to exist when there is present any impairment of mind or body which is sufficient to render it impossible for the average person to follow a substantially gainful occupation;
Provided,
That permanent total disability shall be taken to exist when the impairment is reasonably certain to continue throughout the life of the disabled person. The following will be considered to be permanent total disability: the permanent loss of the use of both hands, or of both feet, or of one hand and one foot, or of the sight of both eyes, or becoming permanently helpless or permanently bedridden. Other total disability ratings are
scheduled in the various bodily systems of this schedule.
§ 4.16
Total disability ratings for compensation based on unemployability of the individual.
(a) Total disability ratings for compensation may be assigned, where the schedular rating is less than total, when the disabled person is, in the judgment of the rating agency, unable to secure or follow a substantially gainful occupation as a result of service-connected disabilities:
Provided
That, if there is only one such disability, this disability shall be ratable at 60 percent or more, and that, if there are two or more disabilities, there shall be at least one disability ratable at 40 percent or more, and sufficient additional disability to bring the combined rating to 70 percent or more. For the above purpose of one 60 percent disability, or one 40 percent disability in combination, the following will be considered as one disability: (1) Disabilities of one or both upper extremities, or of one or both lower extremities, including the bilateral factor, if applicable, (2) disabilities resulting from common etiology or a single accident, (3) disabilities affecting a single body system, e.g. orthopedic, digestive, respiratory, cardiovascular-renal, neuropsychiatric, (4) multiple injuries incurred in action, or (5) multiple disabilities incurred as a prisoner of war. It is provided further that the existence or degree of nonservice-connected disabilities or previous unemployability status will be disregarded where the percentages referred to in this paragraph for the service-connected disability or disabilities are met and in the judgment of the rating agency such service-connected disabilities render the veteran unemployable. Marginal employment shall not be considered substantially gainful employment. For purposes of this section, marginal employment generally shall be deemed to exist when a veteran's earned annual income does not exceed the amount established by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, as the poverty threshold for one person. Marginal employment may also be held to exist, on a facts found basis (includes but is not limited to employment in a protected environment such as a family business or sheltered workshop), when earned annual income exceeds the poverty threshold. Consideration shall be given in all claims to the nature of the employment and the reason for termination.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(b) It is the established policy of the Department of Veterans Affairs that all veterans who are unable to secure and follow a substantially gainful occupation by reason of service-connected disabilities shall be rated totally disabled. Therefore, rating boards should submit to the Director, Compensation Service, for extra-schedular consideration all cases of veterans who are unemployable by reason of service-connected disabilities, but who fail to meet the percentage standards set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. The rating board will include a full statement as to the veteran's service-connected disabilities, employment history, educational and vocational attainment and all other factors having a bearing on the issue.
[40 FR 42535, Sept. 15, 1975, as amended at 54 FR 4281, Jan. 30, 1989; 55 FR 31580, Aug. 3, 1990; 58 FR 39664, July 26, 1993; 61 FR 52700, Oct. 8, 1996; 79 FR 2100, Jan. 13, 2014]
§ 4.17
Total disability ratings for pension based on unemployability and age of the individual.
All veterans who are basically eligible and who are unable to secure and follow a substantially gainful occupation by reason of disabilities which are likely to be permanent shall be rated as permanently and totally disabled. For the purpose of pension, the permanence of the percentage requirements of § 4.16 is a requisite. When the percentage requirements are met, and the disabilities involved are of a permanent nature, a rating of permanent and total disability will be assigned if the veteran is found to be unable to secure and follow substantially gainful employment by reason of such disability. Prior employment or unemployment status is immaterial if in the judgment of the rating board the veteran's disabilities render him or her unemployable. In making such determinations, the following guidelines will be used:
(a) Marginal employment, for example, as a self-employed farmer or other person, while employed in his or her own business, or at odd jobs or while employed at less than half the usual remuneration will not be considered incompatible with a determination of unemployability, if the restriction, as to securing or retaining better employment, is due to disability.
(b) Claims of all veterans who fail to meet the percentage standards but who meet the basic entitlement criteria and are unemployable, will be referred by the rating board to the Veterans Service Center Manager or the Pension Management Center Manager under § 3.321(b)(2) of this chapter.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155; 38 U.S.C. 3102)
[43 FR 45348, Oct. 2, 1978, as amended at 56 FR 57985, Nov. 15, 1991; 71 FR 28586, May 17, 2006; 74 FR 26959, June 5, 2009]
§ 4.17a
Misconduct etiology.
A permanent and total disability rating under the provisions of §§ 4.15, 4.16 and 4.17 will not be precluded by reason of the coexistence of misconduct disability when:
(a) A veteran, regardless of employment status, also has innocently acquired 100 percent disability, or
(b) Where unemployable, the veteran has other disabilities innocently acquired which meet the percentage requirements of §§ 4.16 and 4.17 and would render, in the judgment of the rating agency, the average person unable to secure or follow a substantially gainful occupation.
[40 FR 42536, Sept. 15, 1975, as amended at 43 FR 45349, Oct. 2, 1978]
§ 4.18
Unemployability.
A veteran may be considered as unemployable upon termination of employment which was provided on account of disability, or in which special consideration was given on account of the same, when it is satisfactorily shown that he or she is unable to secure further employment. With amputations, sequelae of fractures and other residuals of traumatism shown to be of static character, a showing of continuous unemployability from date of incurrence, or the date the condition reached the stabilized level, is a general requirement in order to establish the fact that present unemployability is the result of the disability. However, consideration is to be given to the circumstances of employment in individual claims, and, if the employment was only occasional, intermittent, tryout or unsuccessful, or eventually terminated on account of the disability, present unemployability may be attributed to the static disability. Where unemployability for pension previously has been established on the basis of combined service-connected and nonservice-connected disabilities and the service-connected disability or disabilities have increased in severity, § 4.16 is for consideration.
[40 FR 42536, Sept. 15, 1975, as amended at 43 FR 45349, Oct. 2, 1978]
§ 4.19
Age in service-connected claims.
Age may not be considered as a factor in evaluating service-connected disability; and unemployability, in service-connected claims, associated with advancing age or intercurrent disability, may not be used as a basis for a total disability rating. Age, as such, is a factor only in evaluations of disability not resulting from service,
i.e.
, for the purposes of pension.
[29 FR 6718, May 22, 1964, as amended at 43 FR 45349, Oct. 2, 1978]
§ 4.20
Analogous ratings.
When an unlisted condition is encountered it will be permissible to rate under a closely related disease or injury in which not only the functions affected, but the anatomical localization and symptomatology are closely analogous. Conjectural analogies will be avoided, as will the use of analogous ratings for conditions of doubtful diagnosis, or for those not fully supported by clinical and laboratory findings. Nor will ratings assigned to organic diseases and injuries be assigned by analogy to conditions of functional origin.
§ 4.21
Application of rating schedule.
In view of the number of atypical instances it is not expected, especially with the more fully described grades of disabilities, that all cases will show all the findings specified. Findings sufficiently characteristic to identify the
disease and the disability therefrom, and above all, coordination of rating with impairment of function will, however, be expected in all instances.
[41 FR 11293, Mar. 18, 1976]
§ 4.22
Rating of disabilities aggravated by active service.
In cases involving aggravation by active service, the rating will reflect only the degree of disability over and above the degree existing at the time of entrance into the active service, whether the particular condition was noted at the time of entrance into the active service, or it is determined upon the evidence of record to have existed at that time. It is necessary therefore, in all cases of this character to deduct from the present degree of disability the degree, if ascertainable, of the disability existing at the time of entrance into active service, in terms of the rating schedule, except that if the disability is total (100 percent) no deduction will be made. The resulting difference will be recorded on the rating sheet. If the degree of disability at the time of entrance into the service is not ascertainable in terms of the schedule, no deduction will be made.
§ 4.23
Attitude of rating officers.
It is to be remembered that the majority of applicants are disabled persons who are seeking benefits of law to which they believe themselves entitled. In the exercise of his or her functions, rating officers must not allow their personal feelings to intrude; an antagonistic, critical, or even abusive attitude on the part of a claimant should not in any instance influence the officers in the handling of the case. Fairness and courtesy must at all times be shown to applicants by all employees whose duties bring them in contact, directly or indirectly, with the Department's claimants.
[41 FR 11292, Mar. 18, 1976]
§ 4.24
Correspondence.
All correspondence relative to the interpretation of the schedule for rating disabilities, requests for advisory opinions, questions regarding lack of clarity or application to individual cases involving unusual difficulties, will be addressed to the Director, Compensation Service. A clear statement will be made of the point or points upon which information is desired, and the complete case file will be simultaneously forwarded to Central Office. Rating agencies will assure themselves that the recent report of physical examination presents an adequate picture of the claimant's condition. Claims in regard to which the schedule evaluations are considered inadequate or excessive, and errors in the schedule will be similarly brought to attention.
[41 FR 11292, Mar. 18, 1976, as amended at 79 FR 2100, Jan. 13, 2014]
§ 4.25
Combined ratings table.
Table I, Combined Ratings Table, results from the consideration of the efficiency of the individual as affected first by the most disabling condition, then by the less disabling condition, then by other less disabling conditions, if any, in the order of severity. Thus, a person having a 60 percent disability is considered 40 percent efficient. Proceeding from this 40 percent efficiency, the effect of a further 30 percent disability is to leave only 70 percent of the efficiency remaining after consideration of the first disability, or 28 percent efficiency altogether. The individual is thus 72 percent disabled, as shown in table I opposite 60 percent and under 30 percent.
(a) To use table I, the disabilities will first be arranged in the exact order of their severity, beginning with the greatest disability and then combined with use of table I as hereinafter indicated. For example, if there are two disabilities, the degree of one disability will be read in the left column and the degree of the other in the top row, whichever is appropriate. The figures appearing in the space where the column and row intersect will represent the combined value of the two. This combined value will then be converted to the nearest number divisible by 10, and combined values ending in 5 will be adjusted upward. Thus, with a 50 percent disability and a 30 percent disability, the combined value will be found to be 65 percent, but the 65 percent must be converted to 70 percent to represent the final degree of disability.
Similarly, with a disability of 40 percent, and another disability of 20 percent, the combined value is found to be 52 percent, but the 52 percent must be converted to the nearest degree divisible by 10, which is 50 percent. If there are more than two disabilities, the disabilities will also be arranged in the exact order of their severity and the combined value for the first two will be found as previously described for two disabilities. The combined value, exactly as found in table I, will be combined with the degree of the third disability (in order of severity). The combined value for the three disabilities will be found in the space where the column and row intersect, and if there are only three disabilities will be converted to the nearest degree divisible by 10, adjusting final 5's upward. Thus, if there are three disabilities ratable at 60 percent, 40 percent, and 20 percent, respectively, the combined value for the first two will be found opposite 60 and under 40 and is 76 percent. This 76 will be combined with 20 and the combined value for the three is 81 percent. This combined value will be converted to the nearest degree divisible by 10 which is 80 percent. The same procedure will be employed when there are four or more disabilities. (See table I).
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this schedule, the disabilities arising from a single disease entity, e.g., arthritis, multiple sclerosis, cerebrovascular accident, etc., are to be rated separately as are all other disabiling conditions, if any. All disabilities are then to be combined as described in paragraph (a) of this section. The conversion to the nearest degree divisible by 10 will be done only once per rating decision, will follow the combining of all disabilities, and will be the last procedure in determining the combined degree of disability.
Table I—Combined Ratings Table
[10 combined with 10 is 19]
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
19
27
35
43
51
60
68
76
84
92
20
28
36
44
52
60
68
76
84
92
21
29
37
45
53
61
68
76
84
92
22
30
38
45
53
61
69
77
84
92
23
31
38
46
54
62
69
77
85
92
24
32
39
47
54
62
70
77
85
92
25
33
40
48
55
63
70
78
85
93
26
33
41
48
56
63
70
78
85
93
27
34
42
49
56
64
71
78
85
93
28
35
42
50
57
64
71
78
86
93
29
36
43
50
57
65
72
79
86
93
30
37
44
51
58
65
72
79
86
93
31
38
45
52
59
66
72
79
86
93
32
39
46
52
59
66
73
80
86
93
33
40
46
53
60
67
73
80
87
93
34
41
47
54
60
67
74
80
87
93
35
42
48
55
61
68
74
81
87
94
36
42
49
55
62
68
74
81
87
94
37
43
50
56
62
69
75
81
87
94
38
44
50
57
63
69
75
81
88
94
39
45
51
57
63
70
76
82
88
94
40
46
52
58
64
70
76
82
88
94
41
47
53
59
65
71
76
82
88
94
42
48
54
59
65
71
77
83
88
94
43
49
54
60
66
72
77
83
89
94
44
50
55
61
66
72
78
83
89
94
45
51
56
62
67
73
78
84
89
95
46
51
57
62
68
73
78
84
89
95
47
52
58
63
68
74
79
84
89
95
48
53
58
64
69
74
79
84
90
95
49
54
59
64
69
75
80
85
90
95
50
55
60
65
70
75
80
85
90
95
51
56
61
66
71
76
80
85
90
95
52
57
62
66
71
76
81
86
90
95
53
58
62
67
72
77
81
86
91
95
54
59
63
68
72
77
82
86
91
95
55
60
64
69
73
78
82
87
91
96
56
60
65
69
74
78
82
87
91
96
57
61
66
70
74
79
83
87
91
96
58
62
66
71
75
79
83
87
92
96
59
63
67
71
75
80
84
88
92
96
60
64
68
72
76
80
84
88
92
96
61
65
69
73
77
81
84
88
92
96
62
66
70
73
77
81
85
89
92
96
63
67
70
74
78
82
85
89
93
96
64
68
71
75
78
82
86
89
93
96
65
69
72
76
79
83
86
90
93
97
66
69
73
76
80
83
86
90
93
97
67
70
74
77
80
84
87
90
93
97
68
71
74
78
81
84
87
90
94
97
69
72
75
78
81
85
88
91
94
97
70
73
76
79
82
85
88
91
94
97
71
74
77
80
83
86
88
91
94
97
72
75
78
80
83
86
89
92
94
97
73
76
78
81
84
87
89
92
95
97
74
77
79
82
84
87
90
92
95
97
75
78
80
83
85
88
90
93
95
98
76
78
81
83
86
88
90
93
95
98
77
79
82
84
86
89
91
93
95
98
78
80
82
85
87
89
91
93
96
98
79
81
83
85
87
90
92
94
96
98
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
81
83
85
87
89
91
92
94
96
98
82
84
86
87
89
91
93
95
96
98
83
85
86
88
90
92
93
95
97
98
84
86
87
89
90
92
94
95
97
98
85
87
88
90
91
93
94
96
97
99
86
87
89
90
92
93
94
96
97
99
87
88
90
91
92
94
95
96
97
99
88
89
90
92
93
94
95
96
98
99
89
90
91
92
93
95
96
97
98
99
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
91
92
93
94
95
96
96
97
98
99
92
93
94
94
95
96
97
98
98
99
93
94
94
95
96
97
97
98
99
99
94
95
95
96
96
97
98
98
99
99
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[41 FR 11293, Mar. 18, 1976, as amended at 54 FR 27161, June 28, 1989; 54 FR 36029, Aug. 31, 1989; 83 FR 17756, Apr. 24, 2018]
§ 4.26
Bilateral factor.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, when a partial disability results from disease or injury of both arms, or of both legs, or of paired skeletal muscles, the ratings for the disabilities of the right and left sides will be combined as usual, and 10 percent of this value will be added (
i.e.,
not combined) before proceeding with further combinations, or converting to degree of disability. The bilateral factor will be applied to such bilateral disabilities before other combinations are carried out and the rating for such disabilities including the bilateral factor in this section will be treated as one disability for the purpose of arranging in order of severity and for all further combinations. For example, with disabilities evaluated at 60 percent, 20 percent, 10 percent and 10 percent (with the two 10 percent evaluations being bilateral disabilities), the order of severity would be 60, 21 and 20. The 60 and 21 combine to 68 percent and the 68 and 20 combine to 74 percent, converted to 70 percent as the final degree of disability.
(a)
Definitions.
The use of the terms “arms” and “legs” is not intended to distinguish between the arm, forearm and hand, or the thigh, leg, and foot, but relates to the upper extremities and lower extremities as a whole. Thus with a compensable disability of the right thigh, for example, amputation, and one of the left foot, for example,
pes planus, the bilateral factor applies, and similarly whenever there are compensable disabilities affecting use of paired extremities regardless of location or specified type of impairment.
(b)
Procedure for four affected extremities.
The correct procedure when applying the bilateral factor to disabilities affecting both upper extremities and both lower extremities is to combine the ratings of the disabilities affecting the 4 extremities in the order of their individual severity and apply the bilateral factor by adding, not combining, 10 percent of the combined value thus attained.
(c)
Applicability.
The bilateral factor is not applicable unless there is partial disability of compensable degree in each of 2 paired extremities, or paired skeletal muscles.
(d)
Exception.
In cases where the combined evaluation is lower than what could be achieved by not including one or more bilateral disabilities in the bilateral factor calculation, those bilateral disabilities will be removed from the bilateral factor calculation and combined separately, to achieve the combined evaluation most favorable to the veteran.
[29 FR 6718, May 22, 1964, as amended at 88 FR 22917, Apr. 14, 2023]
§ 4.27
Use of diagnostic code numbers.
The diagnostic code numbers appearing opposite the listed ratable disabilities are arbitrary numbers for the purpose of showing the basis of the evaluation assigned and for statistical analysis in the Department of Veterans Affairs, and as will be observed, extend from 5000 to a possible 9999. Great care will be exercised in the selection of the applicable code number and in its citation on the rating sheet. No other numbers than these listed or hereafter furnished are to be employed for rating purposes, with an exception as described in this section, as to unlisted conditions. When an unlisted disease, injury, or residual condition is encountered, requiring rating by analogy, the diagnostic code number will be “built-up” as follows: The first 2 digits will be selected from that part of the schedule most closely identifying the part, or system, of the body involved; the last 2 digits will be “99” for all unlisted conditions. This procedure will facilitate a close check of new and unlisted conditions, rated by analogy. In the selection of code numbers, injuries will generally be represented by the number assigned to the residual condition on the basis of which the rating is determined. With diseases, preference is to be given to the number assigned to the disease itself; if the rating is determined on the basis of residual conditions, the number appropriate to the residual condition will be added, preceded by a hyphen. Thus, rheumatoid (atrophic) arthritis rated as ankylosis of the lumbar spine should be coded “5002-5240.” In this way, the exact source of each rating can be easily identified. In the citation of disabilities on rating sheets, the diagnostic terminology will be that of the medical examiner, with no attempt to translate the terms into schedule nomenclature. Residuals of diseases or therapeutic procedures will not be cited without reference to the basic disease.
[41 FR 11293, Mar. 18, 1976, as amended at 70 FR 75399, Dec. 20, 2005]
§ 4.28
Prestabilization rating from date of discharge from service.
The following ratings may be assigned, in lieu of ratings prescribed elsewhere, under the conditions stated for disability from any disease or injury. The prestabilization rating is not to be assigned in any case in which a total rating is immediately assignable under the regular provisions of the schedule or on the basis of individual unemployability. The prestabilization 50-percent rating is not to be used in any case in which a rating of 50 percent or more is immediately assignable under the regular provisions.
Rating
Unstabilized condition with severe disability—
Substantially gainful employment is not feasible or advisable
100
Unhealed or incompletely healed wounds or injuries—
Material impairment of employability likely
50

# Note (1):
Department of Veterans Affairs examination is not required prior to assignment of prestabilization ratings; however, the fact that examination was accomplished will not preclude assignment of these benefits. Prestabilization ratings are for assignment in the immediate postdischarge period.
They will continue for a 12-month period following discharge from service. However, prestabilization ratings may be changed to a regular schedular total rating or one authorizing a greater benefit at any time. In each prestabilization rating an examination will be requested to be accomplished not earlier than 6 months nor more than 12 months following discharge. In those prestabilization ratings in which following examination reduction in evaluation is found to be warranted, the higher evaluation will be continued to the end of the 12th month following discharge or to the end of the period provided under § 3.105(e) of this chapter, whichever is later. Special monthly compensation should be assigned concurrently in these cases whenever records are adequate to establish entitlement.

# Note (2):
Diagnosis of disease, injury, or residuals will be cited, with diagnostic code number assigned from this rating schedule for conditions listed therein.
[35 FR 11906, July 24, 1970]
§ 4.29
Ratings for service-connected disabilities requiring hospital treatment or observation.
A total disability rating (100 percent) will be assigned without regard to other provisions of the rating schedule when it is established that a service-connected disability has required hospital treatment in a Department of Veterans Affairs or an approved hospital for a period in excess of 21 days or
hospital observation at Department of Veterans Affairs expense
for a service-connected disability for a period in excess of 21 days.
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section this increased rating will be effective the first day of continuous hospitalization and will be terminated effective the last day of the month of hospital discharge (regular discharge or release to non-bed care) or effective the last day of the month of termination of treatment or observation for the service-connected disability. A temporary release which is approved by an attending Department of Veterans Affairs physician as part of the treatment plan will not be considered an absence.
(1) An authorized absence in excess of 4 days which begins during the first 21 days of hospitalization will be regarded as the equivalent of hospital discharge effective the first day of such authorized absence. An authorized absence of 4 days or less which results in a total of more than 8 days of authorized absence during the first 21 days of hospitalization will be regarded as the equivalent of hospital discharge effective the ninth day of authorized absence.
(2) Following a period of hospitalization in excess of 21 days, an authorized absence in excess of 14 days or a third consecutive authorized absence of 14 days will be regarded as the equivalent of hospital discharge and will interrupt hospitalization effective on the last day of the month in which either the authorized absence in excess of 14 days or the third 14 day period begins, except where there is a finding that convalescence is required as provided by paragraph (e) or (f) of this section. The termination of these total ratings will not be subject to § 3.105(e) of this chapter.
(b) Notwithstanding that hospital admission was for disability not connected with service, if during such hospitalization, hospital treatment for a service-connected disability is instituted and continued for a period in excess of 21 days, the increase to a total rating will be granted from the first day of such treatment. If service connection for the disability under treatment is granted after hospital admission, the rating will be from the first day of hospitalization if otherwise in order.
(c) The assignment of a total disability rating on the basis of hospital treatment or observation will not preclude the assignment of a total disability rating otherwise in order under other provisions of the rating schedule, and consideration will be given to the propriety of such a rating in all instances and to the propriety of its continuance after discharge. Particular attention, with a view to proper rating under the rating schedule, is to be given to the claims of veterans discharged from hospital, regardless of length of hospitalization, with indications on the final summary of expected confinement to bed or house, or to inability to work with requirement of frequent care of physician or nurse at home.
(d) On these total ratings Department of Veterans Affairs regulations governing effective dates for increased benefits will control.
(e) The total hospital rating if convalescence is required may be continued for periods of 1, 2, or 3 months in addition to the period provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(f) Extension of periods of 1, 2 or 3 months beyond the initial 3 months may be made upon approval of the Veterans Service Center Manager.
(g) Meritorious claims of veterans who are discharged from the hospital with less than the required number of days but need post-hospital care and a prolonged period of convalescence will be referred to the Director, Compensation Service, under § 3.321(b)(1) of this chapter.
[29 FR 6718, May 22, 1964, as amended at 41 FR 11294, Mar. 18, 1976; 41 FR 34256, Aug. 13, 1976; 54 FR 4281, Jan. 30, 1989; 54 FR 34981, Aug. 23, 1989; 71 FR 28586, May 17, 2006; 79 FR 2100, Jan. 13, 2014]
§ 4.30
Convalescent ratings.
A total disability rating (100 percent) will be assigned without regard to other provisions of the rating schedule when it is established by report at hospital discharge (regular discharge or release to non-bed care) or outpatient release that entitlement is warranted under paragraph (a) (1), (2) or (3) of this section effective the date of hospital admission or outpatient treatment and continuing for a period of 1, 2, or 3 months from the first day of the month following such hospital discharge or outpatient release. The termination of these total ratings will not be subject to § 3.105(e) of this chapter. Such total rating will be followed by appropriate schedular evaluations. When the evidence is inadequate to assign a schedular evaluation, a physical examination will be scheduled and considered prior to the termination of a total rating under this section.
(a) Total ratings will be assigned under this section if treatment of a service-connected disability resulted in:
(1) Surgery necessitating at least one month of convalescence (Effective as to outpatient surgery March 1, 1989.)
(2) Surgery with severe postoperative residuals such as incompletely healed surgical wounds, stumps of recent amputations, therapeutic immobilization of one major joint or more, application of a body cast, or the necessity for house confinement, or the necessity for continued use of a wheelchair or crutches (regular weight-bearing prohibited). (Effective as to outpatient surgery March 1, 1989.)
(3) Immobilization by cast, without surgery, of one major joint or more. (Effective as to outpatient treatment March 10, 1976.)
A reduction in the total rating will not be subject to § 3.105(e) of this chapter. The total rating will be followed by an open rating reflecting the appropriate schedular evaluation; where the evidence is inadequate to assign the schedular evaluation, a physcial examination will be scheduled prior to the end of the total rating period.
(b) A total rating under this section will require full justification on the rating sheet and may be extended as follows:
(1) Extensions of 1, 2 or 3 months beyond the initial 3 months may be made under paragraph (a) (1), (2) or (3) of this section.
(2) Extensions of 1 or more months up to 6 months beyond the initial 6 months period may be made under paragraph (a) (2) or (3) of this section upon approval of the Veterans Service Center Manager.
[41 FR 34256, Aug. 13, 1976, as amended at 54 FR 4281, Jan. 30, 1989; 71 FR 28586, May 17, 2006]
§ 4.31
Zero percent evaluations.
In every instance where the schedule does not provide a zero percent evaluation for a diagnostic code, a zero percent evaluation shall be assigned when the requirements for a compensable evaluation are not met.
[58 FR 52018, Oct. 6, 1993]

# Subpart B—Disability Ratings

# The Musculoskeletal System
§ 4.40
Functional loss.
Disability of the musculoskeletal system is primarily the inability, due to damage or infection in parts of the system, to perform the normal working movements of the body with normal excursion, strength, speed, coordination and endurance. It is essential that
the examination on which ratings are based adequately portray the anatomical damage, and the functional loss, with respect to all these elements. The functional loss may be due to absence of part, or all, of the necessary bones, joints and muscles, or associated structures, or to deformity, adhesions, defective innervation, or other pathology, or it may be due to pain, supported by adequate pathology and evidenced by the visible behavior of the claimant undertaking the motion. Weakness is as important as limitation of motion, and a part which becomes painful on use must be regarded as seriously disabled. A little used part of the musculoskeletal system may be expected to show evidence of disuse, either through atrophy, the condition of the skin, absence of normal callosity or the like.
§ 4.41
History of injury.
In considering the residuals of injury, it is essential to trace the medical-industrial history of the disabled person from the original injury, considering the nature of the injury and the attendant circumstances, and the requirements for, and the effect of, treatment over past periods, and the course of the recovery to date. The duration of the initial, and any subsequent, period of total incapacity, especially periods reflecting delayed union, inflammation, swelling, drainage, or operative intervention, should be given close attention. This consideration, or the absence of clear cut evidence of injury, may result in classifying the disability as not of traumatic origin, either reflecting congenital or developmental etiology, or the effects of healed disease.
§ 4.42
Complete medical examination of injury cases.
The importance of complete medical examination of injury cases at the time of first medical examination by the Department of Veterans Affairs cannot be overemphasized. When possible, this should include complete neurological and psychiatric examination, and other special examinations indicated by the physical condition, in addition to the required general and orthopedic or surgical examinations. When complete examinations are not conducted covering all systems of the body affected by disease or injury, it is impossible to visualize the nature and extent of the service connected disability. Incomplete examination is a common cause of incorrect diagnosis, especially in the neurological and psychiatric fields, and frequently leaves the Department of Veterans Affairs in doubt as to the presence or absence of disabling conditions at the time of the examination.
§ 4.43
Osteomyelitis.
Chronic, or recurring, suppurative osteomyelitis, once clinically identified, including chronic inflammation of bone marrow, cortex, or periosteum, should be considered as a continuously disabling process, whether or not an actively discharging sinus or other obvious evidence of infection is manifest from time to time, and unless the focus is entirely removed by amputation will entitle to a permanent rating to be combined with other ratings for residual conditions, however, not exceeding amputation ratings at the site of election.
§ 4.44
The bones.
The osseous abnormalities incident to trauma or disease, such as malunion with deformity throwing abnormal stress upon, and causing malalignment of joint surfaces, should be depicted from study and observation of all available data, beginning with inception of injury or disease, its nature, degree of prostration, treatment and duration of convalescence, and progress of recovery with development of permanent residuals. With shortening of a long bone, some degree of angulation is to be expected; the extent and direction should be brought out by X-ray and observation. The direction of angulation and extent of deformity should be carefully related to strain on the neighboring joints, especially those connected with weight-bearing.
§ 4.45
The joints.
As regards the joints the factors of disability reside in reductions of their normal excursion of movements in different planes. Inquiry will be directed to these considerations:
(a) Less movement than normal (due to ankylosis, limitation or blocking, adhesions, tendon-tie-up, contracted scars, etc.).
(b) More movement than normal (from flail joint, resections, nonunion of fracture, relaxation of ligaments, etc.).
(c) Weakened movement (due to muscle injury, disease or injury of peripheral nerves, divided or lengthened tendons, etc.).
(d) Excess fatigability.
(e) Incoordination, impaired ability to execute skilled movements smoothly.
(f) Pain on movement, swelling, deformity or atrophy of disuse. Instability of station, disturbance of locomotion, interference with sitting, standing and weight-bearing are related considerations. For the purpose of rating disability from arthritis, the shoulder, elbow, wrist, hip, knee, and ankle are considered major joints; multiple involvements of the interphalangeal, metacarpal and carpal joints of the upper extremities, the interphalangeal, metatarsal and tarsal joints of the lower extremities, the cervical vertebrae, the dorsal vertebrae, and the lumbar vertebrae, are considered groups of minor joints, ratable on a parity with major joints. The lumbosacral articulation and both sacroiliac joints are considered to be a group of minor joints, ratable on disturbance of lumbar spine functions.
§ 4.46
Accurate measurement.
Accurate measurement of the length of stumps, excursion of joints, dimensions and location of scars with respect to landmarks, should be insisted on. The use of a goniometer in the measurement of limitation of motion is indispensable in examinations conducted within the Department of Veterans Affairs. Muscle atrophy must also be accurately measured and reported.
[41 FR 11294, Mar. 18, 1976]
§§ 4.47-4.54
[Reserved]
§ 4.55
Principles of combined ratings for muscle injuries.
(a) A muscle injury rating will not be combined with a peripheral nerve paralysis rating of the same body part, unless the injuries affect entirely different functions.
(b) For rating purposes, the skeletal muscles of the body are divided into 23 muscle groups in 5 anatomical regions: 6 muscle groups for the shoulder girdle and arm (diagnostic codes 5301 through 5306); 3 muscle groups for the forearm and hand (diagnostic codes 5307 through 5309); 3 muscle groups for the foot and leg (diagnostic codes 5310 through 5312); 6 muscle groups for the pelvic girdle and thigh (diagnostic codes 5313 through 5318); and 5 muscle groups for the torso and neck (diagnostic codes 5319 through 5323).
(c) There will be no rating assigned for muscle groups which act upon an ankylosed joint, with the following exceptions:
(1) In the case of an ankylosed knee, if muscle group XIII is disabled, it will be rated, but at the next lower level than that which would otherwise be assigned.
(2) In the case of an ankylosed shoulder, if muscle groups I and II are severely disabled, the evaluation of the shoulder joint under diagnostic code 5200 will be elevated to the level for unfavorable ankylosis, if not already assigned, but the muscle groups themselves will not be rated.
(d) The combined evaluation of muscle groups acting upon a single unankylosed joint must be lower than the evaluation for unfavorable ankylosis of that joint, except in the case of muscle groups I and II acting upon the shoulder.
(e) For compensable muscle group injuries which are in the same anatomical region but do not act on the same joint, the evaluation for the most severely injured muscle group will be increased by one level and used as the combined evaluation for the affected muscle groups.
(f) For muscle group injuries in different anatomical regions which do not act upon ankylosed joints, each muscle group injury shall be separately rated and the ratings combined under the provisions of § 4.25.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[62 FR 30237, June 3, 1997]
§ 4.56
Evaluation of muscle disabilities.
(a) An open comminuted fracture with muscle or tendon damage will be rated as a severe injury of the muscle group involved unless, for locations such as in the wrist or over the tibia, evidence establishes that the muscle damage is minimal.
(b) A through-and-through injury with muscle damage shall be evaluated as no less than a moderate injury for each group of muscles damaged.
(c) For VA rating purposes, the cardinal signs and symptoms of muscle disability are loss of power, weakness, lowered threshold of fatigue, fatigue-pain, impairment of coordination and uncertainty of movement.
(d) Under diagnostic codes 5301 through 5323, disabilities resulting from muscle injuries shall be classified as slight, moderate, moderately severe or severe as follows:
(1)
Slight disability of muscles
—(i)
Type of injury.
Simple wound of muscle without debridement or infection.
(ii)
History and complaint.
Service department record of superficial wound with brief treatment and return to duty. Healing with good functional results. No cardinal signs or symptoms of muscle disability as defined in paragraph (c) of this section.
(iii)
Objective findings.
Minimal scar. No evidence of fascial defect, atrophy, or impaired tonus. No impairment of function or metallic fragments retained in muscle tissue.
(2)
Moderate disability of muscles
—(i)
Type of injury.
Through and through or deep penetrating wound of short track from a single bullet, small shell or shrapnel fragment, without explosive effect of high velocity missile, residuals of debridement, or prolonged infection.
(ii)
History and complaint.
Service department record or other evidence of in-service treatment for the wound. Record of consistent complaint of one or more of the cardinal signs and symptoms of muscle disability as defined in paragraph (c) of this section, particularly lowered threshold of fatigue after average use, affecting the particular functions controlled by the injured muscles.
(iii)
Objective findings.
Entrance and (if present) exit scars, small or linear, indicating short track of missile through muscle tissue. Some loss of deep fascia or muscle substance or impairment of muscle tonus and loss of power or lowered threshold of fatigue when compared to the sound side.
(3)
Moderately severe disability of muscles
—(i)
Type of injury.
Through and through or deep penetrating wound by small high velocity missile or large low-velocity missile, with debridement, prolonged infection, or sloughing of soft parts, and intermuscular scarring.
(ii)
History and complaint.
Service department record or other evidence showing hospitalization for a prolonged period for treatment of wound. Record of consistent complaint of cardinal signs and symptoms of muscle disability as defined in paragraph (c) of this section and, if present, evidence of inability to keep up with work requirements.
(iii)
Objective findings.
Entrance and (if present) exit scars indicating track of missile through one or more muscle groups. Indications on palpation of loss of deep fascia, muscle substance, or normal firm resistance of muscles compared with sound side. Tests of strength and endurance compared with sound side demonstrate positive evidence of impairment.
(4)
Severe disability of muscles
—(i)
Type of injury.
Through and through or deep penetrating wound due to high-velocity missile, or large or multiple low velocity missiles, or with shattering bone fracture or open comminuted fracture with extensive debridement, prolonged infection, or sloughing of soft parts, intermuscular binding and scarring.
(ii)
History and complaint.
Service department record or other evidence showing hospitalization for a prolonged period for treatment of wound. Record of consistent complaint of cardinal signs and symptoms of muscle disability as defined in paragraph (c) of this section, worse than those shown for moderately severe muscle injuries, and, if present, evidence of inability to keep up with work requirements.
(iii)
Objective findings.
Ragged, depressed and adherent scars indicating wide damage to muscle groups in missile track. Palpation shows loss of deep
fascia or muscle substance, or soft flabby muscles in wound area. Muscles swell and harden abnormally in contraction. Tests of strength, endurance, or coordinated movements compared with the corresponding muscles of the uninjured side indicate severe impairment of function. If present, the following are also signs of severe muscle disability:
(A) X-ray evidence of minute multiple scattered foreign bodies indicating intermuscular trauma and explosive effect of the missile.
(B) Adhesion of scar to one of the long bones, scapula, pelvic bones, sacrum or vertebrae, with epithelial sealing over the bone rather than true skin covering in an area where bone is normally protected by muscle.
(C) Diminished muscle excitability to pulsed electrical current in electrodiagnostic tests.
(D) Visible or measurable atrophy.
(E) Adaptive contraction of an opposing group of muscles.
(F) Atrophy of muscle groups not in the track of the missile, particularly of the trapezius and serratus in wounds of the shoulder girdle.
(G) Induration or atrophy of an entire muscle following simple piercing by a projectile.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155
[62 FR 30238, June 3, 1997]
§ 4.57
Static foot deformities.
It is essential to make an initial distinction between bilateral flatfoot as a congenital or as an acquired condition. The congenital condition, with depression of the arch, but no evidence of abnormal callosities, areas of pressure, strain or demonstrable tenderness, is a congenital abnormality which is not compensable or pensionable. In the acquired condition, it is to be remembered that depression of the longitudinal arch, or the degree of depression, is not the essential feature. The attention should be given to anatomical changes, as compared to normal, in the relationship of the foot and leg, particularly to the inward rotation of the superior portion of the os calcis, medial deviation of the insertion of the Achilles tendon, the medial tilting of the upper border of the astragalus. This is an unfavorable mechanical relationship of the parts. A plumb line dropped from the middle of the patella falls inside of the normal point. The forepart of the foot is abducted, and the foot everted. The plantar surface of the foot is painful and shows demonstrable tenderness, and manipulation of the foot produces spasm of the Achilles tendon, peroneal spasm due to adhesion about the peroneal sheaths, and other evidence of pain and limited motion. The symptoms should be apparent without regard to exercise. In severe cases there is gaping of bones on the inner border of the foot, and rigid valgus position with loss of the power of inversion and adduction. Exercise with undeveloped or unbalanced musculature, producing chronic irritation, can be an aggravating factor. In the absence of trauma or other definite evidence of aggravation, service connection is not in order for pes cavus which is a typically congenital or juvenile disease.
§ 4.58
Arthritis due to strain.
With service incurred lower extremity amputation or shortening, a disabling arthritis, developing in the same extremity, or in both lower extremities, with indications of earlier, or more severe, arthritis in the injured extremity, including also arthritis of the lumbosacral joints and lumbar spine, if associated with the leg amputation or shortening, will be considered as service incurred, provided, however, that arthritis affecting joints not directly subject to strain as a result of the service incurred amputation will not be granted service connection. This will generally require separate evaluation of the arthritis in the joints directly subject to strain. Amputation, or injury to an upper extremity, is not considered as a causative factor with subsequently developing arthritis, except in joints subject to direct strain or actually injured.
§ 4.59
Painful motion.
With any form of arthritis, painful motion is an important factor of disability, the facial expression, wincing, etc., on pressure or manipulation,
should be carefully noted and definitely related to affected joints. Muscle spasm will greatly assist the identification. Sciatic neuritis is not uncommonly caused by arthritis of the spine. The intent of the schedule is to recognize painful motion with joint or periarticular pathology as productive of disability. It is the intention to recognize actually painful, unstable, or malaligned joints, due to healed injury, as entitled to at least the minimum compensable rating for the joint. Crepitation either in the soft tissues such as the tendons or ligaments, or crepitation within the joint structures should be noted carefully as points of contact which are diseased. Flexion elicits such manifestations. The joints involved should be tested for pain on both active and passive motion, in weight-bearing and nonweight-bearing and, if possible, with the range of the opposite undamaged joint.
§ 4.60
[Reserved]
§ 4.61
Examination.
With any form of arthritis (except traumatic arthritis) it is essential that the examination for rating purposes cover all major joints, with especial reference to Heberden's or Haygarth's nodes.
§ 4.62
Circulatory disturbances.
The circulatory disturbances, especially of the lower extremity following injury in the popliteal space, must not be overlooked, and require rating generally as phlebitis.
§ 4.63
Loss of use of hand or foot.
Loss of use of a hand or a foot, for the purpose of special monthly compensation, will be held to exist when no effective function remains other than that which would be equally well served by an amputation stump at the site of election below elbow or knee with use of a suitable prosthetic appliance. The determination will be made on the basis of the actual remaining function of the hand or foot, whether the acts of grasping, manipulation, etc., in the case of the hand, or of balance and propulsion, etc., in the case of the foot, could be accomplished equally well by an amputation stump with prosthesis.
(a) Extremely unfavorable complete ankylosis of the knee, or complete ankylosis of 2 major joints of an extremity, or shortening of the lower extremity of 3
1/2
inches (8.9 cms.) or more, will be taken as loss of use of the hand or foot involved.
(b) Complete paralysis of the external popliteal nerve (common peroneal) and consequent, footdrop, accompanied by characteristic organic changes including trophic and circulatory disturbances and other concomitants confirmatory of complete paralysis of this nerve, will be taken as loss of use of the foot.
[29 FR 6718, May 22, 1964, as amended at 43 FR 45349, Oct. 2, 1978]
§ 4.64
Loss of use of both buttocks.
Loss of use of both buttocks shall be deemed to exist when there is severe damage to muscle Group XVII, bilateral (diagnostic code number 5317) and additional disability rendering it impossible for the disabled person, without assistance, to rise from a seated position and from a stooped position (fingers to toes position) and to maintain postural stability (the pelvis upon head of femur). The assistance may be rendered by the person's own hands or arms, and, in the matter of postural stability, by a special appliance.
§ 4.65
[Reserved]
§ 4.66
Sacroiliac joint.
The common cause of disability in this region is arthritis, to be identified in the usual manner. The lumbosacral and sacroiliac joints should be considered as one anatomical segment for rating purposes. X-ray changes from arthritis in this location are decrease or obliteration of the joint space, with the appearance of increased bone density of the sacrum and ilium and sharpening of the margins of the joint. Disability is manifest from erector spinae spasm (not accounted for by other pathology), tenderness on deep palpation and percussion over these joints, loss of normal quickness of motion and resiliency, and postural defects often accompanied by limitation of flexion and extension of the hip. Traumatism is a
rare cause of disability in this connection, except when superimposed upon congenital defect or upon an existent arthritis; to permit assumption of pure traumatic origin, objective evidence of damage to the joint, and history of trauma sufficiently severe to injure this extremely strong and practically immovable joint is required. There should be careful consideration of lumbosacral sprain, and the various symptoms of pain and paralysis attributable to disease affecting the lumbar vertebrae and the intervertebral disc.
§ 4.67
Pelvic bones.
The variability of residuals following these fractures necessitates rating on specific residuals, faulty posture, limitation of motion, muscle injury, painful motion of the lumbar spine, manifest by muscle spasm, mild to moderate sciatic neuritis, peripheral nerve injury, or limitation of hip motion.
§ 4.68
Amputation rule.
The combined rating for disabilities of an extremity shall not exceed the rating for the amputation at the elective level, were amputation to be performed. For example, the combined evaluations for disabilities below the knee shall not exceed the 40 percent evaluation, diagnostic code 5165. This 40 percent rating may be further combined with evaluation for disabilities above the knee but not to exceed the above the knee amputation elective level. Painful neuroma of a stump after amputation shall be assigned the evaluation for the elective site of reamputation.
§ 4.69
Dominant hand.
Handedness for the purpose of a dominant rating will be determined by the evidence of record, or by testing on VA examination. Only one hand shall be considered dominant. The injured hand, or the most severely injured hand, of an ambidextrous individual will be considered the dominant hand for rating purposes.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[62 FR 30239, June 3, 1997]
§ 4.70
Inadequate examinations.
If the report of examination is inadequate as a basis for the required consideration of service connection and evaluation, the rating agency may request a supplementary report from the examiner giving further details as to the limitations of the disabled person's ordinary activity imposed by the disease, injury, or residual condition, the prognosis for return to, or continuance of, useful work. When the best interests of the service will be advanced by personal conference with the examiner, such conference may be arranged through channels.
§ 4.71
Measurement of ankylosis and joint motion.
Plates I and II provide a standardized description of ankylosis and joint motion measurement. The anatomical position is considered as 0°, with two major exceptions: (a) Shoulder rotation—arm abducted to 90°, elbow flexed to 90° with the position of the forearm reflecting the midpoint 0° between internal and external rotation of the shoulder; and (b) supination and pronation—the arm next to the body, elbow flexed to 90°, and the forearm in midposition 0° between supination and pronation. Motion of the thumb and fingers should be described by appropriate reference to the joints (See Plate III) whose movement is limited, with a statement as to how near, in centimeters, the tip of the thumb can approximate the fingers, or how near the tips of the fingers can approximate the proximal transverse crease of palm.
EC04NO91.001
EC04NO91.002
[29 FR 6718, May 22, 1964, as amended at 43 FR 45349, Oct. 2, 1978; 67 FR 48785, July 26, 2002]
§ 4.71a
Schedule of ratings—musculoskeletal system.
Acute, Subacute, or Chronic Diseases
Rating
5000 Osteomyelitis, acute, subacute, or chronic:
Of the pelvis, vertebrae, or extending into major joints, or with multiple localization or with long history of intractability and debility, anemia, amyloid liver changes, or other continuous constitutional symptoms
100
Frequent episodes, with constitutional symptoms
60
With definite involucrum or sequestrum, with or without discharging sinus
30
With discharging sinus or other evidence of active infection within the past 5 years
20
Inactive, following repeated episodes, without evidence of active infection in past 5 years
10
Note
(1): A rating of 10 percent, as an exception to the amputation rule, is to be assigned in any case of active osteomyelitis where the amputation rating for the affected part is no percent. This 10 percent rating and the other partial ratings of 30 percent or less are to be combined with ratings for ankylosis, limited motion, nonunion or malunion, shortening, etc., subject, of course, to the amputation rule. The 60 percent rating, as it is based on constitutional symptoms, is not subject to the amputation rule. A rating for osteomyelitis will not be applied following cure by removal or radical resection of the affected bone.
Note
(2): The 20 percent rating on the basis of activity within the past 5 years is not assignable following the initial infection of active osteomyelitis with no subsequent reactivation. The prerequisite for this historical rating is an established recurrent osteomyelitis. To qualify for the 10 percent rating, 2 or more episodes following the initial infection are required. This 20 percent rating or the 10 percent rating, when applicable, will be assigned once only to cover disability at all sites of previously active infection with a future ending date in the case of the 20 percent rating.
5001 Bones and joints, tuberculosis of, active or inactive:
Active
100
Inactive: See §§ 4.88c and 4.89
5002 Multi-joint arthritis (except post-traumatic and gout), 2 or more joints, as an active process:
With constitutional manifestations associated with active joint involvement, totally incapacitating
100
Less than criteria for 100% but with weight loss and anemia productive of severe impairment of health or severely incapacitating exacerbations occurring 4 or more times a year or a lesser number over prolonged periods
60
Symptom combinations productive of definite impairment of health objectively supported by examination findings or incapacitating exacerbations occurring 3 or more times a year
40
One or two exacerbations a year in a well-established diagnosis
20
Note (1):
Examples of conditions rated using this diagnostic code include, but are not limited to, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and spondyloarthropathies.
Note (2):
For chronic residuals, rate under diagnostic code 5003.
Note (3):
The ratings for the active process will not be combined with the residual ratings for limitation of motion, ankylosis, or diagnostic code 5003. Instead, assign the higher evaluation.
5003 Degenerative arthritis, other than post-traumatic:
Degenerative arthritis established by X-ray findings will be rated on the basis of limitation of motion under the appropriate diagnostic codes for the specific joint or joints involved (DC 5200 etc.). When however, the limitation of motion of the specific joint or joints involved is noncompensable under the appropriate diagnostic codes, a rating of 10 pct is for application for each such major joint or group of minor joints affected by limitation of motion, to be combined, not added under diagnostic code 5003. Limitation of motion must be objectively confirmed by findings such as swelling, muscle spasm, or satisfactory evidence of painful motion. In the absence of limitation of motion, rate as below:
With X-ray evidence of involvement of 2 or more major joints or 2 or more minor joint groups, with occasional incapacitating exacerbations
20
With X-ray evidence of involvement of 2 or more major joints or 2 or more minor joint groups
10
Note (1):
The 20 pct and 10 pct ratings based on X-ray findings, above, will not be combined with ratings based on limitation of motion.
Note (2):
The 20 pct and 10 pct ratings based on X-ray findings, above, will not be utilized in rating conditions listed under diagnostic codes 5013 to 5024, inclusive.
5004 Arthritis, gonorrheal.
5005 Arthritis, pneumococcic.
5006 Arthritis, typhoid.
5007 Arthritis, syphilitic.
5008 Arthritis, streptococcic.
5009 Other specified forms of arthropathy (excluding gout).
Note (1):
Other specified forms of arthropathy include, but are not limited to, Charcot neuropathic, hypertrophic, crystalline, and other autoimmune arthropathies.
Note (2):
With the types of arthritis, diagnostic codes 5004 through 5009, rate the acute phase under diagnostic code 5002; rate any chronic residuals under diagnostic code 5003.
5010 Post-traumatic arthritis: Rate as limitation of motion, dislocation, or other specified instability under the affected joint. If there are 2 or more joints affected, each rating shall be combined in accordance with § 4.25.
5011 Decompression illness: Rate manifestations under the appropriate diagnostic code within the affected body system, such as arthritis for musculoskeletal residuals; auditory system for vestibular residuals; respiratory system for pulmonary barotrauma residuals; and neurologic system for cerebrovascular accident residuals.
5012 Bones, neoplasm, malignant, primary or secondary
100
Note:
The 100 percent rating will be continued for 1 year following the cessation of surgical, X-ray, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other prescribed therapeutic procedure. If there has been no local recurrence or metastases, rate based on residuals.
5013 Osteoporosis, residuals of.
5014 Osteomalacia, residuals of.
5015 Bones, neoplasm, benign.
5016 Osteitis deformans.
5017 Gout.
5018 [Removed]
5019 Bursitis.
5020 [Removed]
5021 Myositis.
5022 [Removed]
5023 Heterotopic ossification.
5024 Tenosynovitis, tendinitis, tendinosis or tendinopathy.
Note to DCs 5013 through 5024:
Evaluate the diseases under diagnostic codes 5013 through 5024 as degenerative arthritis, based on limitation of motion of affected parts.
5025 Fibromyalgia (fibrositis, primary fibromyalgia syndrome)
With widespread musculoskeletal pain and tender points, with or without associated fatigue, sleep disturbance, stiffness, paresthesias, headache, irritable bowel symptoms, depression, anxiety, or Raynaud's-like symptoms:
That are constant, or nearly so, and refractory to therapy
40
That are episodic, with exacerbations often precipitated by environmental or emotional stress or by overexertion, but that are present more than one-third of the time
20
That require continuous medication for control
10
Note:
Widespread pain means pain in both the left and right sides of the body, that is both above and below the waist, and that affects both the axial skeleton (
i.e.
, cervical spine, anterior chest, thoracic spine, or low back) and the extremities.
Prosthetic Implants and Resurfacing
Rating
Major
Minor
Note (1):
When an evaluation is assigned for joint resurfacing or the prosthetic replacement of a joint under diagnostic codes 5051-5056, an additional rating under § 4.71a may not also be assigned for that joint, unless otherwise directed.
Note (2):
Only evaluate a revision procedure in the same manner as the original procedure under diagnostic codes 5051-5056 if all the original components are replaced.
Note (3):
The term “prosthetic replacement” in diagnostic codes 5051-5053 and 5055-5056 means a total replacement of the named joint. However, in DC 5054, “prosthetic replacement” means a total replacement of the head of the femur or of the acetabulum.
Note (4):
The 100 percent rating for 1 year following implantation of prosthesis will commence after initial grant of the 1-month total rating assigned under § 4.30 following hospital discharge.
Note (5):
The 100 percent rating for 4 months following implantation of prosthesis or resurfacing under DCs 5054 and 5055 will commence after initial grant of the 1-month total rating assigned under § 4.30 following hospital discharge.
Note (6):
Special monthly compensation is assignable during the 100 percent rating period the earliest date permanent use of crutches is established.
5051 Shoulder replacement (prosthesis).
Prosthetic replacement of the shoulder joint:
For 1 year following implantation of prosthesis
100
100
With chronic residuals consisting of severe, painful motion or weakness in the affected extremity
60
50
With intermediate degrees of residual weakness, pain or limitation of motion, rate by analogy to diagnostic codes 5200 and 5203.
Minimum rating
30
20
5052 Elbow replacement (prosthesis).
Prosthetic replacement of the elbow joint:
For 1 year following implantation of prosthesis
100
100
With chronic residuals consisting of severe painful motion or weakness in the affected extremity
50
40
With intermediate degrees of residual weakness, pain or limitation of motion rate by analogy to diagnostic codes 5205 through 5208.
Minimum evaluation
30
20
5053 Wrist replacement (prosthesis).
Prosthetic replacement of wrist joint:
For 1 year following implantation of prosthesis
100
100
With chronic residuals consisting of severe, painful motion or weakness in the affected extremity
40
30
With intermediate degrees of residual weakness, pain or limitation of motion, rate by analogy to diagnostic code 5214.
Minimum rating
20
20
5054 Hip, resurfacing or replacement (prosthesis):
For 4 months following implantation of prosthesis or resurfacing
100
Prosthetic replacement of the head of the femur or of the acetabulum:
Following implantation of prosthesis with painful motion or weakness such as to require the use of crutches
1
90
Markedly severe residual weakness, pain or limitation of motion following implantation of prosthesis
70
Moderately severe residuals of weakness, pain or limitation of motion
50
Minimum evaluation, total replacement only
30
Note:
At the conclusion of the 100 percent evaluation period, evaluate resurfacing under diagnostic codes 5250 through 5255; there is no minimum evaluation for resurfacing.
5055 Knee, resurfacing or replacement (prosthesis):
For 4 months following implantation of prosthesis or resurfacing
100
Prosthetic replacement of knee joint:
With chronic residuals consisting of severe painful motion or weakness in the affected extremity
60
With intermediate degrees of residual weakness, pain or limitation of motion rate by analogy to diagnostic codes 5256, 5261, or 5262.
Minimum evaluation, total replacement only
30
Note:
At the conclusion of the 100 percent evaluation period, evaluate resurfacing under diagnostic codes 5256 through 5262; there is no minimum evaluation for resurfacing.
5056 Ankle replacement (prosthesis).
Prosthetic replacement of ankle joint:
For 1 year following implantation of prosthesis
100
With chronic residuals consisting of severe painful motion or weakness
40
With intermediate degrees of residual weakness, pain or limitation of motion rate by analogy to 5270 or 5271.
Minimum rating
20
combinations of disabilities
5104 Anatomical loss of one hand and loss of use of one foot
1
100
5105 Anatomical loss of one foot and loss of use of one hand
1
100
5106 Anatomical loss of both hands
1
100
5107 Anatomical loss of both feet
1
100
5108 Anatomical loss of one hand and one foot
1
100
5109 Loss of use of both hands
1
100
5110 Loss of use of both feet
1
100
5111 Loss of use of one hand and one foot
1
100
1
Also entitled to special monthly compensation.
Table II—Ratings for Multiple Losses of Extremities With Dictator's Rating Code and 38 CFR Citation
Impairment of one extremity
Impairment of other extremity
Anatomical loss or loss of use below elbow
Anatomical loss or loss of use below knee
Anatomical loss or loss of use above elbow (preventing use of prosthesis)
Anatomical loss or loss of use above knee (preventing use of prosthesis)
Anatomical loss near shoulder (preventing use of prosthesis)
Anatomical loss near hip (preventing use of prosthesis)
Anatomical loss or loss of use below elbow
M Codes M-1 a, b, or c, 38 CFR 3.350 (c)(1)(i)
L Codes L-1 d, e, f, or g, 38 CFR 3.350(b)
M
1/2
Code M-5, 38 CFR 3.350 (f)(1)(x)
L
1/2
Code L-2 c, 38 CFR 3.350 (f)(1)(vi)
N Code N-3, 38 CFR 3.350 (f)(1)(xi)
M Code M-3 c, 38 CFR 3.350 (f)(1)(viii)
Anatomical loss or loss of use below knee
L Codes L-1 a, b, or c, 38 CFR 3.350(b)
L
1/2
Code L-2 b, 38 CFR 3.350 (f)(1)(iii)
L
1/2
Code L-2 a, 38 CFR 3.350 (f)(1)(i)
M Code M-3 b, 38 CFR 3.350 (f)(1)(iv)
M Code M-3 a, 38 CFR 3.350 (f)(1)(ii)
Anatomical loss or loss of use above elbow (preventing use of prosthesis)
N Code N-1, 38 CFR 3.350 (d)(1)
M Code M-2 a, 38 CFR 3.350 (c)(1)(iii)
N
1/2
Code N-4, 38 CFR 3.350 (f)(1)(ix)
M
1/2
Code M-4 c, 38 CFR 3.350 (f)(1)(xi)
Anatomical loss or loss of use above knee (preventing use of prosthesis)
M Code M-2 a, 38 CFR 3.350 (c)(1)(ii)
M
1/2
Code M-4 b, 38 CFR 3.350 (f)(1)(vii)
M
1/2
Code M-4 a, 38 CFR 3.350 (f)(1)(v)
Anatomical loss near shoulder (preventing use of prosthesis)
O Code O-1, 38 CFR 3.350 (e)(1)(i)
N Code N-2 b, 38 CFR 3.350 (d)(3)
Anatomical loss near hip (preventing use of prosthesis)
N Code N-2 a, 38 CFR 3.350 (d)(2)
Note.
—Need for aid attendance or permanently bedridden qualifies for subpar. L. Code L-1 h, i (38 CFR 3.350(b)). Paraplegia with loss of use of both lower extremities and loss of anal and bladder sphincter control qualifies for subpar. O. Code O-2 (38 CFR 3.350(e)(2)). Where there are additional disabilities rated 50% or 100%, or anatomical or loss of use of a third extremity see 38 CFR 3.350(f) (3), (4) or (5).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1115)
Amputations: Upper Extremity
Rating
Major
Minor
Arm, amputation of:
5120 Complete amputation, upper extremity:
Forequarter amputation (involving complete removal of the humerus along with any portion of the scapula, clavicle, and/or ribs)
1
100
1
100
Disarticulation (involving complete removal of the humerus only)
1
90
1
90
5121 Above insertion of deltoid
1
90
1
80
5122 Below insertion of deltoid
1
80
1
70
Forearm, amputation of:
5123 Above insertion of pronator teres
1
80
1
70
5124 Below insertion of pronator teres
1
70
1
60
5125 Hand, loss of use of
1
70
1
60
multiple finger amputations
5126 Five digits of one hand, amputation of
1
70
1
60
Four digits of one hand, amputation of:
5127 Thumb, index, long and ring
1
70
1
60
5128 Thumb, index, long and little
1
70
1
60
5129 Thumb, index, ring and little
1
70
1
60
5130 Thumb, long, ring and little
1
70
1
60
5131 Index, long, ring and little
60
50
Three digits of one hand, amputation of:
5132 Thumb, index and long
60
50
5133 Thumb, index and ring
60
50
5134 Thumb, index and little
60
50
5135 Thumb, long and ring
60
50
5136 Thumb, long and little
60
50
5137 Thumb, ring and little
60
50
5138 Index, long and ring
50
40
5139 Index, long and little
50
40
5140 Index, ring and little
50
40
5141 Long, ring and little
40
30
Two digits of one hand, amputation of:
5142 Thumb and index
50
40
5143 Thumb and long
50
40
5144 Thumb and ring
50
40
5145 Thumb and little
50
40
5146 Index and long
40
30
5147 Index and ring
40
30
5148 Index and little
40
30
5149 Long and ring
30
20
5150 Long and little
30
20
5151 Ring and little
30
20
(a) The ratings for multiple finger amputations apply to amputations at the proximal interphalangeal joints or through proximal phalanges.
(b) Amputation through middle phalanges will be rated as prescribed for unfavorable ankylosis of the fingers.
(c) Amputations at distal joints, or through distal phalanges, other than negligible losses, will be rated as prescribed for favorable ankylosis of the fingers.
(d) Amputation or resection of metacarpal bones (more than one-half the bone lost) in multiple fingers injuries will require a rating of 10 percent added to (not combined with) the ratings, multiple finger amputations, subject to the amputation rule applied to the forearm.
(e) Combinations of finger amputations at various levels, or finger amputations with ankylosis or limitation of motion of the fingers will be rated on the basis of the grade of disability;
i.e.
, amputation, unfavorable ankylosis, most representative of the levels or combinations. With an even number of fingers involved, and adjacent grades of disability, select the higher of the two grades.
(f) Loss of use of the hand will be held to exist when no effective function remains other than that which would be equally well served by an amputation stump with a suitable prosthetic appliance.
single finger amputations
5152 Thumb, amputation of:
With metacarpal resection
40
30
At metacarpophalangeal joint or through proximal phalanx
30
20
At distal joint or through distal phalanx
20
20
5153 Index finger, amputation of
With metacarpal resection (more than one-half the bone lost)
30
20
Without metacarpal resection, at proximal interphalangeal joint or proximal thereto
20
20
Through middle phalanx or at distal joint
10
10
5154 Long finger, amputation of:
With metacarpal resection (more than one-half the bone lost)
20
20
Without metacarpal resection, at proximal interphalangeal joint or proximal thereto
10
10
5155 Ring finger, amputation of:
With metacarpal resection (more than one-half the bone lost)
20
20
Without metacarpal resection, at proximal interphalangeal joint or proximal thereto
10
10
5156 Little finger, amputation of:
With metacarpal resection (more than one-half the bone lost)
20
20
Without metacarpal resection, at proximal interphalangeal joint or proximal thereto
10
10
Note:
The single finger amputation ratings are the only applicable ratings for amputations of whole or part of single fingers.
1
Entitled to special monthly compensation.
EC04NO91.004
Amputations: Lower Extremity
Rating
Thigh, amputation of:
5160 Complete amputation, lower extremity:
Trans-pelvic amputation (involving complete removal of the femur and intrinsic pelvic musculature along with any portion of the pelvic bones)
2
100
Disarticulation (involving complete removal of the femur and intrinsic pelvic musculature only)
2
90
Note:
Separately evaluate residuals involving other body systems (
e.g.,
bowel impairment, bladder impairment) under the appropriate diagnostic code.
5161 Upper third, one-third of the distance from perineum to knee joint measured from perineum
2
80
5162 Middle or lower thirds
2
60
Leg, amputation of:
5163 With defective stump, thigh amputation recommended
2
60
5164 Amputation not improvable by prosthesis controlled by natural knee action
2
60
5165 At a lower level, permitting prosthesis
2
40
5166 Forefoot, amputation proximal to metatarsal bones (more than one-half of metatarsal loss)
2
40
5167 Foot, loss of use of
2
40
5170 Toes, all, amputation of, without metatarsal loss or transmetatarsal, amputation of, with up to half of metatarsal loss
30
5171 Toe, great, amputation of:
With removal of metatarsal head
30
Without metatarsal involvement
10
5172 Toes, other than great, amputation of, with removal of metatarsal head:
One or two
20
Without metatarsal involvement
0
5173 Toes, three or four, amputation of, without metatarsal involvement:
Including great toe
20
Not including great toe
10
2
Also entitled to special monthly compensation.
EC04NO91.003
The Shoulder and Arm
Rating
Major
Minor
5200 Scapulohumeral articulation, ankylosis of:
Note:
The scapula and humerus move as one piece.
Unfavorable, abduction limited to 25° from side
50
40
Intermediate between favorable and unfavorable
40
30
Favorable, abduction to 60°, can reach mouth and head
30
20
5201 Arm, limitation of motion of:
Flexion and/or abduction limited to 25° from side
40
30
Midway between side and shoulder level (flexion and/or abduction limited to 45°)
30
20
At shoulder level (flexion and/or abduction limited to 90°)
20
20
5202 Humerus, other impairment of:
Loss of head of (flail shoulder)
80
70
Nonunion of (false flail joint)
60
50
Fibrous union of
50
40
Recurrent dislocation of at scapulohumeral joint:
With frequent episodes and guarding of all arm movements
30
20
With infrequent episodes and guarding of movement only at shoulder level (flexion and/or abduction at 90 °)
20
20
Malunion of:
Marked deformity
30
20
Moderate deformity
20
20
5203 Clavicle or scapula, impairment of:
Dislocation of
20
20
Nonunion of:
With loose movement
20
20
Without loose movement
10
10
Malunion of
10
10
Or rate on impairment of function of contiguous joint.
The Elbow and Forearm
Rating
Major
Minor
5205 Elbow, ankylosis of:
Unfavorable, at an angle of less than 50° or with complete loss of supination or pronation
60
50
Intermediate, at an angle of more than 90°, or between 70° and 50°
50
40
Favorable, at an angle between 90° and 70°
40
30
5206 Forearm, limitation of flexion of:
Flexion limited to 45°
50
40
Flexion limited to 55°
40
30
Flexion limited to 70°
30
20
Flexion limited to 90°
20
20
Flexion limited to 100°
10
10
Flexion limited to 110°
0
0
5207 Forearm, limitation of extension of:
Extension limited to 110°
50
40
Extension limited to 100°
40
30
Extension limited to 90°
30
20
Extension limited to 75°
20
20
Extension limited to 60°
10
10
Extension limited to 45°
10
10
5208 Forearm, flexion limited to 100° and extension to 45°
20
20
5209 Elbow, other impairment of Flail joint
60
50
Joint fracture, with marked cubitus varus or cubitus valgus deformity or with ununited fracture of head of radius
20
20
5210 Radius and ulna, nonunion of, with flail false joint
50
40
5211 Ulna, impairment of:
Nonunion in upper half, with false movement:
With loss of bone substance (1 inch (2.5 cms.) or more) and marked deformity
40
30
Without loss of bone substance or deformity
30
20
Nonunion in lower half
20
20
Malunion of, with bad alignment
10
10
5212 Radius, impairment of:
Nonunion in lower half, with false movement:
With loss of bone substance (1 inch (2.5 cms.) or more) and marked deformity
40
30
Without loss of bone substance or deformity
30
20
Nonunion in upper half
20
20
Malunion of, with bad alignment
10
10
5213 Supination and pronation, impairment of:
Loss of (bone fusion):
The hand fixed in supination or hyperpronation
40
30
The hand fixed in full pronation
30
20
The hand fixed near the middle of the arc or moderate pronation
20
20
Limitation of pronation:
Motion lost beyond middle of arc
30
20
Motion lost beyond last quarter of arc, the hand does not approach full pronation
20
20
Limitation of supination:
To 30° or less
10
10
Note:
In all the forearm and wrist injuries, codes 5205 through 5213, multiple impaired finger movements due to tendon tie-up, muscle or nerve injury, are to be separately rated and combined not to exceed rating for loss of use of hand.
The Wrist
Rating
Major
Minor
5214 Wrist, ankylosis of:
Unfavorable, in any degree of palmar flexion, or with ulnar or radial deviation
50
40
Any other position, except favorable
40
30
Favorable in 20° to 30° dorsiflexion
30
20
Note:
Extremely unfavorable ankylosis will be rated as loss of use of hands under diagnostic code 5125.
5215 Wrist, limitation of motion of:
Dorsiflexion less than 15°
10
10
Palmar flexion limited in line with forearm
10
10
Evaluation of Ankylosis or Limitation of Motion of Single or Multiple Digits of the Hand
Rating
Major
Minor
(1) For the index, long, ring, and little fingers (digits II, III, IV, and V), zero degrees of flexion represents the fingers fully extended, making a straight line with the rest of the hand. The position of function of the hand is with the wrist dorsiflexed 20 to 30 degrees, the metacarpophalangeal and proximal interphalangeal joints flexed to 30 degrees, and the thumb (digit I) abducted and rotated so that the thumb pad faces the finger pads. Only joints in these positions are considered to be in favorable position. For digits II through V, the metacarpophalangeal joint has a range of zero to 90 degrees of flexion, the proximal interphalangeal joint has a range of zero to 100 degrees of flexion, and the distal (terminal) interphalangeal joint has a range of zero to 70 or 80 degrees of flexion
(2) When two or more digits of the same hand are affected by any combination of amputation, ankylosis, or limitation of motion that is not otherwise specified in the rating schedule, the evaluation level assigned will be that which best represents the overall disability (
i.e.
, amputation, unfavorable or favorable ankylosis, or limitation of motion), assigning the higher level of evaluation when the level of disability is equally balanced between one level and the next higher level
(3) Evaluation of ankylosis of the index, long, ring, and little fingers:
(i) If both the metacarpophalangeal and proximal interphalangeal joints of a digit are ankylosed, and either is in extension or full flexion, or there is rotation or angulation of a bone, evaluate as amputation without metacarpal resection, at proximal interphalangeal joint or proximal thereto
(ii) If both the metacarpophalangeal and proximal interphalangeal joints of a digit are ankylosed, evaluate as unfavorable ankylosis, even if each joint is individually fixed in a favorable position
(iii) If only the metacarpophalangeal or proximal interphalangeal joint is ankylosed, and there is a gap of more than two inches (5.1 cm.) between the fingertip(s) and the proximal transverse crease of the palm, with the finger(s) flexed to the extent possible, evaluate as unfavorable ankylosis
(iv) If only the metacarpophalangeal or proximal interphalangeal joint is ankylosed, and there is a gap of two inches (5.1 cm.) or less between the fingertip(s) and the proximal transverse crease of the palm, with the finger(s) flexed to the extent possible, evaluate as favorable ankylosis
(4) Evaluation of ankylosis of the thumb:
(i) If both the carpometacarpal and interphalangeal joints are ankylosed, and either is in extension or full flexion, or there is rotation or angulation of a bone, evaluate as amputation at metacarpophalangeal joint or through proximal phalanx
(ii) If both the carpometacarpal and interphalangeal joints are ankylosed, evaluate as unfavorable ankylosis, even if each joint is individually fixed in a favorable position
(iii) If only the carpometacarpal or interphalangeal joint is ankylosed, and there is a gap of more than two inches (5.1 cm.) between the thumb pad and the fingers, with the thumb attempting to oppose the fingers, evaluate as unfavorable ankylosis
(iv) If only the carpometacarpal or interphalangeal joint is ankylosed, and there is a gap of two inches (5.1 cm.) or less between the thumb pad and the fingers, with the thumb attempting to oppose the fingers, evaluate as favorable ankylosis
(5) If there is limitation of motion of two or more digits, evaluate each digit separately and combine the evaluations
I. Multiple Digits: Unfavorable Ankylosis
5216 Five digits of one hand, unfavorable ankylosis of
60
50
Note:
Also consider whether evaluation as amputation is warranted.
5217 Four digits of one hand, unfavorable ankylosis of:
Thumb and any three fingers
60
50
Index, long, ring, and little fingers
50
40
Note:
Also consider whether evaluation as amputation is warranted.
5218 Three digits of one hand, unfavorable ankylosis of:
Thumb and any two fingers
50
40
Index, long, and ring; index, long, and little; or index, ring, and little fingers
40
30
Long, ring, and little fingers
30
20
Note:
Also consider whether evaluation as amputation is warranted.
5219 Two digits of one hand, unfavorable ankylosis of:
Thumb and any finger
40
30
Index and long; index and ring; or index and little fingers
30
20
Long and ring; long and little; or ring and little fingers
20
20
Note:
Also consider whether evaluation as amputation is warranted.
II. Multiple Digits: Favorable Ankylosis
5220 Five digits of one hand, favorable ankylosis of
50
40
5221 Four digits of one hand, favorable ankylosis of:
Thumb and any three fingers
50
40
Index, long, ring, and little fingers
40
30
5222 Three digits of one hand, favorable ankylosis of:
Thumb and any two fingers
40
30
Index, long, and ring; index, long, and little; or index, ring, and little fingers
30
20
Long, ring and little fingers
20
20
5223 Two digits of one hand, favorable ankylosis of:
Thumb and any finger
30
20
Index and long; index and ring; or index and little fingers
20
20
Long and ring; long and little; or ring and little fingers
10
10
III. Ankylosis of Individual Digits
5224 Thumb, ankylosis of:
Unfavorable
20
20
Favorable
10
10
Note:
Also consider whether evaluation as amputation is warranted and whether an additional evaluation is warranted for resulting limitation of motion of other digits or interference with overall function of the hand.
5225 Index finger, ankylosis of:
Unfavorable or favorable
10
10
Note:
Also consider whether evaluation as amputation is warranted and whether an additional evaluation is warranted for resulting limitation of motion of other digits or interference with overall function of the hand.
5226 Long finger, ankylosis of:
Unfavorable or favorable
10
10
Note:
Also consider whether evaluation as amputation is warranted and whether an additional evaluation is warranted for resulting limitation of motion of other digits or interference with overall function of the hand.
5227 Ring or little finger, ankylosis of:
Unfavorable or favorable
0
0
Note:
Also consider whether evaluation as amputation is warranted and whether an additional evaluation is warranted for resulting limitation of motion of other digits or interference with overall function of the hand.
IV. Limitation of Motion of Individual Digits
5228 Thumb, limitation of motion:
With a gap of more than two inches (5.1 cm.) between the thumb pad and the fingers, with the thumb attempting to oppose the fingers
20
20
With a gap of one to two inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm.) between the thumb pad and the fingers, with the thumb attempting to oppose the fingers
10
10
With a gap of less than one inch (2.5 cm.) between the thumb pad and the fingers, with the thumb attempting to oppose the fingers
0
0
5229 Index or long finger, limitation of motion:
With a gap of one inch (2.5 cm.) or more between the fingertip and the proximal transverse crease of the palm, with the finger flexed to the extent possible, or; with extension limited by more than 30 degrees
10
10
With a gap of less than one inch (2.5 cm.) between the fingertip and the proximal transverse crease of the palm, with the finger flexed to the extent possible, and; extension is limited by no more than 30 degrees
0
0
5230 Ring or little finger, limitation of motion:
Any limitation of motion
0
0
The Spine
Rating
General Rating Formula for Diseases and Injuries of the Spine
(For diagnostic codes 5235 to 5243 unless 5243 is evaluated under the Formula for Rating Intervertebral Disc Syndrome Based on Incapacitating Episodes):
With or without symptoms such as pain (whether or not it radiates), stiffness, or aching in the area of the spine affected by residuals of injury or disease
Unfavorable ankylosis of the entire spine
100
Unfavorable ankylosis of the entire thoracolumbar spine
50
Unfavorable ankylosis of the entire cervical spine; or, forward flexion of the thoracolumbar spine 30 degrees or less; or, favorable ankylosis of the entire thoracolumbar spine
40
Forward flexion of the cervical spine 15 degrees or less; or, favorable ankylosis of the entire cervical spine
30
Forward flexion of the thoracolumbar spine greater than 30 degrees but not greater than 60 degrees; or, forward flexion of the cervical spine greater than 15 degrees but not greater than 30 degrees; or, the combined range of motion of the thoracolumbar spine not greater than 120 degrees; or, the combined range of motion of the cervical spine not greater than 170 degrees; or, muscle spasm or guarding severe enough to result in an abnormal gait or abnormal spinal contour such as scoliosis, reversed lordosis, or abnormal kyphosis
20
Forward flexion of the thoracolumbar spine greater than 60 degrees but not greater than 85 degrees; or, forward flexion of the cervical spine greater than 30 degrees but not greater than 40 degrees; or, combined range of motion of the thoracolumbar spine greater than 120 degrees but not greater than 235 degrees; or, combined range of motion of the cervical spine greater than 170 degrees but not greater than 335 degrees; or, muscle spasm, guarding, or localized tenderness not resulting in abnormal gait or abnormal spinal contour; or, vertebral body fracture with loss of 50 percent or more of the height
10
Note (1):
Evaluate any associated objective neurologic abnormalities, including, but not limited to, bowel or bladder impairment, separately, under an appropriate diagnostic code.
Note (2):
(See also Plate V.) For VA compensation purposes, normal forward flexion of the cervical spine is zero to 45 degrees, extension is zero to 45 degrees, left and right lateral flexion are zero to 45 degrees, and left and right lateral rotation are zero to 80 degrees. Normal forward flexion of the thoracolumbar spine is zero to 90 degrees, extension is zero to 30 degrees, left and right lateral flexion are zero to 30 degrees, and left and right lateral rotation are zero to 30 degrees. The combined range of motion refers to the sum of the range of forward flexion, extension, left and right lateral flexion, and left and right rotation. The normal combined range of motion of the cervical spine is 340 degrees and of the thoracolumbar spine is 240 degrees. The normal ranges of motion for each component of spinal motion provided in this note are the maximum that can be used for calculation of the combined range of motion.
Note (3):
In exceptional cases, an examiner may state that because of age, body habitus, neurologic disease, or other factors not the result of disease or injury of the spine, the range of motion of the spine in a particular individual should be considered normal for that individual, even though it does not conform to the normal range of motion stated in Note (2). Provided that the examiner supplies an explanation, the examiner's assessment that the range of motion is normal for that individual will be accepted.
Note (4):
Round each range of motion measurement to the nearest five degrees.
Note (5):
For VA compensation purposes, unfavorable ankylosis is a condition in which the entire cervical spine, the entire thoracolumbar spine, or the entire spine is fixed in flexion or extension, and the ankylosis results in one or more of the following: difficulty walking because of a limited line of vision; restricted opening of the mouth and chewing; breathing limited to diaphragmatic respiration; gastrointestinal symptoms due to pressure of the costal margin on the abdomen; dyspnea or dysphagia; atlantoaxial or cervical subluxation or dislocation; or neurologic symptoms due to nerve root stretching. Fixation of a spinal segment in neutral position (zero degrees) always represents favorable ankylosis.
Note (6):
Separately evaluate disability of the thoracolumbar and cervical spine segments, except when there is unfavorable ankylosis of both segments, which will be rated as a single disability.
5235 Vertebral fracture or dislocation
5236 Sacroiliac injury and weakness
5237 Lumbosacral or cervical strain
5238 Spinal stenosis
5239 Spondylolisthesis or segmental instability
5240 Ankylosing spondylitis
5241 Spinal fusion
5242 Degenerative arthritis, degenerative disc disease other than intervertebral disc syndrome (also, see either DC 5003 or 5010)
5243 Intervertebral disc syndrome: Assign this diagnostic code only when there is disc herniation with compression and/or irritation of the adjacent nerve root; assign diagnostic code 5242 for all other disc diagnoses.
Evaluate intervertebral disc syndrome (preoperatively or postoperatively) either under the General Rating Formula for Diseases and Injuries of the Spine or under the Formula for Rating Intervertebral Disc Syndrome Based on Incapacitating Episodes, whichever method results in the higher evaluation when all disabilities are combined under § 4.25.
5244 Traumatic paralysis, complete:
Paraplegia: Rate under diagnostic code 5110.
Quadriplegia: Rate separately under diagnostic codes 5109 and 5110 and combine evaluations in accordance with § 4.25.
Note:
If traumatic paralysis does not cause loss of use of both hands or both feet, it is incomplete paralysis. Evaluate residuals of incomplete traumatic paralysis under the appropriate diagnostic code (
e.g.,
§ 4.124a, Diseases of the Peripheral Nerves).
Formula for Rating Intervertebral Disc Syndrome Based on Incapacitating Episodes
With incapacitating episodes having a total duration of at least 6 weeks during the past 12 months
60
With incapacitating episodes having a total duration of at least 4 weeks but less than 6 weeks during the past 12 months
40
With incapacitating episodes having a total duration of at least 2 weeks but less than 4 weeks during the past 12 months
20
With incapacitating episodes having a total duration of at least one week but less than 2 weeks during the past 12 months
10
Note
(1): For purposes of evaluations under diagnostic code 5243, an incapacitating episode is a period of acute signs and symptoms due to intervertebral disc syndrome that requires bed rest prescribed by a physician and treatment by a physician.
Note
(2): If intervertebral disc syndrome is present in more than one spinal segment, provided that the effects in each spinal segment are clearly distinct, evaluate each segment on the basis of incapacitating episodes or under the General Rating Formula for Diseases and Injuries of the Spine, whichever method results in a higher evaluation for that segment.
er27au03.003
The Hip and Thigh
Rating
5250 Hip, ankylosis of:
Unfavorable, extremely unfavorable ankylosis, the foot not reaching ground, crutches necessitated
3
90
Intermediate
70
Favorable, in flexion at an angle between 20° and 40°, and slight adduction or abduction
60
5251 Thigh, limitation of extension of:
Extension limited to 5°
10
5252 Thigh, limitation of flexion of:
Flexion limited to 10°
40
Flexion limited to 20°
30
Flexion limited to 30°
20
Flexion limited to 45°
10
5253 Thigh, impairment of:
Limitation of abduction of, motion lost beyond 10°
20
Limitation of adduction of, cannot cross legs
10
Limitation of rotation of, cannot toe-out more than 15°, affected leg
10
5254 Hip, flail joint
80
5255 Femur, impairment of:
Fracture of shaft or anatomical neck of:
With nonunion, with loose motion (spiral or oblique fracture)
80
With nonunion, without loose motion, weight bearing preserved with aid of brace
60
Fracture of surgical neck of, with false joint
60
Malunion of:
Evaluate under diagnostic codes 5256, 5257, 5260, or 5261 for the knee, or 5250-5254 for the hip, whichever results in the highest evaluation.
3
Entitled to special monthly compensation.
The Knee and Leg
Rating
5256 Knee, ankylosis of:
Extremely unfavorable, in flexion at an angle of 45° or more
60
In flexion between 20° and 45°
50
In flexion between 10° and 20°
40
Favorable angle in full extension, or in slight flexion between 0° and 10°
30
5257 Knee, other impairment of:
Recurrent subluxation or instability:
Unrepaired or failed repair of complete ligament tear causing persistent instability, and a medical provider prescribes both an assistive device (
e.g.,
cane(s), crutch(es), walker) and bracing for ambulation
30
One of the following:
(a) Sprain, incomplete ligament tear, or repaired complete ligament tear causing persistent instability, and a medical provider prescribes a brace and/or assistive device (
e.g.,
cane(s), crutch(es), walker) for ambulation.
(b) Unrepaired or failed repair of complete ligament tear causing persistent instability, and a medical provider prescribes either an assistive device (
e.g.,
cane(s), crutch(es), walker) or bracing for ambulation
20
Sprain, incomplete ligament tear, or complete ligament tear (repaired, unrepaired, or failed repair) causing persistent instability, without a prescription from a medical provider for an assistive device (
e.g.,
cane(s), crutch(es), walker) or bracing for ambulation
10
Patellar instability:
A diagnosed condition involving the patellofemoral complex with recurrent instability after surgical repair that requires a prescription by a medical provider for a brace and either a cane or a walker
30
A diagnosed condition involving the patellofemoral complex with recurrent instability after surgical repair that requires a prescription by a medical provider for one of the following: A brace, cane, or walker
20
A diagnosed condition involving the patellofemoral complex with recurrent instability (with or without history of surgical repair) that does not require a prescription from a medical provider for a brace, cane, or walker
10
Note (1):
For patellar instability, the patellofemoral complex consists of the quadriceps tendon, the patella, and the patellar tendon.
Note (2):
A surgical procedure that does not involve repair of one or more patellofemoral components that contribute to the underlying instability shall not qualify as surgical repair for patellar instability (including, but not limited to, arthroscopy to remove loose bodies and joint aspiration).
5258 Cartilage, semilunar, dislocated, with frequent episodes of “locking,” pain, and effusion into the joint
20
5259 Cartilage, semilunar, removal of, symptomatic
10
5260 Leg, limitation of flexion of:
Flexion limited to 15°
30
Flexion limited to 30°
20
Flexion limited to 45°
10
Flexion limited to 60°
0
5261 Leg, limitation of extension of:
Extension limited to 45°
50
Extension limited to 30°
40
Extension limited to 20°
30
Extension limited to 15°
20
Extension limited to 10°
10
Extension limited to 5°
0
5262 Tibia and fibula, impairment of:
Nonunion of, with loose motion, requiring brace
40
Malunion of:
Evaluate under diagnostic codes 5256, 5257, 5260, or 5261 for the knee, or 5270 or 5271 for the ankle, whichever results in the highest evaluation.
Medial tibial stress syndrome (MTSS), or shin splints:
Requiring treatment for no less than 12 consecutive months, and unresponsive to surgery and either shoe orthotics or other conservative treatment, both lower extremities
30
Requiring treatment for no less than 12 consecutive months, and unresponsive to surgery and either shoe orthotics or other conservative treatment, one lower extremity
20
Requiring treatment for no less than 12 consecutive months, and unresponsive to either shoe orthotics or other conservative treatment, one or both lower extremities
10
Treatment less than 12 consecutive months, one or both lower extremities
0
5263 Genu recurvatum (acquired, traumatic, with weakness and insecurity in weight-bearing objectively demonstrated)
10
The Ankle
Rating
5270 Ankle, ankylosis of:
In plantar flexion at more than 40°, or in dorsiflexion at more than 10° or with abduction, adduction, inversion or eversion deformity
40
In plantar flexion, between 30° and 40°, or in dorsiflexion, between 0° and 10°
30
In plantar flexion, less than 30°
20
5271 Ankle, limited motion of:
Marked (less than 5 degrees dorsiflexion or less than 10 degrees plantar flexion)
20
Moderate (less than 15 degrees dorsiflexion or less than 30 degrees plantar flexion)
10
5272 Subastragalar or tarsal joint, ankylosis of:
In poor weight-bearing position
20
In good weight-bearing position
10
5273 Os calcis or astragalus, malunion of:
Marked deformity
20
Moderate deformity
10
5274 Astragalectomy
20
Shortening of the Lower Extremity
Rating
5275 Bones, of the lower extremity, shortening of:
Over 4 inches (10.2 cms.)
3
60
3
1/2
to 4 inches (8.9 cms. to 10.2 cms.)
3
50
3 to 3
1/2
inches (7.6 cms. to 8.9 cms.)
40
2
1/2
to 3 inches (6.4 cms. to 7.6 cms.)
30
2 to 2
1/2
inches (5.1 cms. to 6.4 cms.)
20
1
1/4
to 2 inches (3.2 cms. to 5.1 cms.)
10
Note:
Measure both lower extremities from anterior superior spine of the ilium to the internal malleolus of the tibia. Not to be combined with other ratings for fracture or faulty union in the same extremity.
3
Also entitled to special monthly compensation.
The Foot
Rating
5269 Plantar fasciitis:
No relief from both non-surgical and surgical treatment, bilateral
30
No relief from both non-surgical and surgical treatment, unilateral
20
Otherwise, unilateral or bilateral
10
Note (1):
With actual loss of use of the foot, rate 40 percent
Note (2):
If a veteran has been recommended for surgical intervention, but is not a surgical candidate, evaluate under the 20 percent or 30 percent criteria, whichever is applicable
5276 Flatfoot, acquired:
Pronounced; marked pronation, extreme tenderness of plantar surfaces of the feet, marked inward displacement and severe spasm of the tendo achillis on manipulation, not improved by orthopedic shoes or appliances
Bilateral
50
Unilateral
30
Severe; objective evidence of marked deformity (pronation, abduction, etc.), pain on manipulation and use accentuated, indication of swelling on use, characteristic callosities:
Bilateral
30
Unilateral
20
Moderate; weight-bearing line over or medial to great toe, inward bowing of the tendo achillis, pain on manipulation and use of the feet, bilateral or unilateral
10
Mild; symptoms relieved by built-up shoe or arch support
0
5277 Weak foot, bilateral:
A symptomatic condition secondary to many constitutional conditions, characterized by atrophy of the musculature, disturbed circulation, and weakness:
Rate the underlying condition, minimum rating
10
5278 Claw foot (pes cavus), acquired:
Marked contraction of plantar fascia with dropped forefoot, all toes hammer toes, very painful callosities, marked varus deformity:
Bilateral
50
Unilateral
30
All toes tending to dorsiflexion, limitation of dorsiflexion at ankle to right angle, shortened plantar fascia, and marked tenderness under metatarsal heads:
Bilateral
30
Unilateral
20
Great toe dorsiflexed, some limitation of dorsiflexion at ankle, definite tenderness under metatarsal heads:
Bilateral
10
Unilateral
10
Slight
0
5279 Metatarsalgia, anterior (Morton's disease), unilateral, or bilateral
10
5280 Hallux valgus, unilateral:
Operated with resection of metatarsal head
10
Severe, if equivalent to amputation of great toe
10
5281 Hallux rigidus, unilateral, severe:
Rate as hallux valgus, severe.
Note: Not to be combined with claw foot ratings.
5282 Hammer toe:
All toes, unilateral without claw foot
10
Single toes
0
5283 Tarsal, or metatarsal bones, malunion of, or nonunion of:
Severe
30
Moderately severe
20
Moderate
10
Note:
With actual loss of use of the foot, rate 40 percent.
5284 Foot injuries, other:
Severe
30
Moderately severe
20
Moderate
10
Note:
With actual loss of use of the foot, rate 40 percent.
The Skull
Rating
5296 Skull, loss of part of, both inner and outer tables:
With brain hernia
80
Without brain hernia:
Area larger than size of a 50-cent piece or 1.140 in
2
(7.355 cm
2
)
50
Area intermediate
30
Area smaller than the size of a 25-cent piece or 0.716 in
2
(4.619 cm
2
)
10
Note:
Rate separately for intracranial complications.
The Ribs
Rating
5297 Ribs, removal of:
More than six
50
Five or six
40
Three or four
30
Two
20
One or resection of two or more ribs without regeneration
10
Note
(1): The rating for rib resection or removal is not to be applied with ratings for purrulent pleurisy, lobectomy, pneumonectomy or injuries of pleural cavity.
Note
(2): However, rib resection will be considered as rib removal in thoracoplasty performed for collapse therapy or to accomplish obliteration of space and will be combined with the rating for lung collapse, or with the rating for lobectomy, pneumonectomy or the graduated ratings for pulmonary tuberculosis.
The Coccyx
Rating
5298 Coccyx, removal of:
Partial or complete, with painful residuals
10
Without painful residuals
0
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[29 FR 6718, May 22, 1964, as amended at 34 FR 5062, Mar. 11, 1969; 40 FR 42536, Sept. 15, 1975; 41 FR 11294, Mar. 18, 1976; 43 FR 45350, Oct. 2, 1978; 51 FR 6411, Feb. 24, 1986; 61 FR 20439, May 7, 1996; 67 FR 48785, July 26, 2002; 67 FR 54349, Aug. 22, 2002; 68 FR 51456, Aug. 27, 2003; 69 FR 32450, June 10, 2004; 80 FR 42041, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 76460, Nov. 30, 2020, 85 FR 85523, Dec. 29, 2020, 86 FR 8142, Feb. 4, 2021]
§ 4.72
[Reserved]
§ 4.73
Schedule of ratings—muscle injuries.

# Note (1):
When evaluating any claim involving muscle injuries resulting in loss of use of any extremity or loss of use of both buttocks (diagnostic code 5317, Muscle Group XVII), refer to § 3.350 of this chapter to determine whether the veteran may be entitled to special monthly compensation.

# Note (2):
Ratings of slight, moderate, moderately severe, or severe for diagnostic codes 5301 through 5323 will be determined based upon the criteria contained in § 4.56.
The Shoulder Girdle and Arm
Rating
Dominant
Nondominant
5301 Group I.
Function:
Upward rotation of scapula; elevation of arm above shoulder level.
Extrinsic muscles of shoulder girdle:
(1) Trapezius; (2) levator scapulae; (3) serratus magnus
Severe
40
30
Moderately Severe
30
20
Moderate
10
10
Slight
0
0
5302 Group II.
Function:
Depression of arm from vertical overhead to hanging at side (1, 2); downward rotation of scapula (3, 4); 1 and 2 act with Group III in forward and backward swing of arm.
Extrinsic muscles of shoulder girdle: (1) Pectoralis major II (costosternal); (2) latissimus dorsi and teres major (teres major, although technically an intrinsic muscle, is included with latissimus dorsi); (3) pectoralis minor; (4) rhomboid
Severe
40
30
Moderately Severe
30
20
Moderate
20
20
Slight
0
0
5303 Group III.
Function:
Elevation and abduction of arm to level of shoulder; act with 1 and 2 of Group II in forward and backward swing of arm.
Intrinsic muscles of shoulder girdle: (1) Pectoralis major I (clavicular); (2) deltoid
Severe
40
30
Moderately Severe
30
20
Moderate
20
20
Slight
0
0
5304 Group IV.
Function:
Stabilization of shoulder against injury in strong movements, holding head of humerus in socket; abduction; outward rotation and inward rotation of arm.
Intrinsic muscles of shoulder girdle: (1) Supraspinatus; (2) infraspinatus and teres minor; (3) subscapularis; (4) coracobrachialis
Severe
30
20
Moderately Severe
20
20
Moderate
10
10
Slight
0
0
5305 Group V.
Function:
Elbow supination (1) (long head of biceps is stabilizer of shoulder joint); flexion of elbow (1, 2, 3).
Flexor muscles of elbow: (1) Biceps; (2) brachialis; (3) brachioradialis
Severe
40
30
Moderately Severe
30
20
Moderate
10
10
Slight
0
0
5306 Group VI.
Function:
Extension of elbow (long head of triceps is stabilizer of shoulder joint).
Extensor muscles of the elbow:
(1) Triceps; (2) anconeus.
Severe
40
30
Moderately Severe
30
20
Moderate
10
10
Slight
0
0
The Forearm and Hand
Rating
Dominant
Nondominant
5307 Group VII.
Function:
Flexion of wrist and fingers.
Muscles arising from internal condyle of humerus:
Flexors of the carpus and long flexors of fingers and thumb; pronator
Severe
40
30
Moderately Severe
30
20
Moderate
10
10
Slight
0
0
5308 Group VIII.
Function:
Extension of wrist, fingers, and thumb; abduction of thumb.
Muscles arising mainly from external condyle of humerus:
Extensors of carpus, fingers, and thumb; supinator
Severe
30
20
Moderately Severe
20
20
Moderate
10
10
Slight
0
0
5309 Group IX.
Function:
The forearm muscles act in strong grasping movements and are supplemented by the intrinsic muscles in delicate manipulative movements.
Intrinsic muscles of hand:
Thenar eminence; short flexor, opponens, abductor and adductor of thumb; hypothenar eminence; short flexor, opponens and abductor of little finger; 4 lumbricales; 4 dorsal and 3 palmar interossei
Note:
The hand is so compact a structure that isolated muscle injuries are rare, being nearly always complicated with injuries of bones, joints, tendons, etc. Rate on limitation of motion, minimum 10 percent.
The Foot and Leg
Rating
5310 Group X.
Function:
Movements of forefoot and toes; propulsion thrust in walking.
Intrinsic muscles of the foot: Plantar:
(1) Flexor digitorum brevis; (2) abductor hallucis; (3) abductor digiti minimi; (4) quadratus plantae; (5) lumbricales; (6) flexor hallucis brevis; (7) adductor hallucis; (8) flexor digiti minimi brevis; (9) dorsal and plantar interossei. Other important plantar structures: Plantar aponeurosis, long plantar and calcaneonavicular ligament, tendons of posterior tibial, peroneus longus, and long flexors of great and little toes
Severe
30
Moderately Severe
20
Moderate
10
Slight
0
Dorsal:
(1) Extensor hallucis brevis; (2) extensor digitorum brevis. Other important dorsal structures: cruciate, crural, deltoid, and other ligaments; tendons of long extensors of toes and peronei muscles
Severe
20
Moderately Severe
10
Moderate
10
Slight
0
Note:
Minimum rating for through-and-through wounds of the foot—10.
5311 Group XI.
Function:
Propulsion, plantar flexion of foot (1); stabilization of arch (2, 3); flexion of toes (4, 5); Flexion of knee (6).
Posterior and lateral crural muscles, and muscles of the calf:
(1) Triceps surae (gastrocnemius and soleus); (2) tibialis posterior; (3) peroneus longus; (4) peroneus brevis; (5) flexor hallucis longus; (6) flexor digitorum longus; (7) popliteus; (8) plantaris
Severe
30
Moderately Severe
20
Moderate
10
Slight
0
5312 Group XII.
Function:
Dorsiflexion (1); extension of toes (2); stabilization of arch (3).
Anterior muscles of the leg:
(1) Tibialis anterior; (2) extensor digitorum longus; (3) extensor hallucis longus; (4) peroneus tertius
Severe
30
Moderately Severe
20
Moderate
10
Slight
0
The Pelvic Girdle and Thigh
Rating
5313 Group XIII.
Function:
Extension of hip and flexion of knee; outward and inward rotation of flexed knee; acting with rectus femoris and sartorius (see XIV, 1, 2) synchronizing simultaneous flexion of hip and knee and extension of hip and knee by belt-over-pulley action at knee joint.
Posterior thigh group, Hamstring complex of 2-joint muscles:
(1) Biceps femoris; (2) semimembranosus; (3) semitendinosus
Severe
40
Moderately Severe
30
Moderate
10
Slight
0
5314 Group XIV.
Function:
Extension of knee (2, 3, 4, 5); simultaneous flexion of hip and flexion of knee (1); tension of fascia lata and iliotibial (Maissiat's) band, acting with XVII (1) in postural support of body (6); acting with hamstrings in synchronizing hip and knee (1, 2).
Anterior thigh group:
(1) Sartorius; (2) rectus femoris; (3) vastus externus; (4) vastus intermedius; (5) vastus internus; (6) tensor vaginae femoris
Severe
40
Moderately Severe
30
Moderate
10
Slight
0
5315 Group XV.
Function:
Adduction of hip (1, 2, 3, 4); flexion of hip (1, 2); flexion of knee (4).
Mesial thigh group:
(1) Adductor longus; (2) adductor brevis; (3) adductor magnus; (4) gracilis
Severe
30
Moderately Severe
20
Moderate
10
Slight
0
5316 Group XVI.
Function:
Flexion of hip (1, 2, 3).
Pelvic girdle group 1:
(1) Psoas; (2) iliacus; (3) pectineus
Severe
40
Moderately Severe
30
Moderate
10
Slight
0
5317 Group XVII.
Function:
Extension of hip (1); abduction of thigh; elevation of opposite side of pelvis (2, 3); tension of fascia lata and iliotibial (Maissiat's) band, acting with XIV (6) in postural support of body steadying pelvis upon head of femur and condyles of femur on tibia (1).
Pelvic girdle group 2:
(1) Gluteus maximus; (2) gluteus medius; (3) gluteus minimus
Severe
*50
Moderately Severe
40
Moderate
20
Slight
0
5318 Group XVIII.
Function:
Outward rotation of thigh and stabilization of hip joint.
Pelvic girdle group 3:
(1) Pyriformis; (2) gemellus (superior or inferior); (3) obturator (external or internal); (4) quadratus femoris
Severe
30
Moderately Severe
20
Moderate
10
Slight
0
* If bilateral, see § 3.350(a)(3) of this chapter to determine whether the veteran may be entitled to special monthly compensation.
The Torso and Neck
Rating
5319 Group XIX.
Function:
Support and compression of abdominal wall and lower thorax; flexion and lateral motions of spine; synergists in strong downward movements of arm (1).
Muscles of the abdominal wall:
(1) Rectus abdominis; (2) external oblique; (3) internal oblique; (4) transversalis; (5) quadratus lumborum
Severe
50
Moderately Severe
30
Moderate
10
Slight
0
5320 Group XX.
Function:
Postural support of body; extension and lateral movements of spine.
Spinal muscles:
Sacrospinalis (erector spinae and its prolongations in thoracic and cervical regions)
Cervical and thoracic region:
Severe
40
Moderately Severe
20
Moderate
10
Slight
0
Lumbar region:
Severe
60
Moderately Severe
40
Moderate
20
Slight
0
5321 Group XXI.
Function:
Respiration.
Muscles of respiration:
Thoracic muscle group
Severe or Moderately Severe
20
Moderate
10
Slight
0
5322 Group XXII.
Function:
Rotary and forward movements of the head; respiration; deglutition.
Muscles of the front of the neck:
(Lateral, supra-, and infrahyoid group.) (1) Trapezius I (clavicular insertion); (2) sternocleidomastoid; (3) the “hyoid” muscles; (4) sternothyroid; (5) digastric
Severe
30
Moderately Severe
20
Moderate
10
Slight
0
5323 Group XXIII.
Function:
Movements of the head; fixation of shoulder movements.
Muscles of the side and back of the neck:
Suboccipital; lateral vertebral and anterior vertebral muscles
Severe
30
Moderately Severe
20
Moderate
10
Slight
0
Miscellaneous
Rating
5324 Diaphragm, rupture of, with herniation. Rate under diagnostic code 7346
5325 Muscle injury, facial muscles. Evaluate functional impairment as seventh (facial) cranial nerve neuropathy (diagnostic code 8207), disfiguring scar (diagnostic code 7800), etc. Minimum, if interfering to any extent with mastication—10
5326 Muscle hernia, extensive. Without other injury to the muscle—10
5327 Muscle, neoplasm of, malignant (excluding soft tissue sarcoma)—100
Note:
A rating of 100 percent shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgery, radiation treatment, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other therapeutic procedures. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no local recurrence or metastasis, rate on residual impairment of function.
5328 Muscle, neoplasm of, benign, postoperative. Rate on impairment of function,
i.e.
, limitation of motion, or scars, diagnostic code 7805, etc
5329 Sarcoma, soft tissue (of muscle, fat, or fibrous connective tissue)—100
Note:
A rating of 100 percent shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgery, radiation treatment, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other therapeutic procedures. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no local recurrence or metastasis, rate on residual impairment of function.
5330 Rhabdomyolysis, residuals of:
Rate each affected muscle group separately and combine in accordance with § 4.25
Note:
Separately evaluate any chronic renal complications within the appropriate body system.
5331 Compartment syndrome:
Rate each affected muscle group separately and combine in accordance with § 4.25
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[62 FR 30239, June 3, 1997, as amemded 85 FR 76464, Nov. 30, 2020]

# The Organs of Special Sense
§ 4.75
General considerations for evaluating visual impairment.
(a)
Visual impairment.
The evaluation of visual impairment is based on impairment of visual acuity (excluding developmental errors of refraction), visual field, and muscle function.
(b)
Examination for visual impairment.
The examination must be conducted by a licensed optometrist or by a licensed ophthalmologist. The examiner must identify the disease, injury, or other pathologic process responsible for any visual impairment found. Examinations of visual fields or muscle function will be conducted only when there is a medical indication of disease or injury that may be associated with visual field defect or impaired muscle function. Unless medically contraindicated, the fundus must be examined with the claimant's pupils dilated.
(c)
Service-connected visual impairment of only one eye.
Subject to the provisions of 38 CFR 3.383(a), if visual impairment of only one eye is service-connected, the visual acuity of the other eye will be considered to be 20/40 for purposes of evaluating the service-connected visual impairment.
(d)
Maximum evaluation for visual impairment of one eye.
The evaluation for visual impairment of one eye must not exceed 30 percent unless there is anatomical loss of the eye. Combine the evaluation for visual impairment of one eye with evaluations for other disabilities of the same eye that are not based on visual impairment (e.g., disfigurement under diagnostic code 7800).
(e)
Anatomical loss of one eye with inability to wear a prosthesis.
When the claimant has anatomical loss of one eye and is unable to wear a prosthesis, increase the evaluation for visual acuity under diagnostic code 6063 by 10 percent, but the maximum evaluation for visual impairment of both eyes must not exceed 100 percent. A 10-percent increase under this paragraph precludes an evaluation under diagnostic code 7800 based on gross distortion or asymmetry of the eye but not an evaluation under diagnostic code 7800 based on other characteristics of disfigurement.
(f)
Special monthly compensation.
When evaluating visual impairment, refer to 38 CFR 3.350 to determine whether the claimant may be entitled to special monthly compensation. Footnotes in the schedule indicate levels of visual impairment that potentially establish entitlement to special monthly compensation; however, other levels of visual impairment combined with disabilities of other body systems may also establish entitlement.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1114 and 1155)
[73 FR 66549, Nov. 10, 2008]
§ 4.76
Visual acuity.
(a)
Examination of visual acuity.
Examination of visual acuity must include the central
uncorrected
and
corrected
visual acuity for
distance
and
near
vision using Snellen's test type or its equivalent.
(b)
Evaluation of visual acuity.
(1) Evaluate central visual acuity on the basis of corrected distance vision with central fixation, even if a central scotoma is present. However, when the lens required to correct distance vision in the poorer eye differs by more than three diopters from the lens required to correct distance vision in the better eye (and the difference is not due to congenital or developmental refractive error), and either the poorer eye or both eyes are service connected, evaluate the visual acuity of the poorer eye using either its uncorrected or corrected visual acuity, whichever results in better combined visual acuity.
(2) Provided that he or she customarily wears contact lenses, evaluate the visual acuity of any individual affected by a corneal disorder that results in severe irregular astigmatism that can be improved more by contact lenses than by eyeglass lenses, as corrected by contact lenses.
(3) In any case where the examiner reports that there is a difference equal to two or more scheduled steps between near and distance corrected vision, with the near vision being worse, the examination report must include at least two recordings of near and distance corrected vision and an explanation of the reason for the difference. In these cases, evaluate based on corrected distance vision adjusted to one step poorer than measured.
(4) To evaluate the impairment of visual acuity where a claimant has a reported visual acuity that is between two sequentially listed visual acuities, use the visual acuity which permits the higher evaluation.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[73 FR 66549, Nov. 10, 2008]
§ 4.76a
Computation of average concentric contraction of visual fields.
Table III—Normal Visual Field Extent at 8 Principal Meridians
Meridian
Normal degrees
Temporally
85
Down temporally
85
Down
65
Down nasally
50
Nasally
60
Up nasally
55
Up
45
Up temporally
55
Total
500
EC04NO91.005
Example of computation of concentric contraction under the schedule with abnormal findings taken from Figure 1.
Loss
Degrees
Temporally
55
Down temporally
55
Down
45
Down nasally
30
Nasally
40
Up nasally
35
Up
25
Up temporally
35
Total loss
320
Remaining field 500° minus 320° = 180°. 180° ÷ 8 = 22
1/2
° average concentric contraction.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[43 FR 45352, Oct. 2, 1978, as amended at 73 FR 66549, Nov. 10, 2008]
§ 4.77
Visual fields.
(a)
Examination of visual fields.
Examiners must use either Goldmann kinetic perimetry or automated perimetry using Humphrey Model 750, Octopus Model 101, or later versions of these perimetric devices with simulated kinetic Goldmann testing capability. For phakic (normal) individuals, as well as for pseudophakic or aphakic individuals who are well adapted to intraocular lens implant or contact lens correction, visual field examinations must be conducted using a standard target size and luminance, which is Goldmann's equivalent III/4e. For aphakic individuals not well adapted to contact lens correction or pseudophakic individuals not well adapted to intraocular lens implant, visual field examinations must be conducted using Goldmann's equivalent IV/4e. The examiner must document the results for at least 16 meridians 22
1/2
degrees apart for each eye and indicate the Goldmann equivalent used. See Table III for the normal extent (in degrees) of the visual fields at the 8 principal meridians (45 degrees apart). When the examiner indicates that additional testing is necessary to evaluate visual fields, the additional testing must be conducted using either a tangent screen or a 30-degree threshold visual field with the Goldmann III stimulus size. The examination report must document the results of either the tangent screen or of the 30-degree threshold visual field with the Goldmann III stimulus size.
(b)
Evaluation of visual fields.
Determine the average concentric contraction of the visual field of each eye by measuring the remaining visual field (in degrees) at each of eight principal meridians 45 degrees apart, adding them, and dividing the sum by eight.
(c)
Combination of visual field defect and decreased visual acuity.
To determine the evaluation for visual impairment when both decreased visual acuity and visual field defect are present in one or both eyes and are service connected, separately evaluate the visual acuity and visual field defect (expressed as a level of visual acuity), and combine them under the provisions of § 4.25.
EC04NO91.006
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[53 FR 30262, Aug. 11, 1988, as amended at 73 FR 66549, Nov. 10, 2008; 74 FR 7648, Feb. 19, 2009; 83 FR 15320, Apr. 10, 2018]
§ 4.78
Muscle function.
(a)
Examination of muscle function.
The examiner must use a Goldmann perimeter chart or the Tangent Screen method that identifies the four major quadrants (upward, downward, left, and right lateral) and the central field (20 degrees or less) (see Figure 2). The examiner must document the results of muscle function testing by identifying the quadrant(s) and range(s) of degrees in which diplopia exists.
(b)
Evaluation of muscle function.
(1) An evaluation for diplopia will be assigned to only one eye. When a claimant has both diplopia and decreased visual acuity or visual field defect, assign a level of corrected visual acuity for the poorer eye (or the affected eye, if disability of only one eye is service-connected) that is: one step poorer than it would otherwise warrant if the evaluation for diplopia under diagnostic code 6090 is 20/70 or 20/100; two steps poorer if the evaluation under diagnostic code 6090 is 20/200 or 15/200; or three steps poorer if the evaluation under diagnostic code 6090 is 5/200. This adjusted level of corrected visual acuity, however, must not exceed a level of 5/200. Use the adjusted visual acuity for the poorer eye (or the affected eye, if
disability of only one eye is service-connected), and the corrected visual acuity for the better eye (or visual acuity of 20/40 for the other eye, if only one eye is service-connected) to determine the percentage evaluation for visual impairment under diagnostic codes 6065 through 6066.
(2) When diplopia extends beyond more than one quadrant or range of degrees, evaluate diplopia based on the quadrant and degree range that provides the highest evaluation.
(3) When diplopia exists in two separate areas of the same eye, increase the equivalent visual acuity under diagnostic code 6090 to the next poorer level of visual acuity, not to exceed 5/200.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[73 FR 66550, Nov. 10, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 15321, Apr. 10, 2018]
§ 4.79
Schedule of ratings—eye.
Diseases of the Eye
Rating
General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Eye:
Evaluate on the basis of either visual impairment due to the particular condition or on incapacitating episodes, whichever results in a higher evaluation
With documented incapacitating episodes requiring 7 or more treatment visits for an eye condition during the past 12 months
60
With documented incapacitating episodes requiring at least 5 but less than 7 treatment visits for an eye condition during the past 12 months
40
With documented incapacitating episodes requiring at least 3 but less than 5 treatment visits for an eye condition during the past 12 months
20
With documented incapacitating episodes requiring at least 1 but less than 3 treatment visits for an eye condition during the past 12 months
10
Note (1): For the purposes of evaluation under 38 CFR 4.79, an incapacitating episode is an eye condition severe enough to require a clinic visit to a provider specifically for treatment purposes
Note (2): Examples of treatment may include but are not limited to: Systemic immunosuppressants or biologic agents; intravitreal or periocular injections; laser treatments; or other surgical interventions
Note (3): For the purposes of evaluating visual impairment due to the particular condition, refer to 38 CFR 4.75-4.78 and to § 4.79, diagnostic codes 6061-6091
6000 Choroidopathy, including uveitis, iritis, cyclitis, or choroiditis.
6001 Keratopathy.
6002 Scleritis.
6006 Retinopathy or maculopathy not otherwise specified
6007 Intraocular hemorrhage.
6008 Detachment of retina.
6009 Unhealed eye injury.
Note: This code includes orbital trauma, as well as penetrating or non-penetrating eye injury
6010 Tuberculosis of eye:
Active
100
Inactive: Evaluate under § 4.88c or § 4.89 of this part, whichever is appropriate
6011 Retinal scars, atrophy, or irregularities:
Localized scars, atrophy, or irregularities of the retina, unilateral or bilateral, that are centrally located and that result in an irregular, duplicated, enlarged, or diminished image
10
Alternatively, evaluate based on the General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Eye, if this would result in a higher evaluation
6012 Angle-closure glaucoma
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Eye. Minimum evaluation if continuous medication is required
10
6013 Open-angle glaucoma
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Eye. Minimum evaluation if continuous medication is required
10
6014 Malignant neoplasms of the eye, orbit, and adnexa (excluding skin):
Malignant neoplasms of the eye, orbit, and adnexa (excluding skin) that require therapy that is comparable to those used for systemic malignancies, i.e., systemic chemotherapy, X-ray therapy more extensive than to the area of the eye, or surgery more extensive than enucleation
100
Note: Continue the 100 percent rating beyond the cessation of any surgical, X-ray, antineoplastic chemotherapy, or other therapeutic procedure. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating will be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination will be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no local recurrence or metastasis, evaluate based on residuals
Malignant neoplasms of the eye, orbit, and adnexa (excluding skin) that do not require therapy comparable to that for systemic malignancies:
Separately evaluate visual and nonvisual impairment, e.g., disfigurement (diagnostic code 7800), and combine the evaluations
6015 Benign neoplasms of the eye, orbit, and adnexa (excluding skin):
Separately evaluate visual and nonvisual impairment, e.g., disfigurement (diagnostic code 7800), and combine the evaluations
6016 Nystagmus, central
10
6017 Trachomatous conjunctivitis:
Active: Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Eye, minimum rating
30
Inactive: Evaluate based on residuals, such as visual impairment and disfigurement (diagnostic code 7800)
6018 Chronic conjunctivitis (nontrachomatous):
Active: Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Eye, minimum rating
10
Inactive: Evaluate based on residuals, such as visual impairment and disfigurement (diagnostic code 7800)
6019 Ptosis, unilateral or bilateral:
Evaluate based on visual impairment or, in the absence of visual impairment, on disfigurement (diagnostic code 7800).
6020 Ectropion:
Bilateral
20
Unilateral
10
6021 Entropion:
Bilateral
20
Unilateral
10
6022 Lagophthalmos:
Bilateral
20
Unilateral
10
6023 Loss of eyebrows, complete, unilateral or bilateral
10
6024 Loss of eyelashes, complete, unilateral or bilateral
10
6025 Disorders of the lacrimal apparatus (epiphora, dacryocystitis, etc.):
Bilateral
20
Unilateral
10
6026 Optic neuropathy
6027 Cataract:
Preoperative: Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Eye
Postoperative: If a replacement lens is present (pseudophakia), evaluate under the General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Eye. If there is no replacement lens, evaluate based on aphakia (diagnostic code 6029)
6029 Aphakia or dislocation of crystalline lens:
Evaluate based on visual impairment, and elevate the resulting level of visual impairment one step.
Minimum (unilateral or bilateral)
30
6030 Paralysis of accommodation (due to neuropathy of the Oculomotor Nerve (cranial nerve III)).
20
6032 Loss of eyelids, partial or complete:
Separately evaluate both visual impairment due to eyelid loss and nonvisual impairment, e.g., disfigurement (diagnostic code 7800), and combine the evaluations.
6034 Pterygium:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Eye, disfigurement (diagnostic code 7800), conjunctivitis (diagnostic code 6018), etc., depending on the particular findings, and combine in accordance with § 4.25
6035 Keratoconus
6036 Status post corneal transplant:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Eye. Minimum, if there is pain, photophobia, and glare sensitivity
10
6037 Pinguecula:
Evaluate based on disfigurement (diagnostic code 7800).
6040 Diabetic retinopathy
6042 Retinal dystrophy (including retinitis pigmentosa, wet or dry macular degeneration, early-onset macular degeneration, rod and/or cone dystrophy)
6046 Post-chiasmal disorders
Impairment of Central Visual Acuity
6061 Anatomical loss of both eyes
1
100
6062 No more than light perception in both eyes
1
100
6063 Anatomical loss of one eye:
1
In the other eye 5/200 (1.5/60)
100
In the other eye 10/200 (3/60)
90
In the other eye 15/200 (4.5/60)
80
In the other eye 20/200 (6/60)
70
In the other eye 20/100 (6/30)
60
In the other eye 20/70 (6/21)
60
In the other eye 20/50 (6/15)
50
In the other eye 20/40 (6/12)
40
6064 No more than light perception in one eye:
1
In the other eye 5/200 (1.5/60)
100
In the other eye 10/200 (3/60)
90
In the other eye 15/200 (4.5/60)
80
In the other eye 20/200 (6/60)
70
In the other eye 20/100 (6/30)
60
In the other eye 20/70 (6/21)
50
In the other eye 20/50 (6/15)
40
In the other eye 20/40 (6/12)
30
6065 Vision in one eye 5/200 (1.5/60):
In the other eye 5/200 (1.5/60)
1
100
In the other eye 10/200 (3/60)
90
In the other eye 15/200 (4.5/60)
80
In the other eye 20/200 (6/60)
70
In the other eye 20/100 (6/30)
60
In the other eye 20/70 (6/21)
50
In the other eye 20/50 (6/15)
40
In the other eye 20/40 (6/12)
30
6066 Visual acuity in one eye 10/200 (3/60) or better:
Vision in one eye 10/200 (3/60):
In the other eye 10/200 (3/60)
90
In the other eye 15/200 (4.5/60)
80
In the other eye 20/200 (6/60)
70
In the other eye 20/100 (6/30)
60
In the other eye 20/70 (6/21)
50
In the other eye 20/50 (6/15)
40
In the other eye 20/40 (6/12)
30
Vision in one eye 15/200 (4.5/60):
In the other eye 15/200 (4.5/60)
80
In the other eye 20/200 (6/60)
70
In the other eye 20/100 (6/30)
60
In the other eye 20/70 (6/21)
40
In the other eye 20/50 (6/15)
30
In the other eye 20/40 (6/12)
20
Vision in one eye 20/200 (6/60):
In the other eye 20/200 (6/60)
70
In the other eye 20/100 (6/30)
60
In the other eye 20/70 (6/21)
40
In the other eye 20/50 (6/15)
30
In the other eye 20/40 (6/12)
20
Vision in one eye 20/100 (6/30):
In the other eye 20/100 (6/30)
50
In the other eye 20/70 (6/21)
30
In the other eye 20/50 (6/15)
20
In the other eye 20/40 (6/12)
10
Vision in one eye 20/70 (6/21):
In the other eye 20/70 (6/21)
30
In the other eye 20/50 (6/15)
20
In the other eye 20/40 (6/12)
10
Vision in one eye 20/50 (6/15):
In the other eye 20/50 (6/15)
10
In the other eye 20/40 (6/12)
10
Vision in one eye 20/40 (6/12):
In the other eye 20/40 (6/12)
0
1
Review for entitlement to special monthly compensation under 38 CFR 3.350.
Ratings for Impairment of Visual Fields
Rating
6080 Visual field defects:
Homonymous hemianopsia
30
Loss of temporal half of visual field:
Bilateral
30
Unilateral
10
Or evaluate each affected eye as 20/70 (6/21)
Loss of nasal half of visual field:
Bilateral
10
Unilateral
10
Or evaluate each affected eye as 20/50 (6/15)
Loss of inferior half of visual field:
Bilateral
30
Unilateral
10
Or evaluate each affected eye as 20/70 (6/21)
Loss of superior half of visual field:
Bilateral
10
Unilateral
10
Or evaluate each affected eye as 20/50 (6/15)
Concentric contraction of visual field:
With remaining field of 5 degrees:
1
Bilateral
100
Unilateral
30
Or evaluate each affected eye as 5/200 (1.5/60)
With remaining field of 6 to 15 degrees:
Bilateral
70
Unilateral
20
Or evaluate each affected eye as 20/200 (6/60)
With remaining field of 16 to 30 degrees:
Bilateral
50
Unilateral
10
Or evaluate each affected eye as 20/100 (6/30)
With remaining field of 31 to 45 degrees:
Bilateral
30
Unilateral
10
Or evaluate each affected eye as 20/70 (6/21)
With remaining field of 46 to 60 degrees:
Bilateral
10
Unilateral
10
Or evaluate each affected eye as 20/50 (6/15)
6081 Scotoma, unilateral:
Minimum, with scotoma affecting at least one-quarter of the visual field (quadrantanopsia) or with centrally located scotoma of any size
10
Alternatively, evaluate based on visual impairment due to scotoma, if that would result in a higher evaluation
1
Review for entitlement to special monthly compensation under 38 CFR 3.350.
Ratings for Impairment of Muscle Function
Degree of diplopia
Equivalent
visual acuity
6090 Diplopia (double vision):
(a) Central 20 degrees
5/200 (1.5/60)
(b) 21 degrees to 30 degrees
(1) Down
15/200 (4.5/60)
(2) Lateral
20/100 (6/30)
(3) Up
20/70 (6/21)
(c) 31 degrees to 40 degrees
(1) Down
20/200 (6/60)
(2) Lateral
20/70 (6/21)
(3) Up
20/40 (6/12)
Note:
In accordance with 38 CFR 4.31, diplopia that is occasional or that is correctable with spectacles is evaluated at 0 percent.
6091 Symblepharon:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Eye, lagophthalmos (diagnostic code 6022), disfigurement (diagnostic code 7800), etc., depending on the particular findings, and combine in accordance with § 4.25
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[73 FR 66550, Nov. 10, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 15321, Apr. 10, 2018]
§§ 4.80-4.84
[Reserved]

# Impairment of Auditory Acuity
§ 4.85
Evaluation of hearing impairment.
(a) An examination for hearing impairment for VA purposes must be conducted by a state-licensed audiologist and must include a controlled speech discrimination test (Maryland CNC) and a puretone audiometry test. Examinations will be conducted without the use of hearing aids.
(b) Table VI, “Numeric Designation of Hearing Impairment Based on Puretone Threshold Average and
Speech Discrimination,” is used to determine a Roman numeral designation (I through XI) for hearing impairment based on a combination of the percent of speech discrimination (horizontal rows) and the puretone threshold average (vertical columns). The Roman numeral designation is located at the point where the percentage of speech discrimination and puretone threshold average intersect.
(c) Table VIa, “Numeric Designation of Hearing Impairment Based Only on Puretone Threshold Average,” is used to determine a Roman numeral designation (I through XI) for hearing impairment based only on the puretone threshold average. Table VIa will be used when the examiner certifies that use of the speech discrimination test is not appropriate because of language difficulties, inconsistent speech discrimination scores, etc., or when indicated under the provisions of § 4.86.
(d) “Puretone threshold average,” as used in Tables VI and VIa, is the sum of the puretone thresholds at 1000, 2000, 3000 and 4000 Hertz, divided by four. This average is used in all cases (including those in § 4.86) to determine the Roman numeral designation for hearing impairment from Table VI or VIa.
(e) Table VII, “Percentage Evaluations for Hearing Impairment,” is used to determine the percentage evaluation by combining the Roman numeral designations for hearing impairment of each ear. The horizontal rows represent the ear having the better hearing and the vertical columns the ear having the poorer hearing. The percentage evaluation is located at the point where the row and column intersect.
(f) If impaired hearing is service-connected in only one ear, in order to determine the percentage evaluation from Table VII, the non-service-connected ear will be assigned a Roman Numeral designation for hearing impairment of I, subject to the provisions of § 3.383 of this chapter.
(g) When evaluating any claim for impaired hearing, refer to § 3.350 of this chapter to determine whether the veteran may be entitled to special monthly compensation due either to deafness, or to deafness in combination with other specified disabilities.
(h)
Numeric tables VI, VIA*, and VII.
ER11MY99.005
ER11MY99.006
[64 FR 25206, May 11, 1999]
§ 4.86
Exceptional patterns of hearing impairment.
(a) When the puretone threshold at each of the four specified frequencies (1000, 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hertz) is 55 decibels or more, the rating specialist will determine the Roman numeral designation for hearing impairment from either Table VI or Table VIa, whichever results in the higher numeral. Each ear will be evaluated separately.
(b) When the puretone threshold is 30 decibels or less at 1000 Hertz, and 70 decibels or more at 2000 Hertz, the rating specialist will determine the Roman numeral designation for hearing impairment from either Table VI or Table VIa, whichever results in the higher numeral. That numeral will then be elevated to the next higher
Roman numeral. Each ear will be evaluated separately.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[64 FR 25209, May 11, 1999]
§ 4.87
Schedule of ratings—ear.
Diseases of the Ear
Rating
6200 Chronic suppurative otitis media, mastoiditis, or cholesteatoma (or any combination):
During suppuration, or with aural polyps
10
Note:
Evaluate hearing impairment, and complications such as labyrinthitis, tinnitus, facial nerve paralysis, or bone loss of skull, separately.
6201 Chronic nonsuppurative otitis media with effusion (serous otitis media):
Rate hearing impairment
6202 Otosclerosis:
Rate hearing impairment
6204 Peripheral vestibular disorders:
Dizziness and occasional staggering
30
Occasional dizziness
10
Note:
Objective findings supporting the diagnosis of vestibular disequilibrium are required before a compensable evaluation can be assigned under this code. Hearing impairment or suppuration shall be separately rated and combined.
6205 Meniere's syndrome (endolymphatic hydrops):
Hearing impairment with attacks of vertigo and cerebellar gait occurring more than once weekly, with or without tinnitus
100
Hearing impairment with attacks of vertigo and cerebellar gait occurring from one to four times a month, with or without tinnitus
60
Hearing impairment with vertigo less than once a month, with or without tinnitus
30
Note:
Evaluate Meniere's syndrome either under these criteria or by separately evaluating vertigo (as a peripheral vestibular disorder), hearing impairment, and tinnitus, whichever method results in a higher overall evaluation. But do not combine an evaluation for hearing impairment, tinnitus, or vertigo with an evaluation under diagnostic code 6205.
6207 Loss of auricle:
Complete loss of both
50
Complete loss of one
30
Deformity of one, with loss of one-third or more of the substance
10
6208 Malignant neoplasm of the ear (other than skin only)
100
Note:
A rating of 100 percent shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgical, radiation treatment, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other therapeutic procedure. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based on that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no local recurrence or metastasis, rate on residuals.
6209 Benign neoplasms of the ear (other than skin only):
Rate on impairment of function.
6210 Chronic otitis externa:
Swelling, dry and scaly or serous discharge, and itching requiring frequent and prolonged treatment
10
6211 Tympanic membrane, perforation of
0
6260 Tinnitus, recurrent
10
Note (1):
A separate evaluation for tinnitus may be combined with an evaluation under diagnostic codes 6100, 6200, 6204, or other diagnostic code, except when tinnitus supports an evaluation under one of those diagnostic codes.
Note (2):
Assign only a single evaluation for recurrent tinnitus, whether the sound is perceived in one ear, both ears, or in the head.
Note (3):
Do not evaluate objective tinnitus (in which the sound is audible to other people and has a definable cause that may or may not be pathologic) under this diagnostic code, but evaluate it as part of any underlying condition causing it.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[64 FR 25210, May 11, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 25823, May 14, 2003]
§ 4.87a
Schedule of ratings—other sense organs.
Rating
6275 Sense of smell, complete loss
10
6276 Sense of taste, complete loss
10
Note:
Evaluation will be assigned under diagnostic codes 6275 or 6276 only if there is an anatomical or pathological basis for the condition.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[64 FR 25210, May 11, 1999]

# Infectious Diseases, Immune Disorders and Nutritional Deficiencies
§ 4.88
[Reserved]
§ 4.88a
Chronic fatigue syndrome.
(a) For VA purposes, the diagnosis of chronic fatigue syndrome requires:
(1) new onset of debilitating fatigue severe enough to reduce daily activity to less than 50 percent of the usual level for at least six months; and
(2) the exclusion, by history, physical examination, and laboratory tests, of all other clinical conditions that may produce similar symptoms; and
(3) six or more of the following:
(i) acute onset of the condition,
(ii) low grade fever,
(iii) nonexudative pharyngitis,
(iv) palpable or tender cervical or axillary lymph nodes,
(v) generalized muscle aches or weakness,
(vi) fatigue lasting 24 hours or longer after exercise,
(vii) headaches (of a type, severity, or pattern that is different from headaches in the pre-morbid state),
(viii) migratory joint pains,
(ix) neuropsychologic symptoms,
(x) sleep disturbance.
(b) [Reserved]
[59 FR 60902, Nov. 29, 1994]
§ 4.88b
Schedule of ratings—infectious diseases, immune disorders and nutritional deficiencies.

# Note:
Rate any residual disability of infection within the appropriate body system as indicated by the notes in the evaluation criteria. As applicable, consider the long-term health effects potentially associated with infectious diseases as listed in § 3.317(d) of this chapter, specifically Brucellosis, Campylobacter jejuni, Coxiella burnetii (Q fever), Malaria, Mycobacterium Tuberculosis, Nontyphoid Salmonella, Shigella, Visceral Leishmaniasis, and West Nile virus.
Rating
General Rating Formula for Infectious Diseases:
For active disease
100
After active disease has resolved, rate at 0 percent for infection. Rate any residual disability of infection within the appropriate body system.
6300 Vibriosis (Cholera, Non-cholera):
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate residuals of cholera and non-cholera vibrio infections, such as renal failure, skin, and musculoskeletal conditions, within the appropriate body system.
6301 Visceral leishmaniasis:
As active disease
100
Note 1:
Continue a 100 percent evaluation beyond the cessation of treatment for active disease. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, determine the appropriate disability rating by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. Thereafter, rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to liver damage and bone marrow disease.
Note 2:
Confirm the recurrence of active infection by culture, histopathology, or other diagnostic laboratory testing.
6302 Leprosy (Hansen's disease):
As active disease
100
Note:
Continue a 100 percent evaluation beyond the cessation of treatment for active disease. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, determine the appropriate disability rating by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. Thereafter, rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, skin lesions, peripheral neuropathy, or amputations.
6304 Malaria:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note 1:
The diagnosis of malaria, both initially and during relapse, depends on the identification of the malarial parasites in blood smears or other specific diagnostic laboratory tests such as antigen detection, immunologic (immunochromatographic) tests, and molecular testing such as polymerase chain reaction tests.
Note 2:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, liver or splenic damage, and central nervous system conditions.
6305 Lymphatic filariasis, to include elephantiasis:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, epididymitis, lymphangitis, lymphatic obstruction, or lymphedema affecting extremities, genitals, and/or breasts.
6306 Bartonellosis:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, endocarditis or skin lesions.
6307 Plague:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection.
6308 Relapsing Fever:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, liver or spleen damage, iritis, uveitis, or central nervous system involvement.
6309 Rheumatic fever:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, heart damage.
6310 Syphilis, and other treponema infections:
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, diseases of the nervous system, vascular system, eyes, or ears (
see
DC 7004, DC 8013, DC 8014, DC 8015, and DC 9301).
6311 Tuberculosis, miliary:
As active disease
100
Inactive disease:
See
§§ 4.88c and 4.89.
Note 1:
Confirm the recurrence of active infection by culture, histopathology, or other diagnostic laboratory testing.
Note 2:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection which includes, but is not limited to, skin conditions and conditions of the respiratory, central nervous, musculoskeletal, ocular, gastrointestinal, and genitourinary systems and those residuals listed in § 4.88c.
6312 Nontuberculosis mycobacterium infection:
As active disease
100
Note 1:
Continue the rating of 100 percent for the duration of treatment for active disease followed by a mandatory VA exam. If there is no relapse, rate on residuals. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter.
Note 2:
Confirm the recurrence of active infection by culture, histopathology, or other diagnostic laboratory testing.
Note 3:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection which includes, but is not limited to, skin conditions and conditions of the respiratory, central nervous, musculoskeletal, ocular, gastrointestinal, and genitourinary systems and those residuals listed in § 4.88c.
6313 Avitaminosis:
Marked mental changes, moist dermatitis, inability to retain adequate nourishment, exhaustion, and cachexia
100
With all of the symptoms listed below, plus mental symptoms and impaired bodily vigor
60
With stomatitis, diarrhea, and symmetrical dermatitis
40
With stomatitis, or achlorhydria, or diarrhea
20
Confirmed diagnosis with nonspecific symptoms such as: decreased appetite, weight loss, abdominal discomfort, weakness, inability to concentrate and irritability
10
6314 Beriberi:
As active disease:
With congestive heart failure, anasarca, or Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome
100
With cardiomegaly, or; with peripheral neuropathy with footdrop or atrophy of thigh or calf muscles
60
With peripheral neuropathy with absent knee or ankle jerks and loss of sensation, or; with symptoms such as weakness, fatigue, anorexia, dizziness, heaviness and stiffness of legs, headache or sleep disturbance
30
Thereafter rate residuals under the appropriate body system.
6315 Pellagra:
Marked mental changes, moist dermatitis, inability to retain adequate nourishment, exhaustion, and cachexia
100
With all of the symptoms listed below, plus mental symptoms and impaired bodily vigor
60
With stomatitis, diarrhea, and symmetrical dermatitis
40
With stomatitis, or achlorhydria, or diarrhea
20
Confirmed diagnosis with nonspecific symptoms such as: decreased appetite, weight loss, abdominal discomfort, weakness, inability to concentrate and irritability
10
6316 Brucellosis:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note 1:
Culture, serologic testing, or both must confirm the initial diagnosis and recurrence of active infection.
Note 2:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, meningitis, liver, spleen and musculoskeletal conditions.
6317 Rickettsial, ehrlichia, and anaplasma infections:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note 1:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, bone marrow, spleen, central nervous system, and skin conditions.
Note 2:
This diagnostic code includes, but is not limited to, scrub typhus, Rickettsial pox, African tick-borne fever, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, ehrlichiosis, or anaplasmosis.
6318 Melioidosis:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note 1:
Confirm by culture or other specific diagnostic laboratory tests the initial diagnosis and any relapse or chronic activity of infection.
Note 2:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, arthritis, lung lesions, or meningitis.
6319 Lyme disease:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, arthritis, Bell's palsy, radiculopathy, ocular, or cognitive dysfunction.
6320 Parasitic diseases otherwise not specified:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection.
6325 Hyperinfection syndrome or disseminated strongyloidiasis:
As active disease
100
Note:
Continue the rating of 100 percent through active disease followed by a mandatory VA exam. If there is no relapse, rate on residual disability. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter.
6326 Schistosomiasis:
As acute or asymptomatic chronic disease
0
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, conditions of the liver, intestinal system, female genital tract, genitourinary tract, or central nervous system.
6329 Hemorrhagic fevers, including dengue, yellow fever, and others:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, conditions of the central nervous system, liver, or kidney.
6330 Campylobacter jejuni infection:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, Guillain-Barre syndrome, reactive arthritis, or uveitis.
6331 Coxiella burnetii infection (Q fever):
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, chronic hepatitis, endocarditis, osteomyelitis, post Q-fever chronic fatigue syndrome, or vascular infections.
6333 Nontyphoid salmonella infections:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, reactive arthritis.
6334 Shigella infections:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, hemolytic-uremic syndrome or reactive arthritis.
6335 West Nile virus infection:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Note:
Rate under the appropriate body system any residual disability of infection, which includes, but is not limited to, variable physical, functional, or cognitive disabilities.
6350 Lupus erythematosus, systemic (disseminated):
Not to be combined with ratings under DC 7809 Acute, with frequent exacerbations, producing severe impairment of health
100
Exacerbations lasting a week or more, 2 or 3 times per year
60
Exacerbations once or twice a year or symptomatic during the past 2 years
10
Note:
Evaluate this condition either by combining the evaluations for residuals under the appropriate system, or by evaluating DC 6350, whichever method results in a higher evaluation.
6351 HIV-related illness:
AIDS with recurrent opportunistic infections (see Note 3) or with secondary diseases afflicting multiple body systems; HIV-related illness with debility and progressive weight loss
100
Refractory constitutional symptoms, diarrhea, and pathological weight loss; or minimum rating following development of AIDS-related opportunistic infection or neoplasm
60
Recurrent constitutional symptoms, intermittent diarrhea, and use of approved medication(s); or minimum rating with T4 cell count less than 200
30
Following development of HIV-related constitutional symptoms; T4 cell count between 200 and 500; use of approved medication(s); or with evidence of depression or memory loss with employment limitations
10
Asymptomatic, following initial diagnosis of HIV infection, with or without lymphadenopathy or decreased T4 cell count
0
Note 1:
In addition to standard therapies and regimens, the term “approved medication(s)” includes treatment regimens and medications prescribed as part of a research protocol at an accredited medical institution.
Note 2:
Diagnosed psychiatric illness, central nervous system manifestations, opportunistic infections, and neoplasms may be rated separately under the appropriate diagnostic codes if a higher overall evaluation results, provided the disability symptoms do not overlap with evaluations otherwise assignable above.
Note 3:
The following list of opportunistic infections are considered AIDS-defining conditions, that is, a diagnosis of AIDS follows if a person has HIV and one more of these infections, regardless of the CD4 count—candidiasis of the bronchi, trachea, esophagus, or lungs; invasive cervical cancer; coccidioidomycosis; cryptococcosis; cryptosporidiosis; cytomegalovirus (particularly CMV retinitis); HIV-related encephalopathy; herpes simplex-chronic ulcers for greater than one month, or bronchitis, pneumonia, or esophagitis; histoplasmosis; isosporiasis (chronic intestinal); Kaposi's sarcoma; lymphoma; mycobacterium avium complex; tuberculosis; pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia; pneumonia, recurrent; progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy; salmonella septicemia, recurrent; toxoplasmosis of the brain; and wasting syndrome due to HIV.
6354 Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS):
Debilitating fatigue, cognitive impairments (such as inability to concentrate, forgetfulness, or confusion), or a combination of other signs and symptoms:
Which are nearly constant and so severe as to restrict routine daily activities almost completely and which may occasionally preclude self-care
100
Which are nearly constant and restrict routine daily activities to less than 50 percent of the pre-illness level; or which wax and wane, resulting in periods of incapacitation of at least six weeks total duration per year
60
Which are nearly constant and restrict routine daily activities from 50 to 75 percent of the pre-illness level; or which wax and wane, resulting in periods of incapacitation of at least four but less than six weeks total duration per year
40
Which are nearly constant and restrict routine daily activities by less than 25 percent of the pre-illness level; or which wax and wane, resulting in periods of incapacitation of at least two but less than four weeks total duration per year
20
Which wax and wane but result in periods of incapacitation of at least one but less than two weeks total duration per year; or symptoms controlled by continuous medication
10
Note:
For the purpose of evaluating this disability, incapacitation exists only when a licensed physician prescribes bed rest and treatment.
[61 FR 39875, July 31, 1996, as amended at 84 FR 28230, June 18, 2019]
§ 4.88c
Ratings for inactive nonpulmonary tuberculosis initially entitled after August 19, 1968.
Rating
For 1 year after date of inactivity, following active tuberculosis
100
Thereafter: Rate residuals under the specific body system or systems affected.
Following the total rating for the 1 year period after date of inactivity, the schedular evaluation for residuals of nonpulmonary tuberculosis,
i.e.
, ankylosis, surgical removal of a part, etc., will be assigned under the appropriate diagnostic code for the residual preceded by the diagnostic code for tuberculosis of the body part affected. For example, tuberculosis of the hip joint with residual ankylosis would be coded 5001-5250. Where there are existing residuals of pulmonary and nonpulmonary conditions, the evaluations for residual separate functional impairment may be combined.
Where there are existing pulmonary and nonpulmonary conditions, the total rating for the 1 year, after attainment of inactivity, may not be applied to both conditions during the same period. However, the total rating during the 1-year period for the pulmonary or for the nonpulmonary condition will be utilized, combined with evaluation for residuals of the condition not covered by the 1-year total evaluation, so as to allow any additional benefit provided during such period.
[34 FR 5062, Mar. 11, 1969. Redesignated at 59 FR 60902, Nov. 29, 1994]
§ 4.89
Ratings for inactive nonpulmonary tuberculosis in effect on August 19, 1968.
Public Law 90-493 repealed section 356 of title 38, United States Code which provided graduated ratings for inactive tuberculosis. The repealed section, however, still applies to the case of any veteran who on August 19, 1968, was receiving or entitled to receive compensation for tuberculosis. The use of the protective provisions of Pub. L. 90-493 should be mentioned in the discussion portion of all ratings in which these provisions are applied. For use in rating cases in which the protective provisions of Pub. L. 90-493 apply, the former evaluations are retained in this section.
Rating
For 2 years after date of inactivity, following active tuberculosis, which was clinically identified during service or subsequently
100
Thereafter, for 4 years, or in any event, to 6 years after date of inactivity
50
Thereafter, for 5 years, or to 11 years after date of inactivity
30
Thereafter, in the absence of a schedular compensable permanent residual
0
Following the total rating for the 2-year period after date of inactivity, the schedular evaluation for residuals of nonpulmonary tuberculosis,
i.e.
, ankylosis, surgical removal of a part, etc., if in excess of 50 percent or 30 percent will be assigned under the appropriate diagnostic code for the specific residual preceded by the diagnostic code for tuberculosis of the body part affected. For example, tuberculosis of the hipjoint with residual ankylosis would be coded 5001-5250.
The graduated ratings for nonpulmonary tuberculosis will not be combined with residuals of nonpulmonary tuberculosis unless the graduated rating and the rating for residual disability cover separate functional losses, e.g., graduated ratings for tuberculosis of the kidney and residuals of tuberculosis of the spine. Where there are existing pulmonary and nonpulmonary conditions, the graduated evaluation for the pulmonary, or for the nonpulmonary, condition will be utilized, combined with evaluations for residuals of the condition not covered by the graduated evaluation utilized, so as to provide the higher evaluation over such period.
The ending dates of all graduated ratings of nonpulmonary tuberculosis will be controlled by the date of attainment of inactivity.
These ratings are applicable only to veterans with nonpulmonary tuberculosis active on or after October 10, 1949.
[29 FR 6718, May 22, 1964, as amended at 34 FR 5062, Mar. 11, 1969; 43 FR 45361, Oct. 2, 1978]

# The Respiratory System
§ 4.96
Special provisions regarding evaluation of respiratory conditions.
(a)
Rating coexisting respiratory conditions.
Ratings under diagnostic codes 6600 through 6817 and 6822 through 6847 will not be combined with each other. Where there is lung or pleural involvement, ratings under diagnostic codes 6819 and 6820 will not be combined with each other or with diagnostic codes 6600 through 6817 or 6822 through 6847. A single rating will be assigned under the diagnostic code which reflects the predominant disability with elevation to the next higher evaluation where the severity of the overall disability warrants such elevation. However, in cases protected by the provisions of Pub. L. 90-493, the graduated ratings of 50 and 30 percent for inactive tuberculosis will not be elevated.
(b)
Rating “protected” tuberculosis cases.
Public Law 90-493 repealed section 356 of title 38, United States Code which had provided graduated ratings for inactive tuberculosis. The repealed section, however, still applies to the case of any veteran who on August 19, 1968, was receiving or entitled to receive compensation for tuberculosis. The use of the protective provisions of Pub. L. 90-493 should be mentioned in the discussion portion of all ratings in which these provisions are applied. For application in rating cases in which the protective provisions of Pub. L. 90-493 apply the former evaluations pertaining to pulmonary tuberculosis are retained in § 4.97.
(c)
Special monthly compensation.
When evaluating any claim involving complete organic aphonia, refer to § 3.350 of this chapter to determine whether the veteran may be entitled to special monthly compensation. Footnotes in the schedule indicate conditions which potentially establish entitlement to special monthly compensation; however, there are other conditions in this section which under certain circumstances also establish entitlement to special monthly compensation.
(d)
Special provisions for the application of evaluation criteria for diagnostic codes 6600, 6603, 6604, 6825-6833, and 6840-6845.
(1) Pulmonary function tests (PFT's) are required to evaluate these conditions except:
(i) When the results of a maximum exercise capacity test are of record and are 20 ml/kg/min or less. If a maximum exercise capacity test is not of record, evaluate based on alternative criteria.
(ii) When pulmonary hypertension (documented by an echocardiogram or cardiac catheterization), cor pulmonale, or right ventricular hypertrophy has been diagnosed.
(iii) When there have been one or more episodes of acute respiratory failure.
(iv) When outpatient oxygen therapy is required.
(2) If the DLCO (SB) (Diffusion Capacity of the Lung for Carbon Monoxide by the Single Breath Method) test is not of record, evaluate based on alternative criteria as long as the examiner states why the test would not be useful or valid in a particular case.
(3) When the PFT's are not consistent with clinical findings, evaluate based on the PFT's unless the examiner states why they are not a valid indication of respiratory functional impairment in a particular case.
(4) Post-bronchodilator studies are required when PFT's are done for disability evaluation purposes except when the results of pre-bronchodilator pulmonary function tests are normal or when the examiner determines that post-bronchodilator studies should not be done and states why.
(5) When evaluating based on PFT's, use post-bronchodilator results in applying the evaluation criteria in the rating schedule unless the post-bronchodilator results were poorer than the pre-bronchodilator results. In those cases, use the pre-bronchodilator values for rating purposes.
(6) When there is a disparity between the results of different PFT's (FEV-1 (Forced Expiratory Volume in one second), FVC (Forced Vital Capacity), etc.), so that the level of evaluation would differ depending on which test result is used, use the test result that the examiner states most accurately reflects the level of disability.
(7) If the FEV-1 and the FVC are both greater than 100 percent, do not assign
a compensable evaluation based on a decreased FEV-1/FVC ratio.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[34 FR 5062, Mar. 11, 1969, as amended at 61 FR 46727, Sept. 5, 1996; 71 FR 52459, Sept. 6, 2006]
§ 4.97
Schedule of ratings—respiratory system.
Rating
DISEASES OF THE NOSE AND THROAT
6502 Septum, nasal, deviation of:
Traumatic only,
With 50-percent obstruction of the nasal passage on both sides or complete obstruction on one side
10
6504 Nose, loss of part of, or scars:
Exposing both nasal passages
30
Loss of part of one ala, or other obvious disfigurement
10
Note:
Or evaluate as DC 7800, scars, disfiguring, head, face, or neck.
6510 Sinusitis, pansinusitis, chronic.
6511 Sinusitis, ethmoid, chronic.
6512 Sinusitis, frontal, chronic.
6513 Sinusitis, maxillary, chronic.
6514 Sinusitis, sphenoid, chronic.
General Rating Formula for Sinusitis (DC's 6510 through 6514):
Following radical surgery with chronic osteomyelitis, or; near constant sinusitis characterized by headaches, pain and tenderness of affected sinus, and purulent discharge or crusting after repeated surgeries
50
Three or more incapacitating episodes per year of sinusitis requiring prolonged (lasting four to six weeks) antibiotic treatment, or; more than six non-incapacitating episodes per year of sinusitis characterized by headaches, pain, and purulent discharge or crusting
30
One or two incapacitating episodes per year of sinusitis requiring prolonged (lasting four to six weeks) antibiotic treatment, or; three to six non-incapacitating episodes per year of sinusitis characterized by headaches, pain, and purulent discharge or crusting
10
Detected by X-ray only
0
Note:
An incapacitating episode of sinusitis means one that requires bed rest and treatment by a physician.
6515 Laryngitis, tuberculous, active or inactive.
Rate under §§ 4.88c or 4.89, whichever is appropriate.
6516 Laryngitis, chronic:
Hoarseness, with thickening or nodules of cords, polyps, submucous infiltration, or pre-malignant changes on biopsy
30
Hoarseness, with inflammation of cords or mucous membrane
10
6518 Laryngectomy, total.
1
100
Rate the residuals of partial laryngectomy as laryngitis (DC 6516), aphonia (DC 6519), or stenosis of larynx (DC 6520).
6519 Aphonia, complete organic:
Constant inability to communicate by speech
1
100
Constant inability to speak above a whisper
60
Note:
Evaluate incomplete aphonia as laryngitis, chronic (DC 6516).
6520 Larynx, stenosis of, including residuals of laryngeal trauma (unilateral or bilateral):
Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV-1) less than 40 percent of predicted value, with Flow-Volume Loop compatible with upper airway obstruction, or; permanent tracheostomy
100
FEV-1 of 40- to 55-percent predicted, with Flow-Volume Loop compatible with upper airway obstruction
60
FEV-1 of 56- to 70-percent predicted, with Flow-Volume Loop compatible with upper airway obstruction
30
FEV-1 of 71- to 80-percent predicted, with Flow-Volume Loop compatible with upper airway obstruction
10
Note:
Or evaluate as aphonia (DC 6519).
6521 Pharynx, injuries to:
Stricture or obstruction of pharynx or nasopharynx, or; absence of soft palate secondary to trauma, chemical burn, or granulomatous disease, or; paralysis of soft palate with swallowing difficulty (nasal regurgitation) and speech impairment
50
6522 Allergic or vasomotor rhinitis:
With polyps
30
Without polyps, but with greater than 50-percent obstruction of nasal passage on both sides or complete obstruction on one side
10
6523 Bacterial rhinitis:
Rhinoscleroma
50
With permanent hypertrophy of turbinates and with greater than 50-percent obstruction of nasal passage on both sides or complete obstruction on one side
10
6524 Granulomatous rhinitis:
Wegener's granulomatosis, lethal midline granuloma
100
Other types of granulomatous infection
20
DISEASES OF THE TRACHEA AND BRONCHI
6600 Bronchitis, chronic:
FEV-1 less than 40 percent of predicted value, or; the ratio of Forced Expiratory Volume in one second to Forced Vital Capacity (FEV-1/FVC) less than 40 percent, or; Diffusion Capacity of the Lung for Carbon Monoxide by the Single Breath Method (DLCO (SB)) less than 40-percent predicted, or; maximum exercise capacity less than 15 ml/kg/min oxygen consumption (with cardiac or respiratory limitation), or; cor pulmonale (right heart failure), or; right ventricular hypertrophy, or; pulmonary hypertension (shown by Echo or cardiac catheterization), or; episode(s) of acute respiratory failure, or; requires outpatient oxygen therapy
100
FEV-1 of 40- to 55-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 40 to 55 percent, or; DLCO (SB) of 40- to 55-percent predicted, or; maximum oxygen consumption of 15 to 20 ml/kg/min (with cardiorespiratory limit)
60
FEV-1 of 56- to 70-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 56 to 70 percent, or; DLCO (SB) 56- to 65-percent predicted
30
FEV-1 of 71- to 80-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 71 to 80 percent, or; DLCO (SB) 66- to 80-percent predicted
10
6601 Bronchiectasis:
With incapacitating episodes of infection of at least six weeks total duration per year
100
With incapacitating episodes of infection of four to six weeks total duration per year, or; near constant findings of cough with purulent sputum associated with anorexia, weight loss, and frank hemoptysis and requiring antibiotic usage almost continuously
60
With incapacitating episodes of infection of two to four weeks total duration per year, or; daily productive cough with sputum that is at times purulent or blood-tinged and that requires prolonged (lasting four to six weeks) antibiotic usage more than twice a year
30
Intermittent productive cough with acute infection requiring a course of antibiotics at least twice a year
10
Or rate according to pulmonary impairment as for chronic bronchitis (DC 6600).
Note:
An incapacitating episode is one that requires bedrest and treatment by a physician.
6602 Asthma, bronchial:
FEV-1 less than 40-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC less than 40 percent, or; more than one attack per week with episodes of respiratory failure, or; requires daily use of systemic (oral or parenteral) high dose corticosteroids or immuno-suppressive medications
100
FEV-1 of 40- to 55-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 40 to 55 percent, or; at least monthly visits to a physician for required care of exacerbations, or; intermittent (at least three per year) courses of systemic (oral or parenteral) corticosteroids
60
FEV-1 of 56- to 70-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 56 to 70 percent, or; daily inhalational or oral bronchodilator therapy, or; inhalational anti-inflammatory medication
30
FEV-1 of 71- to 80-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 71 to 80 percent, or; intermittent inhalational or oral bronchodilator therapy
10
Note:
In the absence of clinical findings of asthma at time of examination, a verified history of asthmatic attacks must be of record.
6603 Emphysema, pulmonary:
FEV-1 less than 40 percent of predicted value, or; the ratio of Forced Expiratory Volume in one second to Forced Vital Capacity (FEV-1/FVC) less than 40 percent, or; Diffusion Capacity of the Lung for Carbon Monoxide by the Single Breath Method (DLCO (SB)) less than 40-percent predicted, or; maximum exercise capacity less than 15 ml/kg/min oxygen consumption (with cardiac or respiratory limitation), or; cor pulmonale (right heart failure), or; right ventricular hypertrophy, or; pulmonary hypertension (shown by Echo or cardiac catheterization), or; episode(s) of acute respiratory failure, or; requires outpatient oxygen therapy.
100
FEV-1 of 40- to 55-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 40 to 55 percent, or; DLCO (SB) of 40- to 55-percent predicted, or; maximum oxygen consumption of 15 to 20 ml/kg/min (with cardiorespiratory limit)
60
FEV-1 of 56- to 70-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 56 to 70 percent, or; DLCO (SB) 56- to 65-percent predicted
30
FEV-1 of 71- to 80-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 71 to 80 percent, or; DLCO (SB) 66- to 80-percent predicted
10
6604 Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease:
FEV-1 less than 40 percent of predicted value, or; the ratio of Forced Expiratory Volume in one second to Forced Vital Capacity (FEV-1/FVC) less than 40 percent, or; Diffusion Capacity of the Lung for Carbon Monoxide by the Single Breath Method (DLCO (SB)) less than 40-percent predicted, or; maximum exercise capacity less than 15 ml/kg/min oxygen consumption (with cardiac or respiratory limitation), or; cor pulmonale (right heart failure), or; right ventricular hypertrophy, or; pulmonary hypertension (shown by Echo or cardiac catheterization), or; episode(s) of acute respiratory failure, or; requires outpatient oxygen therapy.
100
FEV-1 of 40- to 55-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 40 to 55 percent, or; DLCO (SB) of 40- to 55-percent predicted, or; maximum oxygen consumption of 15 to 20 ml/kg/min (with cardiorespiratory limit)
60
FEV-1 of 56- to 70-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 56 to 70 percent, or; DLCO (SB) 56- to 65-percent predicted
30
FEV-1 of 71- to 80-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 71 to 80 percent, or; DLCO (SB) 66- to 80-percent predicted
10
DISEASES OF THE LUNGS AND PLEURA—TUBERCULOSIS
Ratings for Pulmonary Tuberculosis Entitled on August 19, 1968
6701 Tuberculosis, pulmonary, chronic, far advanced, active
100
6702 Tuberculosis, pulmonary, chronic, moderately advanced, active
100
6703 Tuberculosis, pulmonary, chronic, minimal, active
100
6704 Tuberculosis, pulmonary, chronic, active, advancement unspecified
100
6721 Tuberculosis, pulmonary, chronic, far advanced, inactive
6722 Tuberculosis, pulmonary, chronic, moderately advanced, inactive
6723 Tuberculosis, pulmonary, chronic, minimal, inactive
6724 Tuberculosis, pulmonary, chronic, inactive, advancement unspecified
General Rating Formula for Inactive Pulmonary Tuberculosis: For two years after date of inactivity, following active tuberculosis, which was clinically identified during service or subsequently
100
Thereafter for four years, or in any event, to six years after date of inactivity
50
Thereafter, for five years, or to eleven years after date of inactivity
30
Following far advanced lesions diagnosed at any time while the disease process was active, minimum
30
Following moderately advanced lesions, provided there is continued disability, emphysema, dyspnea on exertion, impairment of health, etc
20
Otherwise
0
Note (1):
The 100-percent rating under codes 6701 through 6724 is not subject to a requirement of precedent hospital treatment. It will be reduced to 50 percent for failure to submit to examination or to follow prescribed treatment upon report to that effect from the medical authorities. When a veteran is placed on the 100-percent rating for inactive tuberculosis, the medical authorities will be appropriately notified of the fact, and of the necessity, as given in footnote 1 to 38 U.S.C. 1156 (and formerly in 38 U.S.C. 356, which has been repealed by Public Law 90-493), to notify the Veterans Service Center in the event of failure to submit to examination or to follow treatment.
Note (2):
The graduated 50-percent and 30-percent ratings and the permanent 30 percent and 20 percent ratings for inactive pulmonary tuberculosis are not to be combined with ratings for other respiratory disabilities. Following thoracoplasty the rating will be for removal of ribs combined with the rating for collapsed lung. Resection of the ribs incident to thoracoplasty will be rated as removal.
Ratings for Pulmonary Tuberculosis Initially Evaluated After August 19, 1968
6730 Tuberculosis, pulmonary, chronic, active
100
Note:
Active pulmonary tuberculosis will be considered permanently and totally disabling for non-service-connected pension purposes in the following circumstances:
(a) Associated with active tuberculosis involving other than the respiratory system.
(b) With severe associated symptoms or with extensive cavity formation.
(c) Reactivated cases, generally.
(d) With advancement of lesions on successive examinations or while under treatment.
(e) Without retrogression of lesions or other evidence of material improvement at the end of six months hospitalization or without change of diagnosis from “active” at the end of 12 months hospitalization. Material improvement means lessening or absence of clinical symptoms, and X-ray findings of a stationary or retrogressive lesion.
6731 Tuberculosis, pulmonary, chronic, inactive:
Depending on the specific findings, rate residuals as interstitial lung disease, restrictive lung disease, or, when obstructive lung disease is the major residual, as chronic bronchitis (DC 6600). Rate thoracoplasty as removal of ribs under DC 5297.
Note:
A mandatory examination will be requested immediately following notification that active tuberculosis evaluated under DC 6730 has become inactive. Any change in evaluation will be carried out under the provisions of § 3.105(e).
6732 Pleurisy, tuberculous, active or inactive:
Rate under §§ 4.88c or 4.89, whichever is appropriate.
NONTUBERCULOUS DISEASES
6817 Pulmonary Vascular Disease:
Primary pulmonary hypertension, or; chronic pulmonary thromboembolism with evidence of pulmonary hypertension, right ventricular hypertrophy, or cor pulmonale, or; pulmonary hypertension secondary to other obstructive disease of pulmonary arteries or veins with evidence of right ventricular hypertrophy or cor pulmonale
100
Chronic pulmonary thromboembolism requiring anticoagulant therapy, or; following inferior vena cava surgery without evidence of pulmonary hypertension or right ventricular dysfunction
60
Symptomatic, following resolution of acute pulmonary embolism
30
Asymptomatic, following resolution of pulmonary thromboembolism
0
Note:
Evaluate other residuals following pulmonary embolism under the most appropriate diagnostic code, such as chronic bronchitis (DC 6600) or chronic pleural effusion or fibrosis (DC 6844), but do not combine that evaluation with any of the above evaluations.
6819 Neoplasms, malignant, any specified part of respiratory system exclusive of skin growths
100
Note:
A rating of 100 percent shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgical, X-ray, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other therapeutic procedure. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no local recurrence or metastasis, rate on residuals.
6820 Neoplasms, benign, any specified part of respiratory system. Evaluate using an appropriate respiratory analogy.
Bacterial Infections of the Lung
6822 Actinomycosis.
6823 Nocardiosis.
6824 Chronic lung abscess.
General Rating Formula for Bacterial Infections of the Lung (diagnostic codes 6822 through 6824):
Active infection with systemic symptoms such as fever, night sweats, weight loss, or hemoptysis
100
Depending on the specific findings, rate residuals as interstitial lung disease, restrictive lung disease, or, when obstructive lung disease is the major residual, as chronic bronchitis (DC 6600).
Interstitial Lung Disease
6825 Diffuse interstitial fibrosis (interstitial pneumonitis, fibrosing alveolitis).
6826 Desquamative interstitial pneumonitis.
6827 Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis.
6828 Eosinophilic granuloma of lung.
6829 Drug-induced pulmonary pneumonitis and fibrosis.
6830 Radiation-induced pulmonary pneumonitis and fibrosis.
6831 Hypersensitivity pneumonitis (extrinsic allergic alveolitis).
6832 Pneumoconiosis (silicosis, anthracosis, etc.).
6833 Asbestosis.
General Rating Formula for Interstitial Lung Disease (diagnostic codes 6825 through 6833):
Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) less than 50-percent predicted, or; Diffusion Capacity of the Lung for Carbon Monoxide by the Single Breath Method (DLCO (SB)) less than 40-percent predicted, or; maximum exercise capacity less than 15 ml/kg/min oxygen consumption with cardiorespiratory limitation, or; cor pulmonale or pulmonary hypertension, or; requires outpatient oxygen therapy
100
FVC of 50- to 64-percent predicted, or; DLCO (SB) of 40- to 55-percent predicted, or; maximum exercise capacity of 15 to 20 ml/kg/min oxygen consumption with cardiorespiratory limitation
60
FVC of 65- to 74-percent predicted, or; DLCO (SB) of 56- to 65-percent predicted
30
FVC of 75- to 80-percent predicted, or; DLCO (SB) of 66- to 80-percent predicted
10
Mycotic Lung Disease
6834 Histoplasmosis of lung.
6835 Coccidioidomycosis.
6836 Blastomycosis.
6837 Cryptococcosis.
6838 Aspergillosis.
6839 Mucormycosis.
General Rating Formula for Mycotic Lung Disease (diagnostic codes 6834 through 6839):
Chronic pulmonary mycosis with persistent fever, weight loss, night sweats, or massive hemoptysis
100
Chronic pulmonary mycosis requiring suppressive therapy with no more than minimal symptoms such as occasional minor hemoptysis or productive cough
50
Chronic pulmonary mycosis with minimal symptoms such as occasional minor hemoptysis or productive cough
30
Healed and inactive mycotic lesions, asymptomatic
0
Note:
Coccidioidomycosis has an incubation period up to 21 days, and the disseminated phase is ordinarily manifest within six months of the primary phase. However, there are instances of dissemination delayed up to many years after the initial infection which may have been unrecognized. Accordingly, when service connection is under consideration in the absence of record or other evidence of the disease in service, service in southwestern United States where the disease is endemic and absence of prolonged residence in this locality before or after service will be the deciding factor.
Restrictive Lung Disease
6840 Diaphragm paralysis or paresis.
6841 Spinal cord injury with respiratory insufficiency.
6842 Kyphoscoliosis, pectus excavatum, pectus carinatum.
6843 Traumatic chest wall defect, pneumothorax, hernia, etc.
6844 Post-surgical residual (lobectomy, pneumonectomy, etc.).
6845 Chronic pleural effusion or fibrosis.
General Rating Formula for Restrictive Lung Disease (diagnostic codes 6840 through 6845):
FEV-1 less than 40 percent of predicted value, or; the ratio of Forced Expiratory Volume in one second to Forced Vital Capacity (FEV-1/FVC) less than 40 percent, or; Diffusion Capacity of the Lung for Carbon Monoxide by the Single Breath Method (DLCO (SB)) less than 40-percent predicted, or; maximum exercise capacity less than 15 ml/kg/min oxygen consumption (with cardiac or respiratory limitation), or; cor pulmonale (right heart failure), or; right ventricular hypertrophy, or; pulmonary hypertension (shown by Echo or cardiac catheterization), or; episode(s) of acute respiratory failure, or; requires outpatient oxygen therapy
100
FEV-1 of 40- to 55-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 40 to 55 percent, or; DLCO (SB) of 40- to 55-percent predicted, or; maximum oxygen consumption of 15 to 20 ml/kg/min (with cardiorespiratory limit)
60
FEV-1 of 56- to 70-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 56 to 70 percent, or; DLCO (SB) 56- to 65-percent predicted
30
FEV-1 of 71- to 80-percent predicted, or; FEV-1/FVC of 71 to 80 percent, or; DLCO (SB) 66- to 80-percent predicted
10
Or rate primary disorder.
Note (1):
A 100-percent rating shall be assigned for pleurisy with empyema, with or without pleurocutaneous fistula, until resolved.
Note (2):
Following episodes of total spontaneous pneumothorax, a rating of 100 percent shall be assigned as of the date of hospital admission and shall continue for three months from the first day of the month after hospital discharge.
Note (3):
Gunshot wounds of the pleural cavity with bullet or missile retained in lung, pain or discomfort on exertion, or with scattered rales or some limitation of excursion of diaphragm or of lower chest expansion shall be rated at least 20-percent disabling. Disabling injuries of shoulder girdle muscles (Groups I to IV) shall be separately rated and combined with ratings for respiratory involvement. Involvement of Muscle Group XXI (DC 5321), however, will not be separately rated.
6846 Sarcoidosis:
Cor pulmonale, or; cardiac involvement with congestive heart failure, or; progressive pulmonary disease with fever, night sweats, and weight loss despite treatment
100
Pulmonary involvement requiring systemic high dose (therapeutic) corticosteroids for control
60
Pulmonary involvement with persistent symptoms requiring chronic low dose (maintenance) or intermittent corticosteroids
30
Chronic hilar adenopathy or stable lung infiltrates without symptoms or physiologic impairment
0
Or rate active disease or residuals as chronic bronchitis (DC 6600) and extra-pulmonary involvement under specific body system involved
6847 Sleep Apnea Syndromes (Obstructive, Central, Mixed):
Chronic respiratory failure with carbon dioxide retention or cor pulmonale, or; requires tracheostomy
100
Requires use of breathing assistance device such as continuous airway pressure (CPAP) machine
50
Persistent day-time hypersomnolence
30
Asymptomatic but with documented sleep disorder breathing
0
1
Review for entitlement to special monthly compensation under § 3.350 of this chapter.
[61 FR 46728, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 28586, May 17, 2006]

# The Cardiovascular System
§ 4.100
Application of the general rating formula for diseases of the heart.
(a) Whether or not cardiac hypertrophy or dilatation (documented by electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, or X-ray) is present and whether or not there is a need for continuous medication must be ascertained in all cases.
(b) Even if the requirement for a 10% (based on the need for continuous medication) or 30% (based on the presence of cardiac hypertrophy or dilatation) evaluation is met, METs testing is required in all cases except:
(1) When there is a medical contraindication.
(2) When a 100% evaluation can be assigned on another basis.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[71 FR 52460, Sept. 6, 2006, as amended at 86 FR 54093, Sept. 30, 2021; 86 FR 67654, Nov. 29, 2021]
§§ 4.101-4.103
[Reserved]
§ 4.104
Schedule of ratings—cardiovascular system.
Diseases of the Heart
[Unless otherwise directed, use this general rating formula to evaluate diseases of the heart.]
Rating
Note (1): Evaluate cor pulmonale, which is a form of secondary heart disease, as part of the pulmonary condition that causes it.
Note (2): One MET (metabolic equivalent) is the energy cost of standing quietly at rest and represents an oxygen uptake of 3.5 milliliters per kilogram of body weight per minute. When the level of METs at which breathlessness, fatigue, angina, dizziness, or syncope develops is required for evaluation, and a laboratory determination of METs by exercise testing cannot be done for medical reasons, a medical examiner may estimate the level of activity (expressed in METs and supported by specific examples, such as slow stair climbing or shoveling snow) that results in those symptoms.
Note (3): For this general formula, heart failure symptoms include, but are not limited to, breathlessness, fatigue, angina, dizziness, arrhythmia, palpitations, or syncope.
GENERAL RATING FORMULA FOR DISEASES OF THE HEART:
Workload of 3.0 METs or less results in heart failure symptoms
100
Workload of 3.1-5.0 METs results in heart failure symptoms
60
Workload of 5.1-7.0 METs results in heart failure symptoms; or evidence of cardiac hypertrophy or dilatation confirmed by echocardiogram or equivalent (e.g., multigated acquisition scan or magnetic resonance imaging)
30
Workload of 7.1-10.0 METs results in heart failure symptoms; or continuous medication required for control
10
7000 Valvular heart disease (including rheumatic heart disease),
7001 Endocarditis, or
7002 Pericarditis:
During active infection with cardiac involvement and for three months following cessation of therapy for the active infection
100
Thereafter, with diagnosis confirmed by findings on physical examination and either echocardiogram, Doppler echocardiogram, or cardiac catheterization, use the General Rating Formula.
7003 Pericardial adhesions.
7004 Syphilitic heart disease:
Note: Evaluate syphilitic aortic aneurysms under DC 7110 (Aortic aneurysm: Ascending, thoracic, abdominal).
7005 Arteriosclerotic heart disease (coronary artery disease).
Note: If non-service-connected arteriosclerotic heart disease is superimposed on service-connected valvular or other non-arteriosclerotic heart disease, request a medical opinion as to which condition is causing the current signs and symptoms.
7006 Myocardial infarction:
During and for three months following myocardial infarction, confirmed by laboratory tests
100
Thereafter, use the General Rating Formula.
7007 Hypertensive heart disease.
7008 Hyperthyroid heart disease:
Rate under the appropriate cardiovascular diagnostic code, depending on particular findings.
For DCs 7009, 7010, 7011, and 7015, a single evaluation will be assigned under the diagnostic code that reflects the predominant disability picture.
7009 Bradycardia (Bradyarrhythmia), symptomatic, requiring permanent pacemaker implantation:
For one month following hospital discharge for implantation or re-implantation
100
Thereafter, use the General Rating Formula.
Note (1): Bradycardia (bradyarrhythmia) refers to conduction abnormalities that produce a heart rate less than 60 beats/min. There are five general classes of bradyarrhythmia: Sinus bradycardia, including sinoatrial block; atrioventricular (AV) junctional (nodal) escape rhythm; AV heart block (second or third degree) or AV dissociation; atrial fibrillation or flutter with a slow ventricular response; and, idioventricular escape rhythm.
Note (2): Asymptomatic bradycardia (bradyarrhythmia) is a medical finding only. It is not a disability subject to compensation.
7010 Supraventricular tachycardia:
Confirmed by ECG, with five or more treatment interventions per year
30
Confirmed by ECG, with one to four treatment interventions per year; or, confirmed by ECG with either continuous use of oral medications to control or use of vagal maneuvers to control
10
Note (1): Examples of supraventricular tachycardia include, but are not limited to: Atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, sinus tachycardia, sinoatrial nodal reentrant tachycardia, atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia, atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia, atrial tachycardia, junctional tachycardia, and multifocal atrial tachycardia.
Note (2): For the purposes of this diagnostic code, a treatment intervention occurs whenever a symptomatic patient requires intravenous pharmacologic adjustment, cardioversion, and/or ablation for symptom relief.
7011 Ventricular arrhythmias (sustained):
For an indefinite period from the date of inpatient hospital admission for initial medical therapy for a sustained ventricular arrhythmia; or, for an indefinite period from the date of inpatient hospital admission for ventricular aneurysmectomy; or, with an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (AICD) in place
100
Note: When inpatient hospitalization for sustained ventricular arrhythmia or ventricular aneurysmectomy is required, a 100-percent evaluation begins on the date of hospital admission with a mandatory VA examination six months following hospital discharge. Evaluate post-surgical residuals under the General Rating Formula. Apply the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter to any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination.
7015 Atrioventricular block:
Benign (First-Degree and Second-Degree, Type I):
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Non-Benign (Second-Degree, Type II and Third-Degree):
Evaluate under DC 7018 (implantable cardiac pacemakers).
7016 Heart valve replacement (prosthesis):
For an indefinite period following date of hospital admission for valve replacement
100
Thereafter, use the General Rating Formula.
Note: Six months following discharge from inpatient hospitalization, disability evaluation shall be conducted by mandatory VA examination using the General Rating Formula. Apply the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter to any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination.
7017 Coronary bypass surgery:
For three months following hospital admission for surgery
100
Thereafter, use the General Rating Formula.
7018 Implantable cardiac pacemakers:
For one month following hospital discharge for implantation or re-implantation
100
Thereafter:
Evaluate as supraventricular tachycardia (DC 7010), ventricular arrhythmias (DC 7011), or atrioventricular block (DC 7015).
Minimum
10
Note: Evaluate automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (AICDs) under DC 7011.
7019 Cardiac transplantation:
For a minimum of one year from the date of hospital admission for cardiac transplantation
100
Thereafter:
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula.
Minimum
30
Note: One year following discharge from inpatient hospitalization, determine the appropriate disability rating by mandatory VA examination. Apply the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter to any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination.
7020 Cardiomyopathy.
Diseases of the Arteries and Veins
7101 Hypertensive vascular disease (hypertension and isolated systolic hypertension):
Diastolic pressure predominantly 130 or more
60
Diastolic pressure predominantly 120 or more
40
Diastolic pressure predominantly 110 or more, or; systolic pressure predominantly 200 or more
20
Diastolic pressure predominantly 100 or more, or; systolic pressure predominantly 160 or more, or; minimum evaluation for an individual with a history of diastolic pressure predominantly 100 or more who requires continuous medication for control
10
Note (1):
Hypertension or isolated systolic hypertension must be confirmed by readings taken two or more times on at least three different days. For purposes of this section, the term hypertension means that the diastolic blood pressure is predominantly 90mm. or greater, and isolated systolic hypertension means that the systolic blood pressure is predominantly 160mm. or greater with a diastolic blood pressure of less than 90mm.
Note (2):
Evaluate hypertension due to aortic insufficiency or hyperthyroidism, which is usually the isolated systolic type, as part of the condition causing it rather than by a separate evaluation.
Note (3):
Evaluate hypertension separately from hypertensive heart disease and other types of heart disease.
7110 Aortic aneurysm: Ascending, thoracic, or abdominal:
Evaluate at 100 percent if the aneurysm is any one of the following: Five centimeters or larger in diameter; symptomatic (e.g., precludes exertion); or requires surgery
100
Otherwise
0
Evaluate non-cardiovascular residuals of surgical correction according to organ systems affected.
Note: When surgery is required, a 100-percent evaluation begins on the date a physician recommends surgical correction with a mandatory VA examination six months following hospital discharge. Evaluate post-surgical residuals under the General Rating Formula. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter.
7111 Aneurysm, any large artery:
If symptomatic; or, for the period beginning on the date a physician recommends surgical correction and continuing for six months following discharge from inpatient hospital admission for surgical correction
100
Following surgery: Evaluate under DC 7114 (peripheral arterial disease).
Note: Six months following discharge from inpatient hospitalization for surgery, determine the appropriate disability rating by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter.
7112 Aneurysm, any small artery:
Asymptomatic
0
Note:
If symptomatic, evaluate according to body system affected. Following surgery, evaluate residuals under the body system affected.
7113 Arteriovenous fistula, traumatic:
With high-output heart failure
100
Without heart failure but with enlarged heart, wide pulse pressure, and tachycardia
60
Without cardiac involvement but with chronic edema, stasis dermatitis, and either ulceration or cellulitis:
Lower extremity
50
Upper extremity
40
Without cardiac involvement but with chronic edema or stasis dermatitis:
Lower extremity
30
Upper extremity
20
7114 Peripheral arterial disease:
At least one of the following: Ankle/brachial index less than or equal to 0.39; ankle pressure less than 50 mm Hg; toe pressure less than 30 mm Hg; or transcutaneous oxygen tension less than 30 mm Hg
100
At least one of the following: Ankle/brachial index of 0.40-0.53; ankle pressure of 50-65 mm Hg; toe pressure of 30-39 mm Hg; or transcutaneous oxygen tension of 30-39 mm Hg
60
At least one of the following: Ankle/brachial index of 0.54-0.66; ankle pressure of 66-83 mm Hg; toe pressure of 40-49 mm Hg; or transcutaneous oxygen tension of 40-49 mm Hg
40
At least one of the following: Ankle/brachial index of 0.67-0.79; ankle pressure of 84-99 mm Hg; toe pressure of 50-59 mm Hg; or transcutaneous oxygen tension of 50-59 mm Hg
20
Note (1): The ankle/brachial index (ABI) is the ratio of the systolic blood pressure at the ankle divided by the simultaneous brachial artery systolic blood pressure. For the purposes of this diagnostic code, normal ABI will be greater than or equal to 0.80. The ankle pressure (AP) is the systolic blood pressure measured at the ankle. Normal AP is greater than or equal to 100 mm Hg. The toe pressure (TP) is the systolic blood pressure measured at the great toe. Normal TP is greater than or equal to 60 mm Hg. Transcutaneous oxygen tension (T
c
PO
2
) is measured at the first intercostal space on the foot. Normal T
c
PO
2
is greater than or equal to 60 mm Hg. All measurements must be determined by objective testing.
Note (2): If AP, TP, and T
c
PO
2
testing are not of record, evaluate based on ABI unless the examiner states that an AP, TP, or T
c
PO
2
test is needed in a particular case because ABI does not sufficiently reflect the severity of the veteran's peripheral arterial disease. In all other cases, evaluate based on the test that provides the highest impairment value
Note (3): Evaluate residuals of aortic and large arterial bypass surgery or arterial graft as peripheral arterial disease.
Note (4): These evaluations involve a single extremity. If more than one extremity is affected, evaluate each extremity separately and combine (under § 4.25), using the bilateral factor (§ 4.26), if applicable.
7115 Thrombo-angiitis obliterans (Buerger's Disease):
Lower extremity: Rate under DC 7114.
Upper extremity:
Deep ischemic ulcers and necrosis of the fingers with persistent coldness of the extremity, trophic changes with pains in the hand during physical activity, and diminished upper extremity pulses
100
Persistent coldness of the extremity, trophic changes with pains in the hands during physical activity, and diminished upper extremity pulses
60
Trophic changes with numbness and paresthesia at the tips of the fingers, and diminished upper extremity pulses
40
Diminished upper extremity pulses
20
Note (1): These evaluations involve a single extremity. If more than one extremity is affected, evaluate each extremity separately and combine (under § 4.25), using the bilateral factor (§ 4.26), if applicable.
Note (2): Trophic changes include, but are not limited to, skin changes (thinning, atrophy, fissuring, ulceration, scarring, absence of hair) as well as nail changes (clubbing, deformities).
7117 Raynaud's syndrome (also known as secondary Raynaud's phenomenon or secondary Raynaud's):
With two or more digital ulcers plus auto-amputation of one or more digits and history of characteristic attacks
100
With two or more digital ulcers and history of characteristic attacks
60
Characteristic attacks occurring at least daily
40
Characteristic attacks occurring four to six times a week
20
Characteristic attacks occurring one to three times a week
10
Note (1): For purposes of this section, characteristic attacks consist of sequential color changes of the digits of one or more extremities lasting minutes to hours, sometimes with pain and paresthesias, and precipitated by exposure to cold or by emotional upsets. These evaluations are for Raynaud's syndrome as a whole, regardless of the number of extremities involved or whether the nose and ears are involved.
Note (2): This section is for evaluating Raynaud's syndrome (secondary Raynaud's phenomenon or secondary Raynaud's). For evaluation of Raynaud's disease (primary Raynaud's), see DC 7124.
7118 Angioneurotic edema:
Attacks without laryngeal involvement lasting one to seven days or longer and occurring more than eight times a year, or; attacks with laryngeal involvement of any duration occurring more than twice a year
40
Attacks without laryngeal involvement lasting one to seven days and occurring five to eight times a year, or; attacks with laryngeal involvement of any duration occurring once or twice a year
20
Attacks without laryngeal involvement lasting one to seven days and occurring two to four times a year
10
7119 Erythromelalgia:
Characteristic attacks that occur more than once a day, last an average of more than two hours each, respond poorly to treatment, and that restrict most routine daily activities
100
Characteristic attacks that occur more than once a day, last an average of more than two hours each, and respond poorly to treatment, but that do not restrict most routine daily activities
60
Characteristic attacks that occur daily or more often but that respond to treatment
30
Characteristic attacks that occur less than daily but at least three times a week and that respond to treatment
10
Note:
For purposes of this section, a characteristic attack of erythromelalgia consists of burning pain in the hands, feet, or both, usually bilateral and symmetrical, with increased skin temperature and redness, occurring at warm ambient temperatures. These evaluations are for the disease as a whole, regardless of the number of extremities involved.
7120 Varicose veins:
Evaluate under diagnostic code 7121.
7121 Post-phlebitic syndrome of any etiology:
With the following findings attributed to venous disease:
Massive board-like edema with constant pain at rest
100
Persistent edema or subcutaneous induration, stasis pigmentation or eczema, and persistent ulceration
60
Persistent edema and stasis pigmentation or eczema, with or without intermittent ulceration
40
Persistent edema, incompletely relieved by elevation of extremity, with or without beginning stasis pigmentation or eczema
20
Intermittent edema of extremity or aching and fatigue in leg after prolonged standing or walking, with symptoms relieved by elevation of extremity or compression hosiery
10
Asymptomatic palpable or visible varicose veins
0
Note:
These evaluations are for involvement of a single extremity. If more than one extremity is involved, evaluate each extremity separately and combine (under § 4.25), using the bilateral factor (§ 4.26), if applicable.
7122 Cold injury residuals:
With the following in affected parts:
Arthralgia or other pain, numbness, or cold sensitivity plus two or more of the following: Tissue loss, nail abnormalities, color changes, locally impaired sensation, hyperhidrosis, anhydrosis, X-ray abnormalities (osteoporosis, subarticular punched-out lesions, or osteoarthritis), atrophy or fibrosis of the affected musculature, flexion or extension deformity of distal joints, volar fat pad loss in fingers or toes, avascular necrosis of bone, chronic ulceration, carpal or tarsal tunnel syndrome
30
Arthralgia or other pain, numbness, or cold sensitivity plus one of the following: Tissue loss, nail abnormalities, color changes, locally impaired sensation, hyperhidrosis, anhydrosis, X-ray abnormalities (osteoporosis, subarticular punched-out lesions, or osteoarthritis), atrophy or fibrosis of the affected musculature, flexion or extension deformity of distal joints, volar fat pad loss in fingers or toes, avascular necrosis of bone, chronic ulceration, carpal or tarsal tunnel syndrome
20
Arthralgia or other pain, numbness, or cold sensitivity
10
Note (1): Separately evaluate amputations of fingers or toes, and complications such as squamous cell carcinoma at the site of a cold injury scar or peripheral neuropathy, under other diagnostic codes. Separately evaluate other disabilities diagnosed as the residual effects of cold injury, such as Raynaud's syndrome (which is otherwise known as secondary Raynaud's phenomenon), muscle atrophy, etc., unless they are used to support an evaluation under diagnostic code 7122.
Note (2): Evaluate each affected part (e.g., hand, foot, ear, nose) separately and combine the ratings in accordance with §§ 4.25 and 4.26.
7123 Soft tissue sarcoma (of vascular origin)
100
Note:
A rating of 100 percent shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgical, X-ray, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other therapeutic procedure. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no local recurrence or metastasis, rate on residuals.
7124 Raynaud's disease (also known as primary Raynaud's):
Characteristic attacks associated with trophic change(s), such as tight, shiny skin
10
Characteristic attacks without trophic change(s)
0
Note (1): For purposes of this section, characteristic attacks consist of intermittent and episodic color changes of the digits of one or more extremities, lasting minutes or longer, with occasional pain and paresthesias, and precipitated by exposure to cold or by emotional upsets. These evaluations are for the disease as a whole, regardless of the number of extremities involved or whether the nose and ears are involved.
Note (2): Trophic changes include, but are not limited to, skin changes (thinning, atrophy, fissuring, ulceration, scarring, absence of hair) as well as nail changes (clubbing, deformities).
Note (3): This section is for evaluating Raynaud's disease (primary Raynaud's). For evaluation of Raynaud's syndrome (also known as secondary Raynaud's phenomenon, or secondary Raynaud's), see DC 7117.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[62 FR 65219, Dec. 11, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 37779, July 14, 1998; 71 FR 52460, Sept. 6, 2006; 79 FR 2100, Jan. 13, 2014; 82 FR 50804, Nov. 2, 2017; 86 FR 54093, Sept. 30, 2021; 86 FR 62095, Nov. 9, 2021]

# The Digestive System
§§ 4.110-4.111
[Reserved]
§ 4.112
Weight loss and nutrition.
The following terms apply when evaluating conditions in § 4.114:
(a)
Weight loss. Substantial weight loss
means involuntary loss greater than 20% of an individual's baseline weight sustained for three months with diminished quality of self-care or work tasks. The term
minor weight loss
means involuntary weight loss between 10% and 20% of an individual's baseline weight sustained for three months with gastrointestinal-related symptoms, involving diminished quality of self-care or work tasks, or decreased food intake. The term
inability to gain weight
means substantial weight loss with the inability to regain it despite following appropriate therapy.
(b)
Baseline weight. Baseline weight
means the clinically documented average weight for the two-year period preceding the onset of illness or, if relevant, the weight recorded at the veteran's most recent discharge physical. If neither of these weights is available or currently relevant, then use ideal body weight as determined by either the Hamwi formula or Body Mass Index tables, whichever is most favorable to the veteran.
(c)
Undernutrition. Undernutrition
means a deficiency resulting from insufficient intake of one or multiple essential nutrients, or the inability of the body to absorb, utilize, or retain such nutrients. Undernutrition is characterized by failure of the body to maintain normal organ functions and healthy tissues. Signs and symptoms may include loss of subcutaneous tissue, edema, peripheral neuropathy, muscle wasting, weakness, abdominal distention, ascites, and Body Mass Index below normal range.
(d)
Nutritional support.
Paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section describe various nutritional support methods used to treat certain digestive conditions.
(1) Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) or hyperalimentation is a special liquid mixture given into the blood through an intravenous catheter. The mixture contains proteins, carbohydrates (sugars), fats, vitamins, and minerals. TPN bypasses the normal digestion in the stomach and bowel.
(2) Assisted enteral nutrition requires a special liquid mixture (containing proteins, carbohydrates (sugar), fats, vitamins, and minerals) to be delivered into the stomach or bowel through a flexible feeding tube. Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy is a type of assisted enteral nutrition in which a flexible feeding tube is inserted through the abdominal wall and into the stomach. Nasogastric or nasoenteral feeding tube is a type of assisted parenteral nutrition in which a flexible feeding tube is inserted through the nose into the stomach or bowel.
[89 FR 19743, Mar. 20, 2024]
§ 4.113
Coexisting abdominal conditions.
There are diseases of the digestive system, particularly within the abdomen, which, while differing in the site of pathology, produce a common disability picture characterized in the main by varying degrees of abdominal distress or pain, anemia and disturbances in nutrition. Consequently, certain coexisting diseases in this area, as indicated in the instruction under the title “Diseases of the Digestive System,” do not lend themselves to distinct and separate disability evaluations without violating the fundamental principle relating to pyramiding as outlined in § 4.14.
§ 4.114
Schedule of ratings—digestive system.
Do not combine ratings under diagnostic codes 7301 through 7329 inclusive, 7331, 7342, 7345 through 7350 inclusive, 7352, and 7355 through 7357 inclusive, with each other. Instead, when more than one rating is warranted under those diagnostic codes, assign a single evaluation under the diagnostic code that reflects the predominant disability picture, and elevate it to the next higher evaluation if warranted by the severity of the overall disability.
Rating
7200 Soft tissue injury of the mouth, other than tongue or lips:
Rate as for disfigurement (diagnostic codes 7800 and 7804) and impairment of mastication.
7201 Lips, injuries of:
Rate as disfigurement (diagnostic codes 7800 and 7804).
7202 Tongue, loss of whole or part:
Absent oral nutritional intake
100
Intact oral nutritional intake with permanently impaired swallowing function that requires prescribed dietary modification
60
Intact oral nutritional intake with permanently impaired swallowing function without prescribed dietary modification
30
Note (1): Rate the residuals of speech impairment as complete organic aphonia (DC 6519) or incomplete aphonia as laryngitis, chronic (DC 6516).
Note (2): Dietary modifications due to this condition must be prescribed by a medical provider.
7203 Esophagus, stricture of:
Documented history of recurrent or refractory esophageal stricture(s) causing dysphagia with at least one of the symptoms present: (1) aspiration, (2) undernutrition, and/or (3) substantial weight loss as defined by § 4.112(a) and treatment with either surgical correction or percutaneous esophago-gastrointestinal tube (PEG tube)
80
Documented history of recurrent or refractory esophageal stricture(s) causing dysphagia which requires at least one of the following (1) dilatation 3 or more times per year, (2) dilatation using steroids at least one time per year, or (3) esophageal stent placement
50
Documented history of recurrent esophageal stricture(s) causing dysphagia which requires dilatation no more than 2 times per year
30
Documented history of esophageal stricture(s) that requires daily medications to control dysphagia otherwise asymptomatic
10
Documented history without daily symptoms or requirement for daily medications
0
Note (1):
Findings must be documented by barium swallow, computerized tomography, or esophagogastroduodenoscopy.
Note (2): Non-gastrointestinal complications of procedures should be rated under the appropriate system.
Note (3): This diagnostic code applies, but is not limited to, esophagitis, mechanical or chemical; Mallory Weiss syndrome (bleeding at junction of esophagus and stomach due to tears) due to caustic ingestion of alkali or acid; drug-induced or infectious esophagitis due to Candida, virus, or other organism; idiopathic eosinophilic, or lymphocytic esophagitis; esophagitis due to radiation therapy; esophagitis due to peptic stricture; and any esophageal condition that requires treatment with sclerotherapy.
Note (4): Recurrent esophageal stricture is defined as the inability to maintain target esophageal diameter beyond 4 weeks after the target diameter has been achieved.
Note (5):
Refractory esophageal stricture is defined as the inability to achieve target esophageal diameter despite receiving no fewer than 5 dilatation sessions performed at 2-week intervals.
7204 Esophageal motility disorder:
Rate as esophagus, stricture of (DC 7203).
Note:
This diagnostic code applies, but is not limited to, achalasia (cardiospasm), diffuse esophageal spasm (DES), corkscrew esophagus, nutcracker esophagus, and other motor disorders of the esophagus; esophageal rings (including Schatzki rings), mucosal webs or folds, and impairment of the esophagus caused by systemic conditions such as myasthenia gravis, scleroderma, and other neurologic conditions.
7205 Esophagus, diverticulum of, acquired:
Rate as esophagus, stricture of (DC 7203).
Note: This diagnostic code, applies, but is not limited to, pharyngo- esophageal (Zenker's) diverticulum, mid-esophageal diverticulum, and epiphrenic (distal esophagus) diverticulum.
7206 Gastroesophageal reflux disease:
Documented history of recurrent or refractory esophageal stricture(s) causing dysphagia with at least one of the symptoms present: (1) aspiration, (2) undernutrition, and/or (3) substantial weight loss as defined by § 4.112(a) and treatment with either surgical correction of esophageal stricture(s) or percutaneous esophago-gastrointestinal tube (PEG tube)
80
Documented history of recurrent or refractory esophageal stricture(s) causing dysphagia which requires at least one of the following (1) dilatation 3 or more times per year, (2) dilatation using steroids at least one time per year, or (3) esophageal stent placement
50
Documented history of recurrent esophageal stricture(s) causing dysphagia which requires dilatation no more than 2 times per year
30
Documented history of esophageal stricture(s) that requires daily medications to control dysphagia otherwise asymptomatic
10
Documented history without daily symptoms or requirement for daily medications
0
Note (1): Findings must be documented by barium swallow, computerized tomography, or esophagogastroduodenoscopy.
Note (2): Non-gastrointestinal complications of procedures should be rated under the appropriate system.
Note (3): This diagnostic code applies, but is not limited to, esophagitis, mechanical or chemical; Mallory Weiss syndrome (bleeding at junction of esophagus and stomach due to tears) due to caustic ingestion of alkali or acid; drug-induced or infectious esophagitis due to Candida, virus, or other organism; idiopathic eosinophilic, or lymphocytic esophagitis; esophagitis due to radiation therapy; esophagitis due to peptic stricture; and any esophageal condition that requires treatment with sclerotherapy.
Note (4): Recurrent esophageal stricture is defined as the inability to maintain target esophageal diameter beyond 4 weeks after the target diameter has been achieved.
Note (5): Refractory esophageal stricture is defined as the inability to achieve target esophageal diameter despite receiving no fewer than 5 dilatation sessions performed at 2-week intervals.
7207 Barrett's esophagus:
With esophageal stricture: Rate as esophagus, stricture of (DC 7203).
Without esophageal stricture:
Documented by pathologic diagnosis with high-grade dysplasia
30
Documented by pathologic diagnosis with low-grade dysplasia
10
Note (1): If malignancy develops, rate as malignant neoplasms of the digestive system, exclusive of skin growths (DC 7343).
Note (2): If the condition is resolved via surgery, radiofrequency ablation, or other treatment, rate residuals as esophagus, stricture of (DC 7203).
7301 Peritoneum, adhesions of, due to surgery, trauma, disease, or infection:
Persistent partial bowel obstruction that is either inoperable and refractory to treatment, or requires total parenteral nutrition (TPN) for obstructive symptoms
80
Symptomatic peritoneal adhesions, persisting or recurring after surgery, trauma, inflammatory disease process such as chronic cholecystitis or Crohn's disease, or infection, as determined by a healthcare provider; and clinical evidence of recurrent obstruction requiring hospitalization at least once a year; and medically-directed dietary modification other than total parenteral nutrition (TPN); and at least one of the following: (1) abdominal pain, (2) nausea, (3) vomiting, (4) colic, (5) constipation, or (6) diarrhea
50
Symptomatic peritoneal adhesions, persisting or recurring after surgery, trauma, inflammatory disease process such as chronic cholecystitis or Crohn's disease, or infection, as determined by a healthcare provider; and medically-directed dietary modification other than total parenteral nutrition (TPN); and at least one of the following: (1) abdominal pain, (2) nausea, (3) vomiting, (4) colic, (5) constipation, or (6) diarrhea
30
Symptomatic peritoneal adhesions, persisting or recurring after surgery, trauma, inflammatory disease process such as chronic cholecystitis or Crohn's disease, or infection, as determined by a healthcare provider, and at least one of the following: (1) abdominal pain, (2) nausea, (3) vomiting, (4) colic, (5) constipation, or (6) diarrhea
10
History of peritoneal adhesions, currently asymptomatic
0
7303 Chronic complications of upper gastrointestinal surgery:
Requiring continuous total parenteral nutrition (TPN) or tube feeding for a period longer than 30 consecutive days in the last six months
80
Any one of the following symptoms with or without pain: (1) daily vomiting despite oral dietary modification or medication; (2) six or more watery bowel movements per day every day, or explosive bowel movements that are difficult to predict or control; (3) post-prandial (meal-induced) light-headedness (syncope) with sweating and the need for medications to specifically treat complications of upper gastrointestinal surgery such as dumping syndrome or delayed gastric emptying
50
With two or more of the following symptoms: (1) vomiting two or more times per week or vomiting despite medical treatment; (2) discomfort or pain within an hour of eating and requiring ongoing oral dietary modification; (3) three to five watery bowel movements per day every day
30
With either nausea or vomiting managed by ongoing medical treatment
10
Post-operative status, asymptomatic
0
Note (1): For resection of small intestine, use DC 7328.
Note (2): If pancreatic surgery results in a vitamin or mineral deficiency (e.g., B12, iron, calcium, or fat-soluble vitamins), evaluate under the appropriate vitamin/mineral deficiency code and assign the higher rating. For example, evaluate Vitamin A, B, C or D deficiencies under DC 6313; ocular manifestations of vitamin deficiencies, such as night blindness, under DC 6313; keratitis or keratomalacia due to Vitamin A deficiency under DC 6001; Vitamin E deficiency under neuropathy; and Vitamin K deficiency under prolonged clotting (e.g., DC 7705).
Note (3): This diagnostic code includes operations performed on the esophagus, stomach, pancreas, and small intestine, including bariatric surgery.
7304 Peptic ulcer disease:
Post-operative for perforation or hemorrhage, for three months
100
Continuous abdominal pain with intermittent vomiting, recurrent hematemesis (vomiting blood) or melena (tarry stools); and manifestations of anemia which require hospitalization at least once in the past 12 months
60
Episodes of abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting, that: last for at least three consecutive days in duration; occur four or more times in the past 12 months; and are managed by daily prescribed medication
40
Episodes of abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting, that: last for at least three consecutive days in duration; occur three times or less in the past 12 months; and are managed by daily prescribed medication
20
History of peptic ulcer disease documented by endoscopy or diagnostic imaging studies
0
Note: After three months at the 100% evaluation, rate on residuals as determined by mandatory VA medical examination. Apply the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter to any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination.
7307 Gastritis, chronic:
Rate as peptic ulcer disease (DC 7304).
Note: This diagnostic code includes Helicobacter pylori infection, drug-induced gastritis, Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, and portal-hypertensive gastropathy with varix-related complications.
7308 Postgastrectomy syndrome:
Rate residuals as chronic complications of upper gastrointestinal surgery (DC 7303).
7309 Stomach, stenosis of:
Rate as chronic complications of upper gastrointestinal surgery (DC 7303) or peptic ulcer disease (DC 7304), depending on the predominant disability.
7310 Stomach, injury of, residuals:
Pre-operative: Rate as adhesions of peritoneum due to surgery, trauma, disease, or infection (DC 7301). No adhesions are necessary when evaluating under DC 7301.
Post-operative: Rate as chronic complications of upper gastrointestinal surgery (DC 7303).
7311 Residuals of injury of the liver:
Depending on the specific residuals, separately evaluate as adhesions of peritoneum (diagnostic code 7301), cirrhosis of liver (diagnostic code 7312), and chronic liver disease without cirrhosis (diagnostic code 7345).
7312 Cirrhosis of the liver:
Liver disease with Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score greater than or equal to 15; or with continuous daily debilitating symptoms, generalized weakness and at least one of the following: (1) ascites (fluid in the abdomen), or (2) a history of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, or (3) hepatic encephalopathy, or (4) variceal hemorrhage, or (5) coagulopathy, or (6) portal gastropathy, or (7) hepatopulmonary or hepatorenal syndrome
100
Liver disease with Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score greater than 11 but less than 15; or with daily fatigue and at least one episode in the last year of either (1) variceal hemorrhage, or (2) portal gastropathy or hepatic encephalopathy
60
Liver disease with Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score of 10 or 11; or with signs of portal hypertension such as splenomegaly or ascites (fluid in the abdomen) and either weakness, anorexia, abdominal pain, or malaise
30
Liver disease with Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score greater than 6 but less than 10; or with evidence of either anorexia, weakness, abdominal pain or malaise
10
Asymptomatic, but with a history of liver disease
0
Note (1): Rate hepatocellular carcinoma occurring with cirrhosis under DC 7343 (Malignant neoplasms of the digestive system, exclusive of skin growths) in lieu of DC 7312.
Note (2): Biochemical studies, imaging studies, or biopsy must confirm liver dysfunction (including hyponatremia, thrombocytopenia, and/or coagulopathy).
Note (3): Rate condition based on symptomatology where the evidence does not contain a Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score.
7314 Chronic biliary tract disease:
With three or more clinically documented attacks of right upper quadrant pain with nausea and vomiting during the past 12 months; or requiring dilatation of biliary tract strictures at least once during the past 12 months.
30
With one or two clinically documented attacks of right upper quadrant pain with nausea and vomiting in the past 12 months.
10
Asymptomatic, without history of a clinically documented attack of right upper quadrant pain with nausea and vomiting in the past 12 months.
0
Note: This diagnostic code includes cholangitis, biliary strictures, Sphincter of Oddi dysfunction, bile duct injury, and choledochal cyst. Rate primary sclerosing cholangitis under chronic liver disease without cirrhosis (DC 7345).
7315 Cholelithiasis, chronic:
Rate as chronic biliary tract disease (DC 7314).
7317 Gallbladder, injury of:
Rate as adhesions of the peritoneum due to surgery, trauma, disease, or infection (DC 7301); or chronic gallbladder and biliary tract disease (DC 7314), or cholecystectomy (gallbladder removal), complications of (such as strictures and biliary leaks) (DC 7318), depending on the predominant disability.
Note: When rating gallbladder injuries analogous to DC 7301, a finding of adhesions is not necessary.
7318 Cholecystectomy (gallbladder removal), complications of (such as strictures and biliary leaks):
With recurrent abdominal pain (post-prandial or nocturnal); and chronic diarrhea characterized by three or more watery bowel movements per day
30
With intermittent abdominal pain; and diarrhea characterized by one to two watery bowel movements per day
10
Asymptomatic
0
7319 Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS):
Abdominal pain related to defecation at least one day per week during the previous three months; and two or more of the following: (1) change in stool frequency, (2) change in stool form, (3) altered stool passage (straining and/or urgency), (4) mucorrhea, (5) abdominal bloating, or (6) subjective distension
30
Abdominal pain related to defecation for at least three days per month during the previous three months; and two or more of the following: (1) change in stool frequency, (2) change in stool form, (3) altered stool passage (straining and/or urgency), (4) mucorrhea, (5) abdominal bloating, or (6) subjective distension
20
Abdominal pain related to defecation at least once during the previous three months; and two or more of the following: (1) change in stool frequency, (2) change in stool form, (3) altered stool passage (straining and/or urgency), (4) mucorrhea, (5) abdominal bloating, or (6) subjective distension
10
Note: This diagnostic code may include functional digestive disorders (see § 3.317 of this chapter), such as dyspepsia, functional bloating and constipation, and diarrhea. Evaluate other symptoms of a functional digestive disorder not encompassed by this diagnostic code under the appropriate diagnostic code, to include gastrointestinal dysmotility syndrome (DC 7356), following the general principles of § 4.14 and this section.
7323 Colitis, ulcerative:
Rate as Crohn's disease or undifferentiated form of inflammatory bowel disease (DC 7326).
7325 Enteritis, chronic:
Rate as Irritable Bowel Syndrome (DC 7319) or Crohn's disease or undifferentiated form of inflammatory bowel disease (DC 7326), depending on the predominant disability.
7326 Crohn's disease or undifferentiated form of inflammatory bowel disease:
Severe inflammatory bowel disease that is unresponsive to treatment; and requires hospitalization at least once per year; and results in either an inability to work or is characterized by recurrent abdominal pain associated with at least two of the following: (1) six or more episodes per day of diarrhea, (2) six or more episodes per day of rectal bleeding, (3) recurrent episodes of rectal incontinence, or (4) recurrent abdominal distension
100
Moderate inflammatory bowel disease that is managed on an outpatient basis with immunosuppressants or other biologic agents; and is characterized by recurrent abdominal pain, four to five daily episodes of diarrhea; and intermittent signs of toxicity such as fever, tachycardia, or anemia
60
Mild to moderate inflammatory bowel disease that is managed with oral and topical agents (other than immunosuppressants or other biologic agents); and is characterized by recurrent abdominal pain with three or less daily episodes of diarrhea and minimal signs of toxicity such as fever, tachycardia, or anemia
30
Minimal to mild symptomatic inflammatory bowel disease that is managed with oral or topical agents (other than immunosuppressants or other biologic agents); and is characterized by recurrent abdominal pain with three or less daily episodes of diarrhea and no signs of systemic toxicity
10
Note (1): Following colectomy/colostomy with persistent or recurrent symptoms, rate either under DC 7326 or DC 7329 (Intestine, large, resection of), whichever provides the highest rating.
Note (2): VA requires diagnoses under DC 7326 to be confirmed by endoscopy or radiologic studies.
Note (3): Inflammation may involve small bowel (ileitis), large bowel (colitis), or inflammation of any component of the gastrointestinal tract from the mouth to the anus.
7327 Diverticulitis and diverticulosis:
Diverticular disease requiring hospitalization for abdominal distress, fever, and leukocytosis (elevated white blood cells) one or more times in the past 12 months; and with at least one of the following complications: (1) hemorrhage, (2) obstruction, (3) abscess, (4) peritonitis, or (5) perforation
30
Diverticular disease requiring hospitalization for abdominal distress, fever, and leukocytosis (elevated white blood cells) one or more times in the past 12 months; and without associated (1) hemorrhage, (2) obstruction, (3) abscess, (4) peritonitis, or (5) perforation
20
Asymptomatic; or a symptomatic diverticulitis or diverticulosis that is managed by diet and medication
0
Note: For colectomy or colostomy, use DC 7327 or DC 7329 (Intestine, large, resection of), whichever results in a higher evaluation.
7328 Intestine, small, resection of:
Status post intestinal resection with undernutrition and anemia; and requiring total parenteral nutrition (TPN)
80
Status post intestinal resection with undernutrition and anemia; and requiring prescribed oral dietary supplementation, continuous medication and intermittent total parenteral nutrition (TPN)
60
Status post intestinal resection with four or more episodes of diarrhea per day resulting in undernutrition and anemia; and requiring prescribed oral dietary supplementation and continuous medication
40
Status post intestinal resection with four or more episodes of diarrhea per day
20
Status post intestinal resection, asymptomatic
0
Note: This diagnostic code includes short bowel syndrome, mesenteric ischemic thrombosis, and post-bariatric surgery complications. Where short bowel syndrome results in high-output syndrome, to include high-output stoma, consider assigning a higher evaluation under DC 7329 (Intestine, large, resection of).
7329 Intestine, large, resection of:
Total colectomy with formation of ileostomy, high-output syndrome, and more than two episodes of dehydration requiring intravenous hydration in the past 12 months
100
Total colectomy with or without permanent colostomy or ileostomy without high-output syndrome
60
Partial colectomy with permanent colostomy or ileostomy without high-output syndrome
40
Partial colectomy with reanastomosis (reconnection of the intestinal tube) with loss of ileocecal valve and recurrent episodes of diarrhea more than 3 times per day
20
Partial colectomy with reanastomosis (reconnection of the intestinal tube)
10
7330 Intestinal fistulous disease, external:
Requiring total parenteral nutrition (TPN); or enteral nutritional support along with at least one of the following: (1) daily discharge equivalent to four or more ostomy bags (sized 130 cc), (2) requiring ten or more pad changes per day, or (3) a Body Mass Index (BMI) less than 16 and persistent drainage (any amount) for more than 1 month during the past 12 months
100
Requiring enteral nutritional support along with at least one of the following: (1) daily discharge equivalent to three or less ostomy bags (sized 130 cc), (2) requiring fewer than ten pad changes per day, or (3) a Body Mass Index (BMI) of 16 to 18 inclusive and persistent drainage (any amount) for more than 2 months in the past 12 months
60
Intermittent fecal discharge with persistent drainage for more than 3 months in the past 12 months
30
Note: This code applies to external fistulas that have developed as a consequence of abdominal trauma, surgery, radiation, malignancy, infection, or ischemia.
7331 Peritonitis, tuberculous, active or inactive:
Active
100
Inactive: See §§ 4.88b and 4.89.
7332 Rectum and anus, impairment of sphincter control:
Complete loss of sphincter control characterized by incontinence or retention that is not responsive to a physician-prescribed bowel program and requires either surgery or digital stimulation, medication (beyond laxative use), and special diet; or incontinence to solids and/or liquids two or more times per day, which requires changing a pad two or more times per day
100
Complete or partial loss of sphincter control characterized by incontinence or retention that is partially responsive to a physician-prescribed bowel program and requires either surgery or digital stimulation, medication (beyond laxative use), and special diet; or incontinence to solids and/or liquids two or more times per week, which requires wearing a pad two or more times per week
60
Complete or partial loss of sphincter control characterized by incontinence or retention that is fully responsive to a physician-prescribed bowel program and requires digital stimulation, medication (beyond laxative use), and special diet; or incontinence to solids and/or liquids two or more times per month, which requires wearing a pad two or more times per month
30
Complete or partial loss of sphincter control characterized by incontinence or retention that is fully responsive to a physician-prescribed bowel program and requires medication or special diet; or incontinence to solids and/or liquids at least once every six months, which requires wearing a pad at least once every six months
10
History of loss of sphincter control, currently asymptomatic
0
Note: Complete or partial loss of sphincter control refers to the inability to retain or expel stool at an appropriate time and place.
7333 Rectum and anus, stricture of:
Inability to open the anus with inability to expel solid feces
100
Reduction of the lumen 50% or more, with pain and straining during defecation
60
Reduction of the lumen by less than 50%, with straining during defecation
30
Luminal narrowing with or without straining, managed by dietary intervention
10
Note (1): Conditions rated under this code include dyssynergic defecation (levator ani) and anismus (functional constipation).
Note (2): Evaluate an ostomy as Intestine, large, resection of (DC 7329).
7334 Rectum, prolapse of:
Persistent irreducible prolapse, repairable or unrepairable
100
Manually reducible prolapse that is not repairable and occurs at times other than bowel movements, exertion, or while performing the Valsalva maneuver
50
Manually reducible prolapse that is not repairable and occurs only after bowel movements, exertion, or while performing the Valsalva maneuver
30
Spontaneously reducible prolapse that is not repairable
10
Note (1): For repairable prolapse of the rectum, continue the 100% evaluation for two months following repair. Thereafter, determine the appropriate evaluation based on residuals by mandatory VA examination. Apply the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter to any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination.
Note (2): Where impairment of sphincter control constitutes the predominant disability, rate under diagnostic code 7332 (Rectum and anus, impairment of sphincter control).
7335 Ano, fistula in, including anorectal fistula and anorectal abscess:
More than two constant or near-constant fistulas with abscesses, drainage, and pain, which are refractory to medical and surgical treatment
60
One or two simultaneous fistulas, with abscess, drainage, and pain
40
Two or more simultaneous fistulas with drainage and pain, but without abscesses
20
One fistula with drainage and pain, but without abscess
10
7336 Hemorrhoids, external or internal:
Internal or external hemorrhoids with persistent bleeding and anemia; or continuously prolapsed internal hemorrhoids with three or more episodes per year of thrombosis
20
Prolapsed internal hemorrhoids with two or less episodes per year of thrombosis; or external hemorrhoids with three or more episodes per year of thrombosis
10
7337 Pruritus ani (anal itching):
With bleeding or excoriation
10
Without bleeding or excoriation
0
7338 Hernia, including femoral, inguinal, umbilical, ventral, incisional, and other (but not including hiatal).
Irreparable hernia (new or recurrent) present for 12 months or more; with both of the following present for 12 months or more:
1. Size equal to 15 cm or greater in one dimension; and
2. Pain when performing at least three of the following activities: (1) bending over, (2) activities of daily living (ADLs), (3) walking, and (4) climbing stairs
100
Irreparable hernia (new or recurrent) present for 12 months or more; with both of the following present for 12 months or more:
1. Size equal to 15 cm or greater in one dimension; and
2. Pain when performing two of the following activities: (1) bending over, (2) activities of daily living (ADLs), (3) walking, and (4) climbing stairs
60
Irreparable hernia (new or recurrent) present for 12 months or more; with both of the following present for 12 months or more:
1. Size equal to 3 cm or greater but less than 15 cm in one dimension; and
2. Pain when performing at least two of the following activities: (1) bending over, (2) activities of daily living (ADLs), (3) walking, and (4) climbing stairs
30
Irreparable hernia (new or recurrent) present for 12 months or more; with both of the following present for 12 months or more:
1. Size equal to 3 cm or greater but less than 15 cm in one dimension; and
2. Pain when performing one of the following activities: (1) bending over, (2) activities of daily living (ADLs), (3) walking, and (4) climbing stairs
20
Irreparable hernia (new or recurrent) present for 12 months or more; with hernia size smaller than 3 cm
10
Asymptomatic hernia; present and repairable, or repaired
0
Note (1): With two compensable inguinal hernias, evaluate the more severely disabling hernia first, and then add 10% to that rating to account for the second compensable hernia. Do not add 10% to that rating if the more severely disabling hernia is rated at 100%.
Note (2): Any one of the following activities of daily living are sufficient for evaluation: bathing, dressing, hygiene, and/or transfers.
7342 Visceroptosis, symptomatic, marked
10
7343 Malignant neoplasms of the digestive system, exclusive of skin growths
100
Note:
A rating of 100 percent shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgical, X-ray, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other therapeutic procedure. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no local recurrence or metastasis, rate on residuals.
7344 Benign neoplasms, exclusive of skin growths:
Evaluate under a diagnostic code appropriate to the predominant disability or the specific residuals after treatment.
Note: This diagnostic code includes lipoma, leiomyoma, colon polyps, or villous adenoma.
7345 Chronic liver disease without cirrhosis:
Progressive chronic liver disease requiring use of both parenteral antiviral therapy (direct antiviral agents), and parenteral immunomodulatory therapy (interferon and other); and for six months following discontinuance of treatment
100
Progressive chronic liver disease requiring continuous medication and causing substantial weight loss and at least two of the following: (1) daily fatigue, (2) malaise, (3) anorexia, (4) hepatomegaly, (5) pruritus, and (6) arthralgia
60
Progressive chronic liver disease requiring continuous medication and causing minor weight loss and at least two of the following: (1) daily fatigue, (2) malaise, (3) anorexia, (4) hepatomegaly, (5) pruritus, and (6) arthralgia
40
Chronic liver disease with at least one of the following: (1) intermittent fatigue, (2) malaise, (3) anorexia, (4) hepatomegaly, or (5) pruritus
20
Previous history of liver disease, currently asymptomatic
0
Note (1): 100% evaluation shall continue for six months following discontinuance of parenteral antiviral therapy and administration of parenteral immunomodulatory drugs. Six months after discontinuance of parenteral antiviral therapy and parenteral immunomodulatory drugs, determine the appropriate disability rating by mandatory VA exam. Apply the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter to any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination.
Note (2): For individuals for whom physicians recommend both parenteral antiviral therapy and parenteral immunomodulatory drugs, but for whom treatment is medically contraindicated, rate according to DC 7312 (Cirrhosis of the liver).
Note (3): This diagnostic code includes Hepatitis B (confirmed by serologic testing), primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC), autoimmune liver disease, Wilson's disease, Alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency, hemochromatosis, drug-induced hepatitis, and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Track Hepatitis C (or non-A, non-B hepatitis) under DC 7354 but evaluate it using the criteria in this entry.
Note (4): Evaluate sequelae, such as cirrhosis or malignancy of the liver, under an appropriate diagnostic code, but do not use the same signs and symptoms as the basis for evaluation under DC 7354 and under a diagnostic code for sequelae. (See § 4.14)
7346 Hiatal hernia and paraesophageal hernia:
Rate as esophagus, stricture of (DC 7203).
7347 Pancreatitis, chronic:
Daily episodes of abdominal or mid-back pain that require three or more hospitalizations per year; and pain management by a physician; and maldigestion and malabsorption requiring dietary restriction and pancreatic enzyme supplementation
100
Three or more episodes of abdominal or mid-back pain per year and at least one episode per year requiring hospitalization for management either of complications related to abdominal pain or complications of tube enteral feeding
60
At least one episode per year of abdominal or mid-back pain that requires ongoing outpatient medical treatment for pain, digestive problems, or management of related complications including but not limited to cyst, pseudocyst, intestinal obstruction, or ascites
30
Note (1): Appropriate diagnostic studies must confirm that abdominal pain in this condition results from pancreatitis.
Note (2):
Separately rate endocrine dysfunction resulting in diabetes due to pancreatic insufficiency under DC 7913 (Diabetes mellitus).
7348 Vagotomy with pyloroplasty or gastroenterostomy:
Following confirmation of postoperative complications of stricture or continuing gastric retention
40
With symptoms and confirmed diagnosis of alkaline gastritis, or with confirmed persisting diarrhea
30
With incomplete vagotomy
20
Note: Rate recurrent ulcer following complete vagotomy under DC 7304 (Peptic ulcer disease), with a minimum rating of 20%; and rate post-operative residuals not addressed by this diagnostic code under DC 7303 (Chronic complications of upper gastrointestinal surgery).
7350 Liver abscess:
Assign a rating of 100% for 6 months from the date of initial diagnosis. Six months following initial diagnosis, determine the appropriate disability rating by mandatory VA examination. Thereafter, rate the condition based on chronic residuals under the appropriate body system. Apply the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter to any reduction in evaluation.
Note:This diagnostic code includes abscesses caused by bacterial, viral, amebic (e.g., E. hystolytica), fungal (e.g., C. albicans), and other agents.
7351 Liver transplant:
For an indefinite period from the date of hospital admission for transplant surgery
100
Eligible and awaiting transplant surgery, minimum rating
60
Following transplant surgery, minimum rating
30
Note: Assign a rating of 100% as of the date of hospital admission for transplant surgery. One year following discharge, determine the appropriate disability rating by mandatory VA examination. Apply the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter to any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination. Rate residuals of any recurrent underlying liver disease under the appropriate diagnostic code and, when appropriate, combine with other post-transplant residuals under the appropriate body system(s), subject to the provisions of § 4.14 and this section.
7352 Pancreas transplant:
For an indefinite period from the date of hospital admission for transplant surgery
100
Minimum rating
30
Note: Assign a rating of 100% as of the date of hospital admission for transplant surgery. One year following discharge, determine the appropriate disability rating by mandatory VA examination. Apply the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter to any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination.
7354 Hepatitis C (or non-A, non-B hepatitis):
Rate under DC 7345 (Chronic liver disease without cirrhosis).
7355 Celiac disease:
Malabsorption syndrome with weakness which interferes with activities of daily living; and weight loss resulting in wasting and nutritional deficiencies; and with systemic manifestations including but not limited to, weakness and fatigue, dermatitis, lymph node enlargement, hypocalcemia, low vitamin levels; and anemia related to malabsorption; and episodes of abdominal pain and diarrhea due to lactase deficiency or pancreatic insufficiency
80
Malabsorption syndrome with chronic diarrhea managed by medically-prescribed dietary intervention such as prescribed gluten-free diet, with nutritional deficiencies due to lactase and pancreatic insufficiency; and with systemic manifestations including, but not limited to, weakness and fatigue, dermatitis, lymph node enlargement, hypocalcemia, low vitamin levels, or atrophy of the inner intestinal lining shown on biopsy
50
Malabsorption syndrome with chronic diarrhea managed by medically-prescribed dietary intervention such as prescribed gluten-free diet; and without nutritional deficiencies
30
Note (1): An appropriate serum antibody test or endoscopy with biopsy must confirm the diagnosis.
Note (2): For evaluation of celiac disease with the predominant disability of malabsorption, use the greater evaluation between DC 7328 or celiac disease under DC 7355.
7356 Gastrointestinal dysmotility syndrome:
Requiring complete dependence on total parenteral nutrition (TPN) or continuous tube feeding for nutritional support
80
Requiring intermittent tube feeding for nutritional support; with recurrent emergency treatment for episodes of intestinal obstruction or regurgitation due to poor gastric emptying, abdominal pain, recurrent nausea, or recurrent vomiting
50
With symptoms of chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction (CIPO) or symptoms of intestinal motility disorder, including but not limited to, abdominal pain, bloating, feeling of epigastric fullness, dyspepsia, nausea and vomiting, regurgitation, constipation, and diarrhea, managed by ambulatory care; and requiring prescribed dietary management or manipulation
30
Intermittent abdominal pain with epigastric fullness associated with bloating; and without evidence of a structural gastrointestinal disease
10
Note: Use this diagnostic code for illnesses associated with § 3.317(a)(2)(i)(B)(
3
) of this chapter, other than those which can be evaluated under DC 7319.
7357 Post pancreatectomy syndrome:
Following total or partial pancreatectomy, evaluate under Pancreatitis, chronic (DC 7347), Chronic complications of upper gastrointestinal surgery (DC 7303), or based on residuals such as malabsorption (Intestine, small, resection of, DC 7328), diarrhea (Irritable bowel syndrome, DC 7319, or Crohn's disease or undifferentiated form of inflammatory bowel disease, DC 7326), or diabetes (DC 7913), whichever provides the highest evaluation
Minimum
30
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[29 FR 6718, May 22, 1964, as amended at 34 FR 5063, Mar. 11, 1969; 40 FR 42540, Sept. 15, 1975; 41 FR 11301, Mar. 18, 1976; 66 FR 29488, May 31, 2001; 89 FR 19743, Mar. 20, 2024]

# The Genitourinary System
§ 4.115
Nephritis.
Albuminuria alone is not nephritis, nor will the presence of transient albumin and casts following acute febrile illness be taken as nephritis. The glomerular type of nephritis is usually preceded by or associated with severe infectious disease; the onset is sudden, and the course marked by red blood cells, salt retention, and edema; it may clear up entirely or progress to a chronic condition. The nephrosclerotic type, originating in hypertension or arteriosclerosis, develops slowly, with minimum laboratory findings, and is associated with natural progress. Separate ratings are not to be assigned for disability from disease of the heart and any form of nephritis, on account of the close interrelationships of cardiovascular disabilities. If, however, absence of a kidney is the sole renal disability, even if removal was required because of nephritis, the absent kidney and any hypertension or heart disease will be separately rated. Also, in the event that chronic renal disease has progressed to the point where regular dialysis is required, any coexisting hypertension or heart disease will be separately rated.
[41 FR 34258, Aug. 13, 1976, as amended at 59 FR 2527, Jan. 18, 1994]
§ 4.115a
Ratings of the genitourinary system—dysfunctions.
Diseases of the genitourinary system generally result in disabilities related to renal or voiding dysfunctions, infections, or a combination of these. The following section provides descriptions of various levels of disability in each of these symptom areas. Where diagnostic codes refer the decision maker to these specific areas of dysfunction, only the predominant area of dysfunction shall be considered for rating purposes. Distinct disabilities may be evaluated separately under this section, pursuant to § 4.14, if the symptoms do not overlap. Since the areas of dysfunction described below do not cover all symptoms resulting from genitourinary diseases, specific diagnoses may include a description of symptoms assigned to that diagnosis.
Rating
Renal dysfunction:
Chronic kidney disease with glomerular filtration rate (GFR) less than 15 mL/min/1.73 m
2
for at least 3 consecutive months during the past 12 months; or requiring regular routine dialysis; or eligible kidney transplant recipient
100
Chronic kidney disease with GFR from 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m
2
for at least 3 consecutive months during the past 12 months
80
Chronic kidney disease with GFR from 30 to 44 mL/min/1.73 m
2
for at least 3 consecutive months during the past 12 months
60
Chronic kidney disease with GFR from 45 to 59 mL/min/1.73 m
2
for at least 3 consecutive months during the past 12 months
30
GFR from 60 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m
2
and either recurrent red blood cell (RBC) casts, white blood cell (WBC) casts, or granular casts for at least 3 consecutive months during the past 12 months; or
GFR from 60 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m
2
and structural kidney abnormalities (cystic, obstructive, or glomerular) for at least 3 consecutive months during the past 12 months; or
GFR from 60 to 89 mL/min/1.73 m
2
and albumin/creatinine ratio (ACR) ≥30 mg/g for at least 3 consecutive months during the past 12 months
0
Note: GFR, estimated GFR (eGFR), and creatinine-based approximations of GFR will be accepted for evaluation purposes under this section when determined to be appropriate and calculated by a medical professional.
Voiding dysfunction:
Rate particular condition as urine leakage, frequency, or obstructed voiding
Continual Urine Leakage, Post Surgical Urinary Diversion, Urinary Incontinence, or Stress Incontinence:
Requiring the use of an appliance or the wearing of absorbent materials which must be changed more than 4 times per day
60
Requiring the wearing of absorbent materials which must be changed 2 to 4 times per day
40
Requiring the wearing of absorbent materials which must be changed less than 2 times per day
20
Urinary frequency:
Daytime voiding interval less than one hour, or; awakening to void five or more times per night
40
Daytime voiding interval between one and two hours, or; awakening to void three to four times per night
20
Daytime voiding interval between two and three hours, or; awakening to void two times per night
10
Obstructed voiding:
Urinary retention requiring intermittent or continuous catheterization
30
Marked obstructive symptomatology (hesitancy, slow or weak stream, decreased force of stream) with any one or combination of the following:
1. Post void residuals greater than 150 cc.
2. Uroflowmetry; markedly diminished peak flow rate (less than 10 cc/sec).
3. Recurrent urinary tract infections secondary to obstruction.
4. Stricture disease requiring periodic dilatation every 2 to 3 months
10
Obstructive symptomatology with or without stricture disease requiring dilatation 1 to 2 times per year
0
Urinary tract infection:
Poor renal function: Rate as renal dysfunction.
Recurrent symptomatic infection requiring drainage by stent or nephrostomy tube; or requiring greater than 2 hospitalizations per year; or requiring continuous intensive management
30
Recurrent symptomatic infection requiring 1-2 hospitalizations per year or suppressive drug therapy lasting six months or longer
10
Recurrent symptomatic infection not requiring hospitalization, but requiring suppressive drug therapy for less than 6 months
0
[59 FR 2527, Jan. 18, 1994; 59 FR 10676, Mar. 7, 1994; 86 FR 54085, Sept. 30, 2021]
§ 4.115b
Ratings of the genitourinary system—diagnoses.
Rating
Note:
When evaluating any claim involving loss or loss of use of one or more creative organs, refer to § 3.350 of this chapter to determine whether the veteran may be entitled to special monthly compensation. Footnotes in the schedule indicate conditions which potentially establish entitlement to special monthly compensation; however, there are other conditions in this section which under certain circumstances also establish entitlement to special monthly compensation.
7500 Kidney, removal of one:
Minimum evaluation
30
Or rate as renal dysfunction if there is nephritis, infection, or pathology of the other.
7501 Kidney, abscess of:
Rate as urinary tract infection
7502 Nephritis, chronic:
Rate as renal dysfunction.
7504 Pyelonephritis, chronic:
Rate as renal dysfunction or urinary tract infection, whichever is predominant.
7505 Kidney, tuberculosis of:
Rate in accordance with §§ 4.88b or 4.89, whichever is appropriate.
7507 Nephrosclerosis, arteriolar:
Rate according to predominant symptoms as renal dysfunction, hypertension or heart disease. If rated under the cardiovascular schedule, however, the percentage rating which would otherwise be assigned will be elevated to the next higher evaluation.
7508 Nephrolithiasis/Ureterolithiasis/Nephrocalcinosis:
Rate as hydronephrosis, except for recurrent stone formation requiring invasive or non-invasive procedures more than two times/year
30
7509 Hydronephrosis:
Severe; Rate as renal dysfunction.
Frequent attacks of colic with infection (pyonephrosis), kidney function impaired
30
Frequent attacks of colic, requiring catheter drainage
20
Only an occasional attack of colic, not infected and not requiring catheter drainage
10
7511 Ureter, stricture of:
Rate as hydronephrosis,
except for
recurrent stone formation requiring one or more of the following:
1. diet therapy
2. drug therapy
3. invasive or non-invasive procedures more than two times/year
30
7512 Cystitis, chronic, includes interstitial and all etiologies, infectious and non-infectious:
Rate as voiding dysfunction.
7515 Bladder, calculus in, with symptoms interfering with function:
Rate as voiding dysfunction
7516 Bladder, fistula of:
Rate as voiding dysfunction or urinary tract infection, whichever is predominant.
Postoperative, suprapubic cystotomy
100
7517 Bladder, injury of:
Rate as voiding dysfunction.
7518 Urethra, stricture of:
Rate as voiding dysfunction.
7519 Urethra, fistula of:
Rate as voiding dysfunction.
Multiple urethroperineal fistulae
100
7520 Penis, removal of half or more
1
30
7521 Penis, removal of glans
1
20
7522 Erectile dysfunction, with or without penile deformity
1
0
Note: For the purpose of VA disability evaluation, a disease or traumatic injury of the penis resulting in scarring or deformity shall be rated under diagnostic code 7522.
7523 Testis, atrophy complete:
Both—20
1
One—0
1
7524 Testis, removal:
Both
1
30
One
1
0
Note: In cases of the removal of one testis as the result of a service-incurred injury or disease, other than an undescended or congenitally undeveloped testis, with the absence or nonfunctioning of the other testis unrelated to service, an evaluation of 30 percent will be assigned for the service-connected testicular loss. Testis, undescended, or congenitally undeveloped is not a ratable disability.
7525 Prostatitis, urethritis, epididymitis, orchitis (unilateral or bilateral), chronic only:
Rate as urinary tract infection.
For tubercular infections: Rate in accordance with §§ 4.88b or 4.89, whichever is appropriate.
7527 Prostate gland injuries, infections, hypertrophy, postoperative residuals, bladder outlet obstruction:
Rate as voiding dysfunction or urinary tract infection, whichever is predominant.
7528 Malignant neoplasms of the genitourinary system
100
Note
—Following the cessation of surgical, X-ray, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other therapeutic procedure, the rating of 100 percent shall continue with a mandatory VA examination at the expiration of six months. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no local reoccurrence or metastasis, rate on residuals as voiding dysfunction or renal dysfunction, whichever is predominant.
7529 Benign neoplasms of the genitourinary system:
Rate as voiding dysfunction or renal dysfunction, whichever is predominant.
7530 Chronic renal disease requiring regular dialysis:
Rate as renal dysfunction.
7531 Kidney transplant:
Following transplant surgery
100
Thereafter: Rate on residuals as renal dysfunction, minimum rating
30
Note
—The 100 percent evaluation shall be assigned as of the date of hospital admission for transplant surgery and shall continue with a mandatory VA examination one year following hospital discharge. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter.
7532 Renal tubular disorders (such as renal glycosurias, aminoacidurias, renal tubular acidosis, Fanconi's syndrome, Bartter's syndrome, related disorders of Henle's loop and proximal or distal nephron function, etc.):
Minimum rating for symptomatic condition
20
Or rate as renal dysfunction.
7533 Cystic diseases of the kidneys:
Rate as renal dysfunction.
Note: Cystic diseases of the kidneys include, but are not limited to, polycystic disease, uremic medullary cystic disease, medullary sponge kidney, and similar conditions such as Alport's syndrome, cystinosis, primary oxalosis, and Fabry's disease.
7534 Atherosclerotic renal disease (renal artery stenosis, atheroembolic renal disease, or large vessel disease, unspecified):
Rate as renal dysfunction.
7535 Toxic nephropathy (antibotics, radiocontrast agents, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, heavy metals, and similar agents):
Rate as renal dysfunction.
7536 Glomerulonephritis:
Rate as renal dysfunction.
7537 Interstitial nephritis, including gouty nephropathy, disorders of calcium metabolism:
Rate as renal dysfunction.
7538 Papillary necrosis:
Rate as renal dysfunction.
7539 Renal amyloid disease:
Rate as renal dysfunction.
Note: This diagnostic code pertains to renal involvement secondary to all glomerulonephritis conditions, all vasculitis conditions and their derivatives, and other renal conditions caused by systemic diseases, such as Lupus erythematosus, systemic lupus erythematosus nephritis, Henoch-Schonlein syndrome, scleroderma, hemolytic uremic syndrome, polyarthritis, Wegener's granulomatosis, Goodpasture's syndrome, and sickle cell disease.
7540 Disseminated intravascular coagulation with renal cortical necrosis:
Rate as renal dysfunction.
7541 Renal involvement in diabetes mellitus type I or II:
Rate as renal dysfunction.
7542 Neurogenic bladder:
Rate as voiding dysfunction or urinary tract infection, whichever is predominant.
7543 Varicocele/Hydrocele
1
0
7544 Renal disease caused by viral infection such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C:
Rate as renal dysfunction.
7545 Bladder, diverticulum of:
Rate as voiding dysfunction or urinary tract infection, whichever is predominant.
1
Review for entitlement to special monthly compensation under § 3.350 of this chapter.
[59 FR 2527, Jan. 18, 1994; 59 FR 14567, Mar. 29, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 46339, Sept. 8, 1994; 86 FR 54086, Sept. 30, 2021]

# Gynecological Conditions and Disorders of the Breast
§ 4.116
Schedule of ratings—gynecological conditions and disorders of the breast.
Rating
Note 1:
Natural menopause, primary amenorrhea, and pregnancy and childbirth are not disabilities for rating purposes. Chronic residuals of medical or surgical complications of pregnancy may be disabilities for rating purposes.
Note 2:
When evaluating any claim involving loss or loss of use of one or more creative organs or anatomical loss of one or both breasts, refer to § 3.350 of this chapter to determine whether the veteran may be entitled to special monthly compensation. Footnotes in the schedule indicate conditions which potentially establish entitlement to special monthly compensation; however, almost any condition in this section might, under certain circumstances, establish entitlement to special monthly compensation.
7610 Vulva or clitoris, disease or injury of (including vulvovaginitis)
7611 Vagina, disease or injury of.
7612 Cervix, disease or injury of.
7613 Uterus, disease, injury, or adhesions of.
7614 Fallopian tube, disease, injury, or adhesions of (including pelvic inflammatory disease (PID)).
7615 Ovary, disease, injury, or adhesions of.
General Rating Formula for Disease, Injury, or Adhesions of Female Reproductive Organs (diagnostic codes 7610 through 7615):
Symptoms not controlled by continuous treatment
30
Symptoms that require continuous treatment
10
Symptoms that do not require continuous treatment
0
Note:
For the purpose of VA disability evaluation, a disease, injury, or adhesions of the ovaries resulting in ovarian dysfunction affecting the menstrual cycle, such as dysmenorrhea and secondary amenorrhea, shall be rated under diagnostic code 7615
7617 Uterus and both ovaries, removal of, complete:
For three months after removal
1
100
Thereafter
1
50
7618 Uterus, removal of, including corpus:
For three months after removal
1
100
Thereafter
1
30
7619 Ovary, removal of:
For three months after removal
1
100
Thereafter:
Complete removal of both ovaries
1
30
Removal of one with or without partial removal of the other
1
0
Note:
In cases of the removal of one ovary as the result of a service-connected injury or disease, with the absence or nonfunctioning of a second ovary unrelated to service, an evaluation of 30 percent will be assigned for the service-connected ovarian loss
7620 Ovaries, atrophy of both, complete
1
20
7621 Complete or incomplete pelvic organ prolapse due to injury, disease, or surgical complications of pregnancy
10
Note:
Pelvic organ prolapse occurs when a pelvic organ such as bladder, urethra, uterus, vagina, small bowel, or rectum drops (prolapse) from its normal place in the abdomen. Conditions associated with pelvic organ prolapse include: uterine or vaginal vault prolapse, cystocele, urethrocele, rectocele, enterocele, or any combination thereof. Evaluate pelvic organ prolapse under DC 7621. Evaluate separately any genitourinary, digestive, or skin symptoms under the appropriate diagnostic code(s) and combine all evaluations with the 10 percent evaluation under DC 7621
7624 Fistula, rectovaginal:
Vaginal fecal leakage at least once a day requiring wearing of pad
100
Vaginal fecal leakage four or more times per week, but less than daily, requiring wearing of pad
60
Vaginal fecal leakage one to three times per week requiring wearing of pad
30
Vaginal fecal leakage less than once a week
10
Without leakage
0
7625 Fistula, urethrovaginal:
Multiple urethrovaginal fistulae
100
Requiring the use of an appliance or the wearing of absorbent materials which must be changed more than four times per day
60
Requiring the wearing of absorbent materials which must be changed two to four times per day
40
Requiring the wearing of absorbent materials which must be changed less than two times per day
20
7626 Breast, surgery of:
Following radical mastectomy:
Both
1
80
One
1
50
Following modified radical mastectomy:
Both
1
60
One
1
40
Following simple mastectomy or wide local excision with significant alteration of size or form:
Both
1
50
One
1
30
Following wide local excision without significant alteration of size or form:
Both or one
0
Note:
For VA purposes:
(1)
Radical mastectomy
means removal of the entire breast, underlying pectoral muscles, and regional lymph nodes up to the coracoclavicular ligament.
(2)
Modified radical mastectomy
means removal of the entire breast and axillary lymph nodes (in continuity with the breast). Pectoral muscles are left intact.
(3)
Simple (or total) mastectomy
means removal of all of the breast tissue, nipple, and a small portion of the overlying skin, but lymph nodes and muscles are left intact.
(4)
Wide local excision
(including partial mastectomy, lumpectomy, tylectomy, segmentectomy, and quadrantectomy) means removal of a portion of the breast tissue.
7627 Malignant neoplasms of gynecological system
100
Note:
A rating of 100 percent shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgical, radiation, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other therapeutic procedures. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. Rate chronic residuals to include scars, lymphedema, disfigurement, and/or other impairment of function under the appropriate diagnostic code(s) within the appropriate body system
7628 Benign neoplasms of gynecological system. Rate chronic residuals to include scars, lymphedema, disfigurement, and/or other impairment of function under the appropriate diagnostic code(s) within the appropriate body system
7629 Endometriosis:
Lesions involving bowel or bladder confirmed by laparoscopy, pelvic pain or heavy or irregular bleeding not controlled by treatment, and bowel or bladder symptoms
50
Pelvic pain or heavy or irregular bleeding not controlled by treatment
30
Pelvic pain or heavy or irregular bleeding requiring continuous treatment for control
10
Note:
Diagnosis of endometriosis must be substantiated by laparoscopy.
7630 Malignant neoplasms of the breast
100
Note:
A rating of 100 percent shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgical, radiation, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other therapeutic procedure. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. Rate chronic residuals according to impairment of function due to scars, lymphedema, or disfigurement (e.g., limitation of arm, shoulder, and wrist motion, or loss of grip strength, or loss of sensation, or residuals from harvesting of muscles for reconstructive purposes), and/or under diagnostic code 7626
7631 Benign neoplasms of the breast and other injuries of the breast. Rate chronic residuals according to impairment of function due to scars, lymphedema, or disfigurement (e.g., limitation of arm, shoulder, and wrist motion, or loss of grip strength, or loss of sensation, or residuals from harvesting of muscles for reconstructive purposes), and/or under diagnostic code 7626
7632 Female sexual arousal disorder (FSAD)
1
0
1
Review for entitlement to special monthly compensation under § 3.350 of this chapter.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[60 FR 19855, Apr. 21, 1995, as amended at 67 FR 6874, Feb. 14, 2002; 67 FR 37695, May 30, 2002; 83 FR 15071, Apr. 9, 2018]

# The Hematologic and Lymphatic Systems
§ 4.117
Schedule of ratings—hemic and lymphatic systems.
Rating
7702 Agranulocytosis, acquired:
Requiring bone marrow transplant; or infections recurring, on average, at least once every six weeks per 12-month period
100
Requiring intermittent myeloid growth factors (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) or granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) or continuous immunosuppressive therapy such as cyclosporine to maintain absolute neutrophil count (ANC) greater than 500/microliter (µl) but less than 1000/µl; or infections recurring, on average, at least once every three months per 12-month period
60
Requiring intermittent myeloid growth factors to maintain ANC greater than 1000/µl; or infections recurring, on average, at least once per 12-month period but less than once every three months per 12-month period
30
Requiring continuous medication (e.g., antibiotics) for control; or requiring intermittent use of a myeloid growth factor to maintain ANC greater than or equal to 1500/µl
10
Note:
A 100 percent evaluation for bone marrow transplant shall be assigned as of the date of hospital admission and shall continue with a mandatory VA examination six months following hospital discharge. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter
7703 Leukemia (except for chronic myelogenous leukemia):
When there is active disease or during a treatment phase
100
Otherwise rate residuals under the appropriate diagnostic code(s)
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia or monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL), asymptomatic, Rai Stage 0
0
Note (1):
A 100 percent evaluation shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgical therapy, radiation therapy, antineoplastic chemotherapy, or other therapeutic procedures. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no recurrence, rate on residuals
Note (2):
Evaluate symptomatic chronic lymphocytic leukemia that is at Rai Stage I, II, III, or IV the same as any other leukemia evaluated under this diagnostic code
Note (3):
Evaluate residuals of leukemia or leukemia therapy under the appropriate diagnostic code(s). Myeloproliferative Disorders: (Diagnostic Codes 7704, 7718, 7719)
7704 Polycythemia vera:
Requiring peripheral blood or bone marrow stem-cell transplant or chemotherapy (including myelosuppressants) for the purpose of ameliorating the symptom burden
100
Requiring phlebotomy 6 or more times per 12-month period or molecularly targeted therapy for the purpose of controlling RBC count
60
Requiring phlebotomy 4-5 times per 12-month period, or if requiring continuous biologic therapy or myelosuppressive agents, to include interferon, to maintain platelets
200,000 or white blood cells (WBC)
12,000
30
Requiring phlebotomy 3 or fewer times per 12-month period or if requiring biologic therapy or interferon on an intermittent basis as needed to maintain all blood values at reference range levels
10
Note (1):
Rate complications such as hypertension, gout, stroke, or thrombotic disease separately
Note (2):
If the condition undergoes leukemic transformation, evaluate as leukemia under diagnostic code 7703
Note (3):
A 100 percent evaluation shall be assigned as of the date of hospital admission for peripheral blood or bone marrow stem cell transplant; or during the period of treatment with chemotherapy (including myelosuppressants). Six months following hospital discharge or, in the case of chemotherapy treatment, six months after completion of treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any reduction in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter
7705 Immune thrombocytopenia:
Requiring chemotherapy for chronic refractory thrombocytopenia; or a platelet count 30,000 or below despite treatment
100
Requiring immunosuppressive therapy; or for a platelet count higher than 30,000 but not higher than 50,000, with history of hospitalization because of severe bleeding requiring intravenous immune globulin, high-dose parenteral corticosteroids, and platelet transfusions
70
Platelet count higher than 30,000 but not higher than 50,000, with either immune thrombocytopenia or mild mucous membrane bleeding which requires oral corticosteroid therapy or intravenous immune globulin
30
Platelet count higher than 30,000 but not higher than 50,000, not requiring treatment
10
Platelet count above 50,000 and asymptomatic; or for immune thrombocytopenia in remission
0
Note (1):
Separately evaluate splenectomy under diagnostic code 7706 and combine with an evaluation under this diagnostic code
Note (2):
A 100 percent evaluation shall continue beyond the cessation of chemotherapy. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any reduction in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter
7706 Splenectomy
20
Note:
Separately rate complications such as systemic infections with encapsulated bacteria
Note:
Separately rate complications such as systemic infections with encapsulated bacteria
7707 Spleen, injury of, healed.
Rate for any residuals.
7709 Hodgkin's lymphoma:
With active disease or during a treatment phase
100
Note:
A 100 percent evaluation shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgical therapy, radiation therapy, antineoplastic chemotherapy, or other therapeutic procedures. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any reduction in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no local recurrence or metastasis, rate on residuals under the appropriate diagnostic code(s)
7710 Adenitis, tuberculous, active or inactive:
Rate under § 4.88c or 4.89 of this part, whichever is appropriate
7712 Multiple myeloma:
Symptomatic multiple myeloma
100
Asymptomatic, smoldering, or monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS)
0
Note (1):
Current validated biomarkers of symptomatic multiple myeloma and asymptomatic multiple myeloma, smoldering, or monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) are acceptable for the diagnosis of multiple myeloma as defined by the American Society of Hematology (ASH) and International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG)
Note (2):
The 100 percent evaluation shall continue for five years after the diagnosis of symptomatic multiple myeloma, at which time the appropriate disability evaluation shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any reduction in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) and § 3.344 (a) and (b) of this chapter
7714 Sickle cell anemia:
With at least 4 or more painful episodes per 12-month period, occurring in skin, joints, bones, or any major organs, caused by hemolysis and sickling of red blood cells, with anemia, thrombosis, and infarction, with residual symptoms precluding even light manual labor
100
With 3 painful episodes per 12-month period or with symptoms precluding other than light manual labor
60
With 1 or 2 painful episodes per 12-month period
30
Asymptomatic, established case in remission, but with identifiable organ impairment
10
Note:
Sickle cell trait alone, without a history of directly attributable pathological findings, is not a ratable disability. Cases of symptomatic sickle cell trait will be forwarded to the Director, Compensation Service, for consideration under § 3.321(b)(1) of this chapter
7715 Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma:
When there is active disease, during treatment phase, or with indolent and non-contiguous phase of low grade NHL
100
Note:
A 100 percent evaluation shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgical therapy, radiation therapy, antineoplastic chemotherapy, or other therapeutic procedures. Two years after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any reduction in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no recurrence, rate on residuals under the appropriate diagnostic code(s)
7716 Aplastic anemia:
Requiring peripheral blood or bone marrow stem cell transplant; or requiring transfusion of platelets or red cells, on average, at least once every six weeks per 12-month period; or infections recurring, on average, at least once every six weeks per 12-month period
100
Requiring transfusion of platelets or red cells, on average, at least once every three months per 12-month period; or infections recurring, on average, at least once every three months per 12-month period; or using continuous therapy with immunosuppressive agent or newer platelet stimulating factors
60
Requiring transfusion of platelets or red cells, on average, at least once per 12-month period; or infections recurring, on average, at least once per 12-month period
30
Note (1):
A 100 percent evaluation for peripheral blood or bone marrow stem cell transplant shall be assigned as of the date of hospital admission and shall continue with a mandatory VA examination six months following hospital discharge. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter
Note (2):
The term “newer platelet stimulating factors” includes medication, factors, or other agents approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration
7717 AL amyloidosis (primary amyloidosis)
100
7718 Essential thrombocythemia and primary myelofibrosis:
Requiring either continuous myelosuppressive therapy, or, for six months following hospital admission for any of the following treatments: peripheral blood or bone marrow stem cell transplant, or chemotherapy, or interferon treatment
100
Requiring continuous or intermittent myelosuppressive therapy, or chemotherapy, or interferon treatment to maintain platelet count
500 × 10
9
/L
70
Requiring continuous or intermittent myelosuppressive therapy, or chemotherapy, or interferon treatment to maintain platelet count of 200,000-400,000, or white blood cell (WBC) count of 4,000-10,000
30
Asymptomatic
0
Note (1):
If the condition undergoes leukemic transformation, evaluate as leukemia under diagnostic code 7703.
Note (2):
A 100 percent evaluation shall be assigned as of the date of hospital admission for peripheral blood or bone marrow stem cell transplant; or during the period of treatment with chemotherapy (including myelosuppressants) or interferon treatment. Six months following hospital discharge or, in the case of chemotherapy treatment, six months after completion of treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any reduction in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter.
7719 Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) (chronic myeloid leukemia or chronic granulocytic leukemia):
Requiring peripheral blood or bone marrow stem cell transplant, or continuous myelosuppressive or immunosuppressive therapy treatment
100
Requiring intermittent myelosuppressive therapy, or molecularly targeted therapy with tyrosine kinase inhibitors, or interferon treatment when not in apparent remission
60
In apparent remission on continuous molecularly targeted therapy with tyrosine kinase inhibitors
30
Note (1):
If the condition undergoes leukemic transformation, evaluate as leukemia under diagnostic code 7703
Note (2):
A 100 percent evaluation shall be assigned as of the date of hospital admission for peripheral blood or bone marrow stem cell transplant; or during the period of treatment with chemotherapy (including myelosuppressants). Six months following hospital discharge or, in the case of chemotherapy treatment, six months after completion of treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any reduction in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105 of this chapter
7720 Iron deficiency anemia:
Requiring intravenous iron infusions 4 or more times per 12-month period
30
Requiring intravenous iron infusions at least 1 time but less than 4 times per 12-month period, or requiring continuous treatment with oral supplementation
10
Asymptomatic or requiring treatment only by dietary modification
0
Note:
Do not evaluate iron deficiency anemia due to blood loss under this diagnostic code. Evaluate iron deficiency anemia due to blood loss under the criteria for the condition causing the blood loss
7721 Folic acid deficiency:
Requiring continuous treatment with high-dose oral supplementation
10
Asymptomatic or requiring treatment only by dietary modification
0
7722 Pernicious anemia and Vitamin B
12
deficiency anemia:
For initial diagnosis requiring transfusion due to severe anemia, or if there are signs or symptoms related to central nervous system impairment, such as encephalopathy, myelopathy, or severe peripheral neuropathy, requiring parenteral B
12
therapy
100
Requiring continuous treatment with Vitamin B
12
injections, Vitamin B
12
sublingual or high-dose oral tablets, or Vitamin B
12
nasal spray or gel
10
Note:
A 100 percent evaluation for pernicious anemia and Vitamin B
12
deficiency shall be assigned as of the date of the initial diagnosis requiring transfusion due to severe anemia or parenteral B
12
therapy and shall continue with a mandatory VA examination six months following hospital discharge or cessation of parenteral B
12
therapy. Any reduction in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. Thereafter, evaluate at 10 percent and separately evaluate any residual effects of pernicious anemia, such as neurologic involvement causing peripheral neuropathy, myelopathy, dementia, or related gastrointestinal residuals, under the most appropriate diagnostic code
7723 Acquired hemolytic anemia:
Requiring a bone marrow transplant or continuous intravenous or immunosuppressive therapy (e.g., prednisone, Cytoxan, azathioprine, or rituximab)
100
Requiring immunosuppressive medication 4 or more times per 12-month period
60
Requiring at least 2 but less than 4 courses of immunosuppressive therapy per 12-month period
30
Requiring one course of immunosuppressive therapy per 12-month period
10
Asymptomatic
0
Note (1):
A 100 percent evaluation for bone marrow transplant shall be assigned as of the date of hospital admission and shall continue for six months after hospital discharge with a mandatory VA examination six months following hospital discharge. Any reduction in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter
Note (2):
Separately evaluate splenectomy under diagnostic code 7706 and combine with an evaluation under diagnostic code 7723
7724 Solitary plasmacytoma:
Solitary plasmacytoma, when there is active disease or during a treatment phase
100
Note (1):
A 100 percent evaluation shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgical therapy, radiation therapy, antineoplastic chemotherapy, or other therapeutic procedures (including autologous stem cell transplantation). Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no recurrence, rate residuals under the appropriate diagnostic codes
Note (2):
Rate a solitary plasmacytoma that has developed into multiple myeloma as symptomatic multiple myeloma
Note (3):
Rate residuals of plasma cell dysplasia (e.g., thrombosis) and adverse effects of medical treatment (e.g., neuropathy) under the appropriate diagnostic codes
7725 Myelodysplastic syndromes:
Requiring peripheral blood or bone marrow stem cell transplant; or requiring chemotherapy
100
Requiring 4 or more blood or platelet transfusions per 12-month period; or infections requiring hospitalization 3 or more times per 12-month period
60
Requiring at least 1 but no more than 3 blood or platelet transfusions per 12-month period; infections requiring hospitalization at least 1 but no more than 2 times per 12-month period; or requiring biologic therapy on an ongoing basis or erythropoiesis stimulating agent (ESA) for 12 weeks or less per 12-month period
30
Note (1):
If the condition progresses to leukemia, evaluate as leukemia under diagnostic code 7703
Note (2):
A 100 percent evaluation shall be assigned as of the date of hospital admission for peripheral blood or bone marrow stem cell transplant, or during the period of treatment with chemotherapy, and shall continue with a mandatory VA examination six months following hospital discharge or, in the case of chemotherapy treatment, six months after completion of treatment. Any reduction in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no recurrence, residuals will be rated under the appropriate diagnostic codes
[60 FR 49227, Sept. 22, 1995, as amended at 77 FR 6467, Feb. 8, 2012; 79 FR 2100, Jan. 13, 2014; 83 FR 54254, Oct. 29, 2018; 83 FR 54881, Nov. 1, 2018; 87 FR 61248, Oct. 11, 2022]

# The Skin
§ 4.118
Schedule of ratings—skin.
(a) For the purposes of this section, systemic therapy is treatment that is administered through any route (orally, injection, suppository, intranasally) other than the skin, and topical therapy is treatment that is administered through the skin.
(b) Two or more skin conditions may be combined in accordance with § 4.25 only if separate areas of skin are involved. If two or more skin conditions involve the same area of skin, then only the highest evaluation shall be used.
Rating
7800 Burn scar(s) of the head, face, or neck; scar(s) of the head, face, or neck due to other causes; or other disfigurement of the head, face, or neck:
With visible or palpable tissue loss and either gross distortion or asymmetry of three or more features or paired sets of features (nose, chin, forehead, eyes (including eyelids), ears (auricles), cheeks, lips), or; with six or more characteristics of disfigurement
80
With visible or palpable tissue loss and either gross distortion or asymmetry of two features or paired sets of features (nose, chin, forehead, eyes (including eyelids), ears (auricles), cheeks, lips), or; with four or five characteristics of disfigurement
50
With visible or palpable tissue loss and either gross distortion or asymmetry of one feature or paired set of features (nose, chin, forehead, eyes (including eyelids), ears (auricles), cheeks, lips), or; with two or three characteristics of disfigurement
30
With one characteristic of disfigurement
10
Note (1):
The 8 characteristics of disfigurement, for purposes of evaluation under § 4.118, are:
Scar 5 or more inches (13 or more cm.) in length.
Scar at least one-quarter inch (0.6 cm.) wide at widest part.
Surface contour of scar elevated or depressed on palpation.
Scar adherent to underlying tissue.
Skin hypo-or hyper-pigmented in an area exceeding six square inches (39 sq. cm.).
Skin texture abnormal (irregular, atrophic, shiny, scaly, etc.) in an area exceeding six square inches (39 sq. cm.).
Underlying soft tissue missing in an area exceeding six square inches (39 sq. cm.).
Skin indurated and inflexible in an area exceeding six square inches (39 sq. cm.).
Note (2):
Rate tissue loss of the auricle under DC 6207 (loss of auricle) and anatomical loss of the eye under DC 6061 (anatomical loss of both eyes) or DC 6063 (anatomical loss of one eye), as appropriate.
Note (3):
Take into consideration unretouched color photographs when evaluating under these criteria.
Note (4):
Separately evaluate disabling effects other than disfigurement that are associated with individual scar(s) of the head, face, or neck, such as pain, instability, and residuals of associated muscle or nerve injury, under the appropriate diagnostic code(s) and apply § 4.25 to combine the evaluation(s) with the evaluation assigned under this diagnostic code.
Note (5):
The characteristic(s) of disfigurement may be caused by one scar or by multiple scars; the characteristic(s) required to assign a particular evaluation need not be caused by a single scar in order to assign that evaluation.
7801 Burn scar(s) or scar(s) due to other causes, not of the head, face, or neck, that are associated with underlying soft tissue damage:
Area or areas of 144 square inches (929 sq. cm.) or greater
40
Area or areas of at least 72 square inches (465 sq. cm.) but less than 144 square inches (929 sq. cm.)
30
Area or areas of at least 12 square inches (77 sq. cm.) but less than 72 square inches (465 sq. cm.)
20
Area or areas of at least 6 square inches (39 sq. cm.) but less than 12 square inches (77 sq. cm.)
10
Note (1):
For the purposes of DCs 7801 and 7802, the six (6) zones of the body are defined as each extremity, anterior trunk, and posterior trunk. The midaxillary line divides the anterior trunk from the posterior trunk
Note (2):
A separate evaluation may be assigned for each affected zone of the body under this diagnostic code if there are multiple scars, or a single scar, affecting multiple zones of the body. Combine the separate evaluations under § 4.25. Alternatively, if a higher evaluation would result from adding the areas affected from multiple zones of the body, a single evaluation may also be assigned under this diagnostic code
7802 Burn scar(s) or scar(s) due to other causes, not of the head, face, or neck, that are not associated with underlying soft tissue damage:
Area or areas of 144 square inches (929 sq. cm.) or greater
10
Note (1):
For the purposes of DCs 7801 and 7802, the six (6) zones of the body are defined as each extremity, anterior trunk, and posterior trunk. The midaxillary line divides the anterior trunk from the posterior trunk
Note (2):
A separate evaluation may be assigned for each affected zone of the body under this diagnostic code if there are multiple scars, or a single scar, affecting multiple zones of the body. Combine the separate evaluations under § 4.25. Alternatively, if a higher evaluation would result from adding the areas affected from multiple zones of the body, a single evaluation may also be assigned under this diagnostic code
7804 Scar(s), unstable or painful:
Five or more scars that are unstable or painful
30
Three or four scars that are unstable or painful
20
One or two scars that are unstable or painful
10
Note (1):
An unstable scar is one where, for any reason, there is frequent loss of covering of skin over the scar.
Note (2):
If one or more scars are both unstable and painful, add 10 percent to the evaluation that is based on the total number of unstable or painful scars
Note (3):
Scars evaluated under diagnostic codes 7800, 7801, 7802, or 7805 may also receive an evaluation under this diagnostic code, when applicable
7805 Scars, other; and other effects of scars evaluated under diagnostic codes 7800, 7801, 7802, or 7804:
Evaluate any disabling effect(s) not considered in a rating provided under diagnostic codes 7800-04 under an appropriate diagnostic code
General Rating Formula For The Skin For DCs 7806, 7809, 7813-7816, 7820-7822, and 7824:
At least one of the following
60
Characteristic lesions involving more than 40 percent of the entire body or more than 40 percent of exposed areas affected; or
Constant or near-constant systemic therapy including, but not limited to, corticosteroids, phototherapy, retinoids, biologics, photochemotherapy, psoralen with long-wave ultraviolet-A light (PUVA), or other immunosuppressive drugs required over the past 12-month period
60
At least one of the following
30
Characteristic lesions involving 20 to 40 percent of the entire body or 20 to 40 percent of exposed areas affected; or Systemic therapy including, but not limited to, corticosteroids, phototherapy, retinoids, biologics, photochemotherapy, PUVA, or other immunosuppressive drugs required for a total duration of 6 weeks or more, but not constantly, over the past 12-month period
At least one of the following
10
Characteristic lesions involving at least 5 percent, but less than 20 percent, of the entire body affected; or
At least 5 percent, but less than 20 percent, of exposed areas affected; or
Intermittent systemic therapy including, but not limited to, corticosteroids, phototherapy, retinoids, biologics, photochemotherapy, PUVA, or other immunosuppressive drugs required for a total duration of less than 6 weeks over the past 12-month period
No more than topical therapy required over the past 12-month period and at least one of the following
0
Characteristic lesions involving less than 5 percent of the entire body affected; or
Characteristic lesions involving less than 5 percent of exposed areas affected
Or rate as disfigurement of the head, face, or neck (DC 7800) or scars (DCs 7801, 7802, 7804, or 7805), depending upon the predominant disability. This rating instruction does not apply to DC 7824
7806 Dermatitis or eczema.
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for the Skin
7807 American (New World) leishmaniasis (mucocutaneous, espundia):
Rate as disfigurement of the head, face, or neck (DC 7800), scars (DC's 7801, 7802, 7803, 7804, or 7805), or dermatitis (DC 7806), depending upon the predominant disability
Note:
Evaluate non-cutaneous (visceral) leishmaniasis under DC 6301 (visceral leishmaniasis).
7808 Old World leishmaniasis (cutaneous, Oriental sore):
Rate as disfigurement of the head, face, or neck (DC 7800), scars (DC's, 7801, 7802, 7803, 7804, or 7805), or dermatitis (DC 7806), depending upon the predominant disabililty
Note:
Evaluate non-cutaneous (visceral) leishmaniasis under DC 6301 (visceral leishmaniasis).
7809 Discoid lupus erythematosus.
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for the Skin
Note:
Do not combine with ratings under DC 6350
7811 Tuberculosis luposa (lupus vulgaris), active or inactive:
Rate under §§ 4.88c or 4.89, whichever is appropriate
7813 Dermatophytosis (ringworm: Of body, tinea corporis; of head, tinea capitis; of feet, tinea pedis; of beard area, tinea barbae; of nails, tinea unguium (onychomycosis); of inguinal area (jock itch), tinea cruris; tinea versicolor).
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for the Skin
7815 Bullous disorders (including pemphigus vulgaris, pemphigus foliaceous, bullous pemphigoid, dermatitis herpetiformis, epidermolysis bullosa acquisita, benign chronic familial pemphigus (Hailey-Hailey), and porphyria cutanea tarda).
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for the Skin
Note:
Rate complications and residuals of mucosal involvement (ocular, oral, gastrointestinal, respiratory, or genitourinary) separately under the appropriate diagnostic code
7816 Psoriasis.
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for the Skin
Note:
Rate complications such as psoriatic arthritis and other clinical manifestations (
e.g.,
oral mucosa, nails) separately under the appropriate diagnostic code
7817 Erythroderma:
Generalized involvement of the skin with systemic manifestations (such as fever, weight loss, or hypoproteinemia) AND one of the following
100
Constant or near-constant systemic therapy such as therapeutic doses of corticosteroids, other immunosuppressive drugs, retinoids, PUVA (psoralen with long-wave ultraviolet-A light), UVB (ultraviolet-B light) treatments, biologics, or electron beam therapy required over the past 12 month period; or
No current treatment due to a documented history of treatment failure with 2 or more treatment regimens
100
Generalized involvement of the skin without systemic manifestations and one of the following
Constant or near-constant systemic therapy such as therapeutic doses of corticosteroids, other immunosuppressive drugs, retinoids, PUVA, UVB treatments, biologics, or electron beam therapy required over the past 12-month period; or
No current treatment due to a documented history of treatment failure with 1 treatment regimen
60
Any extent of involvement of the skin, and any of the following therapies required for a total duration of 6 weeks or more, but not constantly, over the past 12-month period: systemic therapy such as therapeutic doses of corticosteroids, other immunosuppressive drugs, retinoids, PUVA, UVB treatments, biologics, or electron beam therapy
30
Any extent of involvement of the skin, and any of the following therapies required for a total duration of less than 6 weeks over the past 12-month period: systemic therapy such as therapeutic doses of corticosteroids, other immunosuppressive drugs, retinoids, PUVA, UVB treatments, biologics, or electron beam therapy
10
Any extent of involvement of the skin, and no more than topical therapy required over the past 12-month period
0
Note:
Treatment failure is defined as either disease progression, or less than a 25 percent reduction in the extent and severity of disease after four weeks of prescribed therapy, as documented by medical records
7818 Malignant skin neoplasms (other than malignant melanoma):
Rate as disfigurement of the head, face, or neck (DC 7800), scars (DC's 7801, 7802, 7803, 7804, or 7805), or impairment of function
Note:
If a skin malignancy requires therapy that is comparable to that used for systemic malignancies,
i.e.
, systemic chemotherapy, X-ray therapy more extensive than to the skin, or surgery more extensive than wide local excision, a 100-percent evaluation will be assigned from the date of onset of treatment, and will continue, with a mandatory VA examination six months following the completion of such antineoplastic treatment, and any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination will be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no local recurrence or metastasis, evaluation will then be made on residuals. If treatment is confined to the skin, the provisions for a 100-percent evaluation do not apply.
7819 Benign skin neoplasms:
Rate as disfigurement of the head, face, or neck (DC 7800), scars (DC's 7801, 7802, 7803, 7804, or 7805), or impairment of function
7820 Infections of the skin not listed elsewhere (including bacterial, fungal, viral, treponemal, and parasitic diseases).
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for the Skin
7821 Cutaneous manifestations of collagen-vascular diseases not listed elsewhere (including scleroderma, calcinosis cutis, subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus, and dermatomyositis).
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for the Skin
7822 Papulosquamous disorders not listed elsewhere (including lichen planus, large or small plaque parapsoriasis, pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (PLEVA), lymphomatoid papulosus, mycosis fungoides, and pityriasis rubra pilaris (PRP)).
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for the Skin
7823 Vitiligo:
With exposed areas affected
10
With no exposed areas affected
0
7824 Diseases of keratinization (including icthyoses, Darier's disease, and palmoplantar keratoderma).
Evaluate under the General Rating Formula for the Skin
7825 Chronic urticaria:
For the purposes of this diagnostic code, chronic urticaria is defined as continuous urticaria at least twice per week, off treatment, for a period of six weeks or more
Chronic refractory urticaria that requires third line treatment for control (e.g., plasmapheresis, immunotherapy, immunosuppressives) due to ineffectiveness with first and second line treatments
60
Chronic urticaria that requires second line treatment (e.g., corticosteroids, sympathomimetics, leukotriene inhibitors, neutrophil inhibitors, thyroid hormone) for control
30
Chronic urticaria that requires first line treatment (antihistamines) for control
10
7826 Vasculitis, primary cutaneous:
Persistent documented vasculitis episodes refractory to continuous immunosuppressive therapy
60
All of the following
30
Recurrent documented vasculitic episodes occurring four or more times over the past 12-month period; and
Requiring intermittent systemic immunosuppressive therapy for control
30
At least one of the following
10
Recurrent documented vasculitic episodes occurring one to three times over the past 12-month period, and requiring intermittent systemic immunosuppressive therapy for control; or
Without recurrent documented vasculitic episodes but requiring continuous systemic medication for control
Or rate as disfigurement of the head, face, or neck (DC 7800) or scars (DCs 7801, 7802, 7804, or 7805), depending upon the predominant disability
7827 Erythema multiforme; Toxic epidermal necrolysis:
Recurrent mucosal, palmar, or plantar involvement impairing mastication, use of hands, or ambulation occurring four or more times over the past 12-month period despite ongoing immunosuppressive therapy
60
All of the following
30
Recurrent mucosal, palmar, or plantar involvement not impairing mastication, use of hands, or ambulation, occurring four or more times over the past 12-month period; andrequiring intermittent systemic therapy
At least one of the following
10
One to three episodes of mucosal, palmar, or plantar involvement not impairing mastication, use of hands, or ambulation, occurring over the past 12-month period AND requiring intermittent systemic therapy; or
Without recurrent episodes, but requiring continuous systemic medication for control
Or rate as disfigurement of the head, face, or neck (DC 7800) or scars (DCs 7801, 7802, 7804, or 7805), depending upon the predominant disability
Note:
For the purposes of this DC only, systemic therapy may consist of one or more of the following treatment agents: immunosuppressives, antihistamines, or sympathomimetics
7828 Acne:
Deep acne (deep inflamed nodules and pus-filled cysts) affecting 40 percent or more of the face and neck
30
Deep acne (deep inflamed nodules and pus-filled cysts) affecting less than 40 percent of the face and neck, or deep acne other than on the face and neck
10
Superficial acne (comedones, papules, pustules) of any extent
0
Or rate as disfigurement of the head, face, or neck (DC 7800) or scars (DCs 7801, 7802, 7804, or 7805), depending upon the predominant disability
7829 Chloracne:
Deep acne (deep inflamed nodules and pus-filled cysts) affecting 40 percent or more of the face and neck
30
Deep acne (deep inflamed nodules and pus-filled cysts) affecting the intertriginous areas (the axilla of the arm, the anogenital region, skin folds of the breasts, or between digits)
20
Deep acne (deep inflamed nodules and pus-filled cysts) affecting less than 40 percent of the face and neck; or deep acne affecting non-intertriginous areas of the body (other than the face and neck)
10
Superficial acne (comedones, papules, pustules) of any extent
0
Or rate as disfigurement of the head, face, or neck (DC 7800) or scars (DCs 7801, 7802, 7804, or 7805), depending upon the predominant disability
7830 Scarring alopecia:
Affecting more than 40 percent of the scalp
20
Affecting 20 to 40 percent of the scalp
10
Affecting less than 20 percent of the scalp
0
7831 Alopecia areata:
With loss of all body hair
10
With loss of hair limited to scalp and face
0
7832 Hyperhidrosis:
Unable to handle paper or tools because of moisture, and unresponsive to therapy
30
Able to handle paper or tools after therapy
0
7833 Malignant melanoma:
Rate as scars (DC's 7801, 7802, 7803, 7804, or 7805), disfigurement of the head, face, or neck (DC 7800), or impairment of function (under the appropriate body system)
Note:
If a skin malignancy requires therapy that is comparable to that used for systemic malignancies,
i.e.
, systemic chemotherapy, X-ray therapy more extensive than to the skin, or surgery more extensive than wide local excision, a 100-percent evaluation will be assigned from the date of onset of treatment, and will continue, with a mandatory VA examination six months following the completion of such antineoplastic treatment, and any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination will be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e). If there has been no local recurrence or metastasis, evaluation will then be made on residuals. If treatment is confined to the skin, the provisions for a 100-percent evaluation do not apply.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[67 FR 49596, July 31, 2002; 67 FR 58448, 58449, Sept. 16, 2002; 73 FR 54710, Oct. 23, 2008; 77 FR 2910, Jan. 20, 2012; 83 FR 32597, July 13, 2018; 83 FR 38663, Aug. 7, 2018]

# The Endocrine System
§ 4.119
Schedule of ratings—endocrine system.
Rating
7900 Hyperthyroidism, including, but not limited to, Graves' disease:
For six months after initial diagnosis
30
Thereafter, rate residuals of disease or complications of medical treatment within the appropriate diagnostic code(s) within the appropriate body system.
Note (1): If hyperthyroid cardiovascular or cardiac disease is present, separately evaluate under DC 7008 (hyperthyroid heart disease).
Note (2): Separately evaluate eye involvement occurring as a manifestation of Graves' Disease as diplopia (DC 6090); impairment of central visual acuity (DCs 6061-6066); or under the most appropriate DCs in § 4.79.
7901 Thyroid enlargement, toxic:
Note (1): Evaluate symptoms of hyperthyroidism under DC 7900, hyperthyroidism, including, but not limited to, Graves' disease.
Note (2): If disfigurement of the neck is present due to thyroid disease or enlargement, separately evaluate under DC 7800 (burn scar(s) of the head, face, or neck; scar(s) of the head, face, or neck due to other causes; or other disfigurement of the head, face, or neck).
7902 Thyroid enlargement, nontoxic:
Note (1): Evaluate symptoms due to pressure on adjacent organs (such as the trachea, larynx, or esophagus) under the appropriate diagnostic code(s) within the appropriate body system.
Note (2): If disfigurement of the neck is present due to thyroid disease or enlargement, separately evaluate under DC 7800 (burn scar(s) of the head, face, or neck; scar(s) of the head, face, or neck due to other causes; or other disfigurement of the head, face, or neck).
7903 Hypothyroidism:
Hypothyroidism manifesting as myxedema (cold intolerance, muscular weakness, cardiovascular involvement (including, but not limited to hypotension, bradycardia, and pericardial effusion), and mental disturbance (including, but not limited to dementia, slowing of thought and depression))
100
Note (1): This evaluation shall continue for six months beyond the date that an examining physician has determined crisis stabilization. Thereafter, the residual effects of hypothyroidism shall be rated under the appropriate diagnostic code(s) within the appropriate body system(s) (
e.g.,
eye, digestive, and mental disorders).
Hypothyroidism without myxedema
30
Note (2): This evaluation shall continue for six months after initial diagnosis. Thereafter, rate residuals of disease or medical treatment under the most appropriate diagnostic code(s) under the appropriate body system (
e.g.,
eye, digestive, mental disorders).
Note (3): If eye involvement, such as exophthalmos, corneal ulcer, blurred vision, or diplopia, is also present due to thyroid disease, also separately evaluate under the appropriate diagnostic code(s) in § 4.79, Schedule of Ratings—Eye (such as diplopia (DC 6090) or impairment of central visual acuity (DCs 6061-6066)).
7904 Hyperparathyroidism:
For six months from date of discharge following surgery
100
Note (1): After six months, rate on residuals under the appropriate diagnostic code(s) within the appropriate body system(s) based on a VA examination.
Hypercalcemia (indicated by at least one of the following: Total Ca greater than 12 mg/dL (3-3.5 mmol/L), Ionized Ca greater than 5.6 mg/dL (2-2.5 mmol/L), creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/min, bone mineral density T-score less than 2.5 SD (below mean) at any site or previous fragility fracture)
60
Note (2): Where surgical intervention is indicated, this evaluation shall continue until the day of surgery, at which time the provisions pertaining to a 100-percent evaluation shall apply.
Note (3): Where surgical intervention is not indicated, this evaluation shall continue for six months after pharmacologic treatment begins. After six months, rate on residuals under the appropriate diagnostic code(s) within the appropriate body system(s) based on a VA examination.
Symptoms such as fatigue, anorexia, nausea, or constipation that occur despite surgery; or in individuals who are not candidates for surgery but require continuous medication for control
10
Asymptomatic
0
Note (4): Following surgery or other treatment, evaluate chronic residuals, such as nephrolithiasis (kidney stones), decreased renal function, fractures, vision problems, and cardiovascular complications, under the appropriate diagnostic codes.
7905 Hypoparathyroidism:
For three months after initial diagnosis
100
Thereafter, evaluate chronic residuals, such as nephrolithiasis (kidney stones), cataracts, decreased renal function, and congestive heart failure under the appropriate diagnostic codes.
7906 Thyroiditis:
With normal thyroid function (euthyroid)
0
Note: Manifesting as hyperthyroidism, evaluate as hyperthyroidism, including, but not limited to, Graves' disease (DC 7900); manifesting as hypothyroidism, evaluate as hypothyroidism (DC 7903).
7907 Cushing's syndrome:
As active, progressive disease, including areas of osteoporosis, hypertension, and proximal upper and lower extremity muscle wasting that results in inability to rise from squatting position, climb stairs, rise from a deep chair without assistance, or raise arms
100
Proximal upper or lower extremity muscle wasting that results in inability to rise from squatting position, climb stairs, rise from a deep chair without assistance, or raise arms
60
With striae, obesity, moon face, glucose intolerance, and vascular fragility
30
Note: The evaluations specifically indicated under this diagnostic code shall continue for six months following initial diagnosis. After six months, rate on residuals under the appropriate diagnostic code(s) within the appropriate body system(s).
7908 Acromegaly:
Evidence of increased intracranial pressure (such as visual field defect), arthropathy, glucose intolerance, and either hypertension or cardiomegaly
100
Arthropathy, glucose intolerance, and hypertension
60
Enlargement of acral parts or overgrowth of long bones
30
7909 Diabetes insipidus:
For three months after initial diagnosis
30
Note: Thereafter, if diabetes insipidus has subsided, rate residuals under the appropriate diagnostic code(s) within the appropriate body system.
With persistent polyuria or requiring continuous hormonal therapy
10
7911 Addison's disease (adrenocortical insufficiency):
Four or more crises during the past year
60
Three crises during the past year, or; five or more episodes during the past year
40
One or two crises during the past year, or; two to four episodes during the past year, or; weakness and fatigability, or; corticosteroid therapy required for control
20
Note (1): An Addisonian “crisis” consists of the rapid onset of peripheral vascular collapse (with acute hypotension and shock), with findings that may include: anorexia; nausea; vomiting; dehydration; profound weakness; pain in abdomen, legs, and back; fever; apathy, and depressed mentation with possible progression to coma, renal shutdown, and death.
Note (2): An Addisonian “episode,” for VA purposes, is a less acute and less severe event than an Addisonian crisis and may consist of anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dehydration, weakness, malaise, orthostatic hypotension, or hypoglycemia, but no peripheral vascular collapse.
Note (3): Tuberculous Addison's disease will be evaluated as active or inactive tuberculosis. If inactive, these evaluations are not to be combined with the graduated ratings of 50 percent or 30 percent for non-pulmonary tuberculosis specified under § 4.88b. Assign the higher rating.
7912 Polyglandular syndrome (multiple endocrine neoplasia, autoimmune polyglandular syndrome):
Evaluate according to major manifestations to include, but not limited to, Type I diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, or Addison's disease.
7913 Diabetes mellitus:
Requiring more than one daily injection of insulin, restricted diet, and regulation of activities (avoidance of strenuous occupational and recreational activities) with episodes of ketoacidosis or hypoglycemic reactions requiring at least three hospitalizations per year or weekly visits to a diabetic care provider, plus either progressive loss of weight and strength or complications that would be compensable if separately evaluated
100
Requiring one or more daily injection of insulin, restricted diet, and regulation of activities with episodes of ketoacidosis or hypoglycemic reactions requiring one or two hospitalizations per year or twice a month visits to a diabetic care provider, plus complications that would not be compensable if separately evaluated
60
Requiring one or more daily injection of insulin, restricted diet, and regulation of activities
40
Requiring one or more daily injection of insulin and restricted diet, or; oral hypoglycemic agent and restricted diet
20
Manageable by restricted diet only
10
Note (1): Evaluate compensable complications of diabetes separately unless they are part of the criteria used to support a 100-percent evaluation. Noncompensable complications are considered part of the diabetic process under DC 7913.
Note (2): When diabetes mellitus has been conclusively diagnosed, do not request a glucose tolerance test solely for rating purposes.
7914 Neoplasm, malignant, any specified part of the endocrine system
100
Note:
A rating of 100 percent shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgical, X-ray, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other therapeutic procedure. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no local recurrence or metastasis, rate on residuals.
7915 Neoplasm, benign, any specified part of the endocrine system:
Rate as residuals of endocrine dysfunction.
7916 Hyperpituitarism (prolactin secreting pituitary dysfunction):
Note: Evaluate as malignant or benign neoplasm, as appropriate.
7917 Hyperaldosteronism (benign or malignant):
Note: Evaluate as malignant or benign neoplasm, as appropriate.
7918 Pheochromocytoma (benign or malignant):
Note: Evaluate as malignant or benign neoplasm as appropriate.
7919 C-cell hyperplasia of the thyroid:
If antineoplastic therapy is required, evaluate as a malignant neoplasm under DC 7914. If a prophylactic thyroidectomy is performed (based upon genetic testing) and antineoplastic therapy is not required, evaluate as hypothyroidism under DC 7903.
[61 FR 20446, May 7, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 50804, Nov. 2, 2017]

# Neurological Conditions and Convulsive Disorders
§ 4.120
Evaluations by comparison.
Disability in this field is ordinarily to be rated in proportion to the impairment of motor, sensory or mental function. Consider especially psychotic manifestations, complete or partial loss of use of one or more extremities, speech disturbances, impairment of vision, disturbances of gait, tremors, visceral manifestations, injury to the skull, etc. In rating disability from the conditions in the preceding sentence refer to the appropriate schedule. In rating peripheral nerve injuries and their residuals, attention should be given to the site and character of the injury, the relative impairment in motor function, trophic changes, or sensory disturbances.
§ 4.121
Identification of epilepsy.
When there is doubt as to the true nature of epileptiform attacks, neurological observation in a hospital adequate to make such a study is necessary. To warrant a rating for epilepsy, the seizures must be witnessed or verified at some time by a physician. As to frequency, competent, consistent lay testimony emphasizing convulsive and immediate post-convulsive characteristics may be accepted. The frequency of seizures should be ascertained under the ordinary conditions of life (while not hospitalized).
§ 4.122
Psychomotor epilepsy.
The term psychomotor epilepsy refers to a condition that is characterized by seizures and not uncommonly by a chronic psychiatric disturbance as well.
(a) Psychomotor seizures consist of episodic alterations in conscious control that may be associated with automatic states, generalized convulsions, random motor movements (chewing, lip smacking, fumbling), hallucinatory phenomena (involving taste, smell, sound, vision), perceptual illusions (deja vu, feelings of loneliness, strangeness, macropsia, micropsia, dreamy states), alterations in thinking (not open to reason), alterations in memory, abnormalities of mood or affect (fear, alarm, terror, anger, dread, well-
being), and autonomic disturbances (sweating, pallor, flushing of the face, visceral phenomena such as nausea, vomiting, defecation, a rising feeling of warmth in the abdomen). Automatic states or automatisms are characterized by episodes of irrational, irrelevant, disjointed, unconventional, asocial, purposeless though seemingly coordinated and purposeful, confused or inappropriate activity of one to several minutes (or, infrequently, hours) duration with subsequent amnesia for the seizure. Examples: A person of high social standing remained seated, muttered angrily, and rubbed the arms of his chair while the National Anthem was being played; an apparently normal person suddenly disrobed in public; a man traded an expensive automobile for an antiquated automobile in poor mechanical condition and after regaining conscious control, discovered that he had signed an agreement to pay an additional sum of money in the trade. The seizure manifestations of psychomotor epilepsy vary from patient to patient and in the same patient from seizure to seizure.
(b) A chronic mental disorder is not uncommon as an interseizure manifestation of psychomotor epilepsy and may include psychiatric disturbances extending from minimal anxiety to severe personality disorder (as distinguished from developmental) or almost complete personality disintegration (psychosis). The manifestations of a chronic mental disorder associated with psychomotor epilepsy, like those of the seizures, are protean in character.
§ 4.123
Neuritis, cranial or peripheral.
Neuritis, cranial or peripheral, characterized by loss of reflexes, muscle atrophy, sensory disturbances, and constant pain, at times excruciating, is to be rated on the scale provided for injury of the nerve involved, with a maximum equal to severe, incomplete, paralysis. See nerve involved for diagnostic code number and rating. The maximum rating which may be assigned for neuritis not characterized by organic changes referred to in this section will be that for moderate, or with sciatic nerve involvement, for moderately severe, incomplete paralysis.
§ 4.124
Neuralgia, cranial or peripheral.
Neuralgia, cranial or peripheral, characterized usually by a dull and intermittent pain, of typical distribution so as to identify the nerve, is to be rated on the same scale, with a maximum equal to moderate incomplete paralysis. See nerve involved for diagnostic code number and rating. Tic douloureux, or trifacial neuralgia, may be rated up to complete paralysis of the affected nerve.
§ 4.124a
Schedule of ratings—neurological conditions and convulsive disorders.
[With the exceptions noted, disability from the following diseases and their residuals may be rated from 10 percent to 100 percent in proportion to the impairment of motor, sensory, or mental function. Consider especially psychotic manifestations, complete or partial loss of use of one or more extremities, speech disturbances, impairment of vision, disturbances of gait, tremors, visceral manifestations, etc., referring to the appropriate bodily system of the schedule. With partial loss of use of one or more extremities from neurological lesions, rate by comparison with the mild, moderate, severe, or complete paralysis of peripheral nerves]
Organic Diseases of the Central Nervous System
Rating
8000 Encephalitis, epidemic, chronic:
As active febrile disease
100
Rate residuals, minimum
10
Brain, new growth of:
8002 Malignant
100
Note:
The rating in code 8002 will be continued for 2 years following cessation of surgical, chemotherapeutic or other treatment modality. At this point, if the residuals have stabilized, the rating will be made on neurological residuals according to symptomatology.
Minimum rating
30
8003 Benign, minimum
60
Rate residuals, minimum
10
8004 Paralysis agitans:
Minimum rating
30
8005 Bulbar palsy
100
8007 Brain, vessels, embolism of.
8008 Brain, vessels, thrombosis of.
8009 Brain, vessels, hemorrhage from:
Rate the vascular conditions under Codes 8007 through 8009, for 6 months
100
Rate residuals, thereafter, minimum
10
8010 Myelitis:
Minimum rating
10
8011 Poliomyelitis, anterior:
As active febrile disease
100
Rate residuals, minimum
10
8012 Hematomyelia:
For 6 months
100
Rate residuals, minimum
10
8013 Syphilis, cerebrospinal.
8014 Syphilis, meningovascular.
8015 Tabes dorsalis.
Note:
Rate upon the severity of convulsions, paralysis, visual impairment or psychotic involvement, etc.
8017 Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
100
Note:
Consider the need for special monthly compensation.
8018 Multiple sclerosis:
Minimum rating
30
8019 Meningitis, cerebrospinal, epidemic:
As active febrile disease
100
Rate residuals, minimum
10
8020 Brain, abscess of:
As active disease
100
Rate residuals, minimum
10
Spinal cord, new growths of:
8021 Malignant
100
Note:
The rating in code 8021 will be continued for 2 years following cessation of surgical, chemotherapeutic or other treatment modality. At this point, if the residuals have stabilized, the rating will be made on neurological residuals according to symptomatology.
Minimum rating
30
8022 Benign, minimum rating
60
Rate residuals, minimum
10
8023 Progressive muscular atrophy:
Minimum rating
30
8024 Syringomyelia:
Minimum rating
30
8025 Myasthenia gravis:
Minimum rating
30
Note:
It is required for the minimum ratings for residuals under diagnostic codes 8000-8025, that there be ascertainable residuals. Determinations as to the presence of residuals not capable of objective verification,
i.e.
, headaches, dizziness, fatigability, must be approached on the basis of the diagnosis recorded; subjective residuals will be accepted when consistent with the disease and not more likely attributable to other disease or no disease. It is of exceptional importance that when ratings in excess of the prescribed minimum ratings are assigned, the diagnostic codes utilized as bases of evaluation be cited, in addition to the codes identifying the diagnoses.
8045 Residuals of traumatic brain injury (TBI):
There are three main areas of dysfunction that may result from TBI and have profound effects on functioning: cognitive (which is common in varying degrees after TBI), emotional/behavioral, and physical. Each of these areas of dysfunction may require evaluation.
Cognitive impairment is defined as decreased memory, concentration, attention, and executive functions of the brain. Executive functions are goal setting, speed of information processing, planning, organizing, prioritizing, self-monitoring, problem solving, judgment, decision making, spontaneity, and flexibility in changing actions when they are not productive. Not all of these brain functions may be affected in a given individual with cognitive impairment, and some functions may be affected more severely than others. In a given individual, symptoms may fluctuate in severity from day to day. Evaluate cognitive impairment under the table titled “Evaluation of Cognitive Impairment and Other Residuals of TBI Not Otherwise Classified.”
Subjective symptoms may be the only residual of TBI or may be associated with cognitive impairment or other areas of dysfunction. Evaluate subjective symptoms that are residuals of TBI, whether or not they are part of cognitive impairment, under the subjective symptoms facet in the table titled “Evaluation of Cognitive Impairment and Other Residuals of TBI Not Otherwise Classified.” However, separately evaluate any residual with a distinct diagnosis that may be evaluated under another diagnostic code, such as migraine headache or Meniere's disease, even if that diagnosis is based on subjective symptoms, rather than under the “Evaluation of Cognitive Impairment and Other Residuals of TBI Not Otherwise Classified” table
Evaluate emotional/behavioral dysfunction under § 4.130 (Schedule of ratings—mental disorders) when there is a diagnosis of a mental disorder. When there is no diagnosis of a mental disorder, evaluate emotional/behavioral symptoms under the criteria in the table titled “Evaluation of Cognitive Impairment and Other Residuals of TBI Not Otherwise Classified.”
Evaluate physical (including neurological) dysfunction based on the following list, under an appropriate diagnostic code: Motor and sensory dysfunction, including pain, of the extremities and face; visual impairment; hearing loss and tinnitus; loss of sense of smell and taste; seizures; gait, coordination, and balance problems; speech and other communication difficulties, including aphasia and related disorders, and dysarthria; neurogenic bladder; neurogenic bowel; cranial nerve dysfunctions; autonomic nerve dysfunctions; and endocrine dysfunctions.
The preceding list of types of physical dysfunction does not encompass all possible residuals of TBI. For residuals not listed here that are reported on an examination, evaluate under the most appropriate diagnostic code. Evaluate each condition separately, as long as the same signs and symptoms are not used to support more than one evaluation, and combine under § 4.25 the evaluations for each separately rated condition. The evaluation assigned based on the “Evaluation of Cognitive Impairment and Other Residuals of TBI Not Otherwise Classified” table will be considered the evaluation for a single condition for purposes of combining with other disability evaluations
Consider the need for special monthly compensation for such problems as loss of use of an extremity, certain sensory impairments, erectile dysfunction, the need for aid and attendance (including for protection from hazards or dangers incident to the daily environment due to cognitive impairment), being housebound, etc
Evaluation of Cognitive Impairment and Subjective Symptoms
The table titled “Evaluation of Cognitive Impairment and Other Residuals of TBI Not Otherwise Classified” contains 10 important facets of TBI related to cognitive impairment and subjective symptoms. It provides criteria for levels of impairment for each facet, as appropriate, ranging from 0 to 3, and a 5th level, the highest level of impairment, labeled “total.” However, not every facet has every level of severity. The Consciousness facet, for example, does not provide for an impairment level other than “total,” since any level of impaired consciousness would be totally disabling. Assign a 100-percent evaluation if “total” is the level of evaluation for one or more facets. If no facet is evaluated as “total,” assign the overall percentage evaluation based on the level of the highest facet as follows: 0 = 0 percent; 1 = 10 percent; 2 = 40 percent; and 3 = 70 percent. For example, assign a 70 percent evaluation if 3 is the highest level of evaluation for any facet.
Note (1):
There may be an overlap of manifestations of conditions evaluated under the table titled “Evaluation Of Cognitive Impairment And Other Residuals Of TBI Not Otherwise Classified” with manifestations of a comorbid mental or neurologic or other physical disorder that can be separately evaluated under another diagnostic code. In such cases, do not assign more than one evaluation based on the same manifestations. If the manifestations of two or more conditions cannot be clearly separated, assign a single evaluation under whichever set of diagnostic criteria allows the better assessment of overall impaired functioning due to both conditions. However, if the manifestations are clearly separable, assign a separate evaluation for each condition.
Note (2):
Symptoms listed as examples at certain evaluation levels in the table are only examples and are not symptoms that must be present in order to assign a particular evaluation.
Note (3):
“Instrumental activities of daily living” refers to activities other than self-care that are needed for independent living, such as meal preparation, doing housework and other chores, shopping, traveling, doing laundry, being responsible for one's own medications, and using a telephone. These activities are distinguished from “Activities of daily living,” which refers to basic self-care and includes bathing or showering, dressing, eating, getting in or out of bed or a chair, and using the toilet.
Note (4):
The terms “mild,” “moderate,” and “severe” TBI, which may appear in medical records, refer to a classification of TBI made at, or close to, the time of injury rather than to the current level of functioning. This classification does not affect the rating assigned under diagnostic code 8045.
Note (5):
A veteran whose residuals of TBI are rated under a version of § 4.124a, diagnostic code 8045, in effect before October 23, 2008 may request review under diagnostic code 8045, irrespective of whether his or her disability has worsened since the last review. VA will review that veteran's disability rating to determine whether the veteran may be entitled to a higher disability rating under diagnostic code 8045. A request for review pursuant to this note will be treated as a claim for an increased rating for purposes of determining the effective date of an increased rating awarded as a result of such review; however, in no case will the award be effective before October 23, 2008. For the purposes of determining the effective date of an increased rating awarded as a result of such review, VA will apply 38 CFR 3.114, if applicable.
8046 Cerebral arteriosclerosis:
Purely neurological disabilities, such as hemiplegia, cranial nerve paralysis, etc., due to cerebral arteriosclerosis will be rated under the diagnostic codes dealing with such specific disabilities, with citation of a hyphenated diagnostic code (e.g., 8046-8207).
Purely subjective complaints such as headache, dizziness, tinnitus, insomnia and irritability, recognized as symptomatic of a properly diagnosed cerebral arteriosclerosis, will be rated 10 percent and no more under diagnostic code 9305. This 10 percent rating will not be combined with any other rating for a disability due to cerebral or generalized arteriosclerosis. Ratings in excess of 10 percent for cerebral arteriosclerosis under diagnostic code 9305 are not assignable in the absence of a diagnosis of multi-infarct dementia with cerebral arteriosclerosis.
Note:
The ratings under code 8046 apply only when the diagnosis of cerebral arteriosclerosis is substantiated by the entire clinical picture and not solely on findings of retinal arteriosclerosis.
Evaluation of Cognitive Impairment and Other Residuals of TBI Not Otherwise Classified
Facets of cognitive
impairment and other
residuals of TBI not
otherwise classified
Level of
impairment
Criteria
Memory, attention, concentration, executive functions
0
No complaints of impairment of memory, attention, concentration, or executive functions.
1
A complaint of mild loss of memory (such as having difficulty following a conversation, recalling recent conversations, remembering names of new acquaintances, or finding words, or often misplacing items), attention, concentration, or executive functions, but without objective evidence on testing.
2
Objective evidence on testing of mild impairment of memory, attention, concentration, or executive functions resulting in mild functional impairment.
3
Objective evidence on testing of moderate impairment of memory, attention, concentration, or executive functions resulting in moderate functional impairment.
Total
Objective evidence on testing of severe impairment of memory, attention, concentration, or executive functions resulting in severe functional impairment.
Judgment
0
Normal.
1
Mildly impaired judgment. For complex or unfamiliar decisions, occasionally unable to identify, understand, and weigh the alternatives, understand the consequences of choices, and make a reasonable decision.
2
Moderately impaired judgment. For complex or unfamiliar decisions, usually unable to identify, understand, and weigh the alternatives, understand the consequences of choices, and make a reasonable decision, although has little difficulty with simple decisions.
3
Moderately severely impaired judgment. For even routine and familiar decisions, occasionally unable to identify, understand, and weigh the alternatives, understand the consequences of choices, and make a reasonable decision.
Total
Severely impaired judgment. For even routine and familiar decisions, usually unable to identify, understand, and weigh the alternatives, understand the consequences of choices, and make a reasonable decision. For example, unable to determine appropriate clothing for current weather conditions or judge when to avoid dangerous situations or activities.
Social interaction
0
Social interaction is routinely appropriate.
1
Social interaction is occasionally inappropriate.
2
Social interaction is frequently inappropriate.
3
Social interaction is inappropriate most or all of the time.
Orientation
0
Always oriented to person, time, place, and situation.
1
Occasionally disoriented to one of the four aspects (person, time, place, situation) of orientation.
2
Occasionally disoriented to two of the four aspects (person, time, place, situation) of orientation or often disoriented to one aspect of orientation.
3
Often disoriented to two or more of the four aspects (person, time, place, situation) of orientation.
Total
Consistently disoriented to two or more of the four aspects (person, time, place, situation) of orientation.
Motor activity (with intact motor and sensory system)
0
Motor activity normal.
1
Motor activity normal most of the time, but mildly slowed at times due to apraxia (inability to perform previously learned motor activities, despite normal motor function).
2
Motor activity mildly decreased or with moderate slowing due to apraxia.
3
Motor activity moderately decreased due to apraxia.
Total
Motor activity severely decreased due to apraxia.
Visual spatial orientation
0
Normal.
1
Mildly impaired. Occasionally gets lost in unfamiliar surroundings, has difficulty reading maps or following directions. Is able to use assistive devices such as GPS (global positioning system).
2
Moderately impaired. Usually gets lost in unfamiliar surroundings, has difficulty reading maps, following directions, and judging distance. Has difficulty using assistive devices such as GPS (global positioning system).
3
Moderately severely impaired. Gets lost even in familiar surroundings, unable to use assistive devices such as GPS (global positioning system).
Total
Severely impaired. May be unable to touch or name own body parts when asked by the examiner, identify the relative position in space of two different objects, or find the way from one room to another in a familiar environment.
Subjective symptoms
0
Subjective symptoms that do not interfere with work; instrumental activities of daily living; or work, family, or other close relationships. Examples are: mild or occasional headaches, mild anxiety.
1
Three or more subjective symptoms that mildly interfere with work; instrumental activities of daily living; or work, family, or other close relationships. Examples of findings that might be seen at this level of impairment are: intermittent dizziness, daily mild to moderate headaches, tinnitus, frequent insomnia, hypersensitivity to sound, hypersensitivity to light.
2
Three or more subjective symptoms that moderately interfere with work; instrumental activities of daily living; or work, family, or other close relationships. Examples of findings that might be seen at this level of impairment are: marked fatigability, blurred or double vision, headaches requiring rest periods during most days.
Neurobehavioral effects
0
One or more neurobehavioral effects that do not interfere with workplace interaction or social interaction. Examples of neurobehavioral effects are: Irritability, impulsivity, unpredictability, lack of motivation, verbal aggression, physical aggression, belligerence, apathy, lack of empathy, moodiness, lack of cooperation, inflexibility, and impaired awareness of disability. Any of these effects may range from slight to severe, although verbal and physical aggression are likely to have a more serious impact on workplace interaction and social interaction than some of the other effects.
1
One or more neurobehavioral effects that occasionally interfere with workplace interaction, social interaction, or both but do not preclude them.
2
One or more neurobehavioral effects that frequently interfere with workplace interaction, social interaction, or both but do not preclude them.
3
One or more neurobehavioral effects that interfere with or preclude workplace interaction, social interaction, or both on most days or that occasionally require supervision for safety of self or others.
Communication
0
Able to communicate by spoken and written language (expressive communication), and to comprehend spoken and written language.
1
Comprehension or expression, or both, of either spoken language or written language is only occasionally impaired. Can communicate complex ideas.
2
Inability to communicate either by spoken language, written language, or both, more than occasionally but less than half of the time, or to comprehend spoken language, written language, or both, more than occasionally but less than half of the time. Can generally communicate complex ideas.
3
Inability to communicate either by spoken language, written language, or both, at least half of the time but not all of the time, or to comprehend spoken language, written language, or both, at least half of the time but not all of the time. May rely on gestures or other alternative modes of communication. Able to communicate basic needs.
Total
Complete inability to communicate either by spoken language, written language, or both, or to comprehend spoken language, written language, or both. Unable to communicate basic needs.
Consciousness
Total
Persistently altered state of consciousness, such as vegetative state, minimally responsive state, coma.
Miscellaneous Diseases
Rating
8100 Migraine:
With very frequent completely prostrating and prolonged attacks productive of severe economic inadaptability
50
With characteristic prostrating attacks occurring on an average once a month over last several months
30
With characteristic prostrating attacks averaging one in 2 months over last several months
10
With less frequent attacks
0
8103 Tic, convulsive:
Severe
30
Moderate
10
Mild
0
Note:
Depending upon frequency, severity, muscle groups involved.
8104 Paramyoclonus multiplex (convulsive state, myoclonic type):
Rate as tic; convulsive; severe cases
60
8105 Chorea, Sydenham's:
Pronounced, progressive grave types
100
Severe
80
Moderately severe
50
Moderate
30
Mild
10
Note:
Consider rheumatic etiology and complications.
8106 Chorea, Huntington's.
Rate as Sydenham's chorea. This, though a familial disease, has its onset in late adult life, and is considered a ratable disability.
8107 Athetosis, acquired.
Rate as chorea.
8108 Narcolepsy.
Rate as for epilepsy, petit mal.
Diseases of the Cranial Nerves
Rating
Disability from lesions of peripheral portions of first, second, third, fourth, sixth, and eighth nerves will be rated under the Organs of Special Sense. The ratings for the cranial nerves are for unilateral involvement; when bilateral, combine but without the bilateral factor.
Fifth (trigeminal) cranial nerve
8205 Paralysis of:
Complete
50
Incomplete, severe
30
Incomplete, moderate
10
Note:
Dependent upon relative degree of sensory manifestation or motor loss.
8305 Neuritis.
8405 Neuralgia.
Note:
Tic douloureux may be rated in accordance with severity, up to complete paralysis.
Seventh (facial) cranial nerve
8207 Paralysis of:
Complete
30
Incomplete, severe
20
Incomplete, moderate
10
Note:
Dependent upon relative loss of innervation of facial muscles.
8307 Neuritis.
8407 Neuralgia.
Ninth (glossopharyngeal) cranial nerve
8209 Paralysis of:
Complete
30
Incomplete, severe
20
Incomplete, moderate
10
Note:
Dependent upon relative loss of ordinary sensation in mucous membrane of the pharynx, fauces, and tonsils.
8309 Neuritis.
8409 Neuralgia.
Tenth (pneumogastric, vagus) cranial nerve
8210 Paralysis of:
Complete
50
Incomplete, severe
30
Incomplete, moderate
10
Note
: Dependent upon extent of sensory and motor loss to organs of voice, respiration, pharynx, stomach and heart.
8310 Neuritis.
8410 Neuralgia.
Eleventh (spinal accessory, external branch) cranial nerve.
8211 Paralysis of:
Complete
30
Incomplete, severe
20
Incomplete, moderate
10
Note:
Dependent upon loss of motor function of sternomastoid and trapezius muscles.
8311 Neuritis.
8411 Neuralgia.
Twelfth (hypoglossal) cranial nerve.
8212 Paralysis of:
Complete
50
Incomplete, severe
30
Incomplete, moderate
10
Note:
Dependent upon loss of motor function of tongue.
8312 Neuritis.
8412 Neuralgia.
Diseases of the Peripheral Nerves
Schedule of ratings
Rating
Major
Minor
The term “incomplete paralysis,” with this and other peripheral nerve injuries, indicates a degree of lost or impaired function substantially less than the type picture for complete paralysis given with each nerve, whether due to varied level of the nerve lesion or to partial regeneration. When the involvement is wholly sensory, the rating should be for the mild, or at most, the moderate degree. The ratings for the peripheral nerves are for unilateral involvement; when bilateral, combine with application of the bilateral factor.
Upper radicular group (fifth and sixth cervicals)
8510 Paralysis of:
Complete; all shoulder and elbow movements lost or severely affected, hand and wrist movements not affected
70
60
Incomplete:
Severe
50
40
Moderate
40
30
Mild
20
20
8610 Neuritis.
8710 Neuralgia.
Middle radicular group
8511 Paralysis of:
Complete; adduction, abduction and rotation of arm, flexion of elbow, and extension of wrist lost or severely affected
70
60
Incomplete:
Severe
50
40
Moderate
40
30
Mild
20
20
8611 Neuritis.
8711 Neuralgia.
Lower radicular group
8512 Paralysis of:
Complete; all intrinsic muscles of hand, and some or all of flexors of wrist and fingers, paralyzed (substantial loss of use of hand)
70
60
Incomplete:
Severe
50
40
Moderate
40
30
Mild
20
20
8612 Neuritis.
8712 Neuralgia.
All radicular groups
8513 Paralysis of:
Complete
90
80
Incomplete:
Severe
70
60
Moderate
40
30
Mild
20
20
8613 Neuritis.
8713 Neuralgia.
The musculospiral nerve (radial nerve)
8514 Paralysis of:
Complete; drop of hand and fingers, wrist and fingers perpetually flexed, the thumb adducted falling within the line of the outer border of the index finger; can not extend hand at wrist, extend proximal phalanges of fingers, extend thumb, or make lateral movement of wrist; supination of hand, extension and flexion of elbow weakened, the loss of synergic motion of extensors impairs the hand grip seriously; total paralysis of the triceps occurs only as the greatest rarity
70
60
Incomplete:
Severe
50
40
Moderate
30
20
Mild
20
20
8614 Neuritis.
8714 Neuralgia.
Note:
Lesions involving only “dissociation of extensor communis digitorum” and “paralysis below the extensor communis digitorum,” will not exceed the moderate rating under code 8514.
The median nerve
8515 Paralysis of:
Complete; the hand inclined to the ulnar side, the index and middle fingers more extended than normally, considerable atrophy of the muscles of the thenar eminence, the thumb in the plane of the hand (ape hand); pronation incomplete and defective, absence of flexion of index finger and feeble flexion of middle finger, cannot make a fist, index and middle fingers remain extended; cannot flex distal phalanx of thumb, defective opposition and abduction of the thumb, at right angles to palm; flexion of wrist weakened; pain with trophic disturbances
70
60
Incomplete:
Severe
50
40
Moderate
30
20
Mild
10
10
8615 Neuritis.
8715 Neuralgia.
The ulnar nerve
8516 Paralysis of:
Complete; the “griffin claw” deformity, due to flexor contraction of ring and little fingers, atrophy very marked in dorsal interspace and thenar and hypothenar eminences; loss of extension of ring and little fingers cannot spread the fingers (or reverse), cannot adduct the thumb; flexion of wrist weakened
60
50
Incomplete:
Severe
40
30
Moderate
30
20
Mild
10
10
8616 Neuritis.
8716 Neuralgia.
Musculocutaneous nerve
8517 Paralysis of:
Complete; weakness but not loss of flexion of elbow and supination of forearm
30
20
Incomplete:
Severe
20
20
Moderate
10
10
Mild
0
0
8617 Neuritis.
8717 Neuralgia.
Circumflex nerve
8518 Paralysis of:
Complete; abduction of arm is impossible, outward rotation is weakened; muscles supplied are deltoid and teres minor
50
40
Incomplete:
Severe
30
20
Moderate
10
10
Mild
0
0
8618 Neuritis.
8718 Neuralgia.
Long thoracic nerve
8519 Paralysis of:
Complete; inability to raise arm above shoulder level, winged scapula deformity
30
20
Incomplete:
Severe
20
20
Moderate
10
10
Mild
0
0
Note:
Not to be combined with lost motion above shoulder level.
8619 Neuritis.
8719 Neuralgia.
Note:
Combined nerve injuries should be rated by reference to the major involvement, or if sufficient in extent, consider radicular group ratings.
Rating
Sciatic nerve
8520 Paralysis of:
Complete; the foot dangles and drops, no active movement possible of muscles below the knee, flexion of knee weakened or (very rarely) lost
80
Incomplete:
Severe, with marked muscular atrophy
60
Moderately severe
40
Moderate
20
Mild
10
8620 Neuritis.
8720 Neuralgia.
External popliteal nerve (common peroneal)
8521 Paralysis of:
Complete; foot drop and slight droop of first phalanges of all toes, cannot dorsiflex the foot, extension (dorsal flexion) of proximal phalanges of toes lost; abduction of foot lost, adduction weakened; anesthesia covers entire dorsum of foot and toes
40
Incomplete:
Severe
30
Moderate
20
Mild
10
8621 Neuritis.
8721 Neuralgia.
Musculocutaneous nerve (superficial peroneal)
8522 Paralysis of:
Complete; eversion of foot weakened
30
Incomplete:
Severe
20
Moderate
10
Mild
0
8622 Neuritis.
8722 Neuralgia.
Anterior tibial nerve (deep peroneal)
8523 Paralysis of:
Complete; dorsal flexion of foot lost
30
Incomplete:
Severe
20
Moderate
10
Mild
0
8623 Neuritis.
8723 Neuralgia.
Internal popliteal nerve (tibial)
8524 Paralysis of:
Complete; plantar flexion lost, frank adduction of foot impossible, flexion and separation of toes abolished; no muscle in sole can move; in lesions of the nerve high in popliteal fossa, plantar flexion of foot is lost
40
Incomplete:
Severe
30
Moderate
20
Mild
10
8624 Neuritis.
8724 Neuralgia.
Posterior tibial nerve
8525 Paralysis of:
Complete; paralysis of all muscles of sole of foot, frequently with painful paralysis of a causalgic nature; toes cannot be flexed; adduction is weakened; plantar flexion is impaired
30
Incomplete:
Severe
20
Moderate
10
Mild
10
8625 Neuritis.
8725 Neuralgia.
Anterior crural nerve (femoral)
8526 Paralysis of:
Complete; paralysis of quadriceps extensor muscles
40
Incomplete:
Severe
30
Moderate
20
Mild
10
8626 Neuritis.
8726 Neuralgia.
Internal saphenous nerve
8527 Paralysis of:
Severe to complete
10
Mild to moderate
0
8627 Neuritis.
8727 Neuralgia.
Obturator nerve
8528 Paralysis of:
Severe to complete
10
Mild or moderate
0
8628 Neuritis.
8728 Neuralgia.
External cutaneous nerve of thigh
8529 Paralysis of:
Severe to complete
10
Mild or moderate
0
8629 Neuritis.
8729 Neuralgia.
Ilio-inguinal nerve
8530 Paralysis of:
Severe to complete
10
Mild or moderate
0
8630 Neuritis.
8730 Neuralgia.
8540 Soft-tissue sarcoma (of neurogenic origin)
100
Note:
The 100 percent rating will be continued for 6 months following the cessation of surgical, X-ray, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other therapeutic procedure. At this point, if there has been no local recurrence or metastases, the rating will be made on residuals.
The Epilepsies
Rating
A thorough study of all material in §§ 4.121 and 4.122 of the preface and under the ratings for epilepsy is necessary prior to any rating action.
8910 Epilepsy, grand mal.
Rate under the general rating formula for major seizures.
8911 Epilepsy, petit mal.
Rate under the general rating formula for minor seizures.
Note
(1): A major seizure is characterized by the generalized tonic-clonic convulsion with unconsciousness.
Note
(2): A minor seizure consists of a brief interruption in consciousness or conscious control associated with staring or rhythmic blinking of the eyes or nodding of the head (“pure” petit mal), or sudden jerking movements of the arms, trunk, or head (myoclonic type) or sudden loss of postural control (akinetic type).
General Rating Formula for Major and Minor Epileptic Seizures:
Averaging at least 1 major seizure per month over the last year
100
Averaging at least 1 major seizure in 3 months over the last year; or more than 10 minor seizures weekly
80
Averaging at least 1 major seizure in 4 months over the last year; or 9-10 minor seizures per week
60
At least 1 major seizure in the last 6 months or 2 in the last year; or averaging at least 5 to 8 minor seizures weekly
40
At least 1 major seizure in the last 2 years; or at least 2 minor seizures in the last 6 months
20
A confirmed diagnosis of epilepsy with a history of seizures
10
Note
(1): When continuous medication is shown necessary for the control of epilepsy, the minimum evaluation will be 10 percent. This rating will not be combined with any other rating for epilepsy.
Note
(2): In the presence of major and minor seizures, rate the predominating type.
Note
(3): There will be no distinction between diurnal and nocturnal major seizures.
8912 Epilepsy, Jacksonian and focal motor or sensory.
8913 Epilepsy, diencephalic.
Rate as minor seizures, except in the presence of major and minor seizures, rate the predominating type.
8914 Epilepsy, psychomotor.
Major seizures:
Psychomotor seizures will be rated as major seizures under the general rating formula when characterized by automatic states and/or generalized convulsions with unconsciousness.
Minor seizures:
Psychomotor seizures will be rated as minor seizures under the general rating formula when characterized by brief transient episodes of random motor movements, hallucinations, perceptual illusions, abnormalities of thinking, memory or mood, or autonomic disturbances.
Mental Disorders in Epilepsies: A nonpsychotic organic brain syndrome will be rated separately under the appropriate diagnostic code (e.g., 9304 or 9326). In the absence of a diagnosis of non-psychotic organic psychiatric disturbance (psychotic, psychoneurotic or personality disorder) if diagnosed and shown to be secondary to or directly associated with epilepsy will be rated separately. The psychotic or psychroneurotic disorder will be rated under the appropriate diagnostic code. The personality disorder will be rated as a dementia (e.g., diagnostic code 9304 or 9326).
Epilepsy and Unemployability: (1) Rating specialists must bear in mind that the epileptic, although his or her seizures are controlled, may find employment and rehabilitation difficult of attainment due to employer reluctance to the hiring of the epileptic.
(2) Where a case is encountered with a definite history of unemployment, full and complete development should be undertaken to ascertain whether the epilepsy is the determining factor in his or her inability to obtain employment.
(3) The assent of the claimant should first be obtained for permission to conduct this economic and social survey. The purpose of this survey is to secure all the relevant facts and data necessary to permit of a true judgment as to the reason for his or her unemployment and should include information as to:
(a) Education;
(b) Occupations prior and subsequent to service;
(c) Places of employment and reasons for termination;
(d) Wages received;
(e) Number of seizures.
(4) Upon completion of this survey and current examination, the case should have rating board consideration. Where in the judgment of the rating board the veteran's unemployability is due to epilepsy and jurisdiction is not vested in that body by reason of schedular evaluations, the case should be submitted to the Compensation Service or the Director, Pension and Fiduciary Service.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[29 FR 6718, May 22, 1964, as amended at 40 FR 42540, Sept. 15, 1975; 41 FR 11302, Mar. 18, 1976; 43 FR 45362, Oct. 2, 1978; 54 FR 4282, Jan. 30, 1989; 54 FR 49755, Dec. 1, 1989; 55 FR 154, Jan. 3, 1990; 56 FR 51653, Oct. 15, 1991; 57 FR 24364, June 9, 1992; 70 FR 75399, Dec. 20, 2005; 73 FR 54705, Sept. 23, 2008; 73 FR 69554, Nov. 19, 2008; 76 FR 78824, Dec. 20, 2011; 79 FR 2100, Jan. 13, 2014]

# Mental Disorders
§ 4.125
Diagnosis of mental disorders.
(a) If the diagnosis of a mental disorder does not conform to DSM-5 or is not supported by the findings on the examination report, the rating agency shall return the report to the examiner to substantiate the diagnosis. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5), American Psychiatric Association (2013), is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Department of Veterans Affairs must publish notice of change in the
Federal Register
and the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available from the American Psychiatric Association, 1000 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 1825, Arlington, VA 22209-3901, 703-907-7300,
http://www.dsm5.org.
It is also available for inspection at the Office of Regulation Policy and Management, Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue NW., Room 1068, Washington, DC 20420. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this information at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_publications.html.
(b) If the diagnosis of a mental disorder is changed, the rating agency shall determine whether the new diagnosis represents progression of the prior diagnosis, correction of an error in the prior diagnosis, or development of a new and separate condition. If it is not clear from the available records what the change of diagnosis represents, the rating agency shall return the report to the examiner for a determination.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[61 FR 52700, Oct. 8, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 45099, Aug. 4, 2014]
§ 4.126
Evaluation of disability from mental disorders.
(a) When evaluating a mental disorder, the rating agency shall consider the frequency, severity, and duration of psychiatric symptoms, the length of remissions, and the veteran's capacity for adjustment during periods of remission. The rating agency shall assign an evaluation based on all the evidence of record that bears on occupational and social impairment rather than solely on the examiner's assessment of the level of disability at the moment of the examination.
(b) When evaluating the level of disability from a mental disorder, the rating agency will consider the extent of social impairment, but shall not assign an evaluation solely on the basis of social impairment.
(c) Neurocognitive disorders shall be evaluated under the general rating formula for mental disorders; neurologic deficits or other impairments stemming from the same etiology (e.g., a head injury) shall be evaluated separately and combined with the evaluation for neurocognitive disorders (see § 4.25).
(d) When a single disability has been diagnosed both as a physical condition and as a mental disorder, the rating
agency shall evaluate it using a diagnostic code which represents the dominant (more disabling) aspect of the condition (see § 4.14).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[61 FR 52700, Oct. 8, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 45099, Aug. 4, 2014]
§ 4.127
Intellectual disability (intellectual developmental disorder) and personality disorders.
Intellectual disability (intellectual developmental disorder) and personality disorders are not diseases or injuries for compensation purposes, and, except as provided in § 3.310(a) of this chapter, disability resulting from them may not be service-connected. However, disability resulting from a mental disorder that is superimposed upon intellectual disability (intellectual developmental disorder) or a personality disorder may be service-connected.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[79 FR 45100, Aug. 4, 2014]
§ 4.128
Convalescence ratings following extended hospitalization.
If a mental disorder has been assigned a total evaluation due to a continuous period of hospitalization lasting six months or more, the rating agency shall continue the total evaluation indefinitely and schedule a mandatory examination six months after the veteran is discharged or released to nonbed care. A change in evaluation based on that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[61 FR 52700, Oct. 8, 1996]
§ 4.129
Mental disorders due to traumatic stress.
When a mental disorder that develops in service as a result of a highly stressful event is severe enough to bring about the veteran's release from active military service, the rating agency shall assign an evaluation of not less than 50 percent and schedule an examination within the six month period following the veteran's discharge to determine whether a change in evaluation is warranted.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[61 FR 52700, Oct. 8, 1996]
§ 4.130
Schedule of ratings—Mental disorders.
The nomenclature employed in this portion of the rating schedule is based upon the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5) (see § 4.125 for availability information). Rating agencies must be thoroughly familiar with this manual to properly implement the directives in § 4.125 through § 4.129 and to apply the general rating formula for mental disorders in § 4.130. The schedule for rating for mental disorders is set forth as follows:
9201 Schizophrenia
9202 [Removed]
9203 [Removed]
9204 [Removed]
9205 [Removed]
9208 Delusional disorder
9210 Other specified and unspecified schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic disorders
9211 Schizoaffective disorder
9300 Delirium
9301 Major or mild neurocognitive disorder due to HIV or other infections
9304 Major or mild neurocognitive disorder due to traumatic brain injury
9305 Major or mild vascular neurocognitive disorder
9310 Unspecified neurocognitive disorder
9312 Major or mild neurocognitive disorder due to Alzheimer's disease
9326 Major or mild neurocognitive disorder due to another medical condition or substance/medication-induced major or mild neurocognitive disorder
9327 [Removed]
9400 Generalized anxiety disorder
9403 Specific phobia; social anxiety disorder (social phobia)
9404 Obsessive compulsive disorder
9410 Other specified anxiety disorder
9411 Posttraumatic stress disorder
9412 Panic disorder and/or agoraphobia
9413 Unspecified anxiety disorder
9416 Dissociative amnesia; dissociative identity disorder
9417 Depersonalization/Derealization disorder
9421 Somatic symptom disorder
9422 Other specified somatic symptom and related disorder
9423 Unspecified somatic symptom and related disorder
9424 Conversion disorder (functional neurological symptom disorder)
9425 Illness anxiety disorder
9431 Cyclothymic disorder
9432 Bipolar disorder
9433 Persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia)
9434 Major depressive disorder
9435 Unspecified depressive disorder
9440 Chronic adjustment disorder
General Rating Formula for Mental Disorders
Rating
Total occupational and social impairment, due to such symptoms as: gross impairment in thought processes or communication; persistent delusions or hallucinations; grossly inappropriate behavior; persistent danger of hurting self or others; intermittent inability to perform activities of daily living (including maintenance of minimal personal hygiene); disorientation to time or place; memory loss for names of close relatives, own occupation, or own name.
100
Occupational and social impairment, with deficiencies in most areas, such as work, school, family relations, judgment, thinking, or mood, due to such symptoms as: suicidal ideation; obsessional rituals which interfere with routine activities; speech intermittently illogical, obscure, or irrelevant; near-continuous panic or depression affecting the ability to function independently, appropriately and effectively; impaired impulse control (such as unprovoked irritability with periods of violence); spatial disorientation; neglect of personal appearance and hygiene; difficulty in adapting to stressful circumstances (including work or a worklike setting); inability to establish and maintain effective relationships.
70
Occupational and social impairment with reduced reliability and productivity due to such symptoms as: flattened affect; circumstantial, circumlocutory, or stereotyped speech; panic attacks more than once a week; difficulty in understanding complex commands; impairment of short- and long-term memory (e.g., retention of only highly learned material, forgetting to complete tasks); impaired judgment; impaired abstract thinking; disturbances of motivation and mood; difficulty in establishing and maintaining effective work and social relationships.
50
Occupational and social impairment with occasional decrease in work efficiency and intermittent periods of inability to perform occupational tasks (although generally functioning satisfactorily, with routine behavior, self-care, and conversation normal), due to such symptoms as: depressed mood, anxiety, suspiciousness, panic attacks (weekly or less often), chronic sleep impairment, mild memory loss (such as forgetting names, directions, recent events).
30
Occupational and social impairment due to mild or transient symptoms which decrease work efficiency and ability to perform occupational tasks only during periods of significant stress, or symptoms controlled by continuous medication.
10
A mental condition has been formally diagnosed, but symptoms are not severe enough either to interfere with occupational and social functioning or to require continuous medication.
0
9520 Anorexia nervosa
9521 Bulimia nervosa
Rating Formula for Eating Disorders
Rating
Self-induced weight loss to less than 80 percent of expected minimum weight, with incapacitating episodes of at least six weeks total duration per year, and requiring hospitalization more than twice a year for parenteral nutrition or tube feeding.
100
Self-induced weight loss to less than 85 percent of expected minimum weight with incapacitating episodes of six or more weeks total duration per year.
60
Self-induced weight loss to less than 85 percent of expected minimum weight with incapacitating episodes of more than two but less than six weeks total duration per year.
30
Binge eating followed by self-induced vomiting or other measures to prevent weight gain, or resistance to weight gain even when below expected minimum weight, with diagnosis of an eating disorder and incapacitating episodes of up to two weeks total duration per year.
10
Binge eating followed by self-induced vomiting or other measures to prevent weight gain, or resistance to weight gain even when below expected minimum weight, with diagnosis of an eating disorder but without incapacitating episodes.
0
Note 1:
An incapacitating episode is a period during which bed rest and treatment by a physician are required.
Note 2:
Ratings under diagnostic codes 9201 to 9440 will be evaluated using the General Rating Formula for Mental Disorders. Ratings under diagnostic codes 9520 and 9521 will be evaluated using the General Rating Formula for Eating Disorders.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1155)
[79 FR 45100, Aug. 4, 2014]

# Dental and Oral Conditions
§ 4.149
[Reserved]
§ 4.150
Schedule of ratings—dental and oral conditions.
Rating
Note (1):
For VA compensation purposes, diagnostic imaging studies include, but are not limited to, conventional radiography (X-ray), computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), radionuclide bone scanning, or ultrasonography
Note (2):
Separately evaluate loss of vocal articulation, loss of smell, loss of taste, neurological impairment, respiratory dysfunction, and other impairments under the appropriate diagnostic code and combine under § 4.25 for each separately rated condition
9900 Maxilla or mandible, chronic osteomyelitis, osteonecrosis or osteoradionecrosis of:
Rate as osteomyelitis, chronic under diagnostic code 5000.
9901 Mandible, loss of, complete, between angles
100
9902 Mandible, loss of, including ramus, unilaterally or bilaterally:
Loss of one-half or more,
Involving temporomandibular articulation
Not replaceable by prosthesis
70
Replaceable by prosthesis
50
Not involving temporomandibular articulation.
Not replaceable by prosthesis
40
Replaceable by prosthesis
30
Loss of less than one-half,
Involving temporomandibular articulation.
Not replaceable by prosthesis
70
Replaceable by prosthesis
50
Not involving temporomandibular articulation.
Not replaceable by prosthesis
20
Replaceable by prosthesis
10
9903 Mandible, nonunion of, confirmed by diagnostic imaging studies:
Severe, with false motion
30
Moderate, without false motion
10
9904 Mandible, malunion of:
Displacement, causing severe anterior or posterior open bite
20
Displacement, causing moderate anterior or posterior open bite
10
Displacement, not causing anterior or posterior open bite
0
9905 Temporomandibular disorder (TMD):
Interincisal range:
0 to 10 millimeters (mm) of maximum unassisted vertical opening.
With dietary restrictions to all mechanically altered foods
50
Without dietary restrictions to mechanically altered foods
40
11 to 20 mm of maximum unassisted vertical opening.
With dietary restrictions to all mechanically altered foods
40
Without dietary restrictions to mechanically altered foods
30
21 to 29 mm of maximum unassisted vertical opening.
With dietary restrictions to full liquid and pureed foods
40
With dietary restrictions to soft and semi-solid foods
30
Without dietary restrictions to mechanically altered foods
20
30 to 34 mm of maximum unassisted vertical opening.
With dietary restrictions to full liquid and pureed foods
30
With dietary restrictions to soft and semi-solid foods
20
Without dietary restrictions to mechanically altered foods
10
Lateral excursion range of motion:
0 to 4 mm
10
Note (1):
Ratings for limited interincisal movement shall not be combined with ratings for limited lateral excursion
Note (2):
For VA compensation purposes, the normal maximum unassisted range of vertical jaw opening is from 35 to 50 mm
Note (3):
For VA compensation purposes, mechanically altered foods are defined as altered by blending, chopping, grinding or mashing so that they are easy to chew and swallow. There are four levels of mechanically altered foods: full liquid, puree, soft, and semisolid foods. To warrant elevation based on mechanically altered foods, the use of texture-modified diets must be recorded or verified by a physician
9908 Condyloid process, loss of, one or both sides
30
9909 Coronoid process, loss of:
Bilateral
20
Unilateral
10
9911 Hard palate, loss of:
Loss of half or more, not replaceable by prosthesis
30
Loss of less than half, not replaceable by prosthesis
20
Loss of half or more, replaceable by prosthesis
10
Loss of less than half, replaceable by prosthesis
0
9913 Teeth, loss of, due to loss of substance of body of maxilla or mandible without loss of continuity:
Where the lost masticatory surface cannot be restored by suitable prosthesis:
Loss of all teeth
40
Loss of all upper teeth
30
Loss of all lower teeth
30
All upper and lower posterior teeth missing
20
All upper and lower anterior teeth missing
20
All upper anterior teeth missing
10
All lower anterior teeth missing
10
All upper and lower teeth on one side missing
10
Where the loss of masticatory surface can be restored by suitable prosthesis
0
Note
—These ratings apply only to bone loss through trauma or disease such as osteomyelitis, and not to the loss of the alveolar process as a result of periodontal disease, since such loss is not considered disabling
9914 Maxilla, loss of more than half:
Not replaceable by prosthesis
100
Replaceable by prosthesis
50
9915 Maxilla, loss of half or less:
Loss of 25 to 50 percent:
Not replaceable by prosthesis
40
Replaceable by prosthesis
30
Loss of less than 25 percent:
Not replaceable by prosthesis
20
Replaceable by prosthesis
0
9916 Maxilla, malunion or nonunion of:
Nonunion,
With false motion
30
Without false motion
10
Malunion,
With displacement, causing severe anterior or posterior open bite
30
With displacement, causing moderate anterior or posterior open bite
10
With displacement, causing mild anterior or posterior open bite
0
Note:
For VA compensation purposes, the severity of maxillary nonunion is dependent upon the degree of abnormal mobility of maxilla fragments following treatment (
i.e.
, presence or absence of false motion), and maxillary nonunion must be confirmed by diagnostic imaging studies
9917 Neoplasm, hard and soft tissue, benign:
Rate as loss of supporting structures (bone or teeth) and/or functional impairment due to scarring.
9918 Neoplasm, hard and soft tissue, malignant
100
Note:
A rating of 100 percent shall continue beyond the cessation of any surgical, radiation, antineoplastic chemotherapy or other therapeutic procedure. Six months after discontinuance of such treatment, the appropriate disability rating shall be determined by mandatory VA examination. Any change in evaluation based upon that or any subsequent examination shall be subject to the provisions of § 3.105(e) of this chapter. If there has been no local recurrence or metastasis, rate on residuals such as loss of supporting structures (bone or teeth) and/or functional impairment due to scarring
[59 FR 2530, Jan. 18, 1994, as amended at 82 FR 36083, Aug. 3, 2017]
Pt. 4, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 4—Table of Amendments and Effective Dates Since 1946
Sec.
Diagnostic code No.
4.71a
5000
Evaluation February 1, 1962.
4.71a
5001
Evaluation March 11, 1969; criterion February 7, 2021.
5002
Evaluation March 1, 1963; title, criteria, note February 7, 2021.
5003
Added July 6, 1950; title February 7, 2021.
5009
Title, evaluation, note February 7, 2021.
5010
Title, criteria February 7, 2021.
5011
Title, criteria February 7, 2021.
5012
Criterion March 10, 1976; title, note February 7, 2021.
5013
Title February 7, 2021.
5014
Title February 7, 2021.
5015
Title February 7, 2021.
5018
Removed February 7, 2021.
5020
Removed November 30, 2020.
5022
Removed February 7, 2021.
5023
Title February 7, 2021.
5024
Criterion March 1, 1963; title, criteria February 7, 2021.
5025
Added May 7, 1996.
5051
Added September 22, 1978; note February 7, 2021.
5052
Added September 22, 1978; note February 7, 2021.
5053
Added September 22, 1978; note February 7, 2021.
5054
Added September 22, 1978; title, criterion, and note February 7, 2021.
5055
Added September 22, 1978; title, criterion, and note February 7, 2021.
5056
Added September 22, 1978; note February 7, 2021.
5100-5103
Removed March 10, 1976.
5104
Criterion March 10, 1976.
5105
Criterion March 10, 1976.
5120
Title, criterion February 7, 2021.
5160
Title, criterion, note February 7, 2021.
5164
Evaluation June 9, 1952.
5166
Criterion September 22, 1978.
5170
Title February 7, 2021.
5172
Added July 6, 1950.
5173
Added June 9, 1952.
5174
Added September 9, 1975; removed September 22, 1978.
5201
Criterion February 7, 2021.
5202
Criterion February 7, 2021.
5211
Criterion September 22, 1978.
5212
Criterion September 22, 1978.
5214
Criterion September 22, 1978.
5216
Preceding paragraph criterion September 22, 1978.
5217
Criterion August 26, 2002.
5218
Criterion August 26, 2002.
5219
Criterion September 22, 1978; criterion August 26, 2002.
5220
Preceding paragraph criterion September 22, 1978; criterion August 26, 2002.
5223
Criterion August 26, 2002.
5224
Criterion August 26, 2002.
5225
Criterion August 26, 2002.
5226
Criterion August 26, 2002.
5227
Criterion September 22, 1978; criterion August 26, 2002.
5228
Added August 26, 2002.
5229
Added August 26, 2002.
5230
Added August 26, 2002.
5235
Replaces 5285-5295 September 26, 2003.
5236
Replaces 5285-5295 September 26, 2003.
5237
Replaces 5285-5295 September 26, 2003.
5238
Replaces 5285-5295 September 26, 2003.
5239
Replaces 5285-5295 September 26, 2003.
5240
Replaces 5285-5295 September 26, 2003.
5241
Replaces 5285-5295 September 26, 2003.
5242
Replaces 5285-5295 September 26, 2003; Title February 7, 2021.
5243
Replaces 5285-5295 September 26, 2003; Criterion September 26, 2003; Title February 7, 2021.
5244
Added February 7, 2021.
5255
Criterion July 6, 1950; criterion February 7, 2021.
5257
Evaluation July 6, 1950; criterion and note February 7, 2021.
5262
Criterion February 7, 2021.
5264
Added September 9, 1975; removed September 22, 1978.
5269
Added February 7, 2021.
5271
Criterion February 7, 2021.
5275
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion September 22, 1978.
5293
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion September 23, 2002; revised and moved to 5235-5243 September 26, 2003.
5294
Evaluation March 10, 1976; revised and moved to 5235-5243 September 26, 2003.
5295
Evaluation March 10, 1976; revised and moved to 5235-5243 September 26, 2003.
5296
Criterion March 10, 1976.
5297
Criterion August 23, 1948; criterion February 1, 1962.
5298
Added August 23, 1948.
4.73
Introduction
Note
criterion July 3, 1997; second
Note
added February 7, 2021.
5317
Criterion September 22, 1978.
5324
Added February 1, 1962.
5325
Criterion July 3, 1997.
5327
Added March 10, 1976; criterion October 15, 1991; criterion July 3, 1997.
5328
Added NOTE March 10, 1976.
5329
Added NOTE July 3, 1997.
5330
Added February 7, 2021.
5331
Added February 7, 2021.
4.77
Revised May 13, 2018.
4.78
Revised May 13, 2018.
4.79
Introduction criterion May 13, 2018; Revised General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Eye NOTE revised May 13, 2018.
6000
Criterion May 13, 2018.
6001
Criterion May 13, 2018.
6002
Criterion May 13, 2018.
6006
Title May 13, 2018. Criterion May 13, 2018.
6007
Criterion May 13, 2018.
6008
Criterion May 13, 2018.
6009
Criterion May 13, 2018.
6011
Evaluation May 13, 2018.
6012
Evaluation May 13, 2018.
6013
Evaluation May 13, 2018.
6014
Title May 13, 2018.
6015
Title May 13, 2018.
6017
Evaluation May 13, 2018.
6018
Evaluation May 13, 2018.
6019
Evaluation.
6026
Evaluation May 13, 2018.
6027
Evaluation
May 13, 2018.
6034
Evaluation May 13, 2018.
6035
Evaluation
May 13, 2018.
6036
Evaluation May 13, 2018.
6040
Added May 13, 2018.
6042
Added May 13, 2018.
6046
Added May 13, 2018.
6091
Evaluation May 13, 2018.
4.84a
Table V criterion July 1, 1994.
6010
Criterion March 11, 1969.
6019
Criterion September 22, 1978.
6029
NOTE August 23, 1948; criterion September 22, 1978.
6035
Added September 9, 1975.
6050-6062
Removed March 10, 1976.
6061
Added March 10, 1976.
6062
Added March 10, 1976.
6063-6079
Criterion September 22, 1978.
6064
Criterion March 10, 1976.
6071
Criterion March 10, 1976.
6076
Evaluation August 23, 1948.
6080
Criterion September 22, 1978.
6081
Criterion March 10, 1976.
6090
Criterion September 22, 1978; criterion September 12, 1988.
4.84b
6260
Added October 1, 1961; criterion October 1, 1961; evaluation March 10, 1976; removed December 18, 1987; re-designated § 4.87a December 18, 1987.
4.87
Tables VI and VII replaced by new Tables VI, VIA, and VII December 18, 1987. 6200-6260 revised and re-designated § 4.87 June 10, 1999.
4.87a
6200-6260
Moved to § 4.87 June 10, 1999.
6275-6276
Moved from § 4.87b June 10, 1999.
6277-6297
March 23, 1956 removed, December 17, 1987; Table II revised Table V March 10, 1976; Table II revised to Table VII September 22, 1978; text from § 4.84b Schedule of ratings-ear re-designated from § 4.87 December 17, 1987.
6286
Removed December 17, 1987.
6291
Criterion March 10, 1976; removed December 17, 1987.
6297
Criterion March 10, 1976; removed December 17, 1987.
4.87b
Removed June 10, 1999.
4.88a
March 11, 1969; re-designated § 4.88b November 29, 1994; § 4.88a added to read “Chronic fatigue syndrome”; criterion November 29, 1994.
4.88b
Added March 11, 1969; re-designated § 4.88c November 29, 1994; § 4.88a re-designated to § 4.88b November 29, 1994; General Rating Formula for Infectious Diseases added August 11, 2019.
6300
Criterion August 30, 1996; title, criterion, and note August 11, 2019.
6301
Criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6302
Criterion September 22, 1978; criterion August 30, 1996; criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6304
Evaluation August 30, 1996; criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6305
Criterion March 1, 1989; evaluation August 30, 1996; title, criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6306
Evaluation August 30, 1996; criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6307
Criterion May 13, 2018; criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6308
Criterion August 30, 1996; criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6309
Added March 1, 1963; criterion March 1, 1989; criterion August 30, 1996; criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6310
Criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6311
Criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6312
Added August 11, 2019.
6314
Evaluation March 1, 1989; evaluation August 30, 1996.
6315
Criterion August 30, 1996.
6316
Evaluation March 1, 1989; evaluation August 30, 1996; criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6317
Criterion August 30, 1996; title, criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6318
Added March 1, 1989; criterion August 30, 1996; criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6319
Added August 30, 1996; criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6320
Added August 30, 1996; criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6325
Added August 11, 2019.
6326
Added August 11, 2019.
6329
Added August 11, 2019.
6330
Added August 11, 2019.
6331
Added August 11, 2019.
6333
Added August 11, 2019.
6334
Added August 11, 2019.
6335
Added August 11, 2019.
6350
Evaluation March 1, 1963; evaluation March 10, 1976; evaluation August 30, 1996.
6351
Added March 1, 1989; evaluation March 24, 1992; criterion August 30, 1996; criterion, note August 11, 2019.
6352
Added March 1, 1989; removed March 24, 1992.
6353
Added March 1, 1989; removed March 24, 1992.
6354
Added November 29, 1994; criterion August 30, 1996; title, criterion, note August 11, 2019.
4.88c
Re-designated from § 4.88b November 29, 1994.
4.89
Ratings for nonpulmonary TB December 1, 1949; criterion March 11, 1969.
4.97
6502
Criterion October 7, 1996.
6504
Criterion October 7, 1996.
6510-6514
Criterion October 7, 1996.
6515
Criterion March 11, 1969.
6516
Criterion October 7, 1996.
6517
Removed October 7, 1996.
6518
Criterion October 7, 1996.
6519
Criterion October 7, 1996.
6520
Criterion October 7, 1996.
6521
Added October 7, 1996.
6522
Added October 7, 1996.
6523
Added October 7, 1996.
6524
Added October 7, 1996.
6600
Evaluation September 9, 1975; criterion October 7, 1996.
6601
Criterion October 7, 1996.
6602
Criterion September 9, 1975; criterion October 7, 1996.
6603
Added September 9, 1975; criterion October 7, 1996.
6604
Added October 7, 1996.
6701
Evaluation October 7, 1996.
6702
Evaluation October 7, 1996.
6703
Evaluation October 7, 1996.
6704
Subparagraph (1) following December 1, 1949; criterion March 11, 1969; criterion September 22, 1978.
6705
Removed March 11, 1969.
6707-6710
Added March 11, 1969; removed September 22, 1978.
6721
Criterion July 6, 1950; criterion September 22, 1978.
6724
Second note following December 1, 1949; criterion March 11, 1969; evaluation October 7, 1996.
6725-6728
Added March 11, 1969; removed September 22, 1978.
6730
Added September 22, 1978; criterion October 7, 1996.
6731
Evaluation September 22, 1978; criterion October 7, 1996.
6732
Criterion March 11, 1969.
6800
Criterion September 9, 1975; removed October 7, 1996.
6801
Removed October 7, 1996.
6802
Criterion September 9, 1975; removed October 7, 1996.
6810-6813
Removed October 7, 1996.
6814
Criterion March 10, 1976; removed October 7, 1996.
6815
Removed October 7, 1996.
6816
Removed October 7, 1996.
6817
Evaluation October 7, 1996.
6818
Removed October 7, 1996.
6819
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion October 7, 1996.
6821
Evaluation August 23, 1948.
6822-6847
Added October 7, 1996.
4.104
General Rating Formula for Diseases of the Heart November 14, 2021.
7000
Evaluation July 6, 1950; evaluation September 22, 1978, evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7001
Evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7002
Evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7003
Evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7004
Criterion September 22, 1978; evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7005
Evaluation September 9, 1975; evaluation September 22, 1978; evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7006
Evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7007
Evaluation September 22, 1978; evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7008
Evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion December 10, 2017; evaluation November 14, 2021.
7009
Added November 14, 2021.
7010
Evaluation January 12, 1998; title, criterion November 14, 2021.
7011
Evaluation January 12, 1998; note, criterion November 14, 2021.
7013
Removed January 12, 1998.
7014
Removed January 12, 1998.
7015
Evaluation September 9, 1975; criterion January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7016
Added September 9, 1975; criterion January 12, 1998; note, criterion November 14, 2021.
7017
Added September 22, 1978; evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7018
Added January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7019
Added January 12, 1998; note, criterion November 14, 2021.
7020
Added January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7100
Evaluation July 6, 1950.
7101
Criterion September 1, 1960; criterion September 9, 1975; criterion January 12, 1998.
7110
Evaluation September 9, 1975; evaluation January 12, 1998; title, criterion, note November 14, 2021.
7111
Criterion September 9, 1975; evaluation January 12, 1998; note, criterion November 14, 2021.
7112
Evaluation January 12, 1998.
7113
Evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7114
Added June 9, 1952; evaluation January 12, 1998; title, criterion, note November 14, 2021.
7115
Added June 9, 1952; evaluation January 12, 1998; note, criterion, evaluation November 14, 2021.
7116
Added June 9, 1952; evaluation March 10, 1976; removed January 12, 1998.
7117
Added June 9, 1952; evaluation January 12, 1998; title, note November 14, 2021.
7118
Criterion January 12, 1998.
7119
Evaluation January 12, 1998.
7120
Note following July 6, 1950; evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7121
Criterion July 6, 1950; evaluation March 10, 1976; evaluation January 12, 1998.
7122
Last sentence of Note following July 6, 1950; evaluation January 12, 1998; criterion August 13, 1998; criterion November 14, 2021.
7123
Added October 15, 1991; criterion January 12, 1998.
7124
Added November 14, 2021.
4.110
Removed and reserved May 19, 2024.
4.111
Removed and reserved May 19, 2024.
4.112
Revised May 19, 2024.
4.114
Introduction paragraph revised March 10, 1976; introduction paragraph revised May 19, 2024.
7200
Title, criterion May 19, 2024.
7201
Criterion May 19, 2024.
7202
Evaluation, criterion, note May 19, 2024.
7203
Evaluation, criterion, note May 19, 2024.
7204
Title, note May 19, 2024.
7205
Note May 19, 2024.
7206
Added May 19, 2024.
7207
Added May 19, 2024.
7301
Title, Evaluation, criterion, note May 19, 2024.
7302
Removed April 8, 1959.
7303
Added May 19, 2024.
7304
Evaluation November 1, 1962; title, evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7305
Evaluation November 1, 1962; Removed May 19, 2024.
7306
Criterion April 8, 1959; Removed May 19, 2024.
7307
Evaluation May 22, 1964; Criterion May 22, 1964; Note May 22, 1964; title, evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7308
Title April 8, 1959; evaluation April 8, 1959; evaluation and criterion May 19, 2024.
7309
Evaluation May 19, 2024.
7310
Evaluation May 19, 2024.
7311
Criterion July 2, 2001.
7312
Evaluation March 10, 1976; evaluation July 2, 2001; title, evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7313
Evaluation March 10, 1976; removed July 2, 2001.
7314
Title, evaluation, note May 19, 2024.
7315
Evaluation May 19, 2024.
7316
Removed May 19, 2024.
7317
Note May 19, 2024.
7318
Title, evaluation, and criterion May 19, 2024.
7319
Title November 1, 1962; evaluation November 1, 1962; title, evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7321
Evaluation July 6, 1950; criterion March 10, 1976; Removed May 19, 2024.
7322
Removed May 19, 2024.
7323
Criterion and note May 19, 2024.
7324
Removed May 19, 2024.
7325
Note November 1, 1962; note May 19, 2024.
7326
Note November 1, 1962; title, evaluation, criterion and note May 19, 2024.
7327
Evaluation November 1, 1962; criterion November 1, 1962; note November 1, 1962; title, evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7328
Evaluation November 1, 1962; title, evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7329
Evaluation November 1, 1962; evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7330
Evaluation November 1, 1962; criterion and note May 19, 2024.
7331
Criterion March 11, 1969.
7332
Evaluation November 1, 1962; evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7333
Evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7334
Evaluation July 6, 1950; evaluation November 1, 1962; evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7335
Evaluation and criterion May 19, 2024.
7336
Criterion November 1, 1962; criterion May 19, 2024.
7337
Title, evaluation, and criterion May 19, 2024.
7338
Title, evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7339
Criterion March 10, 1976; removed May 19, 2024.
7340
Removed May 19, 2024.
7341
Removed March 10, 1976.
7343
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion July 2, 2001.
7344
Criterion July 2, 2001; note May 19, 2024.
7345
Evaluation August 23, 1948; evaluation February 17, 1955; evaluation July 2, 2001; title May 19, 2024; evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7346
Evaluation February 1, 1962; title May 19, 2024; evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7347
Added September 9, 1975; title May 19, 2024; evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7348
Added March 10, 1976; criterion and note May 19, 2024.
7350
Added May 19, 2024.
7351
Added July 2, 2001; evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7352
Added May 19, 2024.
7354
Added July 2, 2001; evaluation, criterion, and note May 19, 2024.
7355
Added May 19, 2024.
7356
Added May 19, 2024.
7357
Added May 19, 2024.
4.115a
Re-designated and revised as § 4.115b; new § 4.115a “Ratings of the genitourinary system-dysfunctions” added February 17, 1994; revised November 14, 2021.
4.115b
7500
Note July 6, 1950; evaluation February 17, 1994, criterion September 8, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7501
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7502
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7503
Removed February 17, 1994.
7504
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7505
Criterion March 11, 1969; evaluation February 17, 1994.
7507
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7508
Evaluation February 17, 1994; title, criterion November 14, 2021.
7509
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7510
Evaluation February 17, 1994; removed November 14, 2021.
7511
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7512
Evaluation February 17, 1994.
7513
Removed February 17, 1994.
7514
Criterion March 11, 1969; removed February 17, 1994.
7515
Criterion February 17, 1994.
7516
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7517
Criterion February 17, 1994.
7518
Evaluation February 17, 1994.
7519
Evaluation March 10, 1976; evaluation February 17, 1994.
7520
Criterion February 17, 1994; criterion, footnote November 14, 2021.
7521
Criterion February 17, 1994; criterion, footnote November 14, 2021.
7522
Criterion September 8, 1994; title, criterion, note November 14, 2021.
7523
Criterion September 8, 1994.
7524
Note July 6, 1950; evaluation February 17, 1994; evaluation September 8, 1994; note November 14, 2021.
7525
Criterion March 11, 1969; evaluation February 17, 1994; title and criterion November 14, 2021.
7526
Removed February 17, 1994.
7527
Criterion February 17, 1994; title and criterion November 14, 2021.
7528
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7529
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7530
Added September 9, 1975; evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7531
Added September 9, 1975; criterion February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7532
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7533
Added February 17, 1994; title, criterion, and note November 14, 2021.
7534
Added February 17, 1994; title and criterion November 14, 2021.
7535
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7536
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7537
Added February 17, 1994; title and criterion November 14, 2021.
7538
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7539
Added February 17, 1994; note and criterion November 14, 2021.
7540
Evaluation February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7541
Added February 17, 1994; title and criterion November 14, 2021.
7542
Added February 17, 1994; criterion November 14, 2021.
7543
Added November 14, 2021.
7544
Added November 14, 2021.
7545
Added November 14, 2021.
4.116
§ 4.116 removed and § 4.116a re-designated § 4.116 “Schedule of ratings-gynecological conditions and disorders of the breasts” May 22, 1995.
7610
Criterion May 22, 1995; title May 13, 2018.
7611
Criterion May 22, 1995.
7612
Criterion May 22, 1995.
7613
Criterion May 22, 1995.
7614
Criterion May 22, 1995.
7615
Criterion May 22, 1995; note May 13, 2018.
7617
Criterion May 22, 1995.
7618
Criterion May 22, 1995.
7619
Criterion May 22, 1995; note May 13, 2018.
7620
Criterion May 22, 1995.
7621
Criterion May 22, 1995; evaluation May 13, 2018.
7622
Removed May 13, 2018.
7623
Removed May 13, 2018.
7624
Criterion August 9, 1976; evaluation May 22, 1995.
7625
Criterion August 9, 1976; evaluation May 22, 1995.
7626
Criterion May 22, 1995; criterion March 18, 2002.
7627
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion May 22, 1995; title, note May 13, 2018.
7628
Added May 22, 1995; title, criterion May 13, 2018.
7629
Added May 22, 1995.
7630
Added May 13, 2018.
7631
Added May 13, 2018.
7632
Added May 13, 2018.
4.117
7700
Removed December 9, 2018.
7701
Removed October 23, 1995.
7702
Evaluation October 23, 1995; title December 9, 2018; evaluation December 9, 2018.
7703
Evaluation August 23, 1948; criterion October 23, 1995; evaluation December 9, 2018; criterion December 9, 2018.
7704
Evaluation October 23, 1995; evaluation December 9, 2018.
7705
Evaluation October 23, 1995; title December 9, 2018; evaluation December 9, 2018; criterion December 9, 2018.
7706
Evaluation October 23, 1995; note December 9, 2018; criterion October 23, 1995.
7707
Criterion October 23, 1995.
7709
Evaluation March 10, 1976; criterion October 23, 1995; title December 9, 2018; criterion December 9, 2018.
7710
Criterion October 23, 1995; criterion December 9, 2018.
7711
Criterion October 23, 1995.
7712
Added December 9, 2018.
7713
Removed October 23, 1995.
7714
Added September 9, 1975; criterion October 23, 1995; criterion December 9, 2018.
7715
Added October 26, 1990; criterion December 9, 2018.
7716
Added October 23, 1995; evaluation December 9, 2018; criterion December 9, 2018.
7717
Added March 9, 2012.
7718
Added December 9, 2018.
7719
Added December 9, 2018.
7720
Added December 9, 2018.
7721
Added December 9, 2018.
7722
Added December 9, 2018.
7723
Added December 9, 2018.
7724
Added December 9, 2018.
7725
Added December 9, 2018.
4.118
7800
Evaluation August 30, 2002; criterion October 23, 2008.
7801
Criterion July 6, 1950; criterion August 30, 2002; criterion October 23, 2008; title, note 1, note 2 August 13, 2018.
7802
Criterion September 22, 1978; criterion August 30, 2002; criterion October 23, 2008; title, note 1, note 2 August 13, 2018.
7803
Criterion August 30, 2002; removed October 23, 2008.
7804
Criterion July 6, 1950; criterion September 22, 1978; criterion and evaluation October 23, 2008.
7805
Criterion October 23, 2008; title August 13, 2018.
General Rating Formula for DCs 7806, 7809, 7813-7816, 7820-7822, and 7824 added August 13, 2018.
7806
Criterion September 9, 1975; evaluation August 30, 2002; criterion August 13, 2018.
7807
Criterion August 30, 2002.
7808
Criterion August 30, 2002.
7809
Criterion August 30, 2002; title, criterion August 13, 2018.
7810
Removed August 30, 2002.
7811
Criterion March 11, 1969; evaluation August 30, 2002.
7812
Removed August 30, 2002.
7813
Criterion August 30, 2002; title, criterion August 13, 2018.
7814
Removed August 30, 2002.
7815
Evaluation August 30, 2002; criterion, note August 13, 2018.
7816
Evaluation August 30, 2002; criterion, note August 13, 2018.
7817
Evaluation August 30, 2002; title, criterion, note August 13, 2018.
7818
Criterion August 30, 2002.
7819
Criterion August 30, 2002.
7820
Added August 30, 2002; criterion August 13, 2018.
7821
Added August 30, 2002; title, criterion August 13, 2018.
7822
Added August 30, 2002; title, criterion August 13, 2018.
7823
Added August 30, 2002; criterion August 13, 2018.
7824
Added August 30, 2002; criterion August 13, 2018.
7825
Added August 30, 2002; title, criterion August 13, 2018.
7826
Added August 30, 2002; criterion August 13, 2018.
7827
Added August 30, 2002; criterion August 13, 2018.
7828
Added August 30, 2002; criterion August 13, 2018.
7829
Added August 30, 2002; criterion August 13, 2018.
7830
Added August 30, 2002; criterion August 13, 2018.
7831
Added August 30, 2002; criterion August 13, 2018.
7832
Added August 30, 2002; criterion August 13, 2018.
7833
Added August 30, 2002; criterion August 13, 2018.
4.119
7900
Criterion August 13, 1981; evaluation June 9, 1996; title December 10, 2017; evaluation December 10, 2017; criterion December 10, 2017; note December 10, 2017.
7901
Criterion August 13, 1981; evaluation June 9, 1996; title December 10, 2017; evaluation December 10, 2017; criterion December 10, 2017; note December 10, 2017.
7902
Evaluation August 13, 1981; criterion June 9, 1996; title December 10, 2017; evaluation December 10, 2017; criterion December 10, 2017; note December 10, 2017.
7903
Criterion August 13, 1981; evaluation June 9, 1996; evaluation December 10, 2017; criterion December 10, 2017; note December 10, 2017.
7904
Criterion August 13, 1981; evaluation June 9, 1996; evaluation December 10, 2017; criterion December 10, 2017; note
December 10, 2017.
7905
Evaluation; August 13, 1981; evaluation June 9, 1996; evaluation December 10, 2017; criterion December 10, 2017.
7906
Added December 10, 2017.
7907
Evaluation; August 13, 1981; evaluation June 9, 1996; criterion December 10, 2017; note December 10, 2017.
7908
Criterion August 13, 1981; criterion June 9, 1996; criterion December 10, 2017.
7909
Evaluation August 13, 1981; criterion June 9, 1996; evaluation June 9, 1996; criterion December 10, 2017; evaluation
December 10, 2017;
note
December 10, 2017.
7910
Removed June 9, 1996.
7911
Evaluation March 11, 1969; evaluation August 13, 1981; criterion June 9, 1996; title December 10, 2017; note
December 10, 2017.
7912
Title December 10, 2017; criterion
December 10, 2017.
7913
Criterion September 9, 1975; criterion August 13, 1981; criterion June 6, 1996; evaluation June 9, 1996; criterion December 10, 2017; note
December 10, 2017.
7914
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion August 13, 1981; criterion June 9, 1996.
7915
Criterion June 9, 1996; criterion
December 10, 2017.
7916
Added June 9, 1996; note
December 10, 2017.
7917
Added June 9, 1996; note
December 10, 2017.
7918
Added June 9, 1996; note
December 10, 2017.
7919
Added June 9, 1996; evaluation June 9, 1996; criterion December 10, 2017; note
December 10, 2017.
4.124a
8002
Criterion September 22, 1978.
8021
Criterion September 22, 1978; criterion October 1, 1961; criterion March 10, 1976; criterion March 1, 1989.
8045
Criterion and evaluation October 23, 2008.
8046
Added October 1, 1961; criterion March 10, 1976; criterion March 1, 1989.
8100
Evaluation June 9, 1953.
8540
Added October 15, 1991.
8910
Added October 1, 1961.
8911
Added October 1, 1961; evaluation September 9, 1975.
8912
Added October 1, 1961.
8913
Added October 1, 1961.
8914
Added October 1, 1961; criterion September 9, 1975; criterion March 10, 1976.
8910-8914
Evaluations September 9, 1975.
4.125—4.132
All Diagnostic Codes under Mental Disorders October 1, 1961; except as to evaluation for Diagnostic Codes 9500 through 9511 September 9, 1975.
4.130
Re-designated from § 4.132 November 7, 1996.
9200
Removed February 3, 1988.
9201
Criterion February 3, 1988; Title August 4, 2014.
9202
Criterion February 3, 1988; removed August 4, 2014.
9203
Criterion February 3, 1988; removed August 4, 2014.
9204
Criterion February 3, 1988; removed August 4, 2014.
9205
Criterion February 3, 1988; criterion November 7, 1996; Removed August 4, 2014.
9206
Criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9207
Criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9208
Criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9209
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9210
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; criterion November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9211
Added November 7, 1996.
9300
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; criterion November 7, 1996.
9301
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; criterion November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9302
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9303
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9304
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; criterion November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9305
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; criterion November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9306
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9307
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9308
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9309
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9310
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; criterion November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9311
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9312
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; criterion November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9313
Added March 10, 1976; removed February 3, 1988.
9314
Added March 10, 1976; removed February 3, 1988.
9315
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9316-9321
Added March 10, 1976; removed February 3, 1988.
9322
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9323
Added March 10, 1976; removed February 3, 1988.
9324
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9325
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9326
Added March 10, 1976; removed February 3, 1988; added November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9327
Added November 7, 1996; removed August 4, 2014.
9400-9411
Evaluations February 3, 1988.
9400
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988.
9401
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9402
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; removed November 7, 1996.
9403
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; criterion November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9410
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988; Title August 4, 2014.
9411
Added February 3, 1988.
9412
Added November 7, 1996.
9413
Added November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9416
Added November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9417
Added November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9421
Added November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9422
Added November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9423
Added November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9424
Added November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9425
Added November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9431
Added November 7, 1996.
9432
Added November 7, 1996.
9433
Added November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9434
Added November 7, 1996.
9435
Added November 7, 1996; Title August 4, 2014.
9440
Added November 7, 1996.
9500
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988.
9501
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988.
9502
Criterion March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988.
9503
Removed March 10, 1976.
9504
Criterion September 9, 1975; removed March 10, 1976.
9505
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988.
9506
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988.
9507
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988.
9508
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988.
9509
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988.
9510
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988.
9511
Added March 10, 1976; criterion February 3, 1988.
9520
Added November 7, 1996.
9521
Added November 7, 1996.
4.132
Re-designated as § 4.130 November 7, 1996.
4.150
9900
Criterion September 22, 1978; criterion February 17, 1994; title September 10, 2017.
9901
Criterion February 17, 1994.
9902
Criterion February 17, 1994; evaluation September 10, 2017; title September 10, 2017.
9903
Criterion February 17, 1994; evaluation September 10, 2017; title September 10, 2017.
9904
Criterion September 10, 2017.
9905
Criterion September 22, 1978; evaluation February 17, 1994; evaluation September 10, 2017; title September 10, 2017.
9906
Removed September 10, 2017.
9907
Removed September 10, 2017.
9910
Removed February 17, 1994.
9911
Criterion and title September 10, 2017.
9912
Removed September 10, 2017.
9913
Criterion February 17, 1994.
9914
Added February 17, 1994.
9915
Added February 17, 1994.
9916
Added February 17, 1994; criterion September 10, 2017.
9917
Added September 10, 2017.
9918
Added September 10, 2017.
[72 FR 12983, Mar. 20, 2007; 72 FR 16728, Apr. 5, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 54708, 54711, Sept. 23, 2008; 73 FR 69554, Nov. 19, 2008; 77 FR 6467, Feb. 8, 2012; 79 FR 45101, Aug. 4, 2014; 80 FR 42042, July 16, 2015; 82 FR 36084, Aug. 3, 2017; 82 FR 50806, Nov. 2, 2017; 83 FR 15072, Apr. 9, 2018; 83 FR 15323, Apr. 10, 2018; 83 FR 32600, July 13, 2018; 83 FR 54257, Oct. 29, 2018; 84 FR 28233, June 18, 2019; 85 FR 76464, Nov. 30, 2020; 86 FR 8143, Feb. 4, 2021; 86 FR 54087, 54096, Sept. 30, 2021; 89 FR 19749, Mar. 20, 2024]
Pt. 4, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 4—Numerical Index of Disabilities
Diagnostic Code No.
THE MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM
Acute, Subacute, or Chronic Diseases
5000
Osteomyelitis, acute, subacute, or chronic.
5001
Bones and Joints, tuberculosis.
5002
Multi-joint arthritis (except post-traumatic and gout), 2 or more joints, as an active process.
5003
Degenerative arthritis, other than post-traumatic.
5004
Arthritis, gonorrheal.
5005
Arthritis, pneumococcic.
5006
Arthritis, typhoid.
5007
Arthritis, syphilitic.
5008
Arthritis, streptococcic.
5009
Other specified forms of arthropathy (excluding gout).
5010
Post-traumatic arthritis.
5011
Decompression illness.
5012
Bones, neoplasm, malignant, primary or secondary.
5013
Osteoporosis, residuals of.
5014
Osteomalacia, residuals of.
5015
Bones, neoplasm, benign.
5016
Osteitis deformans.
5017
Gout.
5018
[Removed]
5019
Bursitis.
5020
[Removed]
5021
Myositis.
5022
[Removed]
5023
Heterotopic ossification.
5024
Tenosynovitis, tendinitis, tendinosis or tendinopathy.
5025
Fibromyalgia.
Prosthetic Implants
5051
Shoulder replacement (prosthesis).
5052
Elbow replacement (prosthesis).
5053
Wrist replacement (prosthesis).
5054
Hip, resurfacing or replacement (prosthesis).
5055
Knee, resurfacing or replacement (prosthesis).
5056
Ankle replacement (prosthesis).
Combination of Disabilities
5104
Anatomical loss of one hand and loss of use of one foot.
5105
Anatomical loss of one foot and loss of use of one hand.
5106
Anatomical loss of both hands.
5107
Anatomical loss of both feet.
5108
Anatomical loss of one hand and one foot.
5109
Loss of use of both hands.
5110
Loss of use of both feet.
5111
Loss of use of one hand and one foot.
Amputations: Upper Extremity
Arm amputation of:
5120
Complete amputation, upper extremity.
5121
Above insertion of deltoid.
5122
Below insertion of deltoid.
Forearm amputation of:
5123
Above insertion of pronator teres.
5124
Below insertion of pronator teres.
5125
Hand, loss of use of.
Multiple Finger Amputations
5126
Five digits of one hand.
Four digits of one hand:
5127
Thumb, index, long and ring.
5128
Thumb, index, long and little.
5129
Thumb, index, ring and little.
5130
Thumb, long, ring and little.
5131
Index, long, ring and little.
Three digits of one hand:
5132
Thumb, index and long.
5133
Thumb, index and ring.
5134
Thumb, index and little.
5135
Thumb, long and ring.
5136
Thumb, long and little.
5137
Thumb, ring and little.
5138
Index, long and ring.
5139
Index, long and little.
5140
Index, ring and little.
5141
Long, ring and little.
Two digits of one hand:
5142
Thumb and index.
5143
Thumb and long.
5144
Thumb and ring.
5145
Thumb and little.
5146
Index and long.
5147
Index and ring.
5148
Index and little.
5149
Long and ring.
5150
Long and little.
5151
Ring and little.
Single finger:
5152
Thumb.
5153
Index finger.
5154
Long finger.
5155
Ring finger.
5156
Little finger.
Amputations: Lower Extremity
Thigh amputation of:
5160
Complete amputation, lower extremity.
5161
Upper third.
5162
Middle or lower thirds.
Leg amputation of:
5163
With defective stump.
5164
Not improvable by prosthesis controlled by natural knee action.
5165
At a lower level, permitting prosthesis.
5166
Forefoot, proximal to metatarsal bones.
5167
Foot, loss of use of.
5170
Toes, all, amputation of, without metatarsal loss or transmetatarsal, amputation of, with up to half of metatarsal loss.
5171
Toe, great.
5172
Toes, other than great, with removal of metatarsal head.
5173
Toes, three or more, without metatarsal involvement.
Shoulder and Arm
5200
Scapulohumeral articulation, ankylosis.
5201
Arm, limitation of motion.
5202
Humerus, other impairment.
5203
Clavicle or scapula, impairment.
Elbow and Forearm
5205
Elbow, ankylosis.
5206
Forearm, limitation of flexion.
5207
Forearm, limitation of extension.
5208
Forearm, flexion limited.
5209
Elbow, other impairment.
5210
Radius and ulna, nonunion.
5211
Ulna, impairment.
5212
Radius, impairment.
5213
Supination and pronation, impairment.
Wrist
5214
Wrist, ankylosis.
5215
Wrist, limitation of motion.
Limitation of Motion
Multiple Digits: Unfavorable Ankylosis:
5216
Five digits of one hand.
5217
Four digits of one hand.
5218
Three digits of one hand.
5219
Two digits of one hand.
Multiple Digits: Favorable Ankylosis:
5220
Five digits of one hand.
5221
Four digits of one hand.
5222
Three digits of one hand.
5223
Two digits of one hand.
Ankylosis of Individual Digits:
5224
Thumb.
5225
Index finger.
5226
Long finger.
5227
Ring or little finger.
Limitation of Motion of Individual Digits:
5228
Thumb.
5229
Index or long finger.
5230
Ring or little finger.
Spine
5235
Vertebral fracture or dislocation.
5236
Sacroiliac injury and weakness.
5237
Lumbosacral or cervical strain.
5238
Spinal stenosis.
5239
Spondylolisthesis or segmental instability.
5240
Ankylosing spondylitis.
5241
Spinal fusion.
5242
Degenerative arthritis, degenerative disc disease other than intervertebral disc syndrome (also, see either DC 5003 or 5010).
5243
Intervertebral disc syndrome.
5244
Traumatic paralysis, complete.
Hip and Thigh
5250
Hip, ankylosis.
5251
Thigh, limitation of extension.
5252
Thigh, limitation of flexion.
5253
Thigh, impairment.
5254
Hip, flail joint.
5255
Femur, impairment.
Knee and Leg
5256
Knee, ankylosis.
5257
Knee, other impairment.
5258
Cartilage, semilunar, dislocated.
5259
Cartilage, semilunar, removal.
5260
Leg, limitation of flexion.
5261
Leg, limitation of extension.
5262
Tibia and fibula, impairment.
5263
Genu recurvatum.
Ankle
5270
Ankle, ankylosis.
5271
Ankle, limited motion.
5272
Subastragalar or tarsal joint, ankylosis.
5273
Os calcis or astragalus, malunion.
5274
Astragalectomy.
Shortening of the Lower Extremity
5275
Bones, of the lower extremity
The Foot
5269
Plantar fasciitis.
5276
Flatfoot, acquired.
5277
Weak foot, bilateral.
5278
Claw foot (pes cavus), acquired.
5279
Metatarsalgia, anterior (Morton's disease).
5280
Hallux valgus.
5281
Hallux rigidus.
5282
Hammer toe.
5283
Tarsal or metatarsal bones.
5284
Foot injuries, other.
The Skull
5296
Loss of part of.
The Ribs
5297
Removal of.
The Coccyx
5298
Removal of.
MUSCLE INJURIES
Shoulder Girdle and Arm
5301
Group I Function: Upward rotation of scapula.
5302
Group II Function: Depression of arm.
5303
Group III Function: Elevation and abduction of arm.
5304
Group IV Function: Stabilization of shoulder.
5305
Group V Function: Elbow supination.
5306
Group VI Function: Extension of elbow.
Forearm and Hand
5307
Group VII Function: Flexion of wrist and fingers.
5308
Group VIII Function: Extension of wrist, fingers, thumb.
5309
Group IX Function: Forearm muscles.
Foot and Leg
5310
Group X Function: Movement of forefoot and toes.
5311
Group XI Function: Propulsion of foot.
5312
Group XII Function: Dorsiflexion.
Pelvic Girdle and Thigh
5313
Group XIII Function: Extension of hip and flexion of knee.
5314
Group XIV Function: Extension of knee.
5315
Group XV Function: Adduction of hip.
5316
Group XVI Function: Flexion of hip.
5317
Group XVII Function: Extension of hip.
5318
Group XVIII Function: Outward rotation of thigh.
Torso and Neck
5319
Group XIX Function: Abdominal wall and lower thorax.
5320
Group XX Function: Postural support of body.
5321
Group XXI Function: Respiration.
5322
Group XXII Function: Rotary and forward movements, head.
5323
Group XXIII Function: Movements of head.
Miscellaneous
5324
Diaphragm, rupture.
5325
Muscle injury, facial muscles.
5326
Muscle hernia.
5327
Muscle, neoplasm of, malignant.
5328
Muscle, neoplasm of, benign.
5329
Sarcoma, soft tissue.
5330
Rhabdomyolysis, residuals of.
5331
Compartment syndrome.
THE EYE
Diseases of the Eye
6000
Choroidopathy, including uveitis, iritis, cyclitis, or choroiditis.
6001
Keratopathy.
6002
Scleritis.
6003
Iritis.
6004
Cyclitis.
6005
Choroiditis.
6006
Retinopathy or maculopathy not otherwise specified.
6007
Intraocular hemorrhage.
6008
Detachment of retina.
6009
Unhealed eye injury.
6010
Tuberculosis of eye.
6011
Retinal scars, atrophy, or irregularities.
6012
Angle-closure glaucoma.
6013
Open-angle glaucoma.
6014
Malignant neoplasms of the eye, orbit, and adnexa (excluding skin).
6015
Benign neoplasms of the eye, orbit, and adnexa (excluding skin).
6016
Nystagmus, central.
6017
Conjunctivitis, trachomatous, chronic.
6018
Conjunctivitis, other, chronic.
6019
Ptosis unilateral or bilateral.
6020
Ectropion.
6021
Entropion.
6022
Lagophthalmos.
6023
Eyebrows, loss.
6024
Eyelashes, loss.
6025
Disorders of the lacrimal apparatus (epiphora, dacrocystitis, etc.).
6026
Optic neuropathy.
6027
Cataract.
6028
Cataract, senile, and others.
6029
Aphakia.
6030
Accommodation, paralysis.
6031
Dacryocystitis.
6032
Eyelids, loss of portion.
6033
Lens, crystalline, dislocation.
6034
Pterygium.
6035
Keratoconus.
6036
Status post corneal transplant.
6040
Diabetic retinopathy.
6042
Retinal dystrophy (including retinitis pigmentosa, wet or dry macular degeneration, early-onset macular degeneration, rod and/or cone dystrophy).
6046
Post-chiasmal disorders.
Impairment of Central Visual Acuity
6061
Anatomical loss both eyes.
6062
Blindness, both eyes, only light perception.
Anatomical loss of 1 eye:
6063
Other eye 5/200 (1.5/60).
6064
Other eye 10/200 (3/60).
6064
Other eye 15/200 (4.5/60).
6064
Other eye 20/200 (6/60).
6065
Other eye 20/100 (6/30).
6065
Other eye 20/70 (6/21).
6065
Other eye 20/50 (6/15).
6066
Other eye 20/40 (6/12).
Blindness in 1 eye, only light perception:
6067
Other eye 5/200 (1.5/60).
6068
Other eye 10/200 (3/60).
6068
Other eye 15/200 (4.5/60).
6068
Other eye 20/200 (6/60).
6069
Other eye 20/100 (6/30).
6069
Other eye 20/70 (6/21).
6069
Other eye 20/50 (6/15).
6070
Other eye 20/40 (6/12).
Vision in 1 eye 5/200 (1.5/60):
6071
Other eye 5/200 (1.5/60).
6072
Other eye 10/200 (3/60).
6072
Other eye 15/200 (4.5/60).
6072
Other eye 20/200 (6/60).
6073
Other eye 20/100 (6/30).
6073
Other eye 20/70 (6/21).
6073
Other eye 20/50 (6/15).
6074
Other eye 20/40 (6/12).
Vision in 1 eye 10/200 (3/60):
6075
Other eye 10/200 (3/60).
6075
Other eye 15/200 (4.5/60).
6075
Other eye 20/200 (6/60).
6076
Other eye 20/100 (6/30).
6076
Other eye 20/70 (6/21).
6076
Other eye 20/50 (6/15).
6077
Other eye 20/40 (6/12).
Vision in 1 eye 15/200 (4.5/60):
6075
Other eye 15/200 (4.5/60).
6075
Other eye 20/200 (6/60).
6076
Other eye 20/100 (6/30).
6076
Other eye 20/70 (6/21).
6076
Other eye 20/50 (6/15).
6077
Other eye 20/40 (6/12).
Vision in 1 eye 20/200 (6/60):
6075
Other eye 20/200 (6/60).
6076
Other eye 20/100 (6/30).
6076
Other eye 20/70 (6/21).
6076
Other eye 20/50 (6/15).
6077
Other eye 20/40 (6/12).
Vision in 1 eye 20/100 (6/30):
6078
Other eye 20/100 (6/30).
6078
Other eye 20/70 (6/21).
6078
Other eye 20/50 (6/15).
6079
Other eye 20/40 (6/12).
Vision in 1 eye 20/70 (6/21):
6078
Other eye 20/70 (6/21).
6078
Other eye 20/50 (6/15).
6079
Other eye 20/40 (6/12).
Vision in 1 eye 20/50 (6/15):
6078
Other eye 20/50 (6/15).
6079
Other eye 20/40 (6/12).
Impairment of Field Vision:
6080
Field vision, impairment.
6081
Scotoma.
Impairment of Muscle Function:
6090
Diplopia.
6091
Symblepharon.
6092
Diplopia, limited muscle function.
THE EAR
6200
Chronic suppurative otitis media.
6201
Chronic nonsuppurative otitis media.
6202
Otosclerosis.
6204
Peripheral vestibular disorders.
6205
Meniere's syndrome.
6207
Loss of auricle.
6208
Malignant neoplasm.
6209
Benign neoplasm.
6210
Chronic otitis externa.
6211
Tympanic membrane.
6260
Tinnitus, recurrent.
OTHER SENSE ORGANS
6275
Smell, complete loss.
6276
Taste, complete loss.
INFECTIOUS DISEASES, IMMUNE DISORDERS AND NUTRITIONAL DEFICIENCIES
6300
Vibriosis (Cholera, Non-cholera).
6301
Visceral Leishmaniasis.
6302
Leprosy (Hansen's Disease).
6304
Malaria.
6305
Lymphatic filariasis, to include elephantiasis.
6306
Bartonellosis.
6307
Plague.
6308
Relapsing fever.
6309
Rheumatic fever.
6310
Syphilis.
6311
Tuberculosis, miliary.
6312
Nontuberculosis mycobacterium infection.
6313
Avitaminosis.
6314
Beriberi.
6315
Pellagra.
6316
Brucellosis.
6317
Rickettsial, ehrlichia, and anaplasma infections.
6318
Melioidosis.
6319
Lyme disease.
6320
Parasitic diseases.
6325
Hyperinfection syndrome or disseminated strongyloidiasis.
6326
Schistosomiasis.
6329
Hemorrhagic fevers, including dengue, yellow fever, and others.
6330
Campylobacter jejuni infection.
6331
Coxiella burnetii infection (Q Fever).
6333
Nontyphoid salmonella infections.
6334
Shigella infections.
6335
West Nile virus infection.
6350
Lupus erythematosus.
6351
HIV-Related Illness.
6354
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS).
THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM
Nose and Throat
6502
Septum, nasal, deviation.
6504
Nose, loss of part of, or scars.
6510
Sinusitis, pansinusitis, chronic.
6511
Sinusitis, ethmoid, chronic.
6512
Sinusitis, frontal, chronic.
6513
Sinusitis, maxillary, chronic.
6514
Sinusitis, sphenoid, chronic.
6515
Laryngitis, tuberculous.
6516
Laryngitis, chronic.
6518
Laryngectomy, total.
6519
Aphonia, complete organic.
6520
Larynx, stenosis of.
6521
Pharynx, injuries to.
6522
Allergic or vasomotor rhinitis.
6523
Bacterial rhinitis.
6524
Granulomatous rhinitis.
Trachea and Bronchi
6600
Bronchitis, chronic.
6601
Bronchiectasis.
6602
Asthma, bronchial.
6603
Emphysema, pulmonary.
6604
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Lungs and Pleura Tuberculosis
Ratings for Pulmonary Tuberculosis (Chronic) Entitled on August 19, 1968:
6701
Active, far advanced.
6702
Active, moderately advanced.
6703
Active, minimal.
6704
Active, advancement unspecified.
6721
Inactive, far advanced.
6722
Inactive, moderately advanced.
6723
Inactive, minimal.
6724
Inactive, advancement unspecified.
Ratings for Pulmonary Tuberculosis Initially Evaluated After August 19, 1968:
6730
Chronic, active.
6731
Chronic, inactive.
6732
Pleurisy, active or inactive.
Nontuberculous Diseases
6817
Pulmonary Vascular Disease.
6819
Neoplasms, malignant.
6820
Neoplasms, benign.
Bacterial Infections of the Lung
6822
Actinomycosis.
6823
Nocardiosis.
6824
Chronic lung abscess.
Interstitial Lung Disease
6825
Fibrosis of lung, diffuse interstitial.
6826
Desquamative interstitial pneumonitis.
6827
Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis.
6828
Eosinophilic granuloma.
6829
Drug-induced, pneumonitis
fibrosis.
6830
Radiation-induced, pneumonitis
fibrosis.
6831
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis.
6832
Pneumoconiosis.
6833
Asbestosis.
Mycotic Lung Disease
6834
Histoplasmosis.
6835
Coccidioidomycosis.
6836
Blastomycosis.
6837
Cryptococcosis.
6838
Aspergillosis.
6839
Mucormycosis.
Restrictive Lung Disease
6840
Diaphragm paralysis or paresis.
6841
Spinal cord injury with respiratory insufficiency.
6842
Kyphoscoliosis, pectus excavatum/carinatum.
6843
Traumatic chest wall defect.
6844
Post-surgical residual.
6845
Pleural effusion or fibrosis.
6846
Sarcoidosis.
6847
Sleep Apnea Syndromes.
THE CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM
Diseases of the Heart
7000
Valvular heart disease.
7001
Endocarditis.
7002
Pericarditis.
7003
Pericardial adhesions.
7004
Syphilitic heart disease.
7005
Arteriosclerotic heart disease.
7006
Myocardial infarction.
7007
Hypertensive heart disease.
7008
Hyperthyroid heart disease.
7009
Bradycardia (Bradyarrhythmia), symptomatic, requiring permanent pacemaker implantation.
7010
Supraventricular tachycardia.
7011
Ventricular arrhythmias.
7015
Atrioventricular block.
7016
Heart valve replacement.
7017
Coronary bypass surgery.
7018
Implantable cardiac pacemakers.
7019
Cardiac transplantation.
7020
Cardiomyopathy.
Diseases of the Arteries and Veins
7101
Hypertensive vascular disease.
7110
Aortic aneurysm: ascending, thoracic, abdominal.
7111
Aneurysm, large artery.
7112
Aneurysm, small artery.
7113
Arteriovenous fistula, traumatic.
7114
Peripheral arterial disease.
7115
Thrombo-angiitis obliterans (Buerger's Disease).
7117
Raynaud's syndrome (secondary Raynaud's phenomenon, secondary Raynaud's).
7118
Angioneurotic edema.
7119
Erythromelalgia.
7120
Varicose veins.
7121
Post-phlebitic syndrome.
7122
Cold injury residuals.
7123
Soft tissue sarcoma.
7124
Raynaud's disease (primary Raynaud's).
The Digestive System
7200
Soft tissue injury of the mouth, other than tongue or lips.
7201
Lips, injuries.
7202
Tongue, loss of whole or part.
7203
Esophagus, stricture.
7204
Esophageal motility disorder.
7205
Esophagus, diverticulum.
7206
Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
7207
Barrett's esophagus.
7301
Peritoneum, adhesions of, due to surgery, trauma, or infection.
7303
Chronic complications of upper gastrointestinal surgery.
7304
Peptic ulcer disease.
7305
[Removed].
7306
[Removed].
7307
Gastritis, chronic.
7308
Postgastrectomy syndromes.
7309
Stomach, stenosis.
7310
Stomach, injury of, residuals.
7311
Liver, injury of, residuals.
7312
Cirrhosis of the liver.
7314
Chronic biliary tract disease.
7315
Cholelithiasis, chronic.
7316
[Removed].
7317
Gallbladder, injury of.
7318
Cholecystectomy (gallbladder removal), complications of (such as strictures and biliary leaks).
7319
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
7321
[Removed].
7322
[Removed].
7323
Colitis, ulcerative.
7324
[Removed].
7325
Enteritis, chronic.
7326
Crohn's disease or undifferentiated form of inflammatory bowel disease.
7327
Diverticulitis and diverticulosis.
7328
Intestine, small, resection of.
7329
Intestine, large, resection.
7330
Intestinal fistulous diseases, external.
7331
Peritonitis.
7332
Rectum and anus, impairment of sphincter control.
7333
Rectum
anus, stricture.
7334
Rectum, prolapse.
7335
Ano, fistula in, including anorectal fistula, anorectal abscess.
7336
Hemorrhoids, external or internal.
7337
Pruritus ani (anal itching).
7338
Hernia, including femoral, inguinal, umbilical, ventral, incisional, and other (but not including hiatal).
7339
[Removed].
7340
[Removed].
7342
Visceroptosis.
7343
Neoplasms, malignant.
7344
Benign neoplasms, exclusive of skin growths.
7345
Chronic liver disease without cirrhosis.
7346
Hiatal hernia and paraesophageal hernia.
7347
Pancreatitis, chronic.
7348
Vagotomy with pyloroplasty or gastroenterostomy.
7350
Liver abscess.
7351
Liver transplant.
7352
Pancreas transplant.
7354
Hepatitis C (or non-A, non-B hepatitis).
7355
Celiac disease.
7356
Gastrointestinal dysmotility syndrome.
7357
Post pancreatectomy syndrome.
THE GENITOURINARY SYSTEM
7500
Kidney, removal.
7501
Kidney, abscess.
7502
Nephritis, chronic.
7504
Pyelonephritis, chronic.
7505
Kidney, tuberculosis.
7507
Nephrosclerosis, arteriolar.
7508
Nephrolithiasis/Ureterolithiasis/Nephrocalcinosis.
7509
Hydronephrosis.
7511
Ureter, stricture.
7512
Cystitis, chronic.
7515
Bladder, calculus.
7516
Bladder, fistula.
7517
Bladder, injury.
7518
Urethra, stricture.
7519
Urethra, fistula.
7520
Penis, removal of half or more.
7521
Penis, removal of glans.
7522
Erectile dysfunction, with or without penile deformity.
7523
Testis, atrophy, complete.
7524
Testis, removal.
7525
Prostatitis, urethritis, epididymitis, orchitis (unilateral or bilateral), chronic only.
7527
Prostate gland injuries, infections, hypertrophy, postoperative residuals, bladder outlet obstruction.
7528
Malignant neoplasms.
7529
Benign neoplasms.
7530
Renal disease, chronic.
7531
Kidney transplant.
7532
Renal tubular disorders.
7533
Cystic diseases of the kidneys.
7534
Atherosclerotic renal disease (renal artery stenosis, atheroembolic renal disease, or large vessel disease, unspecified).
7535
Toxic nephropathy.
7536
Glomerulonephritis.
7537
Interstitial nephritis, including gouty nephropathy, disorders of calcium metabolism.
7538
Papillary necrosis.
7539
Renal amyloid disease.
7540
Disseminated intravascular coagulation.
7541
Renal involvement in diabetes mellitus type I or II.
7542
Neurogenic bladder.
7543
Varicocele/Hydrocele.
7544
Renal disease caused by viral infection such as HIV, Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.
7545
Bladder, diverticulum of.
GYNECOLOGICAL CONDITIONS AND DISORDERS OF THE BREAST
7610
Vulva or clitoris, disease or injury of (including vulvovaginitis).
7611
Vagina, disease or injury.
7612
Cervix, disease or injury.
7613
Uterus, disease or injury.
7614
Fallopian tube, disease or injury.
7615
Ovary, disease or injury.
7617
Uterus and both ovaries, removal.
7618
Uterus, removal.
7619
Ovary, removal.
7620
Ovaries, atrophy of both.
7621
Complete or incomplete pelvic organ prolapse due to injury or disease or surgical complications of pregnancy.
7624
Fistula, rectovaginal.
7625
Fistula, urethrovaginal.
7626
Breast, surgery.
7627
Malignant neoplasms of gynecological system.
7628
Benign neoplasms of gynecological system.
7629
Endometriosis.
7630
Malignant neoplasms of the breast.
7631
Benign neoplasms of the breast and other injuries of the breast.
7632
Female sexual arousal disorder (FSAD).
The Hematologic and Lymphatic Systems
7700
[Removed]
7702
Agranulocytosis, acquired.
7703
Leukemia.
7704
Polycythemia vera.
7705
Immune thrombocytopenia.
7706
Splenectomy.
7707
Spleen, injury of, healed.
7709
Hodgkin's lymphoma.
7710
Adenitis, tuberculous.
7712
Multiple myeloma
7714
Sickle cell anemia.
7715
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
7716
Aplastic anemia.
7717
AL amyloidosis (primary amyloidosis).
7718
Essential thrombocythemia and primary myelofibrosis.
7719
Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) (chronic myeloid leukemia or chronic granulocytic leukemia).
7720
Iron deficiency anemia.
7721
Folic acid deficiency.
7722
Pernicious anemia and Vitamin B
12
deficiency anemia.
7723
Acquired hemolytic anemia.
7724
Solitary plasmacytoma.
7725
Myelodysplastic syndromes.
THE SKIN
7800
Burn scar(s) of the head, face, or neck; scar(s) of the head, face, or neck due to other causes; or other disfigurement of the head, face, or neck.
7801
Burn scar(s) or scar(s) due to other causes, not of the head, face, or neck that are associated with underlying soft tissue damage.
7802
Burn scar(s) or scar(s) due to other causes, not of the head, face, or neck that are not associated with underlying soft tissue damage.
7804
Scar(s), unstable or painful.
7805
Scars, other; and other effects of scars evaluated under diagnostic codes 7800, 7801, 7802, or 7804.
7806
Dermatitis or eczema.
7807
Leishmaniasis, American (New World).
7808
Leishmaniasis, Old World.
7809
Discoid lupus erythematosus.
7811
Tuberculosis luposa (lupus vulgaris).
7813
Dermatophytosis.
7815
Bullous disorders.
7816
Psoriasis.
7817
Erythroderma.
7818
Malignant skin neoplasms.
7819
Benign skin neoplasms.
7820
Infections of the skin.
7821
Cutaneous manifestations of collagen-vascular diseases not listed elsewhere.
7822
Papulosquamous disorders not listed elsewhere.
7823
Vitiligo.
7824
Keratinization, diseases.
7825
Chronic urticaria.
7826
Vasculitis, primary cutaneous.
7827
Erythema multiforme.
7828
Acne.
7829
Chloracne.
7830
Scarring alopecia.
7831
Alopecia areata.
7832
Hyperhidrosis.
7833
Malignant melanoma.
THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM
7900
Hyperthyroidism, including, but not limited to, Graves' disease.
7901
Thyroid enlargement, toxic.
7902
Thyroid enlargement, nontoxic.
7903
Hypothyroidism.
7904
Hyperparathyroidism.
7905
Hypoparathyroidism.
7906
Thyroiditis.
7907
Cushing's syndrome.
7908
Acromegaly.
7909
Diabetes insipidus.
7911
Addison's disease (adrenocortical insufficiency).
7912
Polyglandular syndrome (multiple endocrine neoplasia, autoimmune polyglandular syndrome).
7913
Diabetes mellitus.
7914
Malignant neoplasm.
7915
Benign neoplasm.
7916
Hyperpituitarism.
7917
Hyperaldosteronism.
7918
Pheochromocytoma.
7919
C-cell hyperplasia, thyroid.
NEUROLOGICAL CONDITIONS AND CONVULSIVE DISORDERS
Organic Diseases of the Central Nervous System
8000
Encephalitis, epidemic, chronic.
Brain, New Growth of
8002
Malignant.
8003
Benign.
8004
Paralysis agitans.
8005
Bulbar palsy.
8007
Brain, vessels, embolism.
8008
Brain, vessels, thrombosis.
8009
Brain, vessels, hemorrhage.
8010
Myelitis.
8011
Poliomyelitis, anterior.
8012
Hematomyelia.
8013
Syphilis, cerebrospinal.
8014
Syphilis, meningovascular.
8015
Tabes dorsalis.
8017
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
8018
Multiple sclerosis.
8019
Meningitis, cerebrospinal, epidemic.
8020
Brain, abscess.
Spinal Cord, New Growths
8021
Malignant.
8022
Benign.
8023
Progressive muscular atrophy.
8024
Syringomyelia.
8025
Myasthenia gravis.
8045
Residuals of traumatic brain injury (TBI).
8046
Cerebral arteriosclerosis.
Miscellaneous Diseases
8100
Migraine
8103
Tic, convulsive.
8104
Paramyoclonus multiplex.
8105
Chorea, Sydenham's.
8106
Chorea, Huntington's.
8107
Athetosis, acquired.
8108
Narcolepsy.
The Cranial Nerves
8205
Fifth (trigeminal), paralysis.
8207
Seventh (facial), paralysis.
8209
Ninth (glossopharyngeal), paralysis.
8210
Tenth (pneumogastric, vagus), paralysis.
8211
Eleventh (spinal accessory, external branch), paralysis.
8212
Twelfth (hypoglossal), paralysis.
8305
Neuritis, fifth cranial nerve.
8307
Neuritis, seventh cranial nerve.
8309
Neuritis, ninth cranial nerve.
8310
Neuritis, tenth cranial nerve.
8311
Neuritis, eleventh cranial nerve.
8312
Neuritis, twelfth cranial nerve.
8405
Neuralgia, fifth cranial nerve.
8407
Neuralgia, seventh cranial nerve.
8409
Neuralgia, ninth cranial nerve.
8410
Neuralgia, tenth cranial nerve.
8411
Neuralgia, eleventh cranial nerve.
8412
Neuralgia, twelfth cranial nerve.
Peripheral Nerves
8510
Upper radicular group, paralysis.
8511
Middle radicular group, paralysis.
8512
Lower radicular group, paralysis.
8513
All radicular groups, paralysis.
8514
Musculospiral nerve (radial), paralysis.
8515
Median nerve, paralysis.
8516
Ulnar nerve, paralysis.
8517
Musculocutaneous nerve, paralysis.
8518
Circumflex nerve, paralysis.
8519
Long thoracic nerve, paralysis.
8520
Sciatic nerve, paralysis.
8521
External popliteal nerve (common peroneal), paralysis.
8522
Musculocutaneous nerve (superficial peroneal), paralysis.
8523
Anterior tibial nerve (deep peroneal), paralysis.
8524
Internal popliteal nerve (tibial), paralysis.
8525
Posterior tibial nerve, paralysis.
8526
Anterior crural nerve (femoral), paralysis.
8527
Internal saphenous nerve, paralysis.
8528
Obturator nerve, paralysis.
8529
External cutaneous nerve of thigh, paralysis.
8530
Ilio-inguinal nerve, paralysis.
8540
Soft-tissue sarcoma (Neurogenic origin).
8610
Neuritis, upper radicular group.
8611
Neuritis, middle radicular group.
8612
Neuritis, lower radicular group.
8613
Neuritis, all radicular group.
8614
Neuritis, musculospiral (radial) nerve.
8615
Neuritis, median nerve.
8616
Neuritis, ulnar nerve.
8617
Neuritis, musculocutaneous nerve.
8618
Neuritis, circumflex nerve.
8619
Neuritis, long thoracic nerve.
8620
Neuritis, sciatic nerve.
8621
Neuritis, external popliteal (common peroneal) nerve.
8622
Neuritis, musculocutaneous (superficial peroneal) nerve.
8623
Neuritis, anterior tibial (deep peroneal) nerve.
8624
Neuritis, internal popliteal (tibial) nerve.
8625
Neuritis, posterior tibial nerve.
8626
Neuritis, anterior crural (femoral) nerve.
8627
Neuritis, internal saphenous nerve.
8628
Neuritis, obturator nerve.
8629
Neuritis, external cutaneous nerve of thigh.
8630
Neuritis, ilio-inguinal nerve.
8710
Neuralgia, upper radicular group.
8711
Neuralgia, middle radicular group.
8712
Neuralgia, lower radicular group.
8713
Neuralgia, all radicular groups.
8714
Neuralgia, musculospiral nerve (radial).
8715
Neuralgia, median nerve.
8716
Neuralgia, ulnar nerve.
8717
Neuralgia, musculocutaneous nerve.
8718
Neuralgia, circumflex nerve.
8719
Neuralgia, long thoracic nerve.
8720
Neuralgia, sciatic nerve.
8721
Neuralgia, external popliteal nerve (common peroneal).
8722
Neuralgia, musculocutaneous nerve (superficial peroneal).
8723
Neuralgia, anterior tibial nerve (deep peroneal).
8724
Neuralgia, internal popliteal nerve (tibial).
8725
Neuralgia, posterior tibial nerve.
8726
Neuralgia, anterior crural nerve (femoral).
8727
Neuralgia, internal saphenous nerve.
8728
Neuralgia, obturator nerve.
8729
Neuralgia, external cutaneous nerve of thigh.
8730
Neuralgia, ilio-inguinal nerve.
The Epilepsies
8910
Grand mal.
8911
Petit mal.
8912
Jacksonian and focal motor or sensory.
8913
Diencephalic.
8914
Psychomotor.
Mental Disorders
9201
Schizophrenia.
9208
Delusional disorder.
9210
Other specified and unspecified schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic disorders.
9211
Schizoaffective Disorder.
9300
Delirium.
9301
Major or mild neurocognitive disorder due to HIV or other infections.
9304
Major or mild neurocognitive disorder due to traumatic brain injury.
9305
Major or mild vascular neurocognitive disorder.
9310
Unspecified neurocognitive disorder.
9312
Major or mild neurocognitive disorder due to Alzheimer's disease.
9326
Major or mild neurocognitive disorder due to another medical condition or substance/medication-induced major or mild neurocognitive disorder.
9400
Generalized anxiety disorder.
9403
Specific phobia; social anxiety disorder (social phobia).
9404
Obsessive compulsive disorder.
9410
Other specified anxiety disorder.
9411
Posttraumatic stress disorder.
9412
Panic disorder and/or agoraphobia.
9413
Unspecified anxiety disorder.
9416
Dissociative amnesia; dissociative identity disorder.
9417
Depersonalization/derealization disorder.
9421
Somatic symptom disorder.
9422
Other specified somatic symptom and related disorder.
9423
Unspecified somatic symptom and related disorder.
9424
Conversion disorder (functional neurological symptom disorder).
9425
Illness anxiety disorder.
9431
Cyclothymic disorder.
9432
Bipolar disorder.
9433
Persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia).
9434
Major depressive disorder.
9435
Unspecified depressive disorder.
9440
Chronic adjustment disorder.
9520
Anorexia nervosa.
9521
Bulimia nervosa.
DENTAL AND ORAL CONDITIONS
9900
Maxilla or mandible, chronic osteomyelitis, osteonecrosis, or osteoradionecrosis of.
9901
Mandible, loss of, complete.
9902
Mandible loss of, including ramus, unilaterally or bilaterally.
9903
Mandible, nonunion of, confirmed by diagnostic imaging studies.
9904
Mandible, malunion.
9905
Temporomandibular disorder (TMD).
9908
Condyloid process.
9909
Coronoid process.
9911
Hard palate, loss of.
9913
Teeth, loss of.
9914
Maxilla, loss of more than half.
9915
Maxilla, loss of half or less.
9916
Maxilla, malunion or nonunion of.
9917
Neoplasm, hard and soft tissue, benign.
9918
Neoplasm, hard and soft tissue, malignant.
[72 FR 12990, Mar. 20, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 54708, 54711, Sept. 23, 2008; 74 FR 18467, Apr. 23, 2009; 77 FR 6467, Feb. 8, 2012; 79 FR 45102, Aug. 4, 2014; 82 FR 36085, Aug. 3, 2017; 82 FR 50807, Nov. 2, 2017; 83 FR 15073, Apr. 9, 2018; 83 FR 15323, Apr. 10, 2018; 83 FR 32600, July 13, 2018; 83 FR 54258, Oct. 29, 2018; 84 FR 28234, June 18, 2019; 85 FR 76466, Nov. 30, 2020; 86 FR 8143, Feb. 4, 2021; 86 FR 54088, 54097, Sept. 30, 2021; 89 FR 19751, Mar. 20, 2024]
Pt. 4, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 4—Alphabetical Index of Disabilities
Diagnostic code No.
Abscess:
Anorectal
7335
Brain
8020
Kidney
7501
Liver
7350
Lung
6824
Acne
7828
Acromegaly
7908
Actinomycosis
6822
Addison's disease
7911
Agranulocytosis, acquired
7702
AL amyloidosis
7717
Alopecia areata
7831
Amebiasis
7321
Amputation:
Arm:
Complete amputation, upper extremity
5120
Above insertion of deltoid
5121
Below insertion of deltoid
5122
Digits, five of one hand
5126
Digits, four of one hand:
Thumb, index, long and ring
5127
Thumb, index, long and little
5128
Thumb, index, ring and little
5129
Thumb, long, ring and little
5130
Index, long, ring and little
5131
Digits, three of one hand:
Thumb, index and long
5132
Thumb, index and ring
5133
Thumb, index and little
5134
Thumb, long and ring
5135
Thumb, long and little
5136
Thumb, ring and little
5137
Index, long and ring
5138
Index, long and little
5139
Index, ring and little
5140
Long, ring and little
5141
Digits, two of one hand:
Thumb and index
5142
Thumb and long
5143
Thumb and ring
5144
Thumb and little
5145
Index and long
5146
Index and ring
5147
Index and little
5148
Long and ring
5149
Long and little
5150
Ring and little
5151
Single finger:
Thumb
5152
Index finger
5153
Long finger
5154
Ring finger
5155
Little finger
5156
Forearm:
Above insertion of pronator teres
5123
Below insertion of pronator teres
5124
Leg:
With defective stump
5163
Not improvable by prosthesis controlled by natural knee action
5164
At lower level, permitting prosthesis
5165
Forefoot, proximal to metatarsal bones
5166
Toes, all, amputation of, without metatarsal loss or transmetatarsal, amputation of, with up to half of metatarsal loss
5170
Toe, great
5171
Toe, other than great, with removal metatarsal head
5172
Toes, three or more, without metatarsal involvement
5173
Thigh:
Complete amputation, lower extremity
5160
Upper third
5161
Middle or lower thirds
5162
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
8017
Anatomical loss of:
Both eyes
6061
One eye, with visual acuity of other eye:
5/200 (1.5/60)
6063
10/200 (3/60); 15/200 (4.5/60); 20/200 (6/60)
6064
20/100 (6/30); 20/70 (6/21); 20/50 (6/15)
6065
20/40 (6/12)
6066
Both feet
5107
Both hands
5106
One hand and one foot
5108
One foot and loss of use of one hand
5105
One hand and loss of use of one foot
5104
Anemia:
Acquired hemolytic anemia
7723
Folic acid deficiency
7721
Iron deficiency anemia
7720
Pernicious anemia and Vitamin B
12
deficiency anemia
7722
Aneurysm:
Aortic: ascending, thoracic, abdominal
7110
Large artery
7111
Small artery
7118
Ankylosis:
Ankle
5270
Digits, individual:
Thumb
5224
Index finger
5225
Long finger
5226
Ring or little finger
5227
Elbow
5205
Hand
Favorable:
Five digits of one hand
5220
Four digits of one hand
5221
Three digits of one hand
5222
Two digits of one hand
5223
Unfavorable:
Five digits of one hand
5216
Four digits of one hand
5217
Three digits of one hand
5218
Two digits of one hand
5219
Hip
5250
Knee
5256
Scapulohumeral articulation
5200
Subastragalar or tarsal joint
5272
Wrist
5214
Ankylosing spondylitis
5240
Aphakia
6029
Aphonia, organic
6519
Aplastic anemia
7716
Arteriosclerotic heart disease
7005
Arteriovenous fistula
7113
Arthritis:
Degenerative, other than post-traumatic
5003
Gonorrheal
5004
Other specified forms (excluding gout)
5009
Pneumococcic
5005
Post-traumatic
5010
Multi-joint (except post-traumatic and gout)
5002
Streptococcic
5008
Syphilitic
5007
Typhoid
5006
Arthropathy
5009
Asbestosis
6833
Aspergillosis
6838
Asthma, bronchial
6602
Astragalectomy
5274
Atherosclerotic renal disease
7534
